[{"Title":"One of my favorites","Date":"14 July 2004","Score":"27 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  What makes this movie so very charming is the incredible ensemble acting. Watch Vincent D'Onofrio in an early role, as well as Julia Roberts. Annabeth Gish is completely enchanting as Kat, and William R. Moses very believable as the flirting husband. Most wonderful, however, is Lili Taylor as JoJo. Sometimes known as the queen of B movies (I think that was Ebert's title), here she shows the range and talent that indicate she deserves superstardom.Unlike the misleading re-release that features Julia's face prominently, this is NOT a star vehicle, but depends on the interaction of all the players. A wonderful coming-of-age film that has been one of my favorites for 15 years.  "},{"Title":"One of the best chick flicks","Date":"25 March 2004","Score":"26 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Movie about three young waitresses who work at Mystic Pizza in Mystic CT. Good girl Kat (Annabeth Gish)is going to college and falls in love with a married man (William Moses). Her sister, bad girl Daisy (Julia Roberts), falls in love with rich kid Charles (Adam Storke). And Jojo (Lili Taylor) is deeply in love with Bill (Vincent D'Onorfrio) but is afraid to marry him...which he wants. Pretty predictable but still lots of fun. This was released with no fanfare in 1988 (Roberts was still unknown and there were no 'name' actors in the cast) and went on to become a surprise hit. That shouldn't be a shock--this is the type of movie that isn't really challenging or deep. You know the characters, you know the situations and you know it's going to have a happy ending. Still, there's nothing wrong with a film like that if it's entertaining and well-done--and this one is.The script is lively and it was beautifully shot on location in CT (in Mystic and other towns). Gish is just great (and top-billed) in the movie. She was also 17 (the age of her character too) so it adds to the realism. Taylor is good but has little to do. Her character is very one note and ALWAYS yapping about commitment. Roberts is good but her character is TERRIBLE! Foul-mouthed, obnoxious and grating--her verbal abuse of her sister Kat is more than vicious. I really hated her! Nevertheless, this movie jump started her career. D'Onorfrio (a wonderful character actor) is given nothing to do but look handsome and hunky--which he does. Storke is VERY good-looking and gives a great performance as a rich kid--what ever happened to him? And Moses is just OK as a married man. Add Conchata Ferrell as the pizza store owner and Matt Damon in a one line role in his film debut. A real nice, pleasing little movie. Perfectly catches the small town feeling too. Worth seeing. But don't let Roberts' face on the box fool you--it's NOT her movie. "},{"Title":"2 out of 3 ain't bad","Date":"5 July 2002","Score":"22 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Mystic Pizza is a pleasant-but-slow slice-of-life comedy-drama.  It centers on the lives of 3 young waitresses in a Pizza Parlor in blue-collar Mystic, CT.  The parlor's owner is a hard-scrabble-with-heart-of-gold Portuguese princess buoyantly portrayed by Conchata Farrell.  She makes the scene where the food critic tastes her pizza the most memorable in the movie.As for the girls, two of the three stories work well.  Lili Taylor is a revelation as the fun-loving JoJo coming to terms with the cliche her life is and how to come to terms with the love she feels for stalwart-but-limited Bill, winningly portrayed by Vincent D'Onofrio (now of Law and Order CI). These two light up the screen with humor and awkward aplomb.  Julia Roberts puts her raw-but-winning talent on display as the blue-collar Daisy, a student-teacher in the school of hard-knocks.The one unfortunate element is that the movie spends far too much time on a nowhere relationship between Annibelle Gish and preppy husband-away-from his wife portrayed by the affable but feckless William R. (aka Billy) Moses. This story just makes the movie drag.But overall, Mystic Pizza is a kind of young-woman-oriented Diner, amiable, fun, and chock-full of young talent. "},{"Title":"one of the minor defining movies of my generation","Date":"16 November 2002","Score":"25 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was one of THE slumber party movies when I was in high school, and fourteen years later I still enjoy it.  Of course now I realize what a jerk the married man is from the first time he looks THAT WAY at Kat, and I'm a little surprised (although I married young myself) to see young marriage portrayed positively in a major motion picture.  It's also refreshing to see Julia Roberts before she acquired the required Hollywood Superstar Anorexic Look.Some of the scenes that make me laugh as much now as they did when I was 15 The Porsche full of fish, and JoJo's parents' and boyfriend's reaction when JoJo and Bill are caught in a compromising position.  This film has some very tender moments as well.  A warning, however the last line will probably make you groan.It's not terribly deep, and it's not going to win the Palme D'Or.  But it's well worth putting in the VCR on a quiet evening when your husband's out or your girlfriends are over. "},{"Title":"A charming and convincing coming-of-age story of three young women.","Date":"30 August 1998","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  _Mystic Pizza_ would be remembered, if for no other reason, as the film that first made us pay attention to Julia Roberts. It also showcases the early talents of several other actors who later rose to some success and fame in the movies Lili Taylor and Vincent Phillip D'Onofrio among them. Others in the cast have perhaps deserved better in their careers than they achieved, especially Annabeth Gish, but here they shine fresh and alive.Actually, the entire ensemble cast, including the minor parts, is excellent -- natural, unaffected, convincing performances.The story concentrates on three young women on the cusp of new lives -- marriage, college, responsibility -- and tracks them through that special summer between the childhood and adulthood. I think it was more unusual in 1988 to show female friendships and a female point of view than has perhaps become ten years later. The women are smart and individualized, surprising and interesting as people.The men are less so. D'Onofrio has the most fully realized male character, the young fisherman who wants commitment, who wants to be more to his girl than just a sexual aid. The other two men, one a preppie in rebellion and the other a middle-aged married man looking for something he left behind, are mostly just occasions for the women to find some new grounding and growth.I am also very fond of this film for its insistence on finding one's way in the world by first finding out what is right thing to do, the right way to live. "},{"Title":"Nice Romantic Comedy","Date":"7 September 2000","Score":"13 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I first saw this movie when I was 17 and enjoyed it; more than 10 years later I still do.  It does have some predictability to it, particularly in the relationship between Kat and the Yale alumnus.  However, there are also some priceless scenes --- one of my favorites is how Jojo's parents react when they catch her and Bill in a compromising pose in the dining room. I thought the acting was well done, especially from Julia Roberts and Conchatta Ferrell. "},{"Title":"Taylor and D'Onofrio The Real Show","Date":"16 March 2003","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film was unique for its time. There is actually a place called Mystic, Connecticutt. It's a beautiful town and the director used it well.Julia Roberts is fresh and sexy. Thank God that this film was made before, Pretty Woman or else there would be no record of Julia's pure beauty before she became a 'star'. The reason to watch this film however are the performances given by Lili Taylor and Vincent D'Onofrio. They film could have been about the relationship between characters. Taylor is 'real' sexy. I'm a big fan. She also delivers one of the most emotionally honest monologues in cinematic history. D'Onofrio delivers a down-to-earth performance of a sensitive male who values love over sex.  Also the performance given by the actress who plays the pizzeria's owner is very lovable. "},{"Title":"A story of 3 waitresses and the pizza shop owner coming to terms with thier lives, strong 7 of 10 rating.","Date":"25 December 2000","Score":"12 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Mystic Pizza is the film that served notice that Julia Roberts, as Daisy, was destined to be a name actress. The movie's name comes from the location - the pizza shop in Mystic, Conn., a fishing village with a concentration of Portugese immigrants. Matt Damon also had a small part, as the younger brother Steamer of the rich boyfriend.The 4 women in this film - the 3 waitresses and the pizza shop owner - all have significant hurdles to cross.  The pizza shop is in financial danger, and depends on a great review by the food critic to bolster business.  Daisy is somewhat of a misfit, a hothead with a lot of talent but somewhat lacking in direction, and who is being courted by a rich guy.  Another, bound for Yale but financially poor, and things are complicated by an increasingly close relationship with the father who hires her as a babysitter while mom is working in England. The other, faints at the alter, and is having trouble with commitment, while her boyfriend continues to try and get her to marry him.The acting is uniformly good, and there are both serious and funny situations.  It is an easy movie to get into, and there is a good sense of completion when it ends.  Not earth-shaking, but I rate it a strong 7 of 10.  "},{"Title":"Spend some time in Mystic.","Date":"16 December 2003","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Simply put, it is easy to get into this movie.  The characters are diverse, and each has the chance to tell her part of the story, so there is plenty for the audience to relate to.  It is very refreshing that the characters have individual values and standards, as opposed to many more recent movies who assign characters generic standards of conduct, and it gives the characters and the film depth.  Each of the girls has these standards challenged, making it a rich coming-of-age story.  The film is not about the ending, but rather about every moment of the girls' lives that the viewer is there to see.  It is worth the extra bit of concentration that it takes to untangle all of the different plot lines.Incidentally, Mystic Pizza is a real pizzeria and much of the filming was done on location, so if you find yourself vacationing in the area, you can stop by and pick up one of the trademark t-shirts that the girls wear in the movie, and of course taste some of the famous fare.  The home-grown feeling of the restaurant in the movie is part of the fun, and it's even more fun to see it in person. "},{"Title":"What's the secret ingredient in the pizza?","Date":"9 January 2006","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Pizza, that delicious Italian dish has been adapted by people all over the world into their own way to express their interpretation about the way it should taste. It's not surprising that in Mystic, Ct., where there's a large Portuguese population, Leona, the owner of the Mystic Pizza restaurant has created a concoction that is admired by everyone. Don't ask her to reveal her ingredients because she will not tell you.Daniel Petrie, the director, takes us along for a ride to this coastal town in which Amy Jones' story is set. We meet the three friends that work in the restaurant, Jojo, Daisy and Kat; the last two are sisters. Jojo is intense, but has a problem accepting the fact that Bill, her fiancé, wants to formalize their engagement. In the opening scenes we watch as Jojo faints in the church where she is marrying Bill. Panic strikes and she jilts him.Daisy, is a beautiful girl who appears to be grounded. When Charlie, the preppy guy finds her at a local bar, it seems he is quite taken by her. Daisy, who should have known better embarks in a love affair with this young which one realizes is doomed from the start. Not only are they from two different worlds, but romances like these are just a passing fancy for wealthy boys. So is the involvement with the wise and intelligent Kat with Tim, the young father with a child who needs a sitter. Kat will be hurt in thinking Tim will want her over the absent wife.Mystic Pizza is about the friendship of the three local girls and their way of looking at life from different angles. Annabeth Gish makes a great appearance in the film with her Kat. Lili Taylor is also good as Jojo. This was a film that presented Julia Roberts that hinted at her success as a movie actress. The rest of the cast plays well in the film. Vincent D'Onofrio, William Moses, Adam Storker and Conchata Farrell do good work under Mr. Petrie's direction. Seen in a small role that if one blinks, one would miss him, is Matt Damon making his first screen appearance. "}{"Title":"Laughably phony...","Date":"28 November 2009","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Tired, cutesy-poo romantic comedy-drama concerning the love lives of three young Connecticut women who work in a homey little pizza parlor. Mystic Pizza begins with a shot of fabricated group photos featuring the central characters in happy times, the faces of the actresses clearly cut out and pasted on other bodies. It's an immediate sign that not much know-how, cleverness, or talent was used in conceptualizing this picture, which is strictly an underachiever lucky enough to gain attention after Julia Roberts' career picked up. Young, impressionable girls might find something emotionally tangible here, but seasoned moviegoers should quickly detect the artificial flavoring. Amy Holden Jones co-wrote the screenplay (based on her original story) with help from Alfred Uhry and Perry and Randy Howze, all of whom seemed to have been raised on TV. *1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"In a word, shallow.","Date":"7 May 1999","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  1) Imagine every woeful teen stereotype that has ever been conceived. 2) Throw in a wide crop of underdeveloped characters and undermine them even more by unremarkable performances by a normally talented bunch. 3) Add a predictable plot, complete with requisite cheesy female-bonding scenes. 4) Remove kitsch hipness that made John Hughes flicks cult classics.And voila!  The recipe for Mystic Pizza. "},{"Title":"Early Film For Young Ensemble Cast Charms","Date":"26 April 2004","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This sleeper hit from the Fall of 1988 has real charm. The film is about three girls that are becoming young women; two of them are sisters. Lili Taylor plays a girl that wants sex, but can't commit to marriage. Now there's a twist. Annabeth Gish and Julia Roberts, in an early important role for her, are the sisters. Gish has an idealized romance in her head regarding the 30 year old Yale graduate she babysits for, whose wife is conveniently in Europe. Does it make an affair seem more acceptable when the wife is further away? Roberts plays a girl, like she did in her first credited film Satisfaction, who uses her body to get what she wants. The girls are all fine; however, Gish's scenario is less interesting than the other two and is somewhat clichéd. Vincent D'Onofrio is good in his few scenes as Taylor's would be husband. William R. Moses and Adam Storke are less compelling as the male interests of Gish and Roberts respectively. The film's strengths are its ability to portray the charms of small town life, and being set in a pizzeria operated by Conchata Ferrell with the girls sharing their hopes and dreams. There are several scenes that are funny and genuine, such as D'Onofrio being chased by Taylor's father one night, Roberts scene with Storke when she miscalculates who he is with, and the visit by the gourmet reviewer to the pizzeria. The film is pretty much formulaic with a few ironic twists in the female characters, and this is certainly inferior to other films of the coming of age, gal pal genre, but it has its own charm, entertains us, and is interesting enough for the early appearances of its young stars alone. Also, look fast for Matt Damon in his film debut. **1/2 of 4 stars. "},{"Title":"3 girls find love and romance in a small town","Date":"7 June 1999","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A pizza joint is the setting for much of this film. The 3 waitresses working there are in and out of love and lust all the time, causing themselves a lot of grief. So-so romantic comedy. "},{"Title":"great friendship movie","Date":"11 December 2002","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I really like this movie. It's sweet, charming, funny, and makes you think of your friends. This is one of the very few roles I like that Julia Roberts played. I love many of the '80s movies because most of them are cheesy and I just love looking at the clothes and hairdos from that decade. One of my favorite scenes has to be where JoJo and Bill get caught in the act by her parents. That was hilarious! Well, this is just about all I can say about this movie but I really liked it and you should definitely watch it with your friends.  "},{"Title":" The atmosphere and friendship between all of them makes MysticPizza a fun movie.","Date":"31 May 1999","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Directed by Donald Petrie (Grumpy Old Men, The Favor) this is a story that portrays a minority group, as normal people. I got the tape because of Julia Roberts, and to my surprise there was this wedding with this man singing in Portuguese. I went like what!!! I understand this Oh, this is Portuguese! What a pleasant surprise! The Luso-Portuguese is nice and  Lili Taylor (Born on the Fourth of July), Jojo, singing a lullaby to a child is just a sweet moment.  It is true that there is a large population of Portuguese fishermen in that part of the US. Three Portuguese/ American girls work in this pizzeria in Mystic, Connecticut. Annabeth Gish (Beautiful Girls, Nixon) is Kat the intelligent sister who is going to Yale who also babysits. Jojo, who is my favorite character, and Daisey, Julia Roberts (Notting Hill, Something to Talk About, Pretty Woman). Vincent D'Onofrio (Men in Black) Bill, is Jojo's fiancé.  Jojo runs from the altar because she is afraid of commitment. Jojo's thinks like the average man. She loves him but does not want to loose her identity. They have a great sex life and Bill says that Jojo is only after his body. Sounds just like a girl talking!They all work for Conchata Ferrell (L.A. Law, My Fellow Americans) who is the pizzeria owner, and  has this secret mix for the pizza. The girls are like her daughters since she has no kids. Kat so smart, unfortunately ends up having an affair with a married man William R. Moses (Falcon Crest), Tim  and cries her eye ball's out. Girl, what did you expect! Daisy falls for a rich law student. Jojo ends up marrying Bill. Favorite scenes Jojo singing the lullaby, Daisey filling up her boy friend's car with fish and junk. The little delivery pizzeria car is a painted ex US Mail - truck, which is adorable! The food critic, and the dentures in the glass of water. The atmosphere and friendship between all of them makes Mystic Pizza a fun movie. This is not a super - intellectual type of movie, but a nice story about three young women. I have the tape and enjoy watching it. It is just fun!  "},{"Title":"An enjoyable and funny coming of age story with a good message","Date":"6 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" There are forty kinds of lunacy but only one kind of common sense - a proverb says. It appears that, similarly to modern politics, today's cinema tends to be polluted by aberrations of a certain kind - the aggressive, pervasive, and loud extremes representing a nasty insult to the common sense. Moreover, the once distinct line between the mainstream and the extreme appears to have blurred. Many mainstream movies can now be considered to be extreme in a certain sense while independent movies have grown so numerous, popular, well-organized, and influential that they managed to successfully form their own local mainstream.On one end of the specter reside many of the popular mainstream movies. Being predominately designed for the viewers with the mental capacity of a twelve year old and the moral awareness of Pinocchio before he became a boy, these are intellectual disasters and moral failures also lacking logic, vision, imagination, authenticity, good taste and all the remaining qualities of a decent movie.On the other end, often obscure, pretentious, artificial, abstract, and whimsical, independent movies nowadays can be just as unsubstantial and inauthentic as most mainstream movies are. Mystic pizza - not a perfect movie by any means - comes across as naturally enjoyable, funny, emotional, and captivating precisely because it deals with the real life issues familiar to most people. It resides in the real world on planet Earth and not in one of the superficial, artificially enhanced imaginary universes that serve homes to so many movies, both mainstream and independent.Secondly, Mystic pizza is a rare case of a movie that offers a good message without being forceful, contentious, or didactic. Just by telling its simple but touching and engaging coming of age story of three likable girls with all the challenges that they face, choices that they make, and mistakes that they learn on, Mystic pizza manages to unobtrusively deliver a few simple life truths that appear to be easily discounted and overlooked by both mainstream and independent cinema. I think it never hurts to be reminded of such timeless truths as true love is inseparable from honesty, commitment, and sacrifice, an affair is morally wrong, painful, and destructive, or hard work brings you dignity that money cannot buy.The three blue-collar girls from a small New England town of Mystic &#x96; genuine, hardworking, responsible, caring, strong and independent but overall respectful to their parents could serve as a positive role model for many modern teens. Unfortunately, the girls from the movie also represent a stark contrast to the ever-increasing number of self-obsessed, lazy, spoiled, irresponsible, immature young adults, who appear to be unprepared for the real world challenges and somehow end up being both hopelessly dependent on their parents and disrespectful to them at the same time.In 1989, Mystic pizza earned a well-deserved Independent Spirit award for the Best First Feature. The movie still remains among the best works of its writer Amy Holden Jones and its director Donald Petrie who have both gone mainstream since then. Amy Holden Jones is now mostly known for the Beethoven franchise, whereas Donald Petrie seems to have been recently focusing on the quite lightweight, purely entertaining formulaic comedies like Miss Congeniality, How to Lose a Guy in 10 Days, or My Life in Ruins.In addition to the good story and the solid directing, Mystic pizza offers almost perfect casting and generally strong acting, both ensemble and individual. The movie happens to be one of the first full-length features with Julia Roberts (Daisy Arujo). Right from the beginning, it becomes clear that Ms. Roberts has a remarkable talent &#x96; something that she successfully proved in many movies that followed.Annabeth Gish and Lili Taylor were charming and convincing in the roles of the two other teen girls - Kat Arujo and Jojo. Vincent D'Onofrio delivered a strong supporting performance as Jojo's fiancé Bill - a simple (but not an ordinary) fisherman. Adam Storke was able to find all the right accents for the role of the carefree and easygoing rich kid Charles Gordon Windsor, Jr., Daisy's love interest. Joanna Merlin was perfect in a small role of Mrs. Arujo - Kat's and Daisy's wise hardworking mother.Despite being rated R (mostly because of some language and sensuality), Mystic pizza seems to feature less questionable or offensive content than many of the more recent PG-13 movies. It is a good chick-flick and a good date movie. It is also one of those movies that might be worth watching together with your high school age kids as a good illustration to the difficult choices that they will soon (or might already) be facing, conflicting feelings that they will soon (or might already) be experiencing, and hard decisions that they will soon (or might already) be making.knowyourmovie.blogspot.com "},{"Title":"A Dated But Charming Coming-Of-Age Film","Date":"26 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Three teenagers learn a lot about life and love one summer in this romantic comedy-drama film entitled,Mystic Pizza.This is also considered a coming of age film based on a pizza shop and a restaurant in Mystic, Connecticut that has been popular among both locals and tourists since 1973.It stars Annabeth Gish, Julia Roberts, and Lili Taylor together with Vincent D'Onofrio, William R. Moses, Adam Storke, and Conchata Ferrell.Matt Damon,in his screen debut,has a small part in this film.The story focuses on the coming of age of two sisters and their friend through the romantic lives of the three main characters Kat Araujo, Daisy Araujo, and Jojo Barbosa, who are waitresses at Mystic Pizza.They are three working-class women just out of high school. Kat wants to study astronomy at Yale; when she starts baby-sitting for Tim, a wealthy Yale graduate summering in Mystic, she finds herself falling in love with him, even though he's married and nearly twice her age. Daisy, who isn't sure what she wants from life, starts going with Charlie, a recent law school dropout, though she starts to think that it may be more to rebel against her family than out of genuine affection. And Jojo is attracted to Bill, but she doesn't want to get married since she's already left him at the altar once; when Bill announces that he's no longer willing to have sex without marriage, she has to decide if his affections are worth a lifetime commitment.There is also a dynamic between Kat's Anglo-American employer and the resulting relationship between them. The class distinctions and variant European heritages are explored in various scenesThis is one of the most charming coming of age films ever shown as it was honest and sincere especially with issues in love and sex faced by the three major characters in the film. Aside from that,it's laced with humor and well-acted, and the beautiful Julia Roberts,who shows strong potential for becoming a major star in her first substantial role.The only thing about it is that this film is somewhat dated for present viewers for it was made particularly with characterizations for film that were made during the 1980's,the decade it was released. "},{"Title":"good movie","Date":"20 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I actually loved the movie Mystic Pizza, i can watch it over and over. I know this may seem weird but i really liked daisy's boyfriend in this but are guys even like that? since i'm only 15 i would know crap all about love lol but was it unrealistic or do guys actually fall in love with you like that. Anyway i loved the movie i loved how close the three girls were and how much fun they all had and how they all found love and lived near the sea i sound cheesy ha ha but yeah it was a good movie it mad me smile and julia roberts looked so pretty in it my fav scene was of her in the black dress with the bow killer body!! i recommend it i really enjoyed it and to this day, i think i'm gonna go watch it hahaha "},{"Title":"I'm going to Mystic Pizza and you are probably not","Date":"20 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Mystic CT looks simply lovely and I am dying to go there and have this so-called amazing pizza. Also, usually any place that's on water is okay with me. If you add a delicious huge fatty pizza all for me and me only, and only an hour and a half from where I live, I am there! Maybe I will buy some salt water taffy there too. Anyways, this movie is okay. It's very predictable and a movie by numbers, and very typical--however, Lili Taylor, who I almost just called Lily Allen, is pretty good. It seems like most people want to talk about how this was Matt Damon's first time on-screen, to which I have to say who the hell cares. He stinks, as does Julia Roberts, but she is even okay in this movie. I would have cast Lori Loughlin as the Julia Roberts role, though. Annabeth Gish has a cool enough name for me to cast her in the movie too. "}{"Title":"Julia Roberts at her best!","Date":"5 May 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This sleeper hit looks just as good today as it did when it was first released. It follows the trials and tribulations of three childhood friends. They all work as waitresses in a pizza parlor and all are at a crossroad in their life. Kat (Annabeth Gish) is preparing to leave home for Yale to begin a career in Astronomy. Daisey (Julia Roberts) Kat's sister, seems to be floundering, with no real direction to go in life, and JoJo (Lili Taylor, who gives the film's most comedic performance), is torn between her love for her fiancé Bill, and settling down into a married life filled with screaming kids and massive weight gain.The film integrates all three stories and keeps the plot moving at a brisk pace. All three friends have very different personalities, allowing most of the audience to be able to identify with at least one of them. I will admit, however, that the ultra idealistic, goodie-goodie Kat does get on my nerves from time to time. (I particularly enjoyed the scene where Daisey hauls off and belts her across the face). The chemistry between the leads works extremely well which only strengthens the movie. Roberts gives a strong performance and shows the audience the first signs of the Hollywood powerhouse she would soon become. The three leads are admirabley backed up by a strong supporting cast as well, most notably, Conchata Ferrell as the owner of the pizza parlor. All in all, a very sweet movie about real people and real family situations, and it remains one of my favorite movies of all time. I literally never tire of this modern classic. My only quibble is that the last spoken line is disturbingly unimaginative and anti-climactic. After crafting such a superb screenplay, the writers just seemed to run out of inspiration at the last hurdle. As Mr. Spock would say, Fascinating. Overall rating 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Three Girls In A Pizzeria","Date":"19 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" There is a genre known as the Three Girls Movie, in which, you guessed it, three girls learn about Life, which really means Men, and about themselves along the way. There is always a heroine, a naive one who always gets hurt, and an eccentric one, who might be either wild or salty. Three Coins In a Fountain is a Three Girls Movie; so is The Best of Everything, and Where The Boys Are (although they threw in Connie Francis as a fourth so that she could sing). How to Marry a Millionaire is also a Three Girls Movie, with the twist that the three girls are grown women -- fashion models -- who already consider themselves fully wised up about Life and Men and find out they are wrong.Mystic Pizza is a very good Three Girls Movie, notable for launching the careers of the Three Actresses Julia Roberts, of course, and to a lesser extent Lily Taylor and Annabeth Gish. They play three working class waitresses in a New England fishing town. Gish, the smart but naive one, gets hurt but will go off to college better armored against the snares of the world. Taylor, the eccentric one, finally accepts marriage and domesticity with the guy who has loved her all along. Roberts, the gorgeous, hot tempered but deeply sensible heroine, finds a rich guy who turns out to be flawed, but curably flawed; at the end she is making him over into the man who will deserve her. There are no real surprises here (except for one involving a misunderstanding and a parked convertible with the top down), and it's not great art by any means, but it is a well-executed variation of a reliable formula that should entertain anyone, or at least any female, from 13 on up. "},{"Title":"Better than the IMDb rating would suggest","Date":"26 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I have always thought Mystic Pizza was a very good, light hearted film. It's extremely well acted, the script is solid and witty, the cinematography is just heavenly (those Autumn colours are sensational!), and the story itself is heart warning and poignant. There comes a time in every young person's life when they have to figure out which direction they want to head, how they are going to get there and whether or not they will stay in the environment that reared them or branch out, beginning a new life. However, despite the uncertainty that plagues teens and twenty-somethings, there is one universal bond that will seal all cracks and that is friendship, which is the core of Mystic Pizza.This unbreakable duo of friends consists of a then unknown, yet incredibly very striking Julia Roberts. She gives a bright, charismatic performance as the wayward and confused Daisy. Her care free nature is a strong contrast to the level headed, smart and introverted Kat, played by the absolutely gorgeous Annabeth Gish. Last, but certainly not least, is the tempestuous and indecisive Jojo. There's also the men in their lives, the handsome upper class WASP type Charles, the unavailable dad Tim (William R. Moses) who has his wandering eyes set on Kat and Bill (Vincent D'Onofrio), the long suffering husband-to-be of Jojo.Mystic Pizza is definitely one of the better coming-of-age, small town friendship films and it hasn't been done better than this ever since. A fine film, worthy of a lot more than 6.1/10. "},{"Title":"Ohh To Be Young and In Love and Working at a Pizza Place Living in Mystic, Connecticut !!","Date":"25 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Mystic Pizza is a fine, unforgettable movie for teenage girls or grown women alike. It is a great family film for everyone to enjoy. I'm watching it now for the first time as we speak. Mystic Pizza has an excellent unrestricting flowing story. The story can lead you seemingly anywhere while within its close to home setting. It's very well-written. It's certainly a lasting 80s classic and a sneaky hit. Julia Roberts is unbelievable in it. She is young and sensational. I'm reminded of my undying love for Julia watching her now in Mystic Pizza. Oh my God, she is so beautiful! I love Julia! She's like, my fav. I love seeing Lili Taylor in her first breakout role. I have always held the utmost respect for Lili's true ability to act since I first laid eyes on her and she's so pretty. I'm not too familiar with the lesser known Annabeth Gish but she is very warm and welcoming and very lovely. Mystic Pizza has great ensemble characters. Mystic Pizza hits close to the heart. Mystic Pizza has become a very popularly beloved movie over time and Julia Roberts is to die for in it. As the ending rolls on this heartwarming coming of age, pizza slice of life movie, I realize Mystic Pizza was very good. "},{"Title":"The Girls did good work","Date":"14 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Sisters Kat (Annabeth Gish) and Daisy (Julia Roberts) with friend Jojo (Lili Taylor) work at a local pizza place in Mystic, Connecticut.Kat is drawn to the father of the girl she is babysitting while his wife is away.Daisy falls for a rich guy who was slumming it one day at the pizza joint.Jojo passed out at her wedding, and is having second thoughts about her commitment to Bill (Vincent D'Onofrio).The girls are all great at their roles. The guys are somewhat flat. The stories are pretty traditional to have a good cry over. Although I liked that Daisy's guy didn't do the rich snob douche move. "},{"Title":"Mystic Pizza","Date":"27 June 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I should say that I remember the title, I remember the most well known actress of the film, and I am pretty sure I watched it all the way through, but I can't remember that much of what happens in it, from director Donald Petrie (Miss Congeniality). Basically the Arujo sisters, Kat (Annabeth Gish) and Daisy (Julia Roberts), and best friend Jojo (Lili Taylor) all live out their lives in Mystic, Connecticut, where they also work at the pizza parlour. Kat is off to Yale and falling for a man she babysits for, Daisy is a tearaway wasting her time with the wrong men, Jojo leaves the man she was to marry at the altar not wanting commitment, and the pizza is gaining fame for containing a special something. Also starring Vincent D'Onofrio as Bill, William R. Moses as Tim Travers, Adam Storke as Charles Gordon Windsor, Jr., Conchata Ferrell as Leona, Porscha Radcliffe as Phoebe Travers, Joanna Merlin as Mrs. Arujo, Arthur Walsh as Manny, John Fiore as Jake and Gene Amoroso as Mr. Barboza. I can't really give a better opinion or review until I see it again, but I am happy with what I have for now. Good! "},{"Title":"Julia's big break","Date":"17 September 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The funny thing is that I'm a girl and it's rare that I like a chick flick, I've found a few that I really like and some that I'm cool with. Mystic Pizza I'm cool with, just the fact that there's nothing wrong with the film. It's Julia's big break in films, that big hair, that dazzling smile, I think people knew she was going to be big. I started watching Mystic Pizza with my mom a while back when it was on TV, but we never finished it, I have to admit, it kept my attention. So I rented it the other day and just watched it a few minutes ago. It was a very cute film and a charming story for girls who know that it's time to grow up. I think the reason I enjoyed this film is that right now I can relate to these girls when they know they're going through major changes in their lives that they have to accept and go with. The story is one that I think most girls can relate too.Kat, Daisy, and Jojo are three girls who have grown up together and work together at Mystic Pizza. Jojo is afraid of marrying her long time boyfriend. Kat is having romantic fantasies of the married man who's daughter she is babysitting. Daisy is having a wild romance with the money of the States, Charles. Together they face the hard times of having to grow up and face the world. But they know that if they stick together, they can make it through the tough times.Mystic Pizza is a decent movie really. There's nothing wrong with it, there are some funny moments and some one's that make you shed a tear, it's a chick flick, what can you do? But I would recommend it for a good flick, so far this is actually the only Julia Roberts flick that I have really enjoyed so far. But I think I loved Lili Tyler's character the most, she was so cute and funny. I loved it when her parents walked in on her and her boyfriend, it's such a situation that most can relate too. So go and give this a look, it's a good movie.7/10 "},{"Title":"Yes, there's a Mystic Pizza and NO, you don't ever see it in the film","Date":"15 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I love this movie. It was filmed my senior year of High School in and around my hometown so naturally it's one of my favorites. What a strange sensation to see the places in which I grew up on that big screen. Anyway, my main point to this posting, even though it's now 20 years later, is that although there IS an actual Mystic Pizza, you don't ever actually see it in this film. The location used for the Pizza Parlor in the film is actually in the Borough of Stonington which is situated on the water, between Mystic and Pawcatuck. Pawcatuck being where the at home scenes were all filmed. Anyway, being from that area and around the age they were in the movie when it came out, I love this story! And I really like that no one knew who any of the players were back then. It was YEARS before I even realized Steamer was Matt Damon. This movie is loaded with big names and together they really tell a well done, if over done, coming-of-age tale. senior year. My house, my home town, my friend's truck, his dad's boat...all in the movie. Plus, I'm from a town called Pawcatuck in the state of Connecticut...you KNOW this was the coolest thing that had ever happened at the time. "},{"Title":"Three little words","Date":"6 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The C Word Jojo (Lili Taylor) is set to marry a fisherman, only she collapses during the ceremony. She's terrified of commitment. She prefers sex to marriage.The L Word Daisy (Julia Roberts) is viewed by everyone as a happy hedonist, begins an affair with a preppie from out of town. Afraid of love, she tries to sabotage their affair.The S Word Daisy's sister Kat (Annabeth Gish) is a diligent and smart girl who is headed to Yale to study astronomy. Although her interests are the starry skies, she yearns to unlock the secrets of ex. That's why she allows herself to be seduced by a married architect whose wife is overseas.Director Donald Petrie in his first feature film draws out impressive performances from these three young starlets as they try to unlock the mysteries of commitment, love and sex.And, this was Matt Damon's film debut! "},{"Title":"Enjoyable","Date":"25 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" A quiet evening so put on this oldie. Enjoyed it, made me shed a tear but also had good laugh. The so-called teenagers looked too old for that age group. The eldest would have to be 19 then slightly younger would be 17 leaving youngest too young for University. But then again Hollywoods 'young' men often appear to be about mid to even early thirties years old. The few swear words spoil it as a family movie but in the current atmosphere swearing is sadly accepted by majority of would be audiences. The scenery is not important to the plot but gave a little taste of coastal life which makes a refreshing change to so many urban based plots. Worth watching by almost any age. Arthur "}{"Title":"Good Chic Flick","Date":"18 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is definitely for girls and women, men just don't seem to appreciate it as much. This is a comedy-drama, for those 13 and up. The movie starts out with a wedding where the bride, Jo, promptly faints at the alter, and then bursts into the pizza parlor where she and her bridesmaids work in Mystic, CN, apparently a Portuguese immigrant town. We meet the other two waitresses who are sisters, the parlor owner and her husband.There a lot of sub-plots in the movie. One of the sisters, Kat, who is naive and is trying to be a Yale bound astronomer and baby-sits for a local architect while his wife is away trying to make $ for school, the other Daisy (Julia Roberts' character) doesn't know what she wants to do other than be rich and sleep around. Through the beginning and middle the pizza parlor is in financial trouble, the fainting bride's fiancée, Bill, is still trying to marry her, the astronomer, Kat, is getting caught up in a crush and still trying to make money for Yale, and the floozy sister, Daisy, finds a boyfriend with a Porsche, and the pizza parlor owners are trying to help the girls (they see as their own since they don't have kids), through their trials and celebrations. The ending is fitting and realistic, nothing shocking.This is a great movie with the girls or alone with a glass of wine, if you're a first or second generation from an immigrant family now in the US the movie hits home as well. "},{"Title":"One of the Old Standards","Date":"13 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" It's hard to believe that this little 1988 film has endured in popularity for so long. It is a simple story of three 'sisters' in the small fishing village of Mystic, CT who have just graduated high school, work as waitress in the town Mystic Pizza parlor, and face decisions about the future of their lives. There are three less than fairytale romances with three male characters of varying potential as partners and it is the 'coming of age' in a small Portuguese clan that sparks the tenderness and the sadness of this story written by Amy Holden Jones and directed by Donald Petrie.One of the most interesting aspects of this low budget film is how it catapulted Julia Roberts and Matt Damon (who plays such a bit part he nearly goes unnoticed) to fame, reinforced the careers of fine character actors Conchata Ferrell, Lili Taylor and Vincent D'Onofrio while pushing the then promising Annabeth Gish, William R. Moses and Adam Storke over into TV land roles.The film is a bit of nostalgia for a better time, has charm and innocence, and will always be one of those movies everyone who is a film collector will keep in their library for times when a return to simple little movies just makes you feel good. Grady Harp "},{"Title":"just wonderful","Date":"5 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  If the word love had a picture, it would surely be of Julia and her smile Thank you that you're my inspiration everyday.  Love you,  karlijn. I vote a 10  "},{"Title":"Subtle but noticeable anti-male bias","Date":"28 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" There are no black, no Latino characters in this movie. In the town of Mystic the underclass are the Portagee (descendants of immigrant Portuguese) , well down the social ladder from the wealthy WASPs of the Connecticut Gold Coast.Annabeth Gish and Julia Roberts are cast as sisters but are in no way alike. Julia Roberts' character is aggressive, brassy, sexually loose. Her sister is the ingénue, bookish--headed for Yale on a partial scholarship--shy, virginal, maternal.Vincent D'Onofrio shows some of the range and talent that would later bring him a solid career in films and especially as the brilliantly eccentric Det. Bobby Goren on the long- running Law & Order-Criminal Intent TV series. His character is quite sympathetic, even sensitive though his partners on the fishing boat are all bull-necked, beer-swilling louts.The other two young, male characters come off far worse--and this seems to have harmed the careers of two then-promising actors. Blond, ivy league patrician William R. Moses, reminiscent of the young William Hurt, is portrayed as a cad for having had a brief affair with the Annabeth Gish character whom he has quite innocently hired to care for his young daughter (a real charmer) while his wife is off pursuing her career overseas. But the seduction is mutual, symbolized by young Annabeth ringing out the words I'll have some wine after the man offers her soft drinks.Maybe it's his name but the career of Adam Storke (sic) didn't go far, either. Here he plays a ne'er-do-well from a wealthy family. But he is not snobbish like his mother and aunt. His feelings for the Julia Roberts character are sincere. It is she who abuses him, first by playing a very nasty and destructive prank when she mistakenly believes he is out with another girl and later upbraiding him after he defends her at an elegant dinner party at his parents' home.On the good side, the pacing of the film is lively and features a riveting performance by Julia Roberts, when she still was relatively unknown. "},{"Title":"My Favorite Movie","Date":"5 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I first saw this movie when it came out in 1988, and I could relate to it then as a college freshman, in the same age range as Kat, Daisy and JoJo.  Fifteen years later, I watch it for the 80s nostalgia as well as for transporting me back to a simpler time in life (although it didn't seem that way then!)  I love all three performances by Gish, Roberts and Taylor, I believe these are quite possibly the best performances they have ever given.   Sometimes I wish more was explained about the background of these characters.  Where is the Arujo girl's father?  Is their mother widowed or divorced?  How much older is Daisy than Kat?   I have read many reviews of this movie that state that it is the summer after high school graduation.  Obviously, these reviewers were not paying attention.  It is the fall, as is evidenced by the sweaters, jackets, fall decorations, pumpkins, the line by Kat that, next week is Thanksgiving, and if one looks closely during the pool scene there is a sign behind Daisy that says Halloween Party October 31.  Although Kat is off to Yale starting in February, Daisy and Jojo are obviously older than Kat and so, for them, it is not the summer (or fall) after high school. While the romance between Tim and Kat seems more shocking to me now than in 1988 (I must be getting old), it nonetheless still seems believable.  The story lines are all very believable, the characters convincing and unaffected. This movie will make you want to be 18 again!  "},{"Title":"Sweet and uplifting - young and old should see it","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is so sweet and uplifting, that it is hard not to like it. Sure, it has some corny stuff in it that may seem a bit outdated by today's standards - what with teen movies that portray kids having sex with baked pastry objects, etc. And it may seem too much like a chick flick at first, but after I watched it a few times, it seemed more like a film for both sexes, as well as all ages young people can still watch it and feel some good and positive vibes from it, and older people (like me) can watch it and taste a golden drop of sweet nostalgia.Julia Roberts is really fun to watch in this movie, too. It's nice to see her in the seminal part of her movie career. I don't like everything Julia has been in, and I don't always like her acting presence, but hey, she DID give Dave Letterman the finger once when she was a guest on the David Letterman show, so Julia will always be one of my idols.  "},{"Title":"Warm-hearted, fun movie","Date":"10 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Slice-of-life about three young sisters who work for coastal New England pizzeria.  A rarity in a modern movie, it feels good without being sappy. Roberts is solid in early role, and Gish is wonderful as teen who falls for married man.  Give it a shot even if you don't like this sort of thing. "},{"Title":"Not a single person has seen this naff film.","Date":"26 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Even Julia Roberts skived off the Premiere by pretending she was ill. This was just as well because if she had turned up she would have found the auditorium empty as everybody else from the cast and crew had also pulled 'sickes'. In a further twist, a lorry carrying twenty-five thousand copies of this terrible film on DVD crashed into the outside wall of Julia Robert's house shortly after release, spilling it's contents onto a main thoroughfare. Not a single copy was taken, either in broad daylight or darkest night and eventually, after about a month or so, the council had to come round and burn them. Julia Robert's own mother didn't bother picking up a copy even though she passed the giant pile hundreds of times walking the dog and the council workers tasked with burning it couldn't even be arsed filching one either. "},{"Title":"Watched for Roberts, liked Gish","Date":"26 September 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'm a guy, so I'm not supposed to like this movie. I guess that's why I waited so long to see it. But I like Chick Flicks. I didn't like this one as much as I had hoped, and Julia Roberts wasn't even the best thing about it. It's hard to believe this was one of her first movies, because she was really good, though her character was too abrasive for me to really like her (I'm so glad I saw a version with the language edited). Now her hair was a different matter entirely--it was HIDEOUS most of the time. She was so pretty in the scene where she and Charlie were alone in Charlie's parents house. And in the movie's final scene.But Annabeth Gish was the best actor in this film. I especially liked her in the scenes where Kat babysat Phoebe. She wasn't beautiful like her sister, but attractive physically and quite appealing as a character, and I really felt bad when ... well, that would be a spoiler. But I did care about Kat.All the female actors in major roles did a good job. Conchata Ferrell is the obnoxious housekeeper on Two and a Half Men these days, and she was great as the keeper of the pizza's secret ingredient. Even Porscha Radcliffe managed to make little Phoebe appealing. I also liked William R. Moses as her father.There was lots of good music. Old songs like Perry Como's Don't Let The Stars Get In Your Eyes and Frank Sinatra's I've Got You Under My Skin played in the pizza place. And classical music in other scenes.I thought I recognized Matt Damon. I didn't know who he was until I came here. But I knew he was someone who had done great things and I had higher expectations.Overall, this was a good film, but I would have liked it better if it had been funnier, and if the female characters hadn't had so much trouble with relationships.  "},{"Title":"Won't be on movies for guys who like movies","Date":"14 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Won't be on movies for guys who like movies!  The antithesis for Magnum Froce.  No Client Eastwood or Hal Halbrook in this film.  Hey no one even gets killed.  Saw this at my sisters former boyfriend house.  Did not mind it either, than I saw it again years later, with by wife, on late night.  My wife like this film, and I found it aged well.  The acting is alright, but its the story that keeps, this action movie junkie, interested.  The story reminds me of a few of the interesting conversation I would have with my female friends at the university.  Funny how a jucie story can transend gender, age and other demographics.  The end is a bit sappy, but it had too have a downer ending that would have killed this movie.  I wish they had a litte more about the Pizza.  Funny, right about this movie makes me want to order one.  I give this film 7 pizza's out of 10, if it is 2 for 1 then 14 out of 20. Mike "}{"Title":"Pretty Women","Date":"11 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  MYSTIC PIZZA (1988) **1/2  Annabeth Gish, Julia Roberts, Lili Taylor, Vincent Phillip D'Onofrio, William R. Moses, Adam Storke, Conchata Ferrell. Zesty slice-of-life coming-of-age comedy centering on three teenage girls who work in a fishing village pizzeria in Connecticut and focuses on their trials and tribulations with their love lives.  Roberts, in her pre-Pretty Woman stardom, shines brightly as a randy, fun-loving gal with charm to spare.  Gish and Taylor are equally radiant with fresh performances that rise above the all-so-familiar storylines.  Look sharply for Matt Damon as Storke's younger brother. "},{"Title":"Good movie -- when I was 12.","Date":"17 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The only things missing from this St. Elmo's Fire Xerox are Jessica Fletcher and L.L. Bean labels on all of Annabeth Gish's preppy togs.  Although Mystic Pizza offers a pleasant dose of couleur locale, along with a spicy dash of real American drama, the whole affair seems very predictable and dated in retrospect.  We've simply grown too sarcastic to widen our eyes when Julia Roberts -- Mystic, Conn.'s experienced woman -- tosses her younger sister a pack of -- gasp! -- condoms.  Yawn.Ironically, women are much better portrayed here than in most contemporary Hollywood flotsam, where they're either kick-ass she-males (G.I. Jane, recent Bond women), doting wives of violent men (Anne Heche in Donnie Brasco, Robert DeNiro's girl in Heat), or vacuous trophy dates, endlessly worried in high Cosmo style about Mr. Right -- the one with whom our heroines  invariably enjoy a done-to-death pan-in sex scene (all of Meg Ryan, Selma Hayek and Jennifer Aniston).Where's the catchy banter and chemistry that made people sing about Bogey and Bacall in Key Largo or the cutting-edge realism of Jodi Foster in The Accused or -- best of all -- Eva Marie Saint's faultless devotion and strength in On the Waterfront?  Janeane's a great start, but there's  still a long way to go...   "},{"Title":"A daytime TV melodrama made better by the trio of strong performances in the leads and solid direction","Date":"21 December 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" In the small fishing town of Mystic, three girls work together as waitresses in the finest little unknown pizza restaurant. Against this background, we see the three of them dealing with their various relationship problems and turning to each other for support. Jojo loves Bill but cannot get to the point of saying I do; Daisy falls for three men a week and appears to have bitten off more than she can chew, when she falls for rich whitebread Charles. Meanwhile Kat takes up a babysitting job for Tim Travers only to find herself falling for him.Despite the fact that it was a big hit and made the names of several people involved, Mystic Pizza is really nothing more than an enjoyable, down-to-earth film that could play in cinemas as well as it does on daytime television. The basic plot is about the love problems of the three girls but yet it manages to avoid overly sentimental moments although it does have its close calls. Mostly the film has a nice down to earth quality that is rough and ready and avoids the gloss of daytime TVM's and feels like it is set in the real world. The direction may not set the world on fire but he deserves praise for avoiding these traps.Of course a major reason that it works so well is the nice playing from the majority of the cast. Gish is vulnerable and convincing and is the heart of the emotional story. As such she doesn't stand out as well as Roberts, who gets a cocky character to dominate the others. Taylor is also pretty good and all three of them are down to earth and quite realistic. D'Onofrio is as good as he usually is; Ferrell is typically bubbly and fun; Perry Mason fans will take the chance to see Moses in something else and he is OK. Also worth noting is a very young Matt Damon in a small role.Overall this will not win over those viewers who hate soapy melodramas but it may win over the indifferent and the fans because it is a quality piece of melodrama. It rejoices in friendship no matter what is happening with love, but yet avoids delivering cloying sentimentality for the most part, instead delivering pretty convincing characters that are performed well by the trio of lead actresses. "},{"Title":"Minor corrections","Date":"6 April 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The film is great and refreshing! Only one small correction, the portuguese names are Araújo and Barbosa, not Arujo and Barboza... those names simply don´t exist in Portugal.It is expected that films of this magnitude should have more research so it wouldn´t make such basic mistakes!!!  "},{"Title":"Please Explain....","Date":"15 August 1998","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Okay a) I think Mystic Pizza is one of the dumbest names for a movie I've ever seen b) All of these comments come from a 17 year old's point of view.I don't know what females want in this world.  I don't know the male balance scale for them.  But I do know that no one in this world is Cupid, and no one can hit a bullseye every time.  But I do know that Kat (Annabeth Gish) getting the hots for a twice-as-old married babysitter with a six year old daughter is something that sounds even a little odd for Jerry Springer.  Or that girls like Jojo (Lily Taylor) can be as sexually driving as men, using sex as a way of getting a quick fix.  I don't really know how this works, but I do know that this movie shows feminine sexuality in a rather negative way.  This movie has just made my male teenage hormone crazed mind, who's spent a long time learning women, even more utterly confused.  That's my philosophical point of view.  Besides that, this movie had a reasonably weak story and fairly sub-par acting.  With only performances from young Annabeth Gish and a young Vincent D'Onofrio being the most convincing.  And I'm sorry, but that Mystic Pizza looks awful greasy ** "},{"Title":"Pizzia is not the only thing getting hot and sticky.","Date":"4 December 2000","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Coming of age or just hot to trot; three young girls working at the Mystic Pizza Shop each have particular problems with the men in their lives. Julia Roberts makes her first real noticable appearance on the big screen. She is in love with a  guy that may think he is too good for her. Lili Taylor uses sex as her own version of self therapy. And Annabeth Gish has the quivers for a married man with a six year old daughter.Gish does the best acting in the whole movie. I have always found her tempting and appealing. Also in the cast are Conchata Ferrell, William Moses and Vincent D'Onofrio. Note There is a small part for Matt Damon, his first on the silver screen. "},{"Title":"Yech.  Blech.  Avoid if you want to preserve your sanity.","Date":"8 October 2008","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I still painfully regret the 90 minutes or so that it took to see this film. Consider Julia Robert before she learned how to act (which was sometime around My Best Friend's Wedding); one of those painfully contrived underlying metaphors of the life is like  (fill in the blank); filled with all the saccharine conventions of the unexamined chick flick; full of allegedly heartwarming human interaction; painfully quasi-metaphorical title.Feh.And yet again I say feh.Gentlemen, if the woman in your life ever coos and says This is one of my faaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaavorite movies, for the sake of your long term happiness, run, do not walk, to the nearest exit, go home, take the phone off the hook, start blocking calls from said woman, and congratulate yourself on an exceedingly lucky escape. Trust me--you will be like a coyote in a trap wanting to gnaw off a leg to get away if you watch.Yes, this film is that bad.It could serve as a substitute of ipecac.It destroys brain cells.As I said, I bitterly regret the 90 minutes with this film that I can never get back.You have been warned.Ladies, if you take umbrage at these remarks--well, let me just say that we would never get along. I prefer people of a rational disposition. "},{"Title":"Loved it as a kid but now its different","Date":"16 August 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I remember seeing this movie as a kid and I really loved it then, but seeing it as an adult made me view it with a more detached cynical eye. Don't get me wrong there will always be a part of my heart that loves this film, but the cliché's and cheesy melodrama make it hard to watch now. Its basically a coming of age story about three girls who are experiencing that strange and terrifying transitional period in their lives. They are out of high school but not quite sure what to do now that the world expects something from them. All of a sudden every adult is their peer, and they might bulk under the scrutiny of a small town in which everyone knows every one's business or get out. Also there is the matter of romance some people are late bloomers and virgins some are engaged to be married. The good things about this film are the beautiful vistas and the stunning locations. It made me want to live in New England. There is also the performances the cast is stellar, and its fun to see people like Julia Roberts, Matt Damon, and Vincent D'anafrio all beloved stars today ham it up as unknowns. How ever some of the story lines were predictable and it got on my nerves to see Julia Roberts wallow in the - I know I'm not going to be anything dramatic rants yet all the time being stunningly gorgeous and incredibly street smart and there was never any doubt that she would be just fine. Kind hearted and Innocent Kat who is book smart but knows nothing about life or love was believable, but you could see her character arc from a mile away. Vincent D's intended who just wants to have sex but isn't sure about marriage had some funny quips but you just felt her story line was made that way so that the writers could go you see how different this is from normal girl roles? Isn't it interesting? Part of me knows that this movie was made in an era when cheesiness, good looks and youngish beautiful people turning in over the top performances and nothing more was acceptable, and the 12 year old in me will always cherish it but as an adult I don't think so. "},{"Title":"The Lives And Loves Of Three Pizza Girls","Date":"4 October 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" If Mystic Pizza had been done back in the day of the studio system I can see Jack Warner thinking of this as a perfect story for the Lane Sisters. It does have the feel of Four Daughters albeit with a little more frank sexuality.Sisters Julia Roberts and Annabeth Gish and their friend Lili Taylor are the waitstaff of the best pizza parlor in Mystic, Connecticut, titled of course Mystic Pizza. Their employer Conchata Ferrall has a secret sauce that she puts on her product that's the talk of the town and several surrounding counties. Ferrall's big ambition is to have her place reviewed and rated by a snooty gourmet critic with a New England based television show, Louis Turenne.All three girls have men problems and all have different endings in their encounter. Lili Taylor can't believe that she's really got it all in Vincent Donofrio, it seems to good to be true. Julia Roberts gets herself involved with preppy Adam Storke who is out slumming with friends and ends up at her watering hole where she proceeds to take him and friends at billiards. And Annabeth Gish takes a job babysitting for William R. Moses while his wife is away and ends up falling for him.Although Mystic Pizza was Julia Roberts breakout role, I think the story of Gish and Moses is the best one. The affair is largely a product of Gish's misplaced expectations and Moses is too human to resist taking advantage of the situation. All three women end up wiser and really none the worse for the experiences.Mystic Pizza is a nice old fashioned kind of film with some really good parts for women and should be a testament to those who are writing roles for women when it is complained there aren't enough. For that matter there aren't enough roles period for all the talent out there. "},{"Title":"Zen and the Art of Pizza Making","Date":"3 April 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The title sounds intriguing, a sort of Zen and the Art of Pizza Making. Mystic Pizza, however, has nothing to do with mysticism. The mystic is a reference to the small town of Mystic, Connecticut, and the three main characters all work as waitresses at the town's pizza restaurant. The three are sisters Kat and Daisy Araujo and their friend Jojo Barboza. All come from the town's large Portuguese-American community, and all are in their late teens or early twenties. All are romantically involved, and the film traces the stories of their romances. Kat is the intellectual of the group; she has been accepted to attend Yale University and, besides her work at the restaurant, also acts as babysitter for a thirty-something Yale graduate named Tim whose wife is currently in Europe. She falls heavily for Tim after discovering that they have intellectual interests in common and cherishes the hope that he will leave his wife for her. · Daisy's love-interest is Charles Gordon Winsor junior, the son of a wealthy WASP family. Although the Winsors are new rather than old money, they have all the snobbish instincts of the most aristocratic blue-bloods, and disapprove of their son's romance with a girl who is ethnic, a Roman Catholic and from a working-class background. (The comments about Daisy's ethnicity did not really ring true; the Winsors seem to regard Portuguese-Americans in much the same light as particularly unenlightened British colonialists used to regard the natives, even though there have been Portuguese communities in the New England fishing ports for several generations). This sort of conflict is a commonplace in romantic dramas; the relationship between Charles and Daisy parallels almost exactly that between the rich WASP boy Oliver and the poor Italian Catholic girl Jenny in Love Story. Here, however, the situation is given an unusual twist. After Charles engineers a confrontation with his family over a perceived insult to Daisy, she is perceptive enough to realise that his interest in her has less to do with love than with a self-conscious act of rebellion against his privileged background. Unwilling to be used as a weapon in his private battle against his family, she ends the relationship, although a more conventional romance would have presented Charles' outburst as something admirable and provided the expected happy-ever-after ending. Of the three romances, in fact, two end unhappily. Rather more predictably, at least in terms of adherence to dramatic conventions, Kat discovers too late that Tim has simply been using her and has no intention of leaving his wife for her. The one story that does end happily is that of Jojo, although even here normal Hollywood conventions are given a new twist. Jojo is engaged to Bill, a local fisherman, but is reluctant to commit herself to him in marriage. This is a reversal of the normal movie cliché in which it is the male characters who are portrayed as being frightened of emotional commitment. Bill (whose strong religious beliefs preclude sex before marriage) wants to get married as soon as possible, but Jojo doesn't believe she is ready. In his review of the film, written when it first came out in1988, Roger Ebert stated I have a feeling that Mystic Pizza may someday become known for the movie stars it showcased back before they became stars. Of the three leads it was Annabeth Gish as Kat, whom he singled out for special mention, comparing her to a young Katharine Hepburn. Gish is certainly good, but for me the star of the film was the still little-known Julia Roberts, who shows here not only the looks and the talent but also the charisma which were to make her a major star a couple of years later in films like Pretty Woman and Sleeping with the Enemy. Lili Taylor as Jojo does not perhaps have quite the same impact, but there are some good contributions from some of the minor characters, especially Conchata Ferrell as Leona, the owner of the restaurant who claims to be in possession of a secret recipe for pizza sauce which she has inherited from her forebears on the Algarve. (And there was me thinking pizza was an Italian dish rather than a Portuguese one). Adam Storke as the spoilt rich boy Charles is the best of the male stars. The film has been described as a romantic comedy, although it does not follow the normal format of the standard Hollywood rom-com. A better description would probably be a coming-of-age story, set against a well-realised background of small- town life. In a traditional romantic comedy the main focus of interest would be Jojo finding the love of her life; here the focus is on all three characters learning lessons about life. As Ebert put it, it's about three girls discovering what their standards for love are going to be. This is not exactly an original theme, but Mystic Pizza adds enough original touches to keep it interesting. 6/10 "}{"Title":"deli-cious!","Date":"3 February 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I don't know why I like cheese pizza, but I sure like the taste. Maybe it's the sight of all that cheese, hot and melted, over the red spaghetti sauce. Maybe it's the scent that tickles my nose, and causes a smile to grace my face.The first time I tried it, it was dinnertime and I was seven years old. I had just seen what a pizza was, and the cheese pizza instantly caught my eye. Immediately, I knew that the cheese pizza would be my favorite food for life.Carefully, I hefted a small slice of the pizza onto my red paper plate and waited for a bit for it to cool down. After all, I didn't want to burn my mouth.Then when I was sure it was cool enough, I picked up a little bit of the pizza and dug in.It was fantastic! One of the best foods I'd ever tried. A gleeful smile spread out across my face as I savored the cheesiness of the flavor, the sauce underneath it, and best of all, the way it tasted really great.I will never forget that taste as long as I live.*********/10 -- -1 because I almost burned my mouth! "},{"Title":"Lukewarm and bland","Date":"18 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is one of those films that no man &#150; unless he is some kind of movie-completist &#150; would choose to watch alone. It truly is the chickiest flick I have ever seen, and one in which very little of any note actually happens. Marked out as a product of the eighties by some big hair and bigger shoulder pads, there's probably some metaphor about life being like a pizza folded deep within the bowels of the plot but I didn't really have the urge to try and figure it out, so stupefied was I by the turgid dullness of it all. I'm not even sure a film like this would get made today &#150; not with any kind of significant budget, anyway &#150; it would probably be produced as one of those MTV films with a bad title and lead actors no-one other than daytime TV aficionados has ever heard of.The plot has three teenage friends, working at the small-town Pizzeria that gives the movie its title, who all embark on some kind of romantic entanglement. They each go through the usual emotional roller-coaster ride, experience a few of life's lessons and, by the time the end credits roll, learn to face the future with their youthful optimism intact.Of course Julia Roberts stands out, serving notice of the megastar she was about to become, but it is Lili Taylor as the girl whose boyfriend for some reason can't handle the fact that she just wants uncomplicated sex with him without the commitment of marriage, who comes across as the cutest even if she doesn't possess conventional Hollywood looks. Matt Damon also makes a fleeting appearance as the younger brother of Roberts' rich boyfriend. "},{"Title":"Entertaining chick flick about three  girls' romantic woes","Date":"29 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is an entertaining enough movie, definitely a chick flick. Call me old fashioned, but I'm going to start out by putting in my disclaimer that it isn't in any way ideal (or even okay) that these young girls are all sleeping with guys they aren't married to. I wouldn't want my daughter (if I had one) having their morals.The story revolves around three friends who have just graduated from high school in Mystic, Connecticut, and work as waitresses in the local pizza parlor during the summer, while trying to sort out their future plans. Two of these girls, Daisy and Kat, are sisters and bridesmaids to the third, Jojo, who faints at the altar and wants to postpone any commitment. Jojo's fiancé wants marriage now and eventually more or less gives her an ultimatum. Meanwhile, her two friends (the sisters) are having romantic problems of their own. Daisy, the wild, cocky sister, is dating (and bedding) a handsome, wealthy, and rather spoiled young man named Charlie. Her brainy, quiet sister, Kat, is headed for Yale, but has a summer job babysitting a little girl. She has fallen for her charge's 30 something year old dad, whose wife is off in England for the summer.They're all having sex at around age 17 -18, and not putting a lot of either smarts or honour into it. Jojo literally can't seem to get enough sex, but doesn't want to marry the guy. Though she's portrayed sympathetically, Daisy's apparently been sleeping around long before Charlie. Kat has sex with a married man, regretting it afterward only because she feels dumb and used when he returns to his wife. (She WAS dumb and used.) No remorse whatsoever over her ill treatment of said absent wife or betrayal of the couple's child she claims to feel such affection for. We're supposed to feel sorry for her (and do), but it's not quite nice what she did, especially in light of the fact that it's so premeditated over a period of time, not spur of the moment at all.As for Jojo, it's a little odd that she just seems to want sex (even in the pizzeria washroom!), whereas it's her fiancé who's the honorable one wanting to commit, possibly even for religious reasons. He's tired of them sneaking around to have sex. Hurray for him! I had rather limited sympathy for Jojo's situation; many girls wish they were so lucky. I agree with the reviewer who claims Jojo's an annoyance, always yapping away about commitment. Although Daisy comes off as mouthy and rude, sometimes even cruel to her sister, she shows her vulnerability as the blue collar girl looked down upon by Charlie's snobbish family. My main sympathy goes to Kat, even though she indeed does a terrible thing, and quite unrepentantly at that, by sleeping with her married employer. However, she's young, naive, and foolish...neither the first nor the last...and alas, suffers for her folly eventually.It's one of Julia Robert's early roles, and she always emerges sympathetically, including here as Daisy, the stereotypical low social status girl with Portuguese ethnic roots, in love with a rich, preppy WASP college man. The other cast all come off quite adequately, especially Annabelle Gish who shines as Kat. I agree with others who have noted that, Julia Roberts notwithstanding, this is really Kat's movie.The pizza parlor is sort of home base to the tale. One of the most touching aspects of this movie is the camaraderie and loyalty of these girls to Leona, the pizzeria owner. Leona has no kids, so the three girls are like her daughters. It's interesting when the gourmet food critic stops in for a slice of Leona's secret recipe pizza!Anyway, this movie is an entertaining little bit of fluff, but definitely one just for the girls, I would say. "},{"Title":"Great Movie!","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I thought that this was such a cute movie. I just got around to watching it today, I've had it sitting around for a couple months. I think it was very touching and sweet. Plus, I'm a huge Julia Roberts fan so I was glad to finally watch this movie.  "},{"Title":"Mystical and Pure Fun","Date":"7 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Who can resist a chick flick huh? I know that I'm a girl and I shouldn't be using the term, but it sums up the movie. It is one of my favorites. The acting is modest and the characters, dynamic enough to hold your attention for a long time. The premise of the story is just really clever and you feel sorry and happy for the characters at the same time. The dialogue has something to be desired, but the film works. It shows Julia Roberts fresh at the start of her career and Matt Damon's as well. It just works and it has so many underlining themes. Just go see the movie.  "},{"Title":"A Perfect Feel-Good/Therapy Movie!","Date":"10 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is perfect to enjoy when you want to watch a friendly, uplifting movie.The entire cast was very well-chosen and has great chemistry throughout the movie.The vagaries of the transition from youth into adulthood are explored. "},{"Title":"Cute Movie","Date":"6 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Personally, I thought this movie was so good!  I mean, its not the best movie I've ever seen but it was pretty cute.  I found it interesting that this movie shot off Julia Roberts and Lili Taylor's acting careers.  I would definately recommend it to anyone! "},{"Title":"Wonderful Movie...","Date":"28 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I absolutely LOVE this movie! I usually hate chick flicks or basically any movie with Julia Roberts, but I still loved this one. Julia Roberts was her same old self, same character she always plays, But Lili Taylor was the best I've ever seen her. And Annabeth gish was my favourite part. She was amazing, though her character wasn't glamorized the way Julia Roberts' was, I found that Annabeth Gish she was far better. This movie was beautiful and I loved it! "},{"Title":"A coming of age story with pizza goodness.","Date":"9 December 2011","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Mystic Pizza A Review by Ashley I was making breakfast when I started watching Mystic Pizza. I can't be completely sure what I made myself that day, but knowing me it was probably a burger or spaghetti of some kind. I had decided to watch T.V. while I made breakfast because cooking can often be very boring, and I needed more stimulation. At first I was just watching the T.V. Guide channel, but I soon found myself switching to AMC to watch the last hour of Mystic Pizza. I have to admit; at first I was completely lost. There were so many conflicts and I spent a lot of time just trying to figure out who the head pizza lady was. She looked so familiar, and it was killing me. Once I settled down and watched the movie a little I really got into it. And although I didn't watch the whole thing I knew everything that had already happened or was going to happen simply by listening. Also I saw that awesome lobster dinner part with young Matt Damon! Pure gold!As I said before, there were a lot of conflicts in the movie. Some of the conflicts in the movie included, but were not limited to a girl who had family problems, Julia Roberts being poor while her boyfriend was rich, problems paying tuition to Yale/ Harvard, a decline in restaurant profits, and last but not least, dealing with the olds. All I all it was a good movie. I give it seven Golden Apes up! Which is only a 3 on IMDb. "},{"Title":"This pizza tastes more like cardboard","Date":"30 August 2009","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The cornball cutesie-cutesie title is the least of this film's problems. It's another coming-of-age story, where teens have romantic encounters, and learn about harsh realities of life because everything goes wrong in those encounters. That can be a good or bad formula, depending on what the writer and director do with it. This Pizza is cooked up with cardboard cutouts; consequently ending up as hard to swallow as cardboard.The plot is utterly predictable, and slammed down your throat with about as much subtlety in its approach as the coming-of-age of an atomic bomb. And what a bomb this is. The film tries to be a romantic comedy in spots with awkward exaggeration; this also fails. The only saving grace of this movie is the always dependable Annabeth Gish. But she is surrounded by unbelievably bad co-stars. Julia Roberts is; well, Julia Roberts, and that is not a good thing (to be fair, she does appear to at least be trying). The overacting guys that run in and out are inept and annoying. The person playing the third waitress apparently was never heard from again. The film ends nowhere, pretty much where it started.Where do they get the gimmicky so-deep-and-clever title? To rope in box office dollars of course--in the story, a pizza parlor. And a town. Are they kidding? Ugh. There's nothing mystic about it. Mystic Pizza tastes bland and stale. "}{"Title":"Why is this movie rated R?","Date":"29 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I realize this movie was rated R because it's old but other movies that are old, (that are supposed to be R) are rated PG. I loved this movie. I watched it with my mom and we had a great time laughing at all the jokes and stuff like that. Julia Roberts looked so young, and it was great watching her performance. I loved the movie and I think it should be rated PG-13! As for the storyline it was OK. It's definitely NOT my favourite Julia Roberts but its a nice movie to watch on a rainy afternoon. Be sure to have a nice slice of pizza with you just in case you get hungry. I can't wait to see Julia Roerts and Jude Law in Closer. It comes out in December. Right?  "},{"Title":"i bought it for matt damon","Date":"1 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  alright, i know that many comments made for this movie are from either teenagers or middle age people, but i have to say that this is a very good movie. it is true that i firat watched it for matt damon's one line, but i am also a julia fan. the main reason i am posting is not to summerize like many people do, or to criticize. i just want to let people know that if you like 80s movies, julia roberts, or like me, want to see an 18 year old matt damon utter 7 words wearing a yellow and blue polo, watch Mystic Pizza, if not, don't watch it! i will never understand why people post negatinve thoughts. have a nice day! buh bye! KD "},{"Title":"Flawed, but good enough","Date":"5 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Although it has a fairly predictable story and a few slow spots, I would still say that this was a good movie.  This is almost completely because of the reliable Annabeth Gish and her character Kat, since I never really cared for Daisy or Jojo.  Besides Kat's numerous scenes, there were also several funny moments that helped me to overlook the routine plot.  It's not great by any stretch, but it's certainly a worthwhile time killer. "},{"Title":"I like it...3 ordinary girls and their lives...a good movie at slumber party, you know?","Date":"27 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'm not 17 but I like this movie now and also when I was a teen...I like it! I know it's predictable, maybe a bit silly...but the actresses are great-i love Julia!-and I could watch it again and again, because...I like it!! "},{"Title":"The way every town in America should be, or at least a dozen of em'","Date":"17 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A good film about life that takes place in a small Connecticut town. Although the title makes sense, it is horrible. After seeing the film I wanted to move to Mystic, Conn.  A safe town with tightly-knit people and beautiful surroundings.  The film is well shot, the story is interesting, and the acting is pretty good.  It is definitely worth renting. "},{"Title":"the BEST movie EVER!!!!!!!!!","Date":"18 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  i am the BIGGEST FAN of this movie!!! I've seen it Thousands of times,literally!!!!!!!!!!!!!I know its crazy but i own 3 copies of it just in case one dose not work.if you are down, this movie is the right medicine.very uplifting!!!!!!i even know every word of the script for every character at every moment.without the movie even being on...you can relate to the characters so well, especially if you were a teen in the 80's.and the men are so hot...i vacation in mystic every year since seeing this movie,i visit the sites where it was filmed and eat at the actual resturaunt.wow the pizza is sooooooooo goooooood!just about as good as the movie itself!this movie has brought alot, to my life,its a plus/bye daisy) "},{"Title":"Matt's Damon first film","Date":"4 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"   Hey mom, you want my green stuff?These were the first lines of Matt Damon's career in Mystic Pizza. Who would have thought ten years later, Matt would win an academy award for Good Will Hunting. In the film, Matt plays Steamer, the youngest son of a local rich family.Keep your eyes open, Matt only has a good 40 seconds of screen time. "},{"Title":"Snore.","Date":"6 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a chick flick. I didn't expect much of it for this reason but was fairly interested because I had heard it was Julia Roberts' breakthrough. I am in no way a fan of Roberts at all but thought it would be amusing to see how different she was in 1988, before Pretty Woman and all the other movies that made her a major star in the '90s.Unfortunately this movie is really a dud. I tend to like many romantic-comedies such as Sleepless in Seattle and While You Were Sleeping but this is for men what Rambo II must be for women - an absolute snore. It's full of cheesy melodramatic music played over a bunch of women getting together giggling about guys and having girl talks. It's really sort of pathetic and unrealistic because women's discussions aren't usually this silly - it's like a male writer tried to mimic a bunch of women talking together and totally failed.Then again I'm sure many women will like the film's subplots and such - it's not a horrible film but if you're not into these films (i.e. you're a man) it can be quite annoying and boring. 2/5. "},{"Title":"Waste of time and money","Date":"12 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I don't know why I watch the movies I do, because I always waste at least 5 hours a week watching crappy movies. Mystic Pizza filled in 2 of those 5 hours. I recognized only two of these actors, Julia Roberts, and one of the other sisters. Each could have done without this movie. I thought it was a slow moving, cloud of confusion. Maybe if you're in the hospital, you're in a full body cast, and the nurse just put on this movie, you would enjoy it, but any other time, I would rather put my tongue in a socket. In conclusion, STAY AWAY! "},{"Title":"When Julia was human","Date":"29 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I loved seeing Julia with a real size body! Cheers me up tremendously. She's got a real size bum, and a little tummy even. And in those ugly 80s clothes! Sure to cheer you up if you are tired of all the perfect Hollywood bodies.I look forward to watching this movie with my teen daughter. She will love it, and it has some good messages about respecting yourself, and not making mistakes for love.... "}{"Title":"Extra Cheese Please!","Date":"13 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Mystic Pizza is a movie I had immediate suspicions about from the very beginning of the movie, when Julia Roberts makes her entry to the movie in a bar and plops herself down on a bar stool. I noticed.. quickly.. her HUGE hair. And then Adam Storke enters the movie, and my god, I just about keeled over laughing. Wearing the most ridiculous jacket that hasn't been seen, well, since the late 80's when this film was made, collar up and with a somewhat effeminate look about him. It's very odd and it just distracted me throughout the movie. Oh right, about now the cheesy 80's synthesizer squawk song comes up as well, so this movie instantly arrives at 80's kitsch supreme, and the movie is just 5 minutes old! This movie follows a theme we've all seen before. AKA, women trying to find the love of their life while trying to make sense out of like (See Shag, Satisfaction, Three Coins In The Fountain, etc). Lilli Taylor plays a woman who's not too sure whether she wants to get married to Vincent D'Onofrio or not (Yes, I can understand that). Annabeth Gish plays a girl who makes some extra money babysitting and falls in love with a married man who's wife has gone overseas, and Julia Roberts is a somewhat let the chips fall where they may type of gal who yes, beds the rich Storke, and realizes that, shockers upon shockers, The Rich People Don't Care For The Lower Class! All of these women for some odd stupid reason don't seem to GET it. What exactly was making Taylor so neurotic about marriage? Why is Gish so shocked when the married guy's wife comes home? Who on earth would pick up Adam Storke? All of this, and yes, Matt Damon too! In his first movie role! I didn't realize this until I was watching it that he was in it, playing Adam Storke's brother. It's sort of fun to think that the next time you would see them on screen together would be Oceans 11, a full 13 years after this was made! Yikes! "},{"Title":"Passion Nada","Date":"14 July 2005","Score":"5 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I have a special fondness of girl coming of age stories, especially when they deviate from the formula a bit. This particular one seems to have been a hit. It is remembered more fondly now that Julia has become a star and collected mass endearments.But it is horrible by any measure except for the moderate appeal of the seaside town. Only two of the actors seem to really be acting D'Onofrio and Taylor. Usually in such enterprises, the characters are given snappy or clever or engaging dialog.The closest we get here is a fiancé getting upset when her boyfriend renames his boat Nympho and the townspeople cheer at her tirade.I dumped all over Passionada for being incoherent and compromising on the ending. It was clearly derived from this cross-class romance, Portuguese girl and family, fishing, bigmouthed redhead.And in all the things that matter, mainly charm, it has it all over this stagy confabulation. Some actors can literally be seen reading the words on the insides of their foreheads. The upper class boyfriend and owner of the pizza joint were embarrassing.And this is during Julia's fat period, before her surgeries.If you get stuck watching this, pay attention to how the buildings are used. Each existing structure is employed as supplement to character with more competence than anything else. Naturally, the only villain in the piece is an architect.Ted's Evaluation -- 1 of 3 You can find something better to do with this part of your life. "}]