[{"Title":"Underrated Romero film","Date":"11 November 2001","Score":"22 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film has been described as a horror film for people who don't like horror films.  That's an apt description for this underrated psychological/supernatural thriller from Pittsburgh's master horror director, George A. Romero.  To date, this is Romero's only studio film, and he had to make numerous compromises to the finished product.  (The originally intended ending would have been a killer.)  That said, the film still comes off as smart and sharp, with some very good casting. (John Pankow, recognizable from Mad About You, is really excellent here, and there are nice early performances from Stephen Root, Stanley Tucci, and Janine Turner.)  And check out the amazingly good editing in the last 10 minutes.  Overall, while this is not first-tier Romero, it's a terrific little horror film.   "},{"Title":"Fun and original horror.","Date":"18 November 2002","Score":"16 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is not your run-of-the-mill slasher film.  This is a well developed, well-paced suspense-type horror.  If what you like it lots of blood and cheap scares punctuated by incidental music, then you should skip this film. If you like a horror involving a few good characters, and a really talented monkey, then take a look.  The tension builds slowly.  There are a lot of interesting characters, who are neither good guys nor bad guys (this includes the killer).  The acting is not all that great, but the script is solid.  That the monkey may be the best performer in the b=cast says more about the monkey than the human castmembers! "},{"Title":"Monkey Shines (1988)","Date":"13 December 2011","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" George Romero does an excellent job of swapping Zombies for Monkeys. This film may sound ridiculous in the most preposterous way. But then again, we now live in a world of Snakes on a Plane and Burning Bright, so this is a little easier to swallow. In its genre, it is one of the best examples, and I'm not just talking about killer animals. I'm also referring to the stalker/obsessive partner/friend genre. What Romero does brilliantly, is to take a number of characters and the audience on a journey of emotions and self discovery. For example, I started off wanting one of these monkeys. The relationship built up is a genuinely loving one. It's really cute, and this could easily be one of those lifetime inspirational movies. If the monkey wasn't a genetically modified, telepathic, homicidal, psycho monkey. The well trained monkey takes us from tragic victim of experiments, to a loving carer. We get a wonderful cleaning montage, as the monkey helps the friendship expands. The monkey's obsession grows steadily. It starts off with a few temper tantrums and escalates into bananas in the slippers. Soon bananas turn to murder. It's the evolution of all species.None of this would work if it wasn't for a dramatic human connection. Beghe is a law student/athlete that is paralysed. He goes through acceptance, denial, frustration, which is understandable as his girlfriend leaves him for his doctor (a sleazy Tucci), he gets a patronizing nurse, and then his overbearing mother. It's great to see how the characters react to Beghe's quadriplegia, as it enforces Beghe's later anger. Beghe also does a terrific job of facial acting, which is most important as he can't use his body. In a single look he can convey the embarrassment of his mother having to wash him. On the surface, this is a story of a monkey being a bitch to a cripple. But look deep down, REAAAAAAALLY deep, and you'll see a social commentary. For a long time, the monkey is the only one that treats Beghe as an equal. It doesn't throw money at his problem, try and cheer him up, nor can the monkey do everything for him. Romero fills the film with dread, absurdity, and most of all a serious edge that clearly does the film justice. It's easy to mock this film. But the truth is, this could actually happen. Monkeys are creepy and untrustworthy. "},{"Title":"Or you'll what?","Date":"3 March 2003","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  ~Spoiler~ I'll have my deranged monkey kill your stupid bird.  That's what.  Monkey Shines flies low on the horror radar.  It's a Romero film that people normally don't recognize.  It's not as beloved as Night of the Living Dead or as socially aware as The Crazies, however, I'm going to give it some much deserved credit.  I love this movie.  Never have I wanted so many people to die so badly while watching a flick.  I mean, these people get what's coming to them.  The evil, lazy nurse, the jealous mother, the cheating ex-girlfriend, and the vindictive doctor.  Take Kathy Bates from Misery and make her every character.  You want to see this monkey go ape-sh*t and kill them.  It's great.  It's every young boy's dream to have a killer monkey and Monkey Shines really brings that to life.  This idea has never quite been attempted this way and it's suspenseful as hell.  I'd say it succeeded in doing what it tried to do.  My only peve is that it introduces a few characters that clearly deserve to die, but don't (the nurse and Stephen Root).  Other than that, it's a thoroughly enjoyable thriller.  Monkey Shines, shine on. "},{"Title":"not your typical horror flick","Date":"19 September 2003","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If you're looking for body count, blood, or bogeymen, this film is not for you. It is more of a psychological thriller than a horror film, though it was billed as horror, likely because of the pseudo-science gimmick that provides the basis for the conflict in the plot.While the film tends to wander a bit (i.e. a sub-plot involving the research head that gets dropped 3/4 of the way through) it stays fairly well focused on the main character and his problems. Aside from the lead, the most effective acting was done by the monkey(s), but the real actors do a pretty good job of carrying their own. It gives you a little insight into what it's like to be quadriplegic. For a late 80's movie, the style of filming was well done, there is very little cheese, and the special effects didn't overreach.The premise seems a bit farfetched to our currently more sophisticated and informed sense of what's possible on the genetic engineering front. After all, this movie was made 15 years ago. If Romero had gone with either a supernatural cause or a plain animal jealousy angle, it might be less dated, but then again it might have been a little less believable to begin with.Not very horrific, not startling or scary, but worth seeing if you don't mind a slightly slow-paced thriller. I gave it a higher than average score (6 out of 10) just because it didn't make me say oh, please! too many times unlike other movies from that time--particularly horror films--are prone to do. For example, the pivotal moment is fully supported by plausible input earlier in the film, it's not one of those miraculous developments pulled out of nowhere in the last few seconds before the climax.  "},{"Title":"Nice try","Date":"3 April 2002","Score":"13 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Monkey Shines is an honorable effort that doesn't quite work. It deserves credit for originality, but falls short of the mark. The concept is interesting, but the execution leaves much to be desired. A paralyzed man's life is made easier with the help of Ellie, a monkey trained to help disabled people get by with their daily lives. However, she used to be a lab animal who has had human brain cells injected in experiments. A bond forms between the two, and she acts out his violent desires.The final act does a good job in delivering the goods, but the film takes too long to get going, diluting the overall effect. In fact, at times one almost forgets it's supposed to be a horror movie. When it gets going, it works, although the very ending is a bit much. I'm still not sure the sci-fi gimmick was necessary. Surely they could have done pretty much the same things without it? Something more supernaturally orientated perhaps? Still, I admired Romero's willingness to take chances and try his hand at a more subdued thriller. Jason Beghe does a credible job in the role, and we are offered a rare glance at the frustrations of the disabled. A tighter film would have better achieved the director's goals.**1/2 (out of ****)An Orion Pictures release  "},{"Title":"One of Romero's most underrated and finest horror films - Monkey Shines","Date":"13 January 2009","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" It seems that every once and a while, a neat little horror film comes along that eschews genre conventions and is able to tap into a new vein to provide its scares. Writer-director George A. Romero, of Night of the Living Dead (1968) and Dawn of the Dead (1978) infamy, brings forth Monkey Shines, an adaptation of the novel by Michael Stewart.Romero has always been a director who goes for the throat in delivering the shocks in his horror pictures. But in the savage gore and mayhem, he has never lost sight of the human characters, their drama, and their plight. In Monkey Shines, Romero seems to have been domesticated somewhat - dare I say, tamed - in that characters and drama are most essential to the core of the film, and that horror is really the last thing on his mind.Monkey Shines begins with the Good Day Gone Bad, Really Bad Allan Mann (Jason Beghe), is a highly physical law student who goes for a jog early one morning after spending the night with his girlfriend Linda (Janine Turner). To avoid a dog on the sidewalk, he unknowingly runs into the path of an oncoming truck. He wakes up several weeks later in the hospital, now a quadriplegic, paralyzed, unable to use his body anywhere below the neck.Confined to a wheelchair he moves around by working a lever with his mouth and having to rely on live-in nurse Maryanne (Christine Forrest), his doting, overbearing mother Dorothy (Joyce Van Patten) and having to deal with his pompous surgeon Dr. Wiseman (Stanley Tucci) who begins having an affair with Linda, Allan gives up and tries to commit suicide. Luckily, Allan's mad-scientist friend Geoffrey (John Pankow) may have a solution Ella, an extremely intelligent capuchin monkey who is being trained by animal specialist Melanie Parker (Kate McNiel) to be a sort of help-primate for paraplegics and quadriplegics, much like a seeing-eye dog is used for blind people.At first, a great weight seems lifted off Allan's shoulders; Ella's the perfect helper - she can answer the phone, play cassette tapes in the radio, and even help Allan turn the pages of his books when he reads. She even raises her hand in class for her turn to be called on. A deep bond develops between the two that's right out of any made-for-TV movie about hope and determination to beat the odds. Of course, and this is where the horror elements begin to kick in, what Allan doesn't know is that Ella is really Geoffrey's guinea pig in an experiment to create super-intelligent primates he's been secretly injecting her with human brain tissue, which explains her super-intelligence in helping to make Allan's life a little bit easier. Even more horrifically, Allan has been having incredibly realistic nightmares in which he has acquired a monkey's-eye view of the world, and Ella is subconsciously acting out his deeply-suppressed anger, frustration, hatred, and rage for those around him. And it soon begins a battle of wits to see who is really controlling who, which also sees if Charles Darwin was really right all those years ago.Monkey Shines develops so nicely during its first hour that it's easy to forget that first and foremost, it's a horror film and not just any horror film, a George A. Romero-directed horror film. Romero shows remarkable restraint in combining both the human story with the horror story, that both elements are given enough screen time to thoroughly develop and not seem so tacked-on to each other. That atmosphere and tension of the film's horror-themed second half is pretty intense, even if things can be forgiven for the haunted house-style climax.This is easily the best-acted film Romero has ever directed, though obviously it's not his best; that honor goes to Dawn of the Dead. All of the characters turn in fine and realistic performances, including John Pankow as Allan's drug-addled mad-scientist friend who truly has his friend's best interests at heart, even if they're morally gray in the end. But there is one performer who is highly deserving of much praise, and that is Jason Beghe. Jason Beghe delivers a strong, controlled central performance that in my opinion, was criminally overlooked by a great many awards organizations. His performance is one of the most convincing and sympathetic portrayals of a physically handicapped protagonist I've ever seen in the movies. Essentially a prisoner in his own body, he hits every emotive note perfectly, and we believe and can see where and why his anger and rage at his condition is one of the most believable performances in the history of Romero's long and distinguished career as a filmmaker.Monkey Shines is an overlooked career highlight from a highly distinguished director, George A. Romero. Even more so, Jason Beghe's criminally underrated performance makes the film even more worthy of more significant praise.This is one horror film that isn't monkeying around in the end. It is really scary.8/10 "},{"Title":"A nice little Romero film","Date":"14 March 2001","Score":"11 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie's not going to have a fan base larger than Night of the Living Dead or Dawn of the Dead, but it is another example of Romero's uniqueness as s film maker. An original story with an original cast, Romero adds to the horror genre by going somewhere where no other film maker has gone before. Monkey Shines cast includes Christine Forrest who shows her finest performance as the nurse. Worth checking out, so check it out. "},{"Title":"* * * out of 4.","Date":"17 August 2002","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Young athletic Allen (Jason Beghe) finds himself paralyzed from the waist down after a truck hits him. An experimental pet monkey is brought in to help him out with his daily routines. However, as Allen's anger grows over his situation he finds out that his pet monkey is going around killing people and carrying out his dark desires. Thoughtful well made cleverly directed horror flick has a scary, intense finale. One of George A. Romero's better latter day efforts.Rated R; Nudity, Profanity, Violence. "},{"Title":"Capuchin antics","Date":"22 August 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Offbeat horror film has a paraplegic being given a capuchin monkey named Ella as a companion. Only problem the cute little monkey has been subjected to genetic experimentation, and has a mind of its its own. Pretty soon, the monkey is up to no good, and the paraplegic is becoming telepathically linked to the increasingly evil simian. George Rnmero made this little gem. The cast is largely unknown, although watch for a young Stanley Tucci as one of the paraplegic's surgeons and John Pankow as the paraplegic's buddy (and mad scientist). A weird little tale that takes its time to get to the nasty stuff, which is just fine with me as the killings are pretty routine. "}{"Title":"Interesting but this movie has problems","Date":"28 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Allan Mann (Jason Beghe) becomes paralyzed from the neck down after a car hits him. He falls into a deep depression until a scientist friend (John Pankow) gets him a trained monkey named Ella (Boo) to help him. Allan also begins to fall in love with Ella's trainer (Kate McNeil)...but Ella begins to get very attached to Allan--TOO attached.This was supposed to be director/writer George Romero's comeback film. He said the studio loved it and was going to put a big promotional push behind it. But, for whatever reason, when this came out in the summer of 1988 the studio just dumped it. There was next to no ads for it or coming attractions. Romero remains bitter about it to this day. It's too bad this film was just ignored. It's no masterpiece but it isn't bad.The movie does have problems--it's far too long (almost two hours), the ending goes on forever and some of the plot is really hard to believe (I thought the psychic link between Allan and Ella was really stupid). Also the POV by the monkey was annoying and overused and there's a REAL embarrassing sex scene between Beghe and McNeil. Still I do like this movie.As I said it's too long but I was never really bored. Beghe is excellent in a very difficult role; Pankow nicely underplays the scientist and McNeil is fresh and appealing. Also Boo (who plays Ella) is a good actor. I realize she was just trained for her role but the expressions on her face and body movement was incredible. The plot is also quite interesting--until the end when it just strains credibility.So not a bad film or a good one but worth catching. I give it a 7. "},{"Title":"A Fine Film...For the Mature of Mind","Date":"14 April 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Nope, you ain't gonna get zombies in this George Romero offering.  Nope, you ain't gonna see ungodly amounts of screen blood ooze out of all kinds of twisted, sick, mangled body parts either.  If you are looking for sheer violence of the gory kind - look elsewhere.  This Romero film is a thoughtful, intelligent, suspenseful film that spends a lot of its time developing the personalities of its characters as well as the climax of the film. A young man studying to be a lawyer is paralyzed after hit by a truck.  He loses his beautiful girlfriend to his surgeon, his mother stays with him and hires an obnoxious nurse with a budgie, and his whole life is upside-down as he must depend on others or machines for everything.  A friend from an experimentation lab donates a monkey to him that will help care for him.  The monkey initially brings back his zeal for life but soon strange things start to happen....almost a telepathic link of kinds is established between the small capuchin monkey and the wheelchair-bound man.  The film builds events very slowly and with a lot of talk.  I thought this helped the film as the writing is crisp and the acting more than adequate.  The star of the film...the small monkey is a talented little thespian.  As strange as this sounds...she with the aid of Romero's direction... actually is able to create some sort of pathos.  The scenes where she listens to the tape and hugs her owner are powerful as are the ones where she uses her face to express her emotions.  Jason Beghe also does a credible job in his difficult role.  The other actors are fine.  Maryanne Hodges(Mrs. George Romero) does an outstanding job as the uncaring nurse.  Stephen Root of News Radio also has an intriguing role in a plot strand that is left for dead in the end.  Although the film is fine in many respects, it has some problems.  Most of these problems arise from the script.  Some plot elements are never really explained fully.  Some plot strands are abandoned.  And some characters are over-drawn in terms of stereotypical behaviour.  Romero once again tackles a difficult task and does a very credible job overall.  The thing I found most unique about the film was his choice of music for the film.  It just seemed inappropriate somehow.  The only music that really worked was the the music that Ella(the monkey ) heard as she embraced her owner.  That was a fine choice.   "},{"Title":"Monkey magic.","Date":"19 August 2009","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" For his immediate follow up to the excellent Day of the Dead, George Romero ditches shuffling, flesh-eating corpses in favour of a much smaller, hairier, and altogether more unlikely antagonist a capuchin monkey called Ella.After being injected with an experimental serum designed to enhance her intelligence, furry-faced Ella (brilliantly played by Boo, whose acting career has inexplicably stalled after this impressive debut) gradually turns into a murderous beast capable of tapping into the anger and resentment of her paraplegic owner Allan Mann (Jason Beghe) and carrying out his most primal desires. As little hairy Ella proceeds to bump off those who have wronged or upset her master, she proves to be every bit as deadly as a reanimated corpse, only a damn sight more devious.Monkey Shines is a decidedly different beast to the '...of the Dead' films for which Romero is so well known the director eschews the cartoonish blood and guts approach that has made his zombie films so popular with gore-hounds (although make-up legend Tom Savini is still on hand to provide a couple of impressive effects), and opts instead for slow-burn tension and nail-biting suspense.This more mature and reserved directorial style, coupled with excellent performances (Beghe, who is limited to acting only with his head, is superb), a well written script (adapted by Romero from the novel by Michael Stewart), and a few decent jump scares, results in a satisfying little horror/chiller that proves there is more to Romero than just gut-munching and bullets to the head (not that I dislike gratuitous splatter, but a change is as good as a rest, as they say!). "},{"Title":"A genre cult classic which earns its title through solid character foundations and excellent pacing","Date":"25 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Monkey Shines is a genre cult classic which earns its title through solid character foundations and excellent pacing.After an accident leaves him paralyzed from the neck down, Allan Mann (Jason Beghe) is a bitter, angry, and vengeful man. His mother is overbearing. A once loyal girlfriend turns his back on him. The doctor he once trusted seems to have ulterior motives when it comes to his well-being and recovery. Everything changes when Allan is given a trained monkey suited to meet his every need. Even if that need possibly leads to tragic accidents which befall those the creature feels threatens its master.Monkey Shines is rated R for sex and nudity, violence and gore, profanity, alcohol and smoking, and frightening and intense situations. The F bomb is dropped quite frequently throughout the movie. There's a rather detailed sex scene, although I don't recall any nudity. Watching a monkey maim and kill people could be pretty traumatic for younger (and even some older) viewers I would imagine.I found Monkey Shines to be an entertaining film which establishes its different characters rather quickly without sacrificing substance for scares or gore. It's a good balance of all the necessary ingredients for a rich psychological thriller. "},{"Title":"George A. Romero goes from zombies to a killer monkey.","Date":"1 October 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" At of all of his movies besides 'Monkey Shines', the only films from George A. Romero that I have seen were 'Land of the Dead' and 'Diary of the Dead'.I thought that those two movies were really good, and I can't say that this one was a contender, but it certainly was a success.You might be asking yourself why Mr. Romero didn't make a zombie movie and decided to make a movie about a killer monkey instead.I honestly thought it was weird at first, but the movie didn't turn out to be half bad.The movie itself won 7 awards and 3 of them went to Romero.So don't just look at the cover of the movie and think that a nice director like Romero shouldn't have wasted his time by making a movie about a monkey instead of zombies.Instead, watch the movie and at least try to take the movie for what it is.After all, it's nice to see George return with something totally different than flesh-eating zombies. "},{"Title":"An 80ie's Romero that isn't that bad at all!","Date":"12 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Well, I really can't understand why some people talk so bad about MONKEY SHINES - that's a real good one from Romero! Not only is the idea (the evil part of the human soul and behavior is the suppressed animal instinct that sometimes breaks through)in general fascinating - but it is also very well brought on the screen! Romero is often blamed for his unspectacular kind of filming, for his low aesthetics (especially his films of the 80ies) etc. but if you look a little deeper, you'll see how much sense his special kind of filming makes, for example as a means to show and develop characters. By the way the beginning sequence is so great - in a way it shows the poetry of a car accident (does this sound perverted?). I appreciate the way of handling the topic of being handicapped - MONKEY SHINES is THE SEA IN ME (2004, directed by A. Amenabar) as a horror movie! The film not only works on a philosophical level but is also - of course it has to because it's a horror movie - very thrilling, even though Tom Savini doesn't go as far with his FX as in his splatter flicks. The only thing I didn't like was that the effect of the serum wasn't explained in a scientific way - this makes the story look like some old-fashioned mad-scientist-story from the early decades of the 20th century... And of course you'll also find the characteristic Romero-sense for dark humor in this one, too. "},{"Title":"Could've been better, could've been a lot worse","Date":"29 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" George Romero, with his films and choosing of certain projects, is at least dependably unpredictable. The genres he works in 99% of the time are in the horror genre, or some bird of it (be it with zombies in his 'Dead' films, or more psychological with Martin and the Dark Half). Here he brings us the tale of a once prime athlete confined to a wheelchair, and the plucky little monkey who is trained to help him around the house and act as his companion as well as hands and feet. But, of course, things don't turn out right with what this 'experiment' comes forth. It's like one of those stories you find in those cheap paperback books at the grocery store, only stripped down to bare essentials and given some adrenaline from its filmmaker.This is a peculiar film to see, which offers brilliance as well as dullness and just plain oddness. Some things about the story make less sense than others as well (as will happen when science becomes important to the story as opposed to more of a MacGuffin). The lead actor, Jason Beghe, is good in the role, but isn't nearly as convincing in being the after effect of the 'medicine' he's given (as does the Monkey) as he is in being the earnest, nice side of the character. There is even one great supporting performance in cold, hard-pressed form from Christine Forrest (wife and bit player in the films of Romero). It's not meant to be taken very seriously, to be sure, but Romero on the one hand has a kind of sweet (in the ironic sense), interesting story with just the monkey and her master, as the injections start to take its toll on the both of them. On the other hand, he still has to work in this framework of building up more and more terror with a kind of one-foot death-machine or something.It's worth a look, especially for just the craft of the film, but it's definitely not one of Romero's best. "},{"Title":"Monkey Shines!","Date":"22 December 2003","Score":"15 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Monkey Shines is a good horror movie! It has very good action from the actors and the monkey was was excellent! I don't want to spoil it for you if you haven't seen it but its excellent for horror fans! If you have seen it I also recommend Link and Shakma! Anyway I recommend Monkey Shines! "},{"Title":"Monkey Horror Movie kinda shines. Then it kinda pees on itself.","Date":"23 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film may sound ridiculous in the most preposterous way because it's a killer monkey movie, but don't monkey around. Go see this movie. It's not that bad as it seem. It's honestly pretty alright. I have to say, this isn't your run-of-the-mill cheesy Slasher monkey horror film like 1990's Shakma & 1995's Congo. This is a pretty smart psychological thriller that you can go bananas for! Written and directed by George A. Romero, the film is based on a novel with the same title authored by Michael Stewart. Monkey Shines An Experiment in Fear tells the story of an ex-track athlete, Alan Mann (Jason Beghe), whom became paralyzed when struck by a truck. Mann fails to adjust to his condition, becoming suicidal and despondent. To help Alan out, his friend Geoffrey Fischer (John Pankow) trained a monkey named Ella (Boo the Monkey) to help him with his paralysis. What he doesn't know is that Geoffrey has been experimenting with Ella, genetically alter her brain that cause the little monkey to develop more human-like deep feelings, and rage, against its new master and her monkey trainer, Melanie Parker (Kate McNeil). I can understand why, people might overlook this movie. The little monkey is too cute. Whose idea was it to use a capuchin monkey as a villain? Why didn't they just use a bigger ape? While, a capuchin monkey seem silly as a villain. There is a way to portray it, right like what they did in 1995's Outbreak. They was able to do it, because that monkey in that movie was carrying a deadly disease that cause its villains to have violent and gory deaths. This movie didn't have any of that, fears, because it lacks gore. The movie is a bit laughable as the small monkey tries to poison and burn fully grown human beings. Clearly, Boo has no clue, what she was doing. Most of the action in the film is very unintentionally hilarious. The crash scene involving a running man, a barking dog and flying bricks is just cheesy. While, I couldn't see the monkey as a serious threat. I did love, how the movie portray their relationship. The relationship built up is a genuinely loving one. It was a deep bond, between the two that's right out of any kid's animal movie and then it got really bizarre, with Alan picks up on Ella's primal behavior, and Ella picks up on Allan's feelings of frustration, rage and revenge. The movie never explain this odd empathy of two, as both feel increasing in love with each other. It almost beasty. As if the movie was trying to channel the same themes of horror in Gothic tales like Beauty and the Beast, Planet of the Apes & the Island of Doctor Moreau, where no matter, how civilize you can act, you still have one foot, out of the jungle. I guess, the movie was trying to say something like a link from man to beast, but it never fully explained satisfactorily leaving a gaping plot hole that is a wart to what the film is trying to accomplish. I had actually read Monkey Shines. It was not a great read, but it's explain the concept, better than the movie, with the main character taking the same pills intended to increase the learning ability of his primate companion, but in the movie, it's never explained. Why and how exactly does Geoffrey's intelligence-boosting potion wind up linking Ella to Alan psychically? Who Knows! The movie doesn't bothered with it. The concept of the story has some interesting aspects. The life of a quadriplegic is an interesting subject, and you see it, with the great acting from Jason Beghe. You really see the struggle of it, through his facial expression and eyes. Kate McNeil is very convincing as the energetic, robust and beautiful trainer. Together, Beghe and McNeil make a cute couple on screen, and unlike other viewers, I didn't find the sex scene between them weird. It's very rare to see how severely handicapped are able to make love. Their love scene is very sensual, proving that the handicapped can do most anything. A young Stanley Tucci is a cool look, as the supporting character, despicable neurosurgeon Dr. John Wiseman. I really couldn't believe that was him. Most of the rest of the supporting cast was alright in their roles. Boo the monkey was the star of the film, big time. Without her, the movie couldn't had work. A lot of people might hate this movie, due to the fact, that they have a monkey as a villain. Watching a monkey maim and kill people could be pretty traumatic for younger and even some older viewers I would imagine. PETA might jump in, for the very controversial ending. The ending was so controversial that the film's distributor, Orion Pictures, forced Romero to add a happy ending to the picture, a plot device which the director had long avoided in favor of more ambiguous endings, because they were desperate for a hit, as it was in financial difficulty. Second, after poor previews, the studio recut the film without Romero's knowledge to add a shock ending. While, there are tons of alternate endings. It didn't help the film, much. Overall Unfortunately, the plotting and scripting is quite weak. The pacing, a bit too long. The concept is interesting, but the execution leaves much to be desired. Still, it's worth watching, at least once. Monkey see monkey do. "},{"Title":"Not Romero's Worst But Still...","Date":"13 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Allan Mann (Jason Beghe) is left paralyzed from the neck down following an accident. He loses all hope for living and even tries to commit suicide. A research scientist friend of his gets him a monkey named Ella that is trained to help him with day-to-day tasks. Allan's life improves and he develops a fondness for Ella. But when people that angered Allan start being killed, it becomes clear to him that Ella is somehow responsible.Middling horror movie from George Romero. Starts off well enough but becomes increasingly predictable as it goes along and, by the end, you're just ready for it to be over. The cast is unexceptional, though the writing does them no favors. Jason Beghe sports a laughably fake beard early on. John Pankow's pretty much the only interesting character and even he's a cliché. If one scene pinpoints when the movie starts to go off the rails, it's when the physical therapist chick gives Allan a pity lay. This scene is supposed to be erotic but it will surely just elicit laughter from all but the most sensitive types. Watchable but nothing special. "}{"Title":"Overlooked among Romero's filmography.","Date":"24 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" While this will likely never be considered one of filmmaker George Romero's best, it still represents a commendable effort in one of his rare forays into studio productions (in this case Orion). Scripted by Romero based on a novel by Michael Stewart, it tells the story of Allan Mann (handsome Jason Beghe), a law student who gets into a horrible accident that renders him a quadriplegic. He soon becomes despondent enough to attempt suicide, but soon he receives some temporary salvation in the form of Ella (Boo), a capuchin monkey who is trained to see to his needs. What he doesn't know is that his friend Geoffrey (John Pankow) has been playing mad scientist and injecting the cute lil' thing with human brain cells. Soon the bond between patient and helper becomes so strong that a mental connection is made, and Ella is physically acting out Allan's worst impulses. So what is he going to do about this little homicidal primate? Romero does a good job here at telling a fairly interesting story, although some viewers might be turned off at the lack of sympathetic characters. Most of them are flawed to some degree or another - creepy dean Burbage (Stephen Root), smarmy, incompetent doctor Wiseman (Stanley Tucci), fair-weather girlfriend Linda (Janine Turner), bitchy nurse Maryanne (Christine Forrest, a.k.a. Mrs. Romero) - and even a guy like Geoffrey, who initially just wants to help, has his problems as he's obsessed with his work. At least Allan has an appealing love interest played by Kate McNeil, whom horror fans will recognize as the lead in the slasher The House on Sorority Row. The cast is pretty good overall; Joyce Van Patten plays the stereotypically smothering mother to good effect, and it's a treat to see character actors Root and Tucci near the beginnings of their careers, but the one performer the audience is likely to remember is Boo, who's adorable and very well trained; the animal action is first rate throughout (there's also a rather annoying bird on hand). The evolving relationship between Allan and Ella makes for a compelling hook, and it makes one appreciate the real-life efforts that people put into training service animals, and the animals themselves. The film is light on horror - most of the violence is implied - as Romero tends to go for a more psychological approach, and refrains from going for the gore. Overall, this is a decent flick, worth a look for genre fans who are interested in checking out Romero's non-zombie films. Seven out of 10. "},{"Title":"Not sure even yet","Date":"2 June 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The fact that this person says George Romero 'always disappoints' can be taken to mean (a) the average 'non-horror' movie fan or (b). the average movie-fan - which yeah, maybe that's why he's never made the crossover BIG as in HUGE time, unless you count Night of the Living Dead as one of the CLASSIC horror films of ALL times! The man (Romero)has films like Day of The Dead which was one of those movies even fans kind of wondered about a bit (as Laurel Entertainment was transforming itself) but Entertainment Weekly voted Day one of the best horror films of all time as well. I certyainly believe the Romero catalogue are all excellent stabs at pieces of social issues that lie underneath whatever events were going on with the world from a historic standpoint as well. But then what would I know, I was only the Garbage Man(uncredited) in Monkey Shines An Experiment in Fearrik billockPS Also I was in Dawn of the Dead(the original-Mall Suit Zombie)Knightrdiers (Blacksmith) The Dark Half(Donaldson Cop #2) Night of the Living Dead-90(Porch Cameo Zombie-Gerry Gerely made me up like Farmer Ned, who I play in Flesh Eater) and I was supposed to be silo zombie in Day of the Dead BUT politics ruled its ugly head! "},{"Title":"George A. Romero's Monkey Shines is interesting horror film mixing handicaps with animals","Date":"19 April 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" George A. Romero's Monkey Shines is a pretty interesting horror movie about a monkey's sharing a mind with a paraplegic law student named Allan (Jason Beghe). Nice score by David Shire with wonderful use of Peggy Lee songs throughout. It almost loses steam at the end but there's a wonderful shock involving the monkey Ella (Boo) before the happy ending. Look for future TV stars John Pankow, Janine Turner, Stephen Root, and Stanley Tucci in pivotal roles. Also appearing are Kate McNeil as the love interest, Joyce Van Patten as Allan's mother, and Mrs. George Romero, Christine Forrest, as the maid Maryanne whose bird, Bogie, meets an untimely end. Makes you wonder how dangerous such harmless little monkeys can be... "},{"Title":"great monkey horror movie","Date":"15 November 2005","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Monkey Shines is a great horror movie and before i watched it i thought that it would be an OK and really gory movie but then i watch it and the movie terned out to be great and this movie relied more on the great plot more then just gore scenes like some other horror movies.The plot for this movie is great and the movies about how a man gets hit buy a truck and he becomes quadriplegic and he can not look after himself so his scientist friend gives him a monkey that he was experimenting on named Ella and the man and the monkey have a mental link between each other and then the monkey starts to for fill the mans desires bye killing some people the man knows.Over all if u like horror movies with not that much gore and a great story line u should watch this movie.My rating for this movie is seven out of ten. "},{"Title":"Getting Down to (Monkey) Business","Date":"3 February 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" George A. Romero, best known for slowly &#x96; as in decades, but surely &#x96; as in don't call me Shirley, bringing social commentary and zombies into the light brings us the very, very 80s Monkey Shines.Growing up, and as a grown up, I'm drawn to horror films. I remember this film dearly and loved it&#x85;back then, i.e. the late 1980s and early 1990s. Unfortunately, time has not been kind to the ole monkey named Ella (played wonderfully by&#x85;Boo.)The movie wasn't bad, per se, it's just too long. Yeah, a complaint I have about a lot of movies, and for the most part, I can back it up. No different here.We open with an unintentionally hilarious crash scene involving a running man, a barking dog and flying bricks. The athletic and college-student man, Allan (Jason Beghe who apparently is trying to channel Robert DeNiro) is a'joggin' when he's struck and is forced into a life of a quadriplegia. His mother, Dorothy (Joyce Van Patten, who, I'm sorry, comically looks like a man (SEE Ms. Swan or Austin Powers) throughout) hires a straight-edged/comic-relief nurse (Christine Forrest) and best friend, Geoffrey (John Pankow) gets a human-brain-injected experimental monkey trained to take care of him.Meanwhile his girlfriend, Linda (Janine Turner) leaves and Ella (the monkey) starts to win the heart of Allan while Allan woos the heart of the trainer, Melanie (Kate McNeil.) Meanwhile, the original girlfriend dates another and mother sells her business to help her son. Meanwhile, Geoffrey's experiments may/may not be producing results and he might lose funding from his boss, Dean (Stephen Root.) Meanwhile, Geoffrey's trying to contain the situation while taking too many drugs, himself. Meanwhile, Allan's growing angrier by the moment by show of cuss words. Meanwhile, Ella's kinda feeling left out.Meanwhile, meanwhile, meanwhile. There's really just too much here. I wish it had just been a simple story of a 'Man and his Monkey,' albeit eeevil monkey. And why couldn't we have left it at that. Throw out the (sorry, spoiler) telekinesis segment.I'm aware we have to use some suspension of disbelief, but we're dealing with a lab-rat monkey. That should've been enough to make us believe something's bad about to happen. When you throw in the 1980's answer to horror, or telekinesis &#x96; heck, even Friday the 13th Part VII The New Blood jumped on that bandwagon two months prior in 1988, it lessened the tension/horror. For me, at least.This is one of those movies you loved as a kid &#x96; if you were into these types of horror movies, and were a kid in the mid-to-late-1980s, that is &#x96; but doesn't really hold up today. It's fine and all, and slightly recommended to a new audience, but be forewarned this is clearly an 80s project and certainly not timeless in any way.I will end with some very positive observations I loved every scene with Boo. But then again, I'm biased I love monkeys in entertainment. They always make me laugh or curious to see what they'll do next. Also, it was fun to watch such a YOUNG Stanley Tucci, though he was kinda lost in the 150 subplots. In addition, I couldn't help but laugh at seeing Stephen Root in a serious role (yeah, I'm used to him in Office Space as the stapler-hugging Milton)&#x85;this is how most people probably would react when they see a grave Leslie Nielsen before Airplane! And finally, though it's a suspenseful movie &#x96; mostly in the closing that kinda of reminds you of Pet Semetary &#x96; it does contain one of the most eerie horror movie poster's I've seen. "},{"Title":"A great monkey movie","Date":"15 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Perhaps my comments are colored by the fact that Mr.  Romero has just concluded a visit to the school I am  attending, but for a cheesy psycho thriller, this is a great flick.  Mr. Romero doesn't just shock and scare, he  makes every attempt, within his budget, to build character and plot.  besides that, you can't predict the script.  Another Romero trademark Although he stated in the Q&A that the monkeys were a  nightmare to work with, he was able to pull out of the reams of footage, significant action and emotion from the apes to give the film credence and a concrete base. Time Magazine called it  The best monkey movie since the  original 'King Kong'.  Take a look, and have some fun, in spite of the cornball ending "},{"Title":"Pretty good horror film from George A.Romero.","Date":"29 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The plot of Monkey Shines is fairly simpleafter an aspiring law student Allan Mann is disabled after an accident,his best friend recruits an animal trainer to educate a lab monkey to assist him in his day-to-day tasks.A monkey named Ella shares a bizarre mind link with her master and starts to act out his subconscious thought of revenge.Monkey Shines is a smart and underrated chiller that features some truly intense moments.The tension that is slowly built up in certain scenes is absolutely incredible.The script relies more on subtle psychological horror than gore.The acting is pretty good and there is even a little bit of nudity.The plot is very interesting but the film can be slow at times.Give this one a chance-just don't expect another Martin or Dawn of the Dead. "},{"Title":"Can you really blame the guy?","Date":"31 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" In this one this guy gets disabled and can no longer look after himself, as he cannot move anything from the neck down. A person is hired to look after him. His friend though decides to give him a monkey he is experimenting on to help his friend out. Unfortunately, this monkey begins to form some sort of link between itself and the disabled man and performs some of the man's dark thoughts. The monkey kills off the bird of the caretaker, as this bird actually attacks the man, the monkey also goes after his former lover and the guy she had an affair on. This guy is actually the one who performed the surgery on the guy. The caretaker moves out after her bird is killed, so the guys mom moves in to take care of her son and treat him like a child. You can really sympathize with the guy as his frustration mounts, as it seems people are discouraging him from ever moving again even though there is a slim possibility he can regain his former abilities. This movie also shows how, even though someone may be disabled and in need of assistance that they shouldn't be treated like a child. All in all an OK flick with a rather good ending. "},{"Title":"So-what disappointing","Date":"14 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I don't what I expected but I this was not as good as hope for,I saw this on TV over the weekend, I did miss the first 8 minutes of the movie, I Don't think I missed to much.I enjoyed some parts of the movie, most of the time, i was rooting for The Monkey anyway,I didn't like the Allen at all, I didn't really care for me at all, I did not really sorry for me at all.One hell of nasty person, I know it's was be really hard just blow all time but there was no need of him being a ass to everyone who was to help him6 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Monkey ShinesAn Experiment in Fear","Date":"28 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A recent quadriplegic named Allan(Jason Beghe), and former track star, finds it hard coping with life having been confined to a wheelchair. His friend Geoffrey(John Pankow)is conducting experiments on a certain monkey named Ella which is through a hypodermic filled with a serum that derives from trimmings of frozen human brains in liquefied form. The experiments are about continuing the evolution of primate life into carrying more human characteristics. As Geoff tells his boss, Dr. Burbage(great character actor Stephen Root of OFFICE SPACE fame)Ella was already highly intelligent even before the experiments started, but something much more sinister develops when she becomes Allan's animal aide. Ella grows quite attached to Allan and vice versa, but something between them occurs that defies rational explanation..they are psychologically linked somehow meaning that when Ella goes out into the night, Allan sees through her eyes. It doesn't stop there..Allan feels what Ella feels and others around him see his behavioral changes which are unlike him such as outbursts of anger and profanity. Allan tries telling others about his link with Ella, but you can understand why they might be worried about his state of mind. But, soon Ella's aggressive nature turns violent and death to others that pose a threat either physically or emotionally(such as a girlfriend who leaves him after his accident for the doctor who performed an operation on his spine)occur.Melanie(Kate McNeil)is a specialist in the training of monkeys in how they assist those in need of an aide. She is the one that was coerced by Geoff into training Ella to help Allan. Allan and Melanie, as the film continues, fall in love. Melanie will pose a direct threat to Ella as the monkey can not stand others coming between her and Allan. Dorothy(Joyce Van Patten)is Allan's mother, a woman who wishes to help Allan but is more bothersome and intrusive than she realizes. Christine Forrest, the director George Romero's wife, portrays Maryanne, a belligerent nurse who complains all the time in regards to how bothersome Allan and his monkey are towards making her life miserable. Maryanne has a parrot which flies into Allan's unprotected face too often and will suffer for it.The longer the film continues, the more it induces eye-rolling..the premise is so outrageous and preposterous, it's hard not to chuckle. It is one of George's most Hollywood-ish films often allowing contrivances so that Allan will escape dangerous situations when Ella goes on violent. The whole link between man and primate thanks to an experimental concoction by Geoff is never fully explained satisfactorily leaving a gaping plot hole that is a wart to what the film is trying to accomplish. It's one thing to let a monkey get away with what Ella does, but another to ask us to believe that Allan feels and sees what she does. Thankfully Kate McNeil is a delightful, welcome presence in the film bringing some class to a rather mundane Romero effort. Disappointing film can not really build suspense because of the stupid story-line. If I wasn't such an Admirer of George's work, my rating would be lower. "}{"Title":"Bad Monkey, Bad!","Date":"5 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I find it interesting that we've not heard anything from the top billed actors in this film, but Stephan Root, Janine Turner and Stanley Tucci all have gone on to successful movie careers.Anyway, back to the movie. It reeks of a made for TV special and the acting is pretty awful. It's fun to watch with a date or friends; too see who and how the little primate will do in next. There is a truly scary scene in which the nurse, who at first finds a banana peel in her slipper next finds her dead pet bird. But these chilling moments are few. And that's too bad, because what this movies really need was more development of the monkey's subtle human qualities of vengeance.An incredibly bad movie that had potential; I liked the premise a lot. Hopefully a better treatment will come out in the future. "},{"Title":"Good movie","Date":"12 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Monkey shines is a good movie, but it went too slow. I wished the monkey would have killed more people. The plot was good. The acting was good. I think they could have done a better job on this movie. Over all it was good. I recommend this movie to anyone who likes a good horror movie.  "},{"Title":"Amazing!","Date":"2 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This Movie has to be the best use of a monkey I have ever seen. Execpt for maybe Dead Alive (BrainDead). But this story line is pure gold!Man is active,man gets hit by truck (which was a great effect!) Man is cripple,man needs help,man gets MONKEY!!! From that point on its on non stop roller coaster of Thrills, Chills,and Spills ending in what has to be the greatest ending I have ever seen. They don't make them like this anymore!!!!  "},{"Title":"Peculiar thriller from Romero, though far from a success...","Date":"15 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" George A. Romero directed and adapted this low-watt thriller from Michael Stewart's book about a sweet little monkey who is turned into a killer after a lab experiment goes awry. Handsome Jason Beghe is very good as a quadriplegic who relies on the monkey to help him get around, and Joyce Van Patten is also excellent as Beghe's domineering mother. Unfortunately, the plot's more thoughtful sections are pretty much thrown out for the sake of thrills, which seem awfully silly in view of the simian protagonist. Romero may well have his tongue-in-cheek, but he's checked his brain at the door. Good actors, cute monkey both wasted on dumb, unenthralling material. *1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Cool concept, mediocre movie.","Date":"5 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a neat idea for a horror movie -- a paralyzed man finds a way to release his built-up aggression through an animal -- and it is played up well, but it still doesn't feel like it's as good as it could have been.One thing in particular I noticed (I'm surprised no one else has mentioned this) is that the movie in some ways is a lot like Wait Until Dark. Both movies build up slowly and suspensefully to a very intense final duel. In Wait Until Dark, that duel is between a helpless blind woman and a psycho killer. In this movie, it is the same situation, even worse the ultimate helpless person, a quadriplegic, has to try and defeat a psychotic, and extremely smart, ape. This is a very thrilling scenario, but somehow it doesn't quite live up to standard.For one thing, the soundtrack is not very good. During scenes where the monkey is running around grabbing weapons, the music is almost... happy. It sounds like the heroic music they use in Civil War movies. This movie needed creepy, sinister music. The poor soundtrack takes away a lot of the suspense. Also, the final demise of the monkey is just downright weird. How anyone could even think of such a thing is beyond me. This scene is followed shortly by an equally bizarre scene where a monkey bursts out of a guy's back. Although it turns out to be a dream, it is still pretty nuts and doesn't fit with the more realistic tone of the rest of the movie.It's almost a shame that such a great concept for a movie wasn't quite as chilling or scary as it could have been. Romero has done a pretty good job with it, but I think it still could be touched up and made into an awesome movie. Let's see a remake on this one, please!6.5/10 stars.  "},{"Title":"Mano-a-monkey An Experiment In Jeers","Date":"15 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A psychotic helper monkey. That must have been famed horror director George A. Romero's pitch when he set out to make 'Monkey Shines'. I wonder why we haven't seen a sequel called 'Puppy Shines Too' where a sad-eyed golden retriever goes zonko and starts eating the neighbourhood kids. Maybe it's because this movie reeked of ape feces and a sequel was just not necessary. Even though there's a gut-level sympathy in seeing a man in a wheelchair, I found it hard to care about these blah characters. However, as long as Romero and his makeup whiz, Tom Savini, were able to give us some gruesome killings, we'd get to have some ghoulish fun, right? You KNOW the body count will be high with those names attached to a project, although the count is much lower than what we're accustomed to in Romero's zombie flicks. More death might have jazzed up this dud.Jason Beghe is Allan Mann, a buff track star who gets mowed down by a truck in the opening scene. Dr. Wiseman (Stanley Tucci) saves his life, but Mann can only move from the neck up. He's sullen, angry, even suicidal. Meanwhile, his friend, Geoffrey (Alan Pankow) is tinkering with monkey genetics (giving them shots of human tissue), then later gives Allan two presents a girl who trains primates to help humans and a girl who IS a primate. Ella---the talented monkey the filmmakers trained to perform some pretty amazing things---becomes fast friends with her new master. Allan perks up. However, the latent rage inside the trapped Mann must get out. Through some sort of wacky transferrence, the evil Ella hulks up for Allan and wreaks havoc on everyone in his life.The 'Net says the film's sub-heading is an experiment in fear. Whose fear? Certainly not mine. While the movie isn't funny, I laughed more than I shrieked (especially during the disappointing climax). Putting damsels in distress has always been the go-to move in horror movies. This time it's a man who can't defend himself. It's puzzling that a director who does menace so well would not be able to wring more tension out of scenes where a paralyzed man faces off against his wickedly brainy simian. Is there anybody more helpless than a quadriplegic? Rather, is there anybody who's more aware of his own helplessness than a man who can't move, yet still has 100% of his mind? But these psychological scenes add up to nothing and the movie clanks to a halt.Ella does what Allan can't, smiting his enemies. There's a little of Jekyll & Hyde, some 'Psycho' mother-son conflict, and even The Incredible Hulk angle is added into the mix. Ella is Allan's very own id, Hulk to his impotent Bruce Banner. Through their psychedelic connection, people (sometimes the wrong people) start to die. Confession the movie was interrupted by a few digital hits that scrambled my cable box for minutes at a time, then an annoying telemarketer disrupted my concentration during the climax. I guess I missed a few plot points and the comeuppance of 1 or 2 characters along the way, but don't worry...I'll be able to sleep tonight. What with the failure of the mano-a-monkey finale and the cop-out ending, 'Monkey Shines' plops large turds all over itself. "},{"Title":"FUNNIEST MOVIE EVER!!","Date":"15 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  SPOILERSWhen I caught the tail end of this film on Cinemax...You know, where the paralyzed man wills himself to move in order to play an 80's rock ballad for his homicidal monkey friend, I thought this was a comedy...a horror spoof.  It was only later that I learned it was an honest attempt at horror crafted by someone I thought was something of a horror genius.  This is a definite misfire, but one that is inadvertantly hilarious.The action starts when our hero, a jogger who pointlessly stretches naked to start the film, is hit by a truck.  He flies in the air like a ballet dancer and is paralyzed.  His paralysis depresses and hurt him, while a manic nurse and his smothering mother attempt to help him deal.Then the monkeys.  Well, it appears that a scientist has been injecting human brains into monkeys...or something.  And somehow, these brains make the monkeys super smart and telepathic.  So when our broken hero acquires this super-smart moneky to help him around the house, he forms a psychic connection with the it that, well, leads to some pretty gruesome murders.While watching this movie, I never stopped laughing.  The acting is  fairly atrocious, though my props go to every actor who had to cuss out the monkey without cracking a grin.  Four stars out of Four stars for entertaining me more than any intentional comedy ever could! "},{"Title":"Monkey Feeces","Date":"28 September 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I hated this movie. It was boring, it dragged, it wasn't scary, and it had nothing noteworthy. Before you start flaming me keep in mind that I do realize that this is George Romero and the studio messed him over or whatever. I feel bad for the guy and I like his films, but at the end of the day this movie is just flat out dumb. If you've seen the cover for this movie ignore it and move along. This cover was skunk turds. It showed this evil monkey looking creepy and scary. Well guess what that monkey isn't even in the film. Instead we get a super smart helper monkey. If it sounds cool to you I can't blame you but it was a bunch of garbage.Nothing in this movie is scary. The plot is too ridiculous for the audience to relate too, thus nullifying the feeling that this could happen to you. The tension in the film really doesn't work, because even though the main guy is in a wheel chair helpless, he goes so slow and it just seems humorous rather than scary. The worst part of this movie is the pace. It drags along from one uninteresting scene to the next before somebody dies. It must have been at least one hour before there was any action, and that includes the monkey killing the bird. So really if your a horror fan and a Romero fan then you will still hate this movie. This film is more for the stay at home mom who has a soft spot for paraplegics and they want tension, drama, and a feel good ending. So please do yourself a favor and skip this garbage. "},{"Title":"One of the most tame horror films (Major spoilers!)","Date":"31 December 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film is not from my generation, I was not even 2 yet, but I'm a TV/movie nostalgia nerd and kind of live in the past. Anyway, The film starts out with 20 something Law student, Allan (Jason Beghe) waking up after presumably sleeping with his georgeous fiancée and we see he's a top athlete and goes running, but gets hit by a truck, and goes to the hospital where his fiancée leaves him for the doctor (Stanley Tucci). He comes back from the hospital, a quadriplegic, and he movies in with his mom, seeming to take it rather well. his mad scientist friend(John Pankov) has helper monkeys in his lab and sends one (Ella) to Allan and he gets acquainted and comes around pleasantly, and another AID, this one a faithful and true girlfriend. He goes to school and the monkey goes everywhere with him. But things soon fall apart.he has an overbearing nurse and Allan slowly comes to anger, and being unable to move and having an extremely intelligent monkey with human brain sells the monkey vanquishes the annoying Nurse's bird. the story is more a very intense drama and thriller, than a horror film. It's complex but still believable. it's no different than Project X gone R-rated. With the people Allan sinfully wishes to avenge living nearby, in his reality dreams, she runs through the night and causes a fire at the ex fiancés, killing her and the doctor. No one believes Allan and he soon succumbs to verbal ferocity, speaking and shouting f-bombs of hate (the reason for the R-rating)his domineering mother tries to rule his life and he knows his relationship will work, and that he will be cured. The next couple deaths are non gory. Then Allan knows he must put an end to the maniacal creature and after he thinks it got his girlfriend he is overcome by rage that empowers his upper limbs and he and in the only gruesome sequence, becomes the hero . Then he is able to walk and he and his girlfriend go fishing together, and live happily. "},{"Title":"Barely hurtles 'gutter' rating","Date":"12 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie is made in '88, so if you excuse some of the not savvy stunt work and go easy on the lacking plot, you have a decent 80s horror flick. To call an 80s horror flick decent is saying something. If you've got nothing better to do on a Saturday afternoon, sit back with this middle of the road film. Not great, not bad. There are some scenes meant to be serious that are actually really funny just because of how ridiculous they are. However, the biggest downfall of this movie is the ending that refuses to end. Like a 25 year old loosing his virginity after whacking off three times a day for the last decade, this plot takes forever to climax. "}{"Title":"monkey tarnish","Date":"6 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" You know, I really can't fault George Romero for his choices in projects--it's refreshing to know someone is still willing to live dangerously and go against what is expected of them (i.e.--flesh-eating zombies), but whenever he wanders too far afield--as in films like Bruiser and Monkey Shines--he loses touch with cinematic reality. The end result is usually an offbeat oddity that only achieves relevance with the most devoted fans. Such is the case with Monkey Shines, an overly ambitious--but just as overly flawed--venture into psychological/mammal-driven horror. When accident victim Jason Beghe awakens paralyzed from the neck down, his gawky, mad-scientist buddy (a wonderfully wigged-out John Pankow) provides him with Ella, a female helper monkey that's been shot up with an experimental serum; as the film progresses, Ella and her master become psychically connected, resulting in the murders of several unsympathetic characters. Unfortunately, the psychic link this film revolves on to sell its premise doesn't work--meant to be taken seriously, one can't help but chuckle at the strained, overwrought acting (especially from Beghe and Christine Romero as a dictatorial nurse), the silly 'fang' effects, and the unexplored subtexts of the story. The third act lacks palpable suspense, and seems to drag on endlessly, meeting with an unsatisfying conclusion. Monkey Shines is, at best, an ambitious misfire--if you can forgive some of the flaws, you might enjoy it...I, however, could not. "},{"Title":"campy, but entertaining.","Date":"7 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This was a very strange horror movie. The situations that the characters get them self in are absurd, as are just about every thing else here. However, the effects are good and the finale were cool. campy, but very enjoyable horror movie. "},{"Title":"Monkey kicks some serious butts!","Date":"27 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Monkey Shines is a great horror thriller. Our villian here is a little monkey, sounds like this creature wouldn't kill a fly. WRONG! This monkey rocks, and it's very p****d! Monkey madness make this movie a must see for the fans of the genre. It's not that scary, but it shines. "},{"Title":"Monkey Shines An Experiment In Boredom","Date":"5 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  MONKEY SHINES is a film that unfortunately only works in spurts, which makes it minimally enjoyable.  The premise is really good and Romero should've made it into a really good film.  But instead, it was alternatively tedious and dull.  Romero fans should give this a look as well as casual horror fans, but don't expect much.  *1/2out of****A bit less than we've come to expect from Romero.     "},{"Title":"Ack!  Killer monkeys!!","Date":"20 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Well, basically this movie was a steaming pile of shiznit, BUT, my friends it is ALL worth it for like the final 20 minutes.  The monkey's final appearance is unforgettable.  Too much of the movie was just crap about the human characters in the movie.  More killer monkey, I say!  Ahh well, if you like making fun of horrifically bad movies, ummm theres still probably better movies you could rent ( ahem..JACK FROST ) but Monkey Shines will suffice. "},{"Title":"shut up","Date":"24 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  monkey shines is a beautiful movie and touching and suspensefuland the monkey is delightful. A lot of interesting characters likestanley tushy as this hot arrogant doctor and the annoying momwhatshername van patten and also young whatsisname whoplays the friend this was before he became an annoying comedictype and had been in to live and die in l.a. I can see someone being irritated at this film for its idea thatanimals are more vicious than humans. in reality an animal wouldonly do horrible things in a fight over food or territory or mate notout of anger at constant bitching, infidelity, etc. anyway highly entertaining involving movie with wonderful animalstarring role and to hell with you who prefer bruiser or other notas good movies "},{"Title":"I liked it! (and I was pretty damn close to loving it!)","Date":"24 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Surprisingly good. I was very entertained throughout, and I actually found it quite scary at times. The story is very silly, but in a fun way. A quadriplegic man is given a helper monkey that has been heavily experimented on. It's super smart, and starts to develop a psychic connection with the man. The monkey is able to read his mind, and he in turn takes in some of her primitive rage. This eventually leads to the monkey murdering those with whom he becomes angry. At times the movie is campy, but during the last half hour it becomes quite an effective horror movie. I like Romero as a director, but have not found much in his movies that I've actually been frightened at. Monkey Shines, although it often uses a cheap boo tactic, made me jump more than once. All that really takes is a sharp sting in the score (or a high-pitched monkey squeal), but Romero develops the tension so well here that those scares really hit me. The climactic scene is unintentionally hilarious, but it's a moment of hilarity that I will always cherish. Underrated and well worth watching. "},{"Title":"Give it enough thought and it will get done, by your monkey!","Date":"17 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  From George A. Romero, the man who gave us NIGHT OF THE LIVING DEAD(1969), comes a dose of gruesome revenge. Jason Beghe plays a bitter man left quadriplegic from an accident. He has no kind thoughts of mankind. Things begin to change when he is presented with a specially trained monkey(Ella)that takes care of the paralyzed man's every whim. Soon the monkey starts anticipating Beghe's every thought. Nasty, dirty and deadly things begin happening when the monkey dishes out havoc on his master's girlfriend(Janine Turner); overbearing mother(Joyce Van Patten);and any and all others Beghe holds a grudge against. The paralyzed man soon has a shuddering thought...he must stop the carnage before the clever Ella takes control of his disturbed mind.Scary, sick and demented...just enough to wreck your nerves and jump start a good nightmare. Riveting, intense and strangely enjoyable. Also in the cast are Kate McNeil and John Pankow. Remember it is not nice to mess with Mother Nature. "},{"Title":"Another George Romero Disappointment","Date":"30 October 2006","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" For over an hour, this was fairly interesting but by the time the last 30-40 minutes had arrived, the unlikeable characters and general nature of the film made me not want to see much more. I did stick it out for the ending, climactic scenes but wouldn't watch this movie again. It just wasn't as good as I had hoped. For some reason, I had high expectations.However, like other of George Romero's horror films, this has profane and very stupid dialog, attitudes, so-so special-effects and a Class B-feel to it. Why I expected better, I don't know. Romero almost always disappoints me.The only redeeming quality of this film was seeing the beautiful face of Joyce VanPatten, a natural beauty if I ever saw one. "},{"Title":"not bad","Date":"11 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  not bad but a little too slow for my liking while it is certainly bearable and interesting it's just nothing much happens in the first half although it is helped by good acting a solid premise and a creepy looking monkey and has a bit of gore and some disturbing scenes worth a watch **1/2 out of 5 "}{"Title":"Monkey Business","Date":"15 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I personally found this movie kind of slow and the only disturbing aspect of the film was the experimentation on helpless animals. Predictable and with a sappy, happy outcome.  "},{"Title":"A good party movie, but don't rent it by yourself. Not that it's scary, it'd just be a waste of time.","Date":"4 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Horror flicks are always terrible, and this is no exception. However, at least this one was tolerable in its hilarity. It's one of those movies that you can rent with a bunch of friends, have everyone talk through it, and still get what's going on and have a good time. Plus, seeing Stephen Root in it was funny. It was his second film role, so to look back on it it's kind of a 'What? How could he associate himself with this?' kind of thing, but still awesome to see someone I recognized in such a terrible movie. Oh, and 'Ira' from Mad About You was in it too, but he was never cool, so it's funny just saying 'Great movie career you've got yourself there, buddy' and laughing. Plus, it's got a monkey that busts out of a guy's back. You can't go wrong with that. How the monkey got there leaves some things to the imagination, but still a fun little escape. "},{"Title":"One-note horror drama.","Date":"24 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This somewhat slow and drawn-out horror film gets increasingly predictable as it moves along. About halfway through, the basic plot pattern (a telepathic connection between a man and a monkey) has become perfectly clear, and there are no surprises left. But the movie does offer some compensations; among them, the acceptable acting and the gruesome climactic scene. All in all, an average horror entry.   (**) "},{"Title":"MONKEYS!!","Date":"3 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I LOVED EVERYTHING ABOUT THIS MOVIE.The title says it all.Monkeys DO shine!I thought the best part was when they showed them getting ready. You always see the monkeys in their cute clown outfits, juggling flaming candlepins while riding a unicycle. But you never get to see the painstaking preparation that goes into such a performance.The heartbreaking look of despair when Twinkie the Monkey finds that one of her clown shoes is missing. Whodonit? Did some rogue monkey steal it? We may never know.The stress on Moonpie Monkey's face as he comes to the stark and sudden realization that the juggling skills he's only recently come to possess, must now be put to use in front of a crowd of people, some of whom may or may not throw tomatoes. How Rude!I felt so much joy in my heart when Tootsie, the boy monkey that dresses like a girl monkey, rides the little bicycle through a flaming hoop. He/She did it! GO TOOTSIE!!!And go see Monkey Shines! "},{"Title":"Took a Shine to the Monkey....Hoped It Would Eliminate Everyone Else.","Date":"12 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Dumb mess has parapalegic Jason Beghe (paralyzed from the neck down) being assisted by his mother, a new girlfriend and a would-be super intelligent monkey who has become a genius due to intense scientific experimentation. Naturally it becomes very clear that the monkey is really evil and will not be satisfied until he is the only banana left around. Another very ho-hum venture from over-rated horror film guru George A. Romero fails very early as the suspense never does come around and we are left with a silly horror picture that will produce more laughs than screams. Kudos to those who trained the Satanic monkey, I guess. 2 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"Should've made another zombie movie.","Date":"8 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Who would have expected something so stupid from the man who made Dawn of the Dead. A telepathic monkey!? Give me a break. George should have stuck to zombies. Watching a monkey do tricks gets pretty boring after a while. The only thing worth seeing is when the paralyzed guy bites the monkey and flings him against the wall. "},{"Title":"A superb comedy","Date":"3 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I have never seen such a funny film in my life. A disabled man, having a homocidal monkey as a friend! It was particularly good when he gets sucked throguh the timewarp.. ( whoops wrong film)   "},{"Title":"Romero??","Date":"17 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Monkey Shines is about a paralyzed man who receives a very smart monkey to help him around the house but then the monkey starts to change.SCARESIn my opinion this movie was really not scary one bit it is actually on the boring side. The Jump scenes pretty much don't exist.GoreThis being a Romero film I thought it would be pretty gory,but this movie is really gore less.Final VerdictNot very good. I think you will be tremendously let down if you are expecting big things from Romero like I was .Rated R Nudity and language You heard it from the Rooster. "},{"Title":"Monkey Shines Licks!","Date":"21 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  All right I thought this would be a good movie because I like George Romero. Well it is not. This is the absolute worst movie I have ever seen, and believe me I have seen lots. This is a no brainer, no gore, no story, no good acting, completely pathetic attempt at movie making. No Action, no blood, I'm not even sure if anyone dies. Romero the king of North American zombie flicks(Night,Day,Dawn...of the dead)has decapitated his image as a horror master. Please promise me whoever or wherever you are, never ever rent or purchase this movie, you will never recover from the nauseating memories of this film. "},{"Title":"Very disappointing.","Date":"6 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Monkey Shines starts as athlete Allan Mann (Jason Beghe) is hit by a truck while out running, he is taken to hospital where Dr. John Wiseman (Stanley Tucci) operates & saves his life but unfortunately Allan is left as a wheel chair bound quadriplegic who only has movement in his neck & face. Obviously depressed after the accident his girlfriend Linda (Janine Turner) runs off with Dr. Wiseman & Allan attempts to commit suicide, his scientist friend Geoffrey Fisher (John Pankow) finds him & saves him. In an attempt to help Allan Geoffrey contacts animal trainer Melanie Parker (Kate McNeil) & ask's her to train one of his lab monkey's to act as Allan's helper which she does. The monkey called Ella makes a big difference to Allan's life & acts as his hands but Geoffrey doesn't mention the tiny fact that he has been injecting Ella with a serum made from human brains in an attempt to increase her intelligence, it proves a success beyond Geoffrey's expectations & has horrifying consequences...Also known as Monkey Shines An Experiment in Fear this was written & directed by George A. Romero & I really wanted to like this, I like most horror fans love what Romero did for the genre during his early career with stonewall 100% solid gold classics like Night of the Living Dead (1968), Martin (1977), Dawn of the Dead (1978), Creepshow (1982) & in my opinion the criminally underrated Day of the Dead (1985) so I really, really wanted to like Monkey Shines which is unusual for me because I generally go into films expecting nothing. Monkey Shines was Romero's first major studio picture for Orion & his script was based on the novel by Michael Stewart & I have to say I was disappointed in just about every aspect of it. The most long-lasting impression of the film I have is that it is unbearably slow, the first 45 minutes is so boring it's untrue as it only features Allan being crippled & him be given the monkey. The character's are unlikable, the dialogue is dull, no-one is believable & the relationships are just not quite there. Then there's the fact that this is meant to be a horror film, well there's absolutely no horror in it until the final 20 odd minutes & I was just sitting there watching Monkey Shines & was literally debating whether to turn it off & go to sleep & I can tell you it was a pretty close thing but I just about managed to stick it out. The story has some interesting points & nice ideas & that makes what ended up on screen even more disappointing, the little sub plot between Geoffrey & his slimy boss comes to absolutely nothing for instance & lazy contradictions because they fit the script conveniently like Ella being able to inject someone with poison using a needle while the next time she has the opportunity she doesn't know how anymore. I wasn't keen on the oh so happiest of happy endings either as a so called quadriplegic has surgery which 'cures' him & he literally rides off into the distance with the pretty girl to presumably live happily ever after.Director Romero knows how to make a decent looking film & he manages to inject some tension into the climatic ending when Monkey Shines actually tries to be a horror film, unfortunately the preceding 90 minutes are as dull as dishwater & contain some unintentionally funny scenes. The love making scene between Allan & Melanie is hilarious, he can move anything below his neck so she positions her womanly bits over his face & her orally pleases her in a truly hilarious looking moment. The monkey, who is credited as 'Boo', for the most part isn't scary or frightening & is a bit too cute for my liking, it's well trained through I'll give it that & it acts better than most of the human cast! This being a Romero film & having Tom Savini listed in the opening credits as special make-up effects man I was hoping for some good gore, unfortunately there's barely a drop of blood in it. There's a cut hand, a little bit of blood in a surgery scene & a silly Alien (1979) inspired effect in a dream sequence.I was amazed to see this had a budget of about $7,000,000, where did all the money go? There's no special effects, no action scenes, no big name stars & although it's competently made it's nothing special. I mean Day of the Dead had half the budget of Monkey Shines & it looks the more expensive film. The acting isn't anything special & the monkey Boo gets the 'best actor' honours in it.Monkey Shines was a huge disappointment to me, I was expecting so much more. I really liked the overall story but it's so slow, so devoid of any sort of horror & just plain stupid on too many occasions. I hate to say it but Monkey Shines is basically the beginning of the end of Romero's midas touch in the horror genre. "}]