[{"Title":"All time fav. Beautiful, visceral, multi-layered and vaguely erotic.","Date":"10 October 2004","Score":"50 out of 64 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Clive Barker is still the king. He brings us to a world where monsters have politics, the 5 senses rule, and we sometimes question whether our pre-notions of pain are as accurate as we think. The Hellraiser series is a lush, nightmarish, subliminal journey into human desire, masochism, mythos and madness. Pinhead is not so much the generic, evil antagtonist as he is a source of comfort and logic sometimes. Clive Barker has often toyed with our preconceptions that all monsters must be blindly destructive brutes, as opposed to the endearingly rational and decidedly intelligent Cenobites. Perhaps the fact that I have Cenobites tattooed makes me biased;) But it's still a unique piece with gorgeous imagery (to some.) Angels to some, demons to others... If you haven't seen Hellraiser 1 and 2 (the rest are not so great IMHO)...you must!  "},{"Title":"A roller coaster ride of violence and sheer terror!","Date":"6 July 2001","Score":"31 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  After the strange events of the first movie,Kirsty is sent to a Institution for the Mentally Sick, commanded by the mysterious Dr. Channard,a crazed psychologist who is willing to open the doors of hell by manipulating the Puzzle Box.In doing so,Channard brings Kirsty's  perverse stepmother Julia back to life,and consequently he provokes the rage of the dreadful cenobites,the cruel and evil creatures that give pleasure and pain in the same measure.Hellbound Hellraiser 2 is an extremely well-done film,thanks to the generous budget given to newcomer filmmaker Tony Randel and a first-rate production.The special effects are simply terrific (specially considering the time in which the movie was done,1988) and they create a bombastic,scary visual.I never saw a movie with such an incredible scenery and imagery,except maybe for Dark City.Clive Barker's vision of hell is brought to life with mastery through the work of Randel and Director of Photography Robin Vidgeon. The plot sustains the tension and keeps you on the edge of your seat from start to finish,though the first half hour of Hellbound Hellraiser II is a little bit slow and descriptive (but never boring); a great portion of the action and the terror is concentrated in the last minutes. The last thirty ones are a realistic and gutsy tour de force through fear,violence and suffering.This is definitively a masterpiece, but not for the squeamish.Hellbound Hellraiser II is rated R for extreme violence and sex scenes,it runs 99 minutes(uncut version released by Anchor Bay).It stars Clare Higgins as Julia, Ashley Laurence as Kirsty, Imogen Boorman as Tiffany,William Hope as Kyle McRae and Kenneth Cranham as Dr. Channard.If you like this movie, you might also enjoy Phenomena and Suspiria.  "},{"Title":"One of the most kickass horror films of the '80's","Date":"25 June 2001","Score":"26 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Thus far and no further is how I view this film - while 'Hellraiser' was a smooth and well-handled interpretation of 'The Hellbound Heart', this serves as an interesting extension to that story. OK, the acting is largly dire -  but is this not a horror movie tradition? The film excels in its MENTAL imagery, not physical Tiffany's disturbing   visions of babies with their mouth's sewn shut as Leviathan plays with her fears; Channards violent, acid flashback-style memories... they are all insightful and well-thought out as they deal with that which cannot be tamed easily - the human psyche. Director Tony Randall has a lot to live up to following  Clive Barker's '87 epic, but he takes the reigns of the story with good grace and presents a slick and progressive tale - although I do agree with the general consensus that the Cenobites should NOT have been humanised.  All in all though a great film, fantastic visuals - the fall of Leviathan at the climax has to be one of the most gripping and explosive deaths of a movie monster in horror film history - and one which should have ended the tale.  "},{"Title":"Goes to hell when they, uh, go to hell","Date":"8 February 2006","Score":"18 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Released just over a year after the original, HELLRAISER II picks up right where the last one ended. But with Clive Barker releasing a majority of creative control (he still receives a story by credit) to screenwriter friend Pete Atkins and first time director Tony Randel, the end result is a film that faithfully echoes Barker's earlier work yet also undermines it.The film's biggest problem is the script which relies too much on coincidence. For example, new character Dr. Channard has a deep and previously existing interest in the Lament Configuration. And Kirsty's neighbor in the mental ward just happens to be a mute girl who is really good at solving puzzles. Things like this exist solely to move the plot from point A to B and so on, something the original HELLRAISER lacked in its confined dysfunctional family storyline. To Atkin's credit, the script does effectively introduce the back story of Pinhead and features some appropriately bleak dialogue (including perhaps the series best line Your suffering will be legendary, even in hell.).In their attempt to deliver something bigger and better than the original, the filmmakers further damage themselves when it comes to Kirsty's adversaries. The sequel has two great foes for Kirsty to battle &#150; Julia and Pinhead &#150; but the script makes them secondary and shifts the focus to the ridiculous Dr. Channard. While in human form he is a fearsome villain but once he becomes a Cenobite, all that goes out the window in favor of a guy who delivers one liners (The Doctor&#133;is&#133;in!). At this point in the series, even Pinhead hadn't sunk that low. On top of all that, Atkins actually has the Cenobite Channard dispatch the lead Cenobites in a battle that is so trivializing that it makes you wonder why anyone feared these guys in the first place.Tony Randel handles the film well visually with his two best sequences taking place in hell. One is when mute Tiffany experiences her own surreal vision of hell that includes everything from deranged clowns to a clever giallo tribute. The other is when Kirsty confronts her Uncle Frank in a fiery tomb housing floating slabs that carry moaning, bloody bodies. These visions of hell are certainly unique to the film world but ultimately the film doesn't have the budget to properly convey this. Instead of a sweeping landscape, we get characters traveling what seems to be the same tunnel over and over and a few MC Escher style matte paintings. Most disappointing is the unveiling of Leviathan as an amorphous black blur emitting from a large version of the box.Outside of those uneven effects, the rest of the film's effects work is really well done. Bob Keen and his crew return from the original film and deliver an abundant amount of blood, making sure that the standard of delivering cinematic images beyond belief continues. The bloody resurrection of Julia and the transformation of Dr. Channard are the film's FX highlights. Obviously the unrated version is the way to go. In addition to these striking images, HELLBOUND contains the world's first male/skinless female kiss.And for a film with such taboo images, it features some consistently great acting. Lead Ashley Laurence (was she really in her teens when this was filmed) is actually better than she was in the first film. New faces Kenneth Cranham and William Hope are both good as the bad doctor and good doctor respectively. Doug Bradley, graduating from Lead Cenobite to a full fledged Pinhead, maintains his wicked demeanor as a hell's no. 1 agent while projecting the right amount of emotion when reminded of his human form. However, if HELLRAISER II truly belongs to anyone, it is Claire Higgins as the evil stepmother Julia Cotton. With a cold manner dipped in extra bitchy-ness, Higgins is almost too good for the proceedings.New World's efforts for the low budget follow up paid off with the film earning just under ($12 million) what the original grossed ($14.5 million). Sadly, the next time Pinhead and his brethren appeared on screen, they were firmly in the claws of Miramx's Dimension line. This move resulted in a succession of sequels that, while passable, moved the series further away from Clive Barker's groundbreaking original. "},{"Title":"Outstanding adventure in horror","Date":"2 February 2009","Score":"16 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Hellraiser 2 is a startling film. Clive Barkers imagery of hell is profane, violent, and an oddly erotic movie from the off. The sequel continues the fantastic story, and builds on the characters we saw, whilst adding some new ones to the mix. As well as re-introducing the dead ones! As foul and degrading as newer gore porn flicks are today, Hellbound walks all over them with style and substance which has been unmatched ever since. For 1988, Hellraiser 2 is nothing short of breathtaking, and has not dated one bit. The storyline is intelligent and despite the incredible sights of hell and its inhabitants, Hellbound justifies the fantasy with thoughtful dialogue and logic and a powerful story. It also benefits that the cast in this film are mostly great actors who do a great job of suspending the viewers disbelief.Barker gives credibility to the monster in the movie. Every beast in this film has a human side and you may even feel warmed to them when they are faced with dilemmas and dramas which question even their beliefs. There is a powerful scene in which Pinhead and his minions learn of their own past from Kirsty, the heroin of the story who is pursued by the cenobites for opening the puzzle box. Pinhead even begins to look human at this point showing the bad guys in a different light. Before long the demons actually become the good guys, and temporarily co-exist with Kirsty to counter the evil Doctor's hand over hell.The violence and gore offered by Hellbound is excessive and delivered to the viewer in such horrific, profane ways it has definitely had an impact on its viewing demographic. Barker made a great job of communicating to the director his view of the film from a novel and it's a gruesome one. So gruesome it will immediately turn away many within the opening minutes.I recommend this movie for anyone who's into horror or those who think the genre is just Hostel and Saw. Hellbound, as indeed the original, breathes new life into the horror movie and for every pint of spilled blood, brings intelligence and style in buckets.9/10 "},{"Title":"Gore drenched sequel, well worth watching.","Date":"27 October 2004","Score":"13 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The first and only decent sequel to Clive Barkers impressive original Hellraiser. HellboundHellraiser 2 starts almost immediately after the event of the original. After a brief recap of Hellraiser up to this point featuring footage form the original, we see another unsuspecting victim, Captain Elliot Spencer (Doug Bradley without his Pinhead special make up effects applied) solve the mystery of the Chinese puzzle box and is impaled with hooks that tear his skin, razors cut lines in his head and an unseen thing inserts long pins into his scalp and thus creating Pinhead (Doug Bradley with the make up), the lead Cenobite from the Hellraiser films. Kirsty (Ashley Laurence again) is seen in a hospital room, the police have discovered rotting maggot infested corpses in Kirstys dads house, like the original in its uncut version this film is very gory and explicit. A detective named Ronson (Angus MacInnes) questions Kirsty, she doesn't make much sense to him, speaking of demons and that her dad is trapped in hell and still suffering. The detective doesn't believe it and hands her over to Dr Channard (Kenneth Cranham). Channard uses the information he gets from Kirsty to re-animate Julia (the returning Clare Higgins). He also uses a patient under his care named Tiffany (Imogen Boorman) to solve the puzzle of the box and reopen the door to hell, Pinhead and his Cenobite friends from the original, the Butterball Cenobite (Simon Bamford), the Chatterer Cenobite (Nicholas Vince) and the female Cenobite (Barbie Wilde, who I've met in real life by the way!) also make an appearance and join the fun. Kirsty discovers what Channard is doing and follows him into hell to try and save her dad. Frank Cotton (Sean Chapman another returning cast member from the original) also turns up and soon after loses his heart and skin at the hands of a vengeful Julia. Channard gets turned into a Cenobite and all hell starts to break lose. This time directed by Tony Randel, Hellbound is another impressive film, it recaptures the dark feel and hellish atmosphere of the original. Once again the special make up effects are explicit and well done, people slicing themselves up with straight razors in a very nasty scene, more skinless people and corpses, slit throats, hand amputations, brain surgery and all sorts of other bodily mutilation are presented for our viewing pleasure in the uncut version, which is the one I'm reviewing here. The script co-written by Barker keeps thing moving nicely, even though someone should tell them police officers don't carry guns in the UK, towards the start of the movie a police man while searching the house from the original gets scared by a corpse that falls out of a wardrobe and proceeds to shoot it several times, as I said the police in the UK don't carry guns, I know I've lived here all my life! A very minor complaint. This time the film is mostly set in Hell and we get lots of perverse imagery to convince us. I especially like the juggler who's using his own eyeballs to juggle with. After this the Hellraiser franchise went down hill, becoming too Americanized, part 3 for instance was set in an American city and featured Pinhead and his Cenobites killing lots of teenagers, just like countless other soulless unoriginal slasher films. HellboundHellraiser 2 in my opinion is the only worthy sequel to the original, its dark and has the same perverse atmosphere, it features even more blood gore and mutilation and doesn't feature stupid teenagers been hacked up. A very entertaining horror film for those with the stomach. I liked this just as much as the original, high praise. The version I watched was the recent British special edition DVD from Anchor Bay UK, which is the uncut version, the only way to watch it as far as I'm concerned. Recommended. "},{"Title":"Worthy sequel to the great original.","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"18 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Kirsty Collins(Ashley Laurance)lies in a psychiatric hospital,haunted by the night of unspeakable horror that destroyed her life.Now,only hours later,the nightmare is beginning again.From the blood-stained matress hidden in his home,obsessive psychiatrist Dr Channard(Kenneth Cranham)raises the remains of Kirsty's murderous stepmother,Julia(Clare Higgins).Together,Channard and Julia unlock the secret of the Lament Configuration puzzle box to release the unlimited horrors and ultimate pleasures of Hell.For the second time,Kirsty must return beyond the limits to the Outer Darkness to confront the darkest desires of Hell and free her father's soul.HellboundHellraiser 2 was obviously influenced by Lucio Fulci's masterpiece of gore and atmosphere The Beyond(1981).The film is very well-made,the acting is alright and there are some good gross-out gore effects that will certainly please every splatter freak.Absolutely recommended.NoteDeath metal group from Ohio Necrophagia recorded a song called Children of the Vortex on their brilliant album Holocausto de la Morte,which is loosely based on this picture. "},{"Title":"Everyone's favorite step-mom is back--and this time she's skinless!","Date":"19 August 2004","Score":"14 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Even if the story's weak, bringing back the surviving (or not surviving) cast members of the original, can make a sequel better.  Everyone thinks crazy old Kirsty Cotton is making up stories of demons from hell (which happened to be her attic), but we all know better, don't we?  She's now in a mental institution with a girl with a penchant for solving puzzles, under the guidance of a sadistic doctor with a penchant for a skinless Julia.  Part of the story is just a re-hash of the first with different characters in similar situations.  This time around we go to hell and find that it's like an Escher painting with a giant Lament diamond spinning in the sky.  Not as good as the first film, but pretty close--a bit gorier and disturbing (but after Hellraiser, I was expecting this)  The acting is similar to the first film, but the special effects are a bit more elaborate this time around as the budget was bigger due to the success of it's predecessor. "},{"Title":"The Cenobites Return in a Gruesome and Great Sequel","Date":"20 March 2009","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Hellbound Hellraiser II of 1988 is an almost perfect sequel to one of the most effective and terrifying achievements ever in Horror cinema, Clive Barker's 1987 masterpiece Hellraiser. Director Tony Randel's sequel keeps up the terrifying atmosphere and genuinely infernal creepiness of its predecessor and is even considerably gorier than the (also very gruesome) original. This second entry to the Hellraiser franchise epitomizes pure Horror as its predecessor and takes the viewer on a terrifying journey into the pits of a Hell from the mind of Clive Barker.The film starts off pretty much where the first part ended. After the horrifying events that took place in part one, survivor Kristy Cotton (Ashley Laurence) awakes in a mental hospital. One might think that psychiatrists are not eager to believe stories about Cenobites, demons from a bizarre, sadomasochistic Hell. The head of the institution, Dr. Channard (Kenneth Cranham), however, is obsessed with occultism and has his own plans with his new cognitions about cenobites and resurrection from Hell...***Warning! BIG SPOILERS Ahead!*** Kristy's evil stepmother Julia (Clare Higgins) returns from Hell, and she is not the only one. So do the Cenobites. The cenobites, especially the iconic Lead Cenobite (commonly referred to as 'Pinhead', played by Doug Bradley) are some of the most terrifying creatures the World of Horror has ever brought forth. My only slight complaint about Hellbound is the manner of how the cenobites are humanized towards the end. It seems to be a common assumption among makers of Horror-sequels, that they somehow need to explain how monsters became monsters - which is not always a good idea, in my opinion. Ever since I first saw the first two Hellraiser parts many years ago, I have held the view that the Cenobites were most terrifying in the first part, when they were still utterly mysterious and their origin was not yet explained. This minor fault is not yet extreme in this second part, however, and it does not waste its status as a fascinating sequel. The visions of Hell are extremely creepy and terrifying and character actor Kenneth Channard brings in a new type of purely evil villain. The sequel is, once again, filmed excellently, the settings are sublime and the gore-effects are as gruesome as it gets. Overall, Hellbound is an extraordinary sequel that must not be missed by Horror fans. After this, the series spiraled downwards. My rating 8.5/10 "},{"Title":"Worthy horror sequel","Date":"22 October 2002","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  After the sucess of the oringial Hellraiser , Clive Barker who has a name for himself passed on the diretcing duties to Tony Randel who made an impressive sequel in Hellbound Hellraiser II . The film has more gore and a new heroine to help out Kristy Cotton. Once again Juila is back but this time she's totally hell bent and the film's primary villian. Pinhead is still scary but gets some compettion from Doc who is scary in his own right. I give the film *** out of ****.  "}{"Title":"Some Powerful Scenes, But Overall Rather Weak","Date":"28 December 2008","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Kirsty Cotton (Ashley Laurence) survived the first attack from Hell in Hellraiser, but her troubles are far from over. She is now locked up in a mental ward run by an occult-obsessed doctor (how appropriate) and her evil stepmother, Julia (Clare Higgins) refuses to stay dead.This film is incredibly polarizing, I fear, because it has such strong qualities of both good and bad. The bad include special effects that really date the movie (though are still superior to much of today's work) and the introduction of a certain level of silliness that pervades the later films. The doctor as a cenobite is a bit strange in form, and opens the door for the even more bizarre creatures in part three.There are some plot and continuity issues, such as wondering where Kirsty's boyfriend from part one went. And while the film seems to try to explain loose ends from the first film, it creates a whole lot more... the maze (presumably hell) is not adequately explained, nor is the role of the giant puzzle box. While some of this is addressed in later films, it seems that what we learn later tends to contradict what we see here.But let us say some good things about this one. First and foremost, the Julia without skin looks incredible. It is hard to say they topped Frank without skin (from the original) but I think they did. The way she comes crawling up out of the bed... her blood-soaked flesh. Beautiful. Right to Die owes a huge debt to the work in this film, the same way that this film owes a debt to Bride of Frankenstein with its use of thunder and bandages...We also have to give the gore creators some credit, because the insane man with the knife was pretty intense... actually, all the asylum inmates are well-played. For all the flaws this film may have, they more than made up for it with a couple of memorable scenes. While my favorite in the series is Bloodline (I believe I am in the minority on this), I think part two may have been the last great addition. Sequels were not necessary, and obviously everything after part four just gives the franchise a bad name.Anchor Bay has released a twentieth anniversary edition, and I would strongly recommend it. Older features, such as an audio commentary from 2001, are available, as well as a few new featurettes. The Soul Patrol features new interviews with Barbie Wilde, Simon Bamford and Nicholas Vince. Outside the Box features a new interview with director Tony Randel and The Doctor is In features a new interview with Kenneth Cranham. As someone who has met Ashley Laurence, Doug Bradley, Clive Barker and each of the cenobites, I have a strong personal interest in this film. I can say that the Anchor Bay edition is easily the best to date and any Hellraiser fan would be making a mistake in getting an older, inferior edition. "},{"Title":"Your suffering will be legendary, even in hell!","Date":"5 October 2006","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The Joe Cool Review - Hellbound Hellraiser II(1988)Starring Claire Higgins as Julia Cotton, Ashley Laurence as Kirsty Cotton, Kenneth Cranham as Dr Channard, Imogen Boorman as Tiffany and Doug Bradley as PinheadPlot Only hours after the events of the first film, and Kirsty is taken to a mental hospital because no one believes her story. Once there she receives a message from who she believes to be her father that says, I am in hell. Help me. Meanwhile Dr. Channard is extremely fascinated with hell and the box and he resurrects Julia, and forces a girl who loves to solve puzzles to open the box and provide them the doorway to Hell.Openers And what a doorway to Hell this is. I'm not going to lie, this is my favorite of the series and the entire thing is just wonderfully done. But more on that later. Hellraiser 2 is what happens when you take the creative material away from Clive Barker's not-so-adequate directing and screenplay writing skills. Peter Atkins(screenplay) and Tony Randel(director) take over here, with Clive Barker in an executive producer role and the result is a much better viewing experience than the original Hellraiser(which was, in it's own right, a well-done but very flawed movie).The Good For one, I think Claire Higgins is still melodramatic. But she does a much better job of controlling herself here. Ashley Laurence turns in another good performance here. Kenneth Cranham was fantastic as the Good doctor and soon-to-be Cenobite Channard. And Doug Bradley shines as always, and he always gets the best lines(We have an eternity to know your flesh). The best part about this were the effects. Here we get to see glimpses of hell and it's not pretty. The budget was higher here and you can tell. It HAD to be. There was an addition cenobite, and just the fact they had to design hell to be fantastical meant they had to throw some more money in the pot. Pinhead's origin, while gory is fantastic.The Bad The entire Evil Queen rant from Julia made me cringe. Also, there were some logic gaps. How can someone die in Hell if they're technically already dead? I don't care so much about turning the cenobites good as that actually sets up Hellraiser III quite well. How does Julia get her own skin back when she is resurrected when Frank had to steal his brother's in the original? And how the hell does she have makeup and nail polish on her new skin? Plot inconsistencies are the worst part here, at least the original Hellraiser had that going for it in the fact it ran smoothly. And while the dialog in general is better, there are some cringe-worthy lines(You got a ticket to Hell?)The Ugly Gore is not cut out just for the fantasy elements of it all. Skinless people once again run amok, a guy cuts himself over and over with a razor, there are some nasty maggot/infected wound shots, brain surgery, slit throats, impaling, skin ripping and the rather graphic origin of Pinhead himself. Another favorite for gore hounds.Final Verdict Hellbound is a great film in it's own right. It's a fantasy horror film that plays like a travel guide for hell, which I guess puts that ticket line in context. I recommend it, and it's especially better to watch it directly after Hellraiser.Rating **** of ***** "},{"Title":"If you like the original....","Date":"23 May 2005","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Hours after her family was torn apart by the Cenobites, Kirsty is in an institution, receives what appears to be a message for help from her dead father, who is apparently in hell. Before long, the head of the institution, with the help of the revived Julia and a puzzle-solving mute patient, is able to open the doorway to hell once again.This is a first-rate sequel to a great film. Once again, the story and the characters are great. Channard, whether in the form of the scheming, icy doctor or the snarling, bloodthirsty Leviathan, is a genuinely terrifying creation. The institution - a true place of the damned - and the labyrinth give the film a real dark fantasy feel. "},{"Title":"Review Of The Unrated Version","Date":"15 December 2002","Score":"11 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  ****** CONTAINS SPOILERS ******I`ve noticed many of the reviewers on this page have seen the unrated version of HELLBOUND . How they managed to see it was of little interest to me , what was of interest to me was that there was absolutely nothing of interest on the satellite channels at one in the morning . What on earth could I watch ? Oh HELLBOUND HELLRAISER 2 a film I first saw eleven years ago on the same satillite station . Well there was nothing else on so I just decided to watch it because Ashley Laurence is very easy on the eyes while Christopher Young`s music is easy on the ears . The titles started and Elliot finds himself getting turned into a cenobite , except this was far more explicit than I remembered it . I realised I was watching the unrated version .I didn`t like the BBFC edited version much but found myself watching this version out of morbid curiousity . Boy is this one sick and twisted film . The maniac slashing himself with a razor vainly trying to get the maggots off him was bad enough in the edited print but here it just goes on and on and on as he slices himself apart , and that`s before Julia turns up to finish the job . And we get to see other loving close-ups of mutilation and maimings . Frank pulls his skin off , Channard has cheesewire penetrating his skin , a patient has his arm sliced off and Channard`s demise is more graphic than in the original version . I have no doubt this is the most gory British film ever made . It may not tear your soul apart but it will churn your stomach .It`s one thing cutting out all the blood and guts , but what about reinserting all the bits that would have helped the film make sense ? There is a segment in this version that has Kirsty entering her mother`s house but this adds nothing to the plot which is full of holes . Perhaps the most obvious plot hole is when Kirsty shows Pinhead a photo when he was human . We know the army officer and Pinhead are the same person because of the opening scene but there is no way Kirsty would know this  "},{"Title":"The loneliest place anyone has been to","Date":"22 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" One of the best horror films i have seen. Watching this movie gave me the chills. It felt that it was the end of the world and hell is the only place left. The depiction of hell is really good in this movie. It is shown as a bleak, lonely place from which there is no escape. And the messengers from hell (Cenobites), headed by Pinhead are as good as ever plus you have The Doctor from (in) hell. One of the few sequels that has outdone the original movie. The last movie in the Hellraiser series worth watching. Pinhead (along with Freddy Kruger of Nightmare on Elm Street and Jason Voorhees of Friday, the 13th) is one of the best horror characters ever created. Definitely worth watching. "},{"Title":"Horrifically beautiful, superior sequel to Hellraiser (1987)","Date":"19 January 2009","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Hellbound Hellraiser II, Tony Randel's superior blood-soaked follow-up to writer-director Clive Barker's 1987 Hellraiser, is by far one of the few cases in the horror genre of a sequel surpassing the original. I must admit that I wasn't looking forward to watching this movie initially, but I'm glad I did; I wasn't disappointed by this superior second installment.This second film in the Hellraiser series ups the ante in its blood-drenched delights and special effects, in addition to actually being quite scary. Most will make remarks about the extreme level of violence and gore in this film, but Randel is good in making sure it fits in with the relentlessly grim tone of the film and doesn't make it mindless schlock.The film takes place right after the events of Hellraiser young Kirsty Cotton (Ashley Laurence) was the sole survivor of that film (pre-credit flashbacks re-tell Hellraiser's story), and as Hellbound opens, Kirsty has been locked up inside a mental hospital and no one believes her claims about Juila (Clare Higgins), Frank (Sean Chapman), the Cenobites, and the puzzle box that opens up a gateway to a dimension of pain, suffering, and pleasure.An occult-obsessed doctor, Dr. Channard (Kenneth Cranham), believes her story and in his eternal desire for pleasure, he resurrects Julia and the two soon become lovers. However, Channard's naive young assistant Kyle (William Hope, of Aliens) helps break Julia and a mute young girl named Tiffany (Imogen Boorman) out of the mental hospital. And in order to stop Channard, the newly resurrected Julia and the Cenobites, it's going to literally require a trip to the depths of Hell and back.Hellbound Hellraiser II doesn't play around in the gore department. Not even five minutes go by and we're treated to flesh being ripped apart by chains, hooks, and spikes. In these opening moments, we also learn of the horrific origins of Cenobite leader Pinhead (Doug Bradley). Like Hellraiser, the Cenobites are not your typical movie monsters. They are not your typical movie monsters because they are NOT the movie's main villains, and are only an element of the story (even though they figure much more prominently into this film's plot, and have greater depth, significance, and meaning in the story this time around). Like Hellraiser, Julia and Frank were the main villains in the film; here in Hellbound, Julia also returns as one primary antagonist, soon usurped by Dr. Channard.Even more amazingly, and unexpectedly, noteworthy of interest is the fact that here, the Cenobites become slight objects of sympathy, instead of horror - no longer the horrific creatures we've been led to believe that they actually are. Like Jeff Goldblum's character in The Fly (1986), the Cenobites are tragic beings because we come to see the men (and woman) they once were, although the effect works opposite because the emotional investments of pity and sympathy come AFTER they've torn someone's soul apart limb from limb.Author Clive Barker wrote the novel The Hellbound Heart from which these films are based. The man has a deeply rooted passion for blood, more blood, grisly horror, torture, razor-sharp objects, and just plain gruesome detail and excess. While I'm not sure exactly about his skills in writing dialogue, Randel does a good job of directing Peter Atkins's script while at the same time continuing Barker's first film, not repeating it, and he doesn't disappoint in terms of direction and horrific special effects (some of which was actually cut from the film so that it could be released with an R rating; an unrated version with all the violence and gore restored was recently released on DVD by Anchor Bay). The Atkins screenplay is confusing sometimes and tends to drag but once it gets going along, there's no turning back because your eyes are glued to the screen in absolute horror.Ashley Laurence remains the strong, courageous, and determined young heroine she created in Hellraiser as Kirsty Cotton. Certainly not your typical teenager ready to be torn apart limb from limb by some goon in a mask, she remains a steadfast and determined young woman who remains brave in the face of unspeakable evil. More remarkably, there's never a moment in this film when she just drops everything and strips for the males in the audience, even though she is involved in a nude-less shower sequence fairly early in the picture. Why hasn't she gotten more work as a result of her performance in this film, I ask?Hellbound Hellraiser II is a mostly superior second installment in a grisly franchise that quickly wore itself out with every subsequent sequel after this one.I'm glad I got the unrated DVD, with more skinless bodies, more ripped-apart flesh, and more suffering, sweet suffering.9/10 "},{"Title":"Your suffering will be legendary...Even in Hell!","Date":"21 January 2008","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Hellbound Hellraiser 2 is one of few sequels that actually matches, and in some instances surpasses, the original in terms of blood, guts and sheer terror. Bringing back nearly all of the actors from the original except for Andrew Robinson who played Larry in the original (his absence caused a great deal of chaos during filming which is obvious when you watch some of the final sequences that were originally supposed to include him) and Grace Kirby who played the female cenobite in the original (she is replaced here by the equally talented Barbie Wilde). The film picks right up where the original left of as it seems that no one believes the wild tale that Kirsty has to tell about her experiences so she is locked up in an asylum that is run by the diabolical Dr. Channard. The doctor's obsession with the occult and Hell leads him to conspire to bring Julia back to life. With the aid of a delusional patient from the hospital who tries to cut off bugs and maggots that aren't actually on his skin thus bleeding on the mattress where Julia died and bringing her back to life. In an interesting twist from the original plotine, Julia comes back in exactly the same condition as Frank was during the original and convinces the doctor to procure victims for her in order to help make her complete again. In exchange, Julia agrees to be the doctor's tour guide in Hell. The doctor's young apprentice befriends Kirsty and soon discovers the sinister plot between the doctor and Julia. Meanwhile, it seems that the doctor is also holding a mute young girl with a penchant for puzzles hostage and when she solves the puzzle box that opens the gates to Hell the cenobites are once again unleashed. With Hell now wide open Julia and the doctor enter as do Kirsty, the young mute and the doctor's apprentice. Kirsty is searching for her father and the others are just trying to escape. Meanwhile, Julia betrays the doctor and delivers him to her god Leviathan (in the form of an entity rather than a demon) and the doctor becomes an extremely powerful cenobite in his own right. In a strange plot twist Kirsty soon discovers that it's actually her Uncle Frank, and not her father, who has tricked her into coming to Hell in another attempt to entrap her. Meanwhile, the doctor goes on a bizarre rampage killing all of the cenobites after Kirsty reveals to them their true human nature. The end result is a strange and bizarre ending that has to be seen to be believed. Even though Clive Barker did not actually direct this film he was the Executive Producer and his influence is obvious. He had apparently intended, however, for the character of Julia to emerge as the lead villain of the series but the character of Pinhead became so unbelievably popular that it would be Pinhead, and the actor who played him Doug Bradley, who would emerge as the only actor ever to appear in all 8 films in the Hellraiser series. my advice to fans, however, is that if you only watch one of the sequels in the series, make it this one! "},{"Title":"The Best Hellraiser","Date":"4 January 2003","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  *SPOILER ALERT* *SPOILER ALERT*Kirsty is in the nuthouse.  No one believes her tale of puzzle boxes and Cenobites.  She finds a sympathetic ear from her doctor.  He believes her and can't wait to take the fast train to Hell.  He gets the puzzle box open, Cenobites arrive and Kirsty spends the second half of the movie wandering through Hell with mad doctors, evil demon stepmothers and other malicious creatures.You don't have to believe in Hell to enjoy this movie, but it would help. This is the nastiest, goriest, meanest entry in the Hellraiser series. Depravity abounds.  This one was my favorite.  I love seeing movies try to imagine what Hell is really like.  Having a belief in the afterlife would definitely make the flick scarier.  If you don't believe in Hell at all, I can see how most of the movie would look a little silly.  The Hell effects are not that great.  They worked well on me though.One enduring mystery of the Hellraiser series is why these morons keep solving the puzzle box.  They keep saying they want to know, they have to know...  Hasn't all their research of the box told them of the tremendous suffering they're going to have to go through?  I guess I just don't understand the whole S&M thing. Being a demon from Hell can't be that great. Besides, if there is a Hell, why go there early?  All good/bad things to those who wait. Cenobites were just impatient, Hell-hungry freaks.  "},{"Title":"Horrors most memorable protagonist with too many crescendos","Date":"2 April 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Kirsty is brought to an institution after the death of her family, where the occult-obsessive Dr. Philip Channard resurrects Julia and unleashes the Cenobites once again.It's no surprise it was released the same year as Phantasm II, Friday the 13th Part VII and A Nightmare on Elm Street 4, having one of horrors most surprising memorable and bankable protagonists. However, Hellbound borrows some elements from A Nightmare on Elm Street 3 Dream Warriors (1987) and feels as if it had money thrown at it and was rushed to capitalise on the success of the first.As a side note director Tony Randel arguably captures the imagination of Clive Barker correctly as its style appears to be the foundation for Barker's own Nightbreed (1990).There's plenty to enjoy, the dark oozing blood effects, the return of almost all the original cast and of course the Cenobites and Pinhead himself. The music is fantastic, as too are the costumes and SFX. That said, the story is disjointed on occasion causing it to feel longer than it's running time, almost never-ending with one crescendo after another.Overall, compared to the first and traditional movie styled Hellraiser third Hellbound Hellraiser II is average and hellishly overrated. "},{"Title":"Another artistic endeavor that continues to thrill all audiences alike-A classic follow up to a Classic.","Date":"29 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" After viewing the original Hellraiser and reviewing it, this film comes to mind as one of the more worthy follow ups to a classic. As all great films, with a subliminal message that doesn't need a sequel to follow it up, or explain more, Hellraiser was a film that encompassed the imagination with it's sheer and unsurpassed creativity and told a story with horrific, but beautiful tones. It was only inevitable that a sequel would come up sooner or later, to change the feel of the first film, and derail the novel ending. And as Hollywood driven as Hellbound Hellraiser II is, it's a film that is full of surprises, and yet, keeps it traditional enough to match wits with the first film. Full of lavish production values, zenith class make-up and special effects, and gorgeous set design, and cinematography, this sequel did what only few sequels in film history have done Take what the first film created and keep the original essence, while taking it to a new level. Thus, it's not a mere sequel, but a continuing. Hellraiser II gives you what the first film teased Hell. We as the audience go to hell and back several times, while continuing a saga with the few surviving (in any way possible!) characters from the first film in the process. Kirsty, our heroin from the first film, has been put in a mental hospital, still convinced that the hellish crusade from the first film is not yet over, and direly believes her father to be in hell, awaiting her rescue, while Julia, our villainess from the first film, is back from the dead, and bringing a new depth of hell to earth, prominently fueled by a hellish God, Leviathan. The first of the films many surprises is the integrity from the first film is still intact. And that makes it a great sequel. "}{"Title":"One of the best of the 80's","Date":"31 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Atmospheric, surreal, intensely frightening, incredibly gory, and expertly written and acted, Hellbound Hellraiser II is the perfect example of a sequel that is far superior to the original in both characters and content. The story is better, and even the directing is better. The first Hellraiser is always looked at as the instant classic, but the truth is that Hellbound is better in every way. The cenobites are more menacing, Pinhead himself seems to be a touch more menacing, and Kirsty is even more likable in this installment. Definitely not for people who can't handle intensely disturbing/disgusting material. "},{"Title":"A fantastic follow-up!","Date":"12 February 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" A year after the events of the first movie, Kirsty (Ashley Laurence) has been confined to a psychiatric ward for no one believes that creatures from hell killed her family. However a pretty patient girl named Tiffany (Inogen Boorman) who is good at solving puzzles is a favorite patient of a doctor named Dr. Channard (Kenneth Cranham) who has an obsession with finding ways into another dimension. He discovers the bloody mattress where Julia (Clare Higgins) was murdered as he resurrects her to help Dr. Channard summon the forces of evil. However Pinhead (Doug Bradley) and his Cenobite minions have returned unhappy as they seek revenge with now Kirsty being the only one that can stop this evil madness once again even if she literally has to go to hell.A brilliant and macabre sequel to Clive Barker's 1987 cult horror fantasy masterpiece! Tony Randall does his directorial debut has done a splendid job of crafting this follow-up. Barker serves as executive producer and this sequel gives the goods just like the original with surreal stunning imagery, graphic gore, torture, S&M and good atmosphere. In fact, the film is so gory that back in 1988 it was threatened with an X rating but luckily the uncut unrated version got to see the light of day on video in 1989 and DVD now, the movie offers plot twists with really cool special effects and creature effects for it's time. This installment even offers the origin of Pinhead who is every horror fanboy's favorite nail-headed creature from the abyss of oblivion and Christopher Young's score is chilling as always.Here is a satisfying follow-up that won't disappoint. "},{"Title":"Hmmmmm.............","Date":"10 March 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Hellraiser was always going to be a hard act to follow (especially with Clive Barker handing over so much control to others).  This first sequel starts promisingly enough though, beginning on the same night as the original ended.  It features the return of Ashley Laurence's heroine Kirsty and the resurrection of wicked stepmom (no, really) Julia (Clare Higgins).  However about two thirds into the movie any attempt at story progression, character development or coherency goes out the window and instead the film throws up albeit interesting imagery and ideas seemingly at random.  That's not to say that Hellbound  Hellraiser 2 is a totally bad movie, it just seems like such a wasted opportunity.  If the next sequel would have followed on more directly (instead of going stateside and bringing in different characters) maybe the ideas about Hell and Leviathan could have been explored and developed more fully.  However without this safety blanket, much of Hellbound seems confused and half baked. Kenneth Cranham lends weight to the role of sinister Dr Channard but as soon as he's made into a cenobite the film goes into high camp and I wonder what happened to the sombre tone of the original.  Clare Higgins seems t be enjoying playing her return as Julia like a Hollywood bitch on drugs and it's interesting to find out something about the origin of the cenobites albeit briefly(and at least Pinhead's human origin is something that does get explored further in Hellraiser III).  If you like the first film, it's probably worth checking this one out and you may want t view it more than once to catch everything in it but just don't expect another Hellraiser like the original. "},{"Title":"Demented fun","Date":"19 October 2004","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" First of all, I want to say that 5.6/10 is far too low a rating for this movie. It must be non-horror fans who are jealous at this great vision. The imagination of this film is awesome. The first one is also good but in the second story is replaced by sheer brilliancy in the details of horror imagery. Secondly, I want to say that this a movie all fans of horror would have to see. It is the spirit of Clive Barker's early vision. Although he seems to not be so involved in the project in fact he and his closest friends were very involved in making this movie. Imagine that you see the trailer, and that you are a huge fan of normal horror. You would just have to watch this movie wouldn't you? I mean, there is just no way around it. This is a must-see film, and just for that reason it should be given 10/10. "},{"Title":"The most shocking scene I've ever seenthe kiss","Date":"2 November 1998","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I watched Hellbound when I was a little boy.I took the film from the video store,but I never thought that what I would see at the first hour would be something that I've never seen before,something grotesque,intense and shocking.No other scene can be compared as the kiss,when Clare Higgins sucks the blood of William Hope.The sound effects still gives me willies,and when I remember the camera movement,showing William Hope's wounds,I realize that I never saw a humiliation like that.If you want to see a real terror movie,rent it.Because if you can watch it all,you will be able to see all the other horror movies,and,compared to Hellbound,the other horror movies are Disney's films. "},{"Title":"Picking up almost exactly where part I left off, Hellraiser II, although also not a great movie in any respect, continues the unlikely but strangely fascinating story started by the original Hellraiser in 19","Date":"8 November 2000","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Hellraiser II, like the rest of the series, requires an extreme suspension of disbelief. Obviously, horror movies are not meant to portray reality, but there was not a single solitary piece of the real world presented here. Not for even one second of film time did anything resembling real life show up in the movie, and this took a lot away from the film's potential. Think about how much more effective the film would have been had Kirsty Cotton (Ashley Laurence, in her second ridiculous performance in this series alone) been kept in a psychiatric hospital that even remotely resembled even the most dismal hospital in the real world. I would have been much more interested had she been placed in an atmosphere of normality, beyond which she knows the hellish creatures that are the Cenobites lurk. I mean, a hospital that doesn't seem to have electricity, that has a violent ward that looks more like a medieval torture chamber, and that allows patients to roam the halls doesn't do justice to the film's personality. What this type of thing does is give the entire film a creepy mood, and takes away from the effectiveness of the parts of the film that are really meant to be scary. There just wasn't much creativity in the movie's presentation. Kirsty, a PATIENT in the hospital, wanders down the darkened hall one evening, and she comes upon the room of Tiffany who, as Kirsty's doctor explains to her after finding her (rather than taking her back to her own room), is a complete mystery because she never speaks. She just sits around and solves puzzles (like little wooden boxes!! Kirsty didn't seem bothered by that little detail&#133;). Also, did anybody ever figure out why the hell she touched the blood from her wall (`&#133;I am in Hell help me&#133;') to her LIPS?! Maybe she really does belong in the psych ward.Hellraiser II goes more in depth into some of the things that were presented in part I. For example, the film starts off with a quick scene showing Pinhead's creation, and the film also takes the audience into the world of the Cenobites. It gives an idea of where they come from and how they are made. It is this element of the film that saves it from absolute failure. The script was awful (`You have got to destroy that mattress! You have GOT to destroy that mattress!!' Or how about this, my favorite, `Kyle, when I think, I hurt.' That's brilliant, Kirsty), the atmosphere was entirely overdone, and the directing was unimaginative and routine. Kirsty and Kyle, her &#145;doctor,' momentarily develop a hint of a ridiculous romance, and the film was packed with careless mistakes (like the fact that, after Julia eats enough women to get her skin back, Dr. Channard cuts her bandages off and she has MAKEUP on. I guess it must have come with the skin&#133;). Then there were trivial things like when Ashley and Tiffany (whose real name we never learn), barely escape one of those Hell tunnels into a room and there are two beams of light showing on the wall, having come through the window. What's this, two suns? At any rate, the movie itself was clumsily put together, but luckily it went into detail about the things that made the equally poor original so successful. The Cenobites, ironically enough, are given a more human side, and even the thoroughly evil Pinhead shows a bit of compassion at the end of the film (a lot of good it does him&#133;). The best element of Hellraiser II, like part I, was the convincing makeup done on the skinless people. There were some intricate details there, and the desired gross-out reaction is pretty successfully attained. Some scenes were actually painful to watch (remember that poor nutcase who tried to get the maggots off himself with the straight razor?), which I think is a mark of at least limited success for this type of horror film. If you are a horror fan, the entire Hellraiser series is obviously mandatory viewing, but I think that other people, before you immediately dismiss the Hellraiser films as complete wastes of time, should realize that they are not meant to be mainstream films. These are made for people who are into this kind of splatter film, and as a splatter film it succeeds on many levels. It creates fascinating characters (the Cenobites, not the numbingly boring humans), tells an unlikely but interesting story about their interaction with the living world, and never fails to throw in buckets and buckets of blood and gore. I'm a pretty devoted horror fan myself, but even though I regard Pinhead as the best villain ever created in film, Hellraiser II (as well as the rest of them) was so flawed that I cannot hail this as a great or even a really good film. It's good horror and it's fun to watch, but it probably won't go down in history as a classic horror movie.  "},{"Title":"A real letdown","Date":"29 June 2002","Score":"10 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Disclaimer I loved the original Hellraiser. The characters were interesting, believable and above all human. That made it all the more terrifying. The Cenobites were mysterious and undeniably evil. I had high hopes for Hellraiser II.That being said, Hellbound Hellraiser II is one of the biggest letdowns in movie history. Whereas in the original we had characters with believable motives (Julie was motivated by her lust for Frank, Frank was motivated by his obsession with pleasure and experiences etc...) in Hellraiser II we have bland caricatures. The bad guys are ridiculously evil, the good guys are pure and virtuous and nobody ever doubts anything. The original Hellraiser worked because we only saw glimpses of hell which allowed our imaginations to fill in the rest. There's nothing for the imagination to do here because the director felt like he should lay it all out for us. Tentacles, maggots, blades and blood galore. What's truly offensive is that the producers and director of the movie felt like they didn't need any of the basic elements used in movies and thought that the sheer amount of blood was enough to make a good movie. They were wrong. The further the movie goes, the worse it gets. By the time Kirsty and Tiffany are trampsing through hell, screaming each others' names, the movie itself has gone to hell. Seriously, we get all the clichs here. It's actually kind of admirable that they could fit it all in.Hellraiser II is a boring, confusing slideshow of gory images with nothing to link them together, nothing to push the story along and nothing to emotionally connect the viewer to the movie. A real letdown. * out of **** "},{"Title":"just as good as original","Date":"9 April 2000","Score":"14 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is just as good as the first one. The movie went in a fast pace. In a way I liked that. The scenes of hell were really neat looking. One of the best I've seen yet. I'm not going to say who, but a new Cenobites is in the movie, but he's not in there too long. You find out a little more about Pinhead in this one, but if you really want to know his history watch the third one. Anyway I liked this one. It is different than the first one.I recommend this movie to anyone who liked the first one and likes a really good horror movie.   "},{"Title":"For Gorehounds Only","Date":"23 May 2002","Score":"19 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I admit to not being much of a fan of horror films , I can take them or leave them , but that doesn`t stop me from knowing what a good horror film should be. Horror films should be about irony , protestant ethics and above all - fun . That`s why HELLRAISER is my all time favourite horror film . I`m not a fan of sequels either so I wasn`t really expecting much with HELLBOUND which is just as well because this a poor film with some disturbing scenes that are just plain cruelThe script is really bad with confusing continuity with the first film . Why is Kirsty confined to a hospital ? She looked relatively well in the final scene of HELLRAISER , but no explanation is forthcoming . And - unlike stomach churning blood letting - explanations are a scarce commidity in this film , we see a woman which I take it is Tiffany`s mother pleading for someone to help her daughter then a hand clamping over her mouth . What`s that about then ? It`s got nothing do with the plot because HELLBOUND has no plot , everyone runs back and forth through corridors like a bad episode of DOCTOR WHO. Another irritant is the fact that everyone states the obvious  It`s coming ....it certainly is ..... Weird . F****** weird  and the all time classic howler  It was horrible . She had no skin  Maybe HELLBOUND was originally written for radio ? Oh and watch out for the cop out ending where Kirsty saves TiffanyClare Higgins and Kenneth Cranham do the best they can with the script and they give the best performances of the film which isn`t saying much. Ashley Laurence is a very attractive young woman but being drop dead gorgeous is no substitute for acting talent and it comes as no surprise she didn`t win an oscar for HELLBOUND , but the worst performance award goes to William Hope as Kyle though perhaps I shouldn`t be so critical since he gets landed with the worst lines and Sir Alec Guinness would be hard pressed to make something of the laughable dialogue Kyle has to speakTony Randell  seems to have taken the script too literally  It`s a dire script so this calls for dire directing  Watch out for the umpteen revealing mistakes that can be spotted and also look out for the atrocious editing especially at the end where Channard menaces Tiffany . Tiffany has a terrified look on her face then when the camera cuts to another angle she has an entirely different expression ! This happens just before Kirsty saves the day . I know I`ve mentioned that  before , but I`ll mention it again because I couldn`t  believe the cop out ending, what an insult. Tony Randell also seems to think horror films are all about blood and boy do we get it by the bucket load . Most infamous scene as everyone has pointed out is the lunatic with razor blade which is just sickHELLBOUND does have one thing that makes it worth watching and that`s the music . Christopher Young deserved at the very least an oscar nomination for the haunting score , but it`s a shame we got saddled with such a poor unpleasant film     "},{"Title":"Best Horror Movie Ever","Date":"18 November 2005","Score":"20 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This movie is quite simply the best horror movie I have ever seen. The movie is flawless in every way as far as I'm concerned. I first saw this movie back in the theaters when I was just about nine (my parents got me into the theater) and I remember being blown away. This installment was not directed by Clive Barker like the first one was but directed by Tony Randell and starring much of the same cast from the first also. The film takes right off where Hellraiser 1 leaves off and throws you into a world of Gothic horror, self mutilation, betrayal, and at times, I think, has a Shakespearean undertone. The film moves at an interesting pace as the first half of the movie introduces some new characters and interesting plot twists. It really tends to pick up though during the last 45 minutes of the movie as the cenobites bring you into their own world which to this day still gives me nightmares. I think the most original thing about this movie is the Chanard character who in the second half of the movie is probably the most terrifying character to ever appear on the silver screen. I highly recommomend this film to anyone who likes any type of horror. You won't be disappointed. "}{"Title":"Cranham and Higgins deliver career defining performances","Date":"27 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This instalment benefits from the terrific casting decision in British theatre, TV and film stalwart Kenneth Cranham as the snooker loopy Dr. Channard. He hams it up for all he's worth and admirably keeps a straight face throughout. He pulls off the character with aplomb, stealing the show and featuring in my absolute favourite scene of the film. Cranham and Higgins deliver career defining performances.Hellbound Hellraiser II, as far as I'm concerned, is a good sequel and remains probably the best entry in the series. It is more over the top, features more skin- swapping than any film I can think of and has Kenneth Cranham shouting about unnecessary surgical procedures 'I recommend AMPUTATION!!' Brilliant. 'What was on today's agenda? Ah yes, EVISCERATION!' Stupefying.Listening to the soundtrack as I write this, composed by Christopher Young yet again, performed by Graunke Symphony Orchestra, it's the best thing about it and sounds amazing on DTS. Seek it out.A grandiose sequel that gets the job done, whatever it's contents faults. "},{"Title":"A bit of a headache","Date":"22 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Starting almost immediately after the climax of the first movie, Hellbound Hellraiser II catches up with Kirsty Cotton (Ashley Lawrence), now being held in a mental institution after the horrors she witnessed. Her stories of a magical puzzle box and the gateway to hell are dismissed as fairy tales by her doctors and the police, all of whom believe her to be insane, apart from the shady Dr. Channard (Kenneth Cranham). Along with Channard's sympathetic assistant Kyle MacRae (William Hope), Kirsty discovers than Channard has be studying the world of the Cenobites for years, and is using a child in his institution with a skill for puzzles to open the Lament Configuration. Using the bloodied mattress stolen from the bloodbath at Kirsty's home, Channard inadvertently allows the re-birth of the demented Julia Cotton (Clare Higgins).Hellbound is a collection of decent ideas clumped together without much thought for coherency. The first Hellraiser had a sketchy mythology and left many things unexplained, but it compensated for this by conjuring a gripping and nightmarish tone throughout. Instead, Hellbound moves along at a frantic pace from one set-piece to another, without offering any kind of insight into just how a bloody mattress could work as a gateway through which Julia could escape the confines of hell, or why a child prodigy is required to open a box solves easily by Kirsty the first time around. With little character development or time to reflect on the events that occur, the film is a bit of a mess.Visually, it's quite stunning. We get to see more of the Cenobite world as Kirsty enters into hell and bumps into her old foe Uncle Frank (Sean Chapman), and although the sets occasionally appear a bit on the dodgy side, and with special effects and make-up encouraging more laughter than genuine terror, it manages to deliver some memorable imagery and wince-inducing gore when it is called for. Ultimately though, I found Hellbound to be a bit of a headache, and even the extended appearances of Pinhead (Doug Bradley) and his minions could not distract my attention enough to make me forgive the many narrative flaws. Perhaps it's because I love the first film so much, or maybe it's down to Clive Barker stepping out of the director's chair and being replaced by Tony Randel. Still, it's a damn masterpiece compared to the sequels that followed. "},{"Title":"Better than the original !","Date":"18 November 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I watched the original Hellraiser from 1987 the last night and honestly I didn't enjoy it a lot. But I decided that I give one chance to I watch the sequel. And after that, I just finished watching Hellbound Hellraiser II and I thought it was A LOT better than the original. Much better than I expected! Hellbound Hellreaser II (1988) is one of the greatest sequel of 80s I've ever seen! They did a great job for the amazing special effects, the special makeup, the editing, the idea.. It was a little more disturbing, but in my opinion this movie got everything a little better than the first. I'm glad I enjoyed this one and I really hope I'll enjoy the third as well. "},{"Title":"Bloody funtastic hell, to raise your glass to","Date":"2 September 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This is the bloodiest Hellraiser I've seen, where to me, this is an awesome sequel with a lot of blood spillages that are frequent throughout, where I recommend this one to any Hellraiser fan, especially if only viewing the original and loving it, where this one missed a cinema showing. I've seen 1, 3, and 5, but this one has a special place with me. To be honest, I don't find Pinhead one bit scary, but kind of annoying, played with such flawlessness by Doug Bradley. It's great when you have veteran actors, bring such nasty characters to life. We know them all, from the Freddy's, Jason's, Leatherfaces, oh yeah and Charlie from last years, Aussie shocker, Charlie's Farm. But also in this one, we have the two other evils return in the form of Julia and her such nasty half, Frank from the original Hellraiser. Continuing on, only hours from where the original ended, our poor lass Kirsty has awakened in a mental hospital, but taunted with the continual nightmare of yeah, HELL, thanks to that box, now in the hands of a young girl and mum patient, Tiffany, obsessed with it, if like a a rubix cube. Kirsty now is now seeing bloodshed, especially pools of it on mattresses. A young nice doctor, Kyle, who takes a warming to her, kind of believes Kirsty's story from the start, and when he's confronted by the evidence, the two team up to take the evil on themselves. Soon Julia, and last of all, Frank are back in the picture, with no love loss between them and Kirsty. Pinhead almost sides with Kirsty for a moment, and we so want this, as we learn Pinhead's real identity, and that wasn't born evil. It's really hard to see the point of the Hellraiser films, as if to just shock and entertain. But if this is really what HELL is like, when we die, not, god help us all. "},{"Title":"A great horror film","Date":"4 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This is a very scarier movie. I can think scarier movies. Hell raiser is scarier. Hell raiser III hell on earth in scarier. Hell raiser the blood line is scarier. But still this is a very scary movie. It a great sequel. It is not as good as the original but it is still good. This movie is very different. It has a great story line. It also has great acting. It also has great special effects. It is very intense. Hell raiser inferno is pooh pooh. Hell raiser hell seeker is also pooh pooh hell raiser hell raiser deader is also pooh pooh. Hell raiser hell world is also pooh pooh. Hell raiser revelations is also pooh pooh. But this movie is a must see. "},{"Title":"Great follow-up to a classic","Date":"28 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Having survived the Cenobites from before, Kirsty Cotton is confined to a mental hospital where she sparks the interest of the institute's head psychologist who unleashes the creatures once again.While some elements might not work for everyone, this is still quite an enjoyable effort. The biggest effort here is the increased blood and gore featured, as this one ups the violence over the first one so much more. Bypassing the traditional hook pulling apart a body, we do get a particularly gruesome scene where Pinhead is shown how he gets his name-sake that fits in the rest of the film as it features an on-screen transformation for a Cenobite, the appearance of skinless people, several mutilated dead bodies scattered throughout the film and particularly graphic kills that splatter all over the place. There is tons more blood throughout, including a retread of the skinless person idea from part one that works quite a bit better due to the extended time spent doing this. Also, the increased time overall with the Cenobites was greatly appreciated. With them being almost relegated to cameos in that one, here they become so relevant to the plot that it's a great joy to watch them all get plenty of screen time. As well, there's some nice ideas as the descent into Hell is handled well, the Cenobites are integrated into the story pretty believably, and the whole scheme of events plays out excitingly since this never becomes boring. The visuals are a big reason for that as it's a great-looking film with all the special effects and scenery which makes it a great film to get lost in. The film does have some moments where the plot doesn't know where it's going, jumping around between several different themes and motives quite often different one moment to the next. This is all the result of a haphazard final half that makes for a convoluted storyline, though there's still enough context to really make some sense of this one at times even if it requires a couple times to figure it out. Granted it's a little confusing, but this is still every bit as good as the original, and then a little more in certain areas.Rated UR/R Extreme Graphic Violence, some Language, Brief Nudity, and a shadowy, blurry sex scene. "},{"Title":"Tony 'Amityville 1992' Randel Takes Us Into the Frightening World of the Cenobites","Date":"16 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Ashley Lawrence returns as the plucky Kirsty Cotton who's been placed in a psychiatric hospital for observation following the massacre detailed in the first film. The doctor running the madhouse happens to be a sadistic maniac intrigued by the idea of a new world of supernatural torment. Together, with the mutilated remains of Kirsty's stepmother; they attempt to open a gateway to the realm of the cenobites and all hell breaks loose. First time director Tony Randel does a pretty good job capturing some of the horrific themes and grisly imagery of Clive Barkers' original horror hit. It's a solid entry in the series that Hellraiser fans won't want to miss. "},{"Title":"Even more nightmarish this time around","Date":"30 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This one seems to be the fan favorite so when it comes to the Hellraiser franchise. And this is a pretty freakish and creepy movie that delves into the dimensional world of Pinhead. I personally found this one to be more entertaining in a way, but not as scary or as creepy as the first one. It is however more freakish. This sequel actually does a really good job of connecting with the first Hellraiser movie and takes place just about right afterwards. I guess one of the reason why this one is most fan favorite is because of how it balances out the environments. Which takes place place in a asylum and some sort of dimensional hell. One of the factors that made this movie not as scary is how it shows the human side of Pinhead and his origin even if it's very slightly shown. The mystery behind Pinhead and his crew is what made him scary, like he is some sort of intelligent ancient being. This one seems to show Pinhead to be on the weaker side. Sure, sometimes villains should have some weaknesses. But the human side just takes away from a villain such as him. I don't know, but I just thought Pinhead would have been more effective horror icon if he was some sort of intelligent ancient being that has a certain code or rule that he abides by and thus can be reasoned with. This one does have more nightmarish elements though and seemed like a subliminal journey into the dark side of humanity and hell. This sequel really does indulges more into the creepy designs by Clive Barker. This is a entertaining flick that delves more into the Hellraiser universe and indulges more on Clive Barker's design and visuals. Oh and Brad Pitt also makes a appearance when he was a teenage girl.6.3/10 "},{"Title":"Boring dish with a lot of ugly sh#t!","Date":"24 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" First part was good because it had a plot and they stuck to it. Second part is a waste of time.In first part, Frank says to Kirsty, Come to daddy. It was good because Frank's character was as such. He was addicted to sexual pleasures and a lot more. Copying that in second part, Julia says to Kirsty in one scene,Come to mommy. It looked so stupid and artificial.Julia's role was filled with holes and her acting was also like a hole. And there is Tiffany, who is supposed to be the mystery girl. The movie is not worth it to have this many puzzles or whatever the director may wanna call em' that is supposed to make the audience think. Come on! Seriously.. All that is in the movie is gore and some more gore clubbed with ugly s#it which has no connection to the plot.The reason original version of Hellraiser was good even with the gore and ugly sh#t was it was all included with the plot and nothing was unnecessary. But this isn't the case with the sequel. It looks like the movie itself was unnecessary and a waste of time. Forget the gore and the ugly sh#t! "},{"Title":"Worthy Follow-Up, But Lacks What Made the Original Great","Date":"29 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" *Some spoilers afoot, all rather minor, but if you wish to go into the film 100% un-spoiled, it is best if you skip this review*Hellbound Hellraiser II (1988) picks up right where the original Hellraiser (1987) left off. Fans of the original can expect more of the same, yet while this film is a worthy follow-up, it is still vastly inferior.Something that made the original so unique (even different from all of its sequels) was its use of the Cenobites instead of using them to advance the plot, they use them to emphasize it. While the sequel does this in some regards, the plot of this film could basically be summed up as Kirsty and some other characters fight monsters. The first 40 minutes of the film, before the gates to Hell are opened, are the film's strength keeping the spirit of the original and still feeling strangely frightening. I, for one, preferred Claire Higgins's performance as the evil step-mother Julia in this film to her performance in the original. But once the puzzle is solved and Hell is opened, the film loses much of its strength.Dr. Channard begins the film as a wonderfully creepy villain, but the second he becomes a monster similar to that of the Cenobites, he loses all of his power, and even defeats the Cenobites so easily that any fear you may have held at the beginning of the film is instantly lost. The last ten minutes of the film is a mess as director Randel tries and fails to create any tension or suspense, and the Leviathan being incredibly disappointing. Part of the reason I love the original is because it is so character- driven in a genre filled with characters who just let things happen to them, rather than being the force behind everything in the film (the Cenobites, as I said before, are more of an epilogue/conclusion in the original, rather than the entire plot). While many people argue that the film cannot be enjoyed because almost every character is, in some way, shape, or form, extremely unlikable and complicated, yet this is, in my opinion, what adds to the film's strength. All of the characters are human, which adds a level to the film, as it is much easier to place yourself in the characters's shoes. The sequel, however, lacks that character complexity, with all of the new characters being clichd, one- dimensional shadows of people, and even some of the recurring characters lose some of their complexity.Still, for all of the films downfalls, it also contains a lot of strengths. The scene in which Tiffany finds her own personal Hell is probably the creepiest in the entire film, and Frank's Hell is rather intriguing and disturbing. The beginning half of the movie truly delivers, and is up to the standard that the original had, and before Dr. Channard ruins them, the Cenobites are quite threatening, perhaps even more so than in the original. Pinhead delivers some truly great lines (Your suffering will be legendary, even in Hell!, But please, feel free, explore. We have eternity to know your flesh., It is not hands that summon us. It is desire.). The film delivers some backstory on Pinhead, which is interesting and creepy, adding to the quality of the film. All in all, the film is rather unique, even among the others in the series, and it will be difficult to find a film that is quite like this one. So, despite all of its mistakes and failures, this film still holds a special place in my heart. "}{"Title":"Has what it needed to succeed but lost so much","Date":"28 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Clive Barker's directional debut with his novel adapted film, Hellraiser (1987), became an instant classic to many. The story had significant depth, its characters felt real, thanks to great acting, the effects for its time were astounding and its music was hauntingly beautiful. So it is no surprise that when a sequel would be made to this favored horror film, fans would expect a product containing the same or better in magnitude. I am one of those fans, but unfortunately, that promise wasn't upheld to the highest degree. It is not to say that the movie is awful, but it had so much going for it and yet it failed to be anywhere close to its predecessor.What really misses the mark and is also the key component to making a good movie, is a story. The story, which was written by Barker and adapted to the film by Peter Atkins lacks a strong sense of story telling. The screenplay will attempt to bring up various subplots but never accesses them fully. For example, this installment provides viewers with the possibility of understanding the older characters better, and, being introduced to new characters. However both are never explained in a clear way or even resolved. It's actually hard to say what the plot was about and who the main villain was either.After seeing the murder of her whole family, Kirsty Cotton (Ashley Laurence) finds herself in a hospital with everyone against her. She tries to explain herself but nobody believes her. Little does she realize that she will prove herself right when the Doctor in charge of the hospital turns out to be as wicked as her evil stepmother Julia and Uncle Frank by unleashing the Cenobites from the lament configuration once again. To do this, the doctor will have a mute girl (Imogen Boorman) open the box because she has a knack for solving puzzles.However, this doesn't tell me anything. It is never completely explained to why Doctor Channard (Kenneth Cranham) wants to open the portal to hell. In the movie, viewers will learn he's been studying the lament configuration for years but it's never said what he was searching for. It is also never fully explained to why this girl is mute and what happened to her family. The mother of the girl is shown a few times but never bothers to show the end result of her. What gives? At least Atkins wrote a more decent back-story to the Cenobite characters (thanks to Barker's input). But the rest is never finished. It's frustrating.On the other hand, I do give credit to the casting department for bringing back majority of the cast. It's great to see Ashley Laurence again as well as Clare Higgins, Sean Chapman and of course Doug Bradley. I also enjoyed the set design to the labyrinth of hell. I for one would get lost very easily in such a place. The imagery was creepy and disturbing as always too. I still get goosebumps from a crying child; very unsettling. Adding to that was Christopher Young's film score (who also did the previous film) which made it more effective. Although I found Young's score from the previous film more compelling, I was happy to see that he stuck with his original theme and even built on a few other tunes. Lastly, the make-up department and special effects crew also did a great job. From the Cenobite transformations, gore, creature effects to the skinless characters is still an amazing feat for 1988. I'm just baffled to how incoherent the screenplay puts all these great things together into an almost unenjoyable mess.Peter Atkins' screenplay digs into some really interesting ideas and character arcs but never comes close to finishing a single one. It is even more frustrating because this sequel contains the majority of the previous cast, the same composer and the same gruesome imagery. "},{"Title":"I Thought This Film Was Downright Terrible","Date":"25 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" So, two seconds of history here I enjoyed Hellraiser, love Clive Barker (and was aware that he did not direct this sequel, but was the Executive Producer) and was up for seeing the second installment of the series that according to a lot of reviews went downhill AFTER this film in the third chapter. I HATED THIS MOVIE! The entire film is just references to the first film and even has horrific elements that are ripped off the original . I felt the storyline was paper thin and completely divorced itself of the depth of The Hellbound Heart story on which the first film was based.An interview with Clive Barker about how excited he was with the release of this put me over the top in my decision to see it; well, that was a huge source of disappointment! Im sorry, but you just can't do what this film does. The only really original aspects of this piece are the gory special effects. Good job on those! Only hardcore genre fans will be able to walk away with any feeling of satisfaction, in my opinion, from seeing a little over an hour and a half of nonsense plot line that adds NOTHING to the original story, scenes of people being ripped apart and repeated plot twists from the first film. Maybe Tony Randel should take up smoking pot or something for ideas, because after this fiasco, I'm staying away from his other films for at least a minute. "},{"Title":"Not as good as i remembered","Date":"2 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Few years ago, I found this movie more scary then first movie, now that seem back to back closer to each this time around. It's not bad sequel at all, it decent Follow up, there were some bloody moment in this movie which I really liked. When first time I saw this movie when the face coming out of the mattress, it scared the hell out of him (I slept on sofa that time) This time I already on Bed watching this, it didn't have affected then it did the first time. The acting was really good, I expected to be a little be more gory then it was. 7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Back to tear the soul apart!","Date":"11 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The Cenobites are back to bring more hell on Earth! So a few years ago I rented Hellraiser, from the clips that I saw it seemed more than promising and it sure was a great horror movie. Clive Barker has the wildest imagination and goes deep into the nightmares that we have and puts them on screen. I give him a lot of credit for putting displeasing images on the big screen, as unsettling as the images are they made for a great horror movie and created a terrifying icon in Pinhead. I don't know why I waited so long to see the sequels, maybe I didn't have the opportunity but I did find them cheap at the store the other day and without hesitation bought them. So I watched Hellbound Hellraiser 2 and while it's definitely not strong in the plot like the first film was, the visuals are done with such love and imagination we get a horror movie that doesn't hold back on making you squirm.Kirsty wakes in the psychiatric hospital, where she is questioned about the events leading up to the destruction of her home, which involved her stepmother, Julia, and a bloody mattress. Kirsty tells the police that her uncle, Frank, opened a puzzle box to an alternate dimension populated by monsters named Cenobites who torture human quarry for sadomasochistic purposes. The story amazes the detectives, who are incredulous and take the bloody mattress as evidence. Kirsty is turned over to Dr. Channard and his assistant, Kyle, who instantly becomes smitten with Kirsty. That night, Kirsty befriends another patient, Tiffany, a semi-catatonic young girl with an incredible skill for solving puzzles. Later, in her room, Kirsty finds a message written in blood stating I AM IN HELL. HELP ME. Believing it was sent by her father, Kirsty tells her story to Kyle, who encourages her to tell Channard about the Cenobites. Now with Kyle and Tiffany's help, Kirsty wants to get her father back from the sadistic Cenobites and must confront them once again.My main complaint about the film is that the plot isn't too well constructed. This was definitely meant more to upset the stomach than challenge the mind. That's the thing I admire about the first film, it was very gory but had a very strong plot and something that hadn't been done before. Why Kirsty is so quick to go back to the Cenobites was crazy to me, she thinks her father is in Hell, but believes it so fast. I would have questioned if I was her if it was due to my trauma or if this really was happening? Also SPOILER when Tiffany thinks that Julia is helping her in the end, but she pulls the skin off and it reveals that it was Kirsty and she had gotten in Julia's skin in order to trick the bad guy, how did she get in that skin so quickly and so well? Movie magic as usual. Also that Kirsty shows Pinhead an old picture of what he used to look like as a human and we have an Oprah moment where he's touched, I don't like Pinhead to be touched, I want him to be bad! But Dr. Channard makes for a great villain, he's so evil that he destroys the other Cenobites within a snap! His make up was terrific as well and very haunting. The visuals were great and the story was still very spooky. I would recommend it over all, it's a film that doesn't hold up for the story but as a continuation from the first film, it's worth the look.7/10 "},{"Title":"Repulsive but part-brilliant Eighties horror","Date":"19 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Yes, it still seems repulsive and disgusting and 'not nice', but full of great flashes of style. The acting is pretty awful (with the exception of Kenneth Cranham - see below) and the scenes of girls running along dank grey corridors look rather like out-takes from 'The Crystal Maze.' The effects (especially those back shots of the psychiatric clinic) look rather cheap by today's standards, but this only adds to the attraction and style of the whole extraordinary ensemble, rather like those obviously fake Walt Disney castles and fields in Laurence Olivier's 'Henry the Fifth.' Shocking images flicker by at an exponential rate, and I felt rather like someone at a tawdry Soho peepshow - disgusted and shamed and appalled, but unable to stop looking.But not recommended... 1) for a cosy Saturday night watch with Grandma and the kids. 2) for psychiatric in-patients. 3) for easily offended Christians (this applies even more to the first film in the series). 4) those who've just eaten a big dinner.More seriously, is this kind of fare proof of the death-wish of Western culture? I'm not saying that merely watching it can turn perfectly sane people into sadomasochistic murderers, but doesn't its popularity go to prove (as if we really needed it) that we're all rather 'sick'? My cable provider is running the whole series of 'Hell', and announces them as 'The films that defined a generation.' Isn't that 'definition' rather worrying? Both for the generation concerned, and the ones to follow? I know many 21st century teenagers will just laugh their heads off at this film - which rather proves my point.P.S. Kenneth Cranham acts with incredible conviction (always rare to attain in horror films since the passing of the great Lugosi-Karloff and Cushing-Lee-Price days). Cranham looks the part of a slightly crazed doctor, and looks in genuine pain when he's floating in mid-air, like Kenneth Macmillan in David Lynch's 'Dune', with what looks like a giant condom growing from the top of his head. "},{"Title":"Very good sequel","Date":"29 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This is actually a very good. Great continuem from the first.This is still very mind messing,scary and very graphic. This is more gorier than the first.Im really glad they kept most of the same actors from the first. It had quiet a good story and not bad acting performances. Doug Bradly was the best actor as Pinhead.This does answer a few questions that you didn't know about from the first film, for example, finding out more about Pinhead.The new Cinobite at the end was really good. It was mind messing, weird and gross.This is not as good as the first movie but really worth watching. "},{"Title":"From Cricklewood to Pinewood","Date":"28 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Clive Barker's horror-fantasy story progresses well in Hellraiser II. Despite handing over the screen writing to Peter Atkins and direction to some hack who went on to work with the Power Rangers, this tale of love, obsession and buckets of gore still bears the Barker stamp.Production values rise in this sequel. A lot of the film is shot on set at Pinewood Studios, rather than the less glamorous Cricklewood locations of the original Hellraiser. The special effects are wonderfully inventive and have clearly had more money thrown at them. Despite the odd bit of shaky scenery, Hellraiser II is a glossier and more muscular beast than its predecessor.Pushed forward by a strong cast (featuring the wonderful Kenneth Cranham), the film is a creepy ghost-train ride which reveals more about the world of the Cenobites. Like the original film, Hellraiser II is as much about human emotion as it is about shocks and scares. It is a worthy successor to a horror classic. "},{"Title":"Pretty good sequel!","Date":"25 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I was a big fan of the original Hellraiser and Pinhead to my opinion is one of the greatest (and coolest) characters in Horror history. So I was a little frightened that the sequel would be nothing but a mess. But I pretty enjoyed the film! It is strongly linked to the original, most of the main characters appear here too, something I really missed in Pt. 3, cause it adds to the atmosphere since you're somehow linked to Kirstey. I liked the idea that Pinhead's story is discovered here a bit, that you see who he was in his human days and how he came to become a big number in hell. It somehow makes him more sympathic if this word can be used here. The movie has a very dark and gripping atmosphere, and the characters are very good, especially the mad doctor and, of course, Pinhead. But the flick starts to get really great when Kirstey enters hell! The whole place is shot in fascinating, dark colors and the setting of the whole labyrinth is great! Like a dark masterpiece of architecture. The showdowns are also very well done, especially when Pinhead discovers his human side and helps Kirstey to escape the mad doctor. After all, a very good sequel, in some parts even better than Part 1 and definitely better than Part 3! "},{"Title":"This One Has Some Serious Issues!","Date":"6 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Hellbound Hellraiser 2, delves deeper than the original film. For starters, you find out the origin of Pinhead (Doug Bradley). Before he was Pinhead, he was Captain Spencer, a soldier during the first World War. Spencer wanted to go deeper into the human condition, and finds it in the form of a puzzle box. The same box as in the previous film. Once you play with it, you get hooked (Literally!), and Spencer soon ends up in the depths of Hell with a new identity Pinhead.Flash forward years later. The aftermath of the events of the previous film. Kirsty (Ashley Laurence)is in a mental asylum, having witnessed the events of the previous film. She's a mess Her father Larry is dead, killed by her Uncle Frank, who took his skin. Her stepmother Julia is also dead, drained by Frank and left for the Cenobites on a bloody mattress. Frank/Larry is dead, pulled to pieces by the Cenobites when they found out what he had done. No wonder she's in a nut-house! But she isn't insane, it's just that the police think she is.One person who believes her is Dr. Channard (Kenneth Cranham). And he has good reason to For years he has been studying the origins of the puzzle box and has a bit of a dark side as well. He also has a young girl as a patient named Tiffany (Imogen Boorman), who doesn't speak, and spends all her time solving puzzles. When the good doctor hears about Kirsty's story about what happened and about the bloody mattress, Channard decides to use the mattress to bring Julia (Clare Higgins)back to life.With the help of a few bodies (Courtesy of the asylum inmates), Julia gets her skin back and helps Channard with his desire to know about the secrets of the box. Tiffany's puzzle-solving skills opens up the doorway. Kirsty discovers that Julia is back, and that her father is calling out to her, begging her to rescue him from his torment.The film is a lot more graphic than the previous film, but it digs deeper than the previous film. Also, Pinhead has more depth than the previous film.Worth a look and a must have in your collection. "},{"Title":"It hurts to think...","Date":"23 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Spoilers for sure I have not seen any of the Hellraiser films past bloodline but I have yet to see a sequel that comes close to the original. While Hellbound has it's moments it ultimately fails. I read a old interview with Clive Barker right after it was released where he said `The screenplay and story Pete Atkins worked out made sense I am not sure what ended up on the screen'.While I thought the whole story line with the doctor was awesome, Kirsty's involvement was not really needed. Indeed her being in the hospital was a little out of left field since she looked pretty ok at the end of the first film. Next why were the cops investigating the murder Americans? Duh correct me if I am wrong but didn't Hellraiser take place in England.Channard impressed me, as well as the scene where the man who thinks he is covered in maggots was cool. What was good about that scene is that I found myself squirming about it coming up. Ok the bad stuff. William hope as Kyle is so bad. The dialogue he speaks is painful. The wanna be arty stuff with Tiffany's delusions are so laughably bad I can't even believe it. The doll with the sewing needle and the sewn mouth. Come on! Also the box twisting out of the bed at the end, Oh god it looked so fake they should have just said no. Don't think though I didn't notice that one of the movers in the last scene was one of the movers at the house in the first film. Al this proves my theory that Kirsty was speaking for the director when she said the line of dialogue `When I think, I hurt'. If you think you will hurt, if your this movie anyways.  "}{"Title":"Boring, pointless and stupid","Date":"27 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This relentlessly dull sequel to HELLRAISER makes it's slow-moving predecessor look like a Road Runner cartoon by comparison. The daughter of the original movie's protagonist finds herself in an insane asylum where a doctor is trying to unlock the secrets of the box that opens the gates to Hell.  Soon, he manages to do so, and revives the girl's gelatinous stepmother, who is trapped in the same skinless state as her former lover.  Soon, the Cenobites are at it again, until their weakness is found and exploited.  Other than some pre-SPAWN leather/bondage/mutant imagery, this is pretty much a waste of time.  What can you say about a horror movie that depicts Hell's worst aspect as being boring?  What little style and substance the first movie had are absent here, as is Clive Barker's semi-reasonable dialog.   "},{"Title":"The goriest in the series, but not the greatest","Date":"16 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Hellraiser 2 Hellbound is directed by Tony Randell who has also made Ticks. Hellbound is written by Peter Atkins who wrote also Hellraiser 3 and 4 and many other horror movies. Hellraiser 2 is pretty noteworthy horror experience, but it relies too much on splatter (plenty) and the stylishness suffers a little. The film starts immediately where the first film ended and our heroine Kirsty (Ashley Laurence) is in mental hospital, because no one believes her story of cenobites and Hell. Soon Pinhead and pals come to terrorize that hospital, too, and then the gore filled mayhem is ready to start. The plot is nothing special and it seems to be there only to deliver the many scenes of blood and splatter. The atmosphere is pretty creepy and the visions of Hell are gorgeous, but still this is not as scary and brilliant as Clive Barker's Hellraiser, the original. But Hellbound is still pretty enjoyable film for horror fans and I think I begin to like this little more now as I'm writing about it. Fact is that the film relies too much on long scenes of mutilation and splatter, and that's pretty stupid at times. The overall look of the film is very dark and also surreal, so this is interesting to watch and enjoy the imagery of the nightmare. If Barker had directed this one, I think there would've been less gore and more terror and atmosphere. I think this first sequel is pretty equal with Hellraiser 3 Hell on Earth and these films work fine if one likes to watch all kind of horror films, sequels included. Hellraiser is a masterpiece of horror cinema, and these sequels try to come close to it. Hellbound is watchable sequel and works as a splattery horror film, and I'm very glad they concentrated a little on those stylish and atmospheric scenes, too. These cinematically more noteworthy scenes are the ones that make this film watchable for demanding horror fans, too. If you can't handle splatter effects, don't try to watch this as this is the goriest in the series. Couple of scenes are almost so over the top they become little laughable, and I think this was not the film makers' intention. Hellraiser 2 is not a masterpiece but an okay sequel effort for the ones who like these. The others stay away.7/10 "},{"Title":"Really good if you can stomach it! (SPOILERS)","Date":"18 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Ok, now this is not a bad movie at all, if you can stomach it and your not a soft person.  There was a lot of disturbing stuff that kinda backfired on the overall rating of the movie (ie. the mental patient cutting himself up-was that really necessary, couldnt Channard have just sat him on the mattress and Julia kill him?  Did he have to butcher himself like that?).However, some of the gore made the movie great, like watching what happened to Channard (Ive watched the movie many times, and I still cringe watching him getting turned into a cenobite!).  And the scene when Channard visits his patient is pretty scary and pretty graphic.Now as far as giving the cenobites a human side, I personally liked the idea.  It worked nicely with the fight scene with Channard and watching the cenobites die and going back to their human side.  Its the best scene in the movie if you ask me.Overall, I liked the movie.  True it was excessively gore, but if you dont get upset by that then this is a good movie.  The music is absoloutely great, their are a lot of scenes that make you cringe (the whole point of a horror flick), and the plot is simple yet enjoyable.  A must see if you like true horror and this great series.  8/10 "},{"Title":"The best of the Hellraisers","Date":"8 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is GREAT! The way that Clive Barker brought the Cenobites to life and showing their dark and macbre world is amazing. The Cenobites themselves are extremely terrifying. Pinhead (Doug Bradley) is a dark and smooth talking demon who brings people into the black hell that they live in. Pulling Kirsty into hell, she looks for her father, but only finds Pinhead and the other Cenobites (The Chatterer, the Female Cenobite, and Butterball.) This movie will scare the hell out of you (if it doesn't gross you out first!) ***** out of ***** "},{"Title":"a great first half but the rest is muddled, repetitious, and boring.","Date":"11 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  (i've only seen the unrated version, since it was well documented at the time of this film's release that a lot was cut to get an R-rating. my comments are based on the uncensored version.)while i hate how a horror movie can't get by without having a sequel these days, this sequel to a classic actually starts out extremely well and the first half approaches and almost equals some of the images and plot points of the original.as gory as the first one was, this one follows the law of horror sequels by pushing the gore effects to the limit. as a word or warning this is some of what the first half contains graphic scenes showing how Pinhead came to be complete with multiple razors slicing his head open, a graphic brain operation, and an insane man literally slicing over and over with a straight razor before being graphically killed by a skinless julia.basically this is sick stuff. the second half becomes muddled and very repetitious and caused me to become very bored. the only redeeming factors in the second half are once again the over the top and explicitly realistic gore effects.it's too bad they couldn't maintain the momentum of the first half throughout the whole movie, but it was definitely a valiant attempt by all involved.as a gore fest this movie is hard to beat.but as a legitimate film, which is where the first film excelled, it is somewhat hollow and lacking. slightly above average.rating 6 (unrated version) "},{"Title":"Gore awoken","Date":"9 January 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" A sequel to the much lauded, albeit slightly overrated Hellraiser (1987). This second attempt to delve into the mythology of the Celobites is very much a hit and miss dash to make a movie trying to milk the success of the original. With what feels like a quick-made script you have the simple things done right - the look of the Celobite realm, the gore, the special effects are all incredible even after all these years. Unfortunately the weak point is the lore itself.The first part left wanting for more of the dark myths connected with Pinhead and his comrades. Hellbound adequately noted the need, but failed on delivery, as the world of the Celobites and the logic that rules it seems chaotic and at best patchy... basically whatever is needed for the storyline happens, so actions of both characters as well as demons are devoid of any serious thought on the side of the scriptwriter. Basically it lacks the thing that made i.e. Nightmare on Elm Street click so nicely - a rulebook for evil.In the end a mildly satisfying experience that leaves you wanting for some more substance that would help characterize the evil much better. "},{"Title":"HellboundHellraiser 2 a very powerful film.","Date":"20 December 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" WELLlast night i bought the hellraiser trilogy packed with hellraiser,hellbound and hell on earth.I just loved the vision of Clive Barker of hell and i also loved hell on earth.But I completely loved hellbound.It has been the best horror film I have seen so far.I loved Kirsty(Ashely Laurence)and the new character being introduced called Tiffany(Imogen Boorman).I thought it was a completely interesting film with tunnels and dark mazes.I also loved the surprise twist that frank was the one that called kirsty not her father.Some scenes that I liked where when tiffany and kirstywhere running through the tunnels and Kirsty told pinhead the big surprise.Some things I think you should know is that this movie is not a teen or kid movie.This is a 100%adult movie.It contains very graphic and gory scenes so If you want to watch it..but you just don't want to get grossed out buy the censured version or close your eyes in the scene. "},{"Title":"Elements of Nightmare On Elm Street mixed in","Date":"30 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This one picks up where the first one leaves off, Kristy in hospital recovering where she meets new friend Tiffany a mute puzzle solver and they all wind up in the pits of hell with pinhead.I really enjoyed this sequel much better than the first and much more interesting with this time a grim fairy tale type storyline added to the mix. The film gives us two hells to visit. The psycho ward hell with its screams and patients and the real hell with its maze, spooky imagery.To me this movie had a Nightmare On Elm Street feel to it, Kirsty reminds me of Nancy and Tiffany reminded me a bit of Kristan, although still great which never stops like running through endless hallways and the Channard Cenobite, floating around, hooked to a phallic symbol, spitting out medical related lines. Good fun! I loved the mental ward massacre and the hellish visions (Tiffany's hell is not pleasant). The film moves fast, looks great, has lots of gore, lots of kool effects (loved the Cenobite making machine) and a wonderful score. But what is all the noise about again? Why are these people even in hell? They should've stayed home and played with themselves instead of demonic puzzle boxes.Ashley Laurence (Kristy) is again fab giving an even better performance than in the first one, Tiffany (Imogen Boorman) looked the part and gave an believable performance, Claire Higgins is back as the wicked stepmother Julia and is again on top form, William Hope (Channard) is very convincing as the twisted Doc, Doug Bradley gets to stretch and he works both as Pin Head and the officer he once was.All in all much better than the first, better storyline better effects and twisted imaginary. "},{"Title":"Great ideas are wasted","Date":"18 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Hellbound, the second part of the horror series Hellraiser is full with great ideas, which are, sadly, badly portrayed by the poor script. The movie is a direct sequel to the original and is telling the story of a nightmarish voyage in hell. The plot resembles the third movie in the rival A Nightmare on Elm Street series because the action is set in a hospital and the main characters travel trough a disgusting netherworld. Although the cenobites are not as funny as Freddy Krueger, the movie vision of hell is very original, especially the evil Leviathan and the gruesome Channard. Sadly, the plot makes little sense and it is quite chaotic; also the film is needlessly gory and deserves an X-rating. SPOILER ALERT The final of the film is also VERY stupid because it ruins the whole idea of cenobites getting back to humanity in their death - the scene in which Channard killed Pinhead and his band was surprisingly strong and almost touching, exceptionally when the Chattering cenobite was revealed as a teenage boy. All is ruined by the stupid closing scene, though, and - which is worse - more sequels are promised. In conclusion, I must say that the movie has its qualities, strong ideas and great, almost The Shining-quality vision, but it is way too gory, very chaotic and with too many cheesy moments. In the hands of a better director, it might have been a classic. It is, however, a mediocre, although bizarre horror film. "},{"Title":"Beautiful, dark symphony of pain.","Date":"28 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This is one of those rare occasions where the sequel is nearly as creative as the original. This one picks up where the first left off, seemingly seamlessly transporting us right back into the Realm of Pain, holding us by hooks embedded into our flesh, and forcing us to witness acts from which we normally would have turned and fled.This story is every bit as enjoyable as the first, and leaves us in fearful anticipation as for what is to come..The direction was inspired, the performances were realistic, the make-up artistry is a thing of pure art, the sets were believable, the characters were well developed and creatively constructed...all of which lends complete enjoyability to the finished product which is much more than the sum of its parts.Some critics have spoken lowly of these films, spewing forth the usual drivel concerning the over-use of blood, gore and mayhem. But I say that if that is all those critics see in these films, they are viewing them from behind their closed minds, rather than enlightened ones.There is dark substance, dire meaning and a hideous back-story behind these acts. They are not the senseless acts perpetrated in film after film of this time period in this genre. These films are constructed around a very solid premise. Just watch and judge for yourselves.If you are a horror fan, I highly recommend this attempt, and the one which came before it.It rates an 8.6/10 from...the Fiend . "}{"Title":"The suffering may be legendary, but this sequel will fail to be remembered.","Date":"30 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Kirsty Cotton(Ashley Laurence) finds herself in an insane asylum after her psychotic experiences with the Cenobites. After telling her story a Doctor named Phillip Channard, she quickly finds out that he has been searching for a way to hell for years and becomes very powerful after finding his entrance. Kirsty befriends a little girl, who happens to be a genius at solving puzzles and is the only way to stop Channard by solving a puzzle in hell.Although this sequel continued its graphic originality, it took the plot way to far once hell became a major setting. The graphics that were used were also extremely cheesy(even for the 80s). Although I must admit that this is by no means the worst movie ever made or even terrible for a sequel to a low-budget horror film. The beginning of the film possessed great potential and had classic written all over it, but quickly became incoherent and confusing. Hellbound takes a relatively unrealistic but accepted plot and takes it way too far. It takes it so far that it makes the movie too ridiculous to watch and enough to the point where it will be forgotten. Overall, the movie is by no means terrible but can easily be thrown in with other bad horror sequels.I do not recommend this movie. "},{"Title":"Awful","Date":"26 October 2006","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The original is over-rated but this makes it look like Citizen Kane. With the possible exception of The Howling or The Exorcist this is the most precipitous drop-off in quality of a sequel ever. Good god, it's bad. Unpleasant imagery can be powerful if attached to a purpose and none is evident here. The film appears to have been edited together at random, and the story is incomprehensible. This has been blamed on Andrew Robinson's (well advised) refusal to participate necessitating frantic re-writes. As an excuse this is severely inadequate. Although the best portrayals of the devil tend to be minimalist (see the uncredited Dustin Hoffman in The Messenger) depicting him (it?) as a giant black parallelogram is taking things a bit far. Pointless, even the effects have dated badly. The 2 rating is in recognition of the professionalism of Clare Higgins (who decides to have a pretty good go at creating a wicked stepmother for the ages) and the passable entertainment of counting how many times characters run up and down corridors yelling; Kirstie! Ashley!. "},{"Title":"So bad, it's almost a parody of the first","Date":"16 November 2004","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I saw this again, earlier tonight, after having seen the first Hellraiser and really liked it. I have seen it once before, and that time I couldn't take it seriously. It's just so far-fetched and bizarre and poorly made that I couldn't help but laugh. Due to that being so long ago, and the fact that I had seen the first and understood the idea much better, I decided to give it another chance. A few minutes into the film, I think OK, repetition of the story of the first for new viewers. Good. Few minutes more, I think OK, the story is starting, and looking a little bit interesting. Then, I started to notice more and more flaws, glaringly obvious ones, even. I start to laugh, and I keep laughing. Not because it's funny, per se, but because it's so poorly done and the plot is ridiculous. About 45 minutes into the film, I realize one of the main reasons the film doesn't inspire even a little fear; the scariest thing about it, as I noted to my friend who was watching it with me, is the very fact that the best actor in the film is the teenage girl(Tiffany). The plot barely makes sense, and seems like it was mainly thought up to bring back all of the popular characters from the first film; the Cenobites, Julia, Frank and Kirsty. Half of the film has a cheap repeating of the plot of the first; a resurrected person who needs to kill people for their skin. Then it becomes pushed aside while the characters all run around a huge maze being chased by poor effects and laughable gore. The acting is atrocious. I don't think any of the main characters had more than one facial expression each. The characters are poorly written and the ones that return from the first are pale shadows of their characters in the far better first film. The dialog is ludicrous. The new Cenobite that is introduced has one-liners that would Arnold himself cringe. The effects are really bad, though a few have improved since the first. The thing that really ruins this film, though, is the direction. Hellraiser was based on Clive Barker's book, and having him directing it... he put his vision onto the big screen, and it was good. Here, his vision doesn't really shine through(well, it might through some of the imagery, but certainly not the direction and 'terror factor') and he apparently didn't even get to write this movie(apart from the story... which I suspect was much better before it was turned into a script). A laughable attempt at a horror film and a worthy sequel to Hellraiser. I recommend it only to the biggest fans of horror and Hellraiser... and possibly to people just looking for a good laugh. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Incoherent Mess...","Date":"15 September 2004","Score":"23 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"   A worthy sequel,  Better than the original, A great horror movie....To those people who share these sentiments, i'd like to ask you... WHAT MOVIE WERE YOU WATCHING AND WHAT DRUGS WERE YOU ON?This movie is an utter incoherent mess of a nightmare. I consider myself to be a person who is very generous with compliments especially when it comes to movies, and i especially like my horror movies with extra gore,and i loved the original Hellraiser. But this sequel is just terrible in every aspect.First of all, The direction of the film is horrible, with scenes and sequences that were just messily and illogically slabbed together, and illogical actions by the characters(even for a horror movie)is commonplace. The plot is as plain and simple as a blank piece of paper, which is only prolonged by the seemingly never ending wanderings of two poorly built characters with irrational motivation in the corridors of hell. It seems like the story is simply made up along the way as the movie progresses, With rules suddenly changing...a reflection of weak foundation.The special Effects were a significant step down from the original, even though they were more attempts at it in this sequel. The Effect with Dr. channard looked especially cheap even for the 80's. This movie totally destroys what i feel made the first Hellraiser successful, Which is the mystique and the Darkness of the Cenobites and the Box, by over-exposure of hell and by over-revealing the secrets of the cenobites(such as how one becomes a cenobite). This takes away the mysterious, menacing factor to them, and makes them almost vulnerable. What were once strong, menacing characters are now just confused children with amnesia.And then some scenes are just corny and lame, such as Kirsty wearing Julia's Skin, which is a weak attempt at a twist; and the lame attempt at a cool ending with the pointless rotating post scene. Whether you're a fan of The HellRaiser series or not, I can't seriously believe that a person could say that he/she think this movie is even close to being decent. Quite possibly the worst sequel of all time. This movie alone could decimate the entire Hellraiser franchise.  "},{"Title":"A classic horror decent very solid Hellraiser worthy sequel!","Date":"20 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Hellbound Hellraiser II (1988) is very solid and decent horror flick and it is my third favorite horror film. I love this movie, it is far was betters sequel than any other movies are doing sequels today. A Nightmare on Elm Street 2 Freddy's Revenge (1985) should have been a sequel like is this one film Hellbound Hellraiser II which is very awesome and decent solid horror flick to Clive Barker's Original film Hellraiser (1987) that I absolutely love to death. I love this one a lot, it is my third favorite film in the franchise. Clare Higgins, Ashley Laurence, Sean Chapman and Doug Bradley did all return from the first film to star in the sequel that I absolutely love. I love the story ark, the characters and that it is completely different film from the first one and doesn't copy Clive Barker's Hellraiser.Kirsty... you have surprisingly good taste in men. They didn't tell you, did they? They've changed the rules of the fairy tale. I'm no longer just the wicked stepmother. Now I'm the evil queen. So come on! Plot Kirsty is brought to an institution after the death of her family, where the occult-obsessive head resurrects Julia and unleashes the Cenobites once again.This time we see the character Kirsty Cotton (Ashley Laurence) once again which is completely different now, than she was in the first one. She is now looked in Channard hospital institution and when she founds out, that the cops find out the bloody mattress and they bring it Dr. Philip Channard's (Kenneth Cranham) home, when he resurrects Julia (Clare Higgins) with her help he want's to open the door to a gates of hell. When Kirsty find's out about this, she has to fight once for survival important she has to go back to hell and find her father, because he is suffering in a hell. With the help of her new friend Kyle MacRae (William Hope) which later Julia kill's him and Tiffany (Imogen Boorman), Kirtsy must fight and find out the door out of the hell, she must close the portal when she is trapped with Tifanny in the labyrinth of hell. That is the main plot about this film and is definitely a worth of watch for any horror fan. This movie really brings you into the hell that pinhead and frank talk about in the first one its so good and we learn who the Cenobites were, and it was cool seeing Kirsty explaining to the Cenobites that they were human once. The acting in this movie is decent and everyone does an awesome job.What I love about this movie Kirsty (Ashley Laurence) face off with Julia and Uncle Frank (Sean Chapman), I love how Kirsty set's up Frank on fire when he tried to attack her, she responded back by burning down the house, as well as Frank's flesh. I am happy that she helped Tiffany Kirsty later tricks Doctor Channard by donning the deceased Julia's skin, giving Tiffany the opportunity to finish the Lament Configuration puzzle, killing Doctor Channard and allowing them to return home and close the gate between the two worlds. That was really awesome, I am happy that Tiffany killed Julia while tearing her skin down. The characters and the horrors are decent, the movie is very creepy more than the first one. I still love the first one much more than this one, but I still love this one, It is fantasy between heaven and earth. I love that Kirsty explains to the Cenobites that they were once human a long time ago. Clive Barker's first movie never explained the origins of the Cenobites in this movie he does. I love that Kirsty and Tiffany does have a happy ending in the film and that they are free. Clare Higgins is more hotter than she was in the first movie and I absolutely love beautiful Imogen Boorman. I am wondering what happened to Imogen Boorman where did she went is beyond me.Overral Hellbound Hellraiser II is my third favorite film in the franchise and get's a solid 10 by me, that I absolutely love this film to death. It is great and imaginative fantasy horror film, I recommended to any horror fan. The acting in this film is fantastic, it is fast paced and very entertaining. This film comes to me like Aliens (1986) another flick that I love that film to dead. I love Ashley Laurence and Imogen Boorman in here, I love that they do have a happy ending.Hellbound Hellraiser II is a 1988 British-American horror film directed by Tony Randel. It draws heavily upon, and was made by much of the same cast and crew as its precursor, Hellraiser.10/10 Grade A+ Studio New World Pictures Starring Clare Higgins, Ashley Laurence, Kenneth Cranham, Imogen Boorman, Sean Chapman, William Hope, Doug Bradley, Oliver Smith Director Tony Randel Producers Christopher Figg, David Barron, Clive Barker, Christopher Webster Screenplay Peter Atkins Story by Clive Barker Rated R Running Time 1 Hr. 39 Mins. Budget $11.090.735 Box Office $12,090,735 "},{"Title":"Messy in a good way","Date":"7 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" After being pleasantly surprised by its predecessor, I had high hopes for Hellraiser II Hellbound. That being said, it even surpassed my expectations. You'll have to see the first one in order to appreciate this one though. In this sequel a lot of things get explained, such as the origin of Pinhead, the lead Cynobite. Briefly but still interesting. Overall, it's an incoherent, messy, nightmarish acid trip that breaks all rules of reality as we literally enter hell, home of our bizarre yet huggable Cynobites. The make-up is as impressive as it was in the prequel and what it lacks in suspense, it makes up for with gore. If you're twisted soul enjoys these kind of movies as much as I do, than you should give it a shot. "},{"Title":"A film that pushes the boundaries of its own depraved origins. In my opinion one of the best horror sequels ever made.","Date":"24 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Making a horror sequel more often than not can produce something on par with and sometimes better than the original. The great thing with horror and fantasy is that you can go in fantastical directions and expand upon these limitless new dimensions. Such films as Dawn of the Dead, Evil Dead II and Aliens are prime examples of horror films that dared to be different and to many, are better and more original than the first films.Hellbound Hellraiser II, the sequel to 1987's game changing original Hellraiser. A film that pushes the boundaries of its own depraved origins. In my opinion one of the best horror sequels ever made.The story takes place after the events of the first film.we see Kirsty (Ashley Laurence) committed to an asylum under the care of the classy yet perverse Dr Channard (played exquisitely by British stage actor Kenneth Cranham) who throughout the film establishes his character as one of the most twisted and memorable in horror cinema. Treat yourselves to this stunning version of a true horror classic. Arrow has given Hellbound a stunning 2K HD transfer. Another classic follow up to a masterpiece. "},{"Title":"We have eternity to know your flesh.  Hellbound is an endless labyrinth of puzzles to be solved","Date":"4 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Hellbound carries on immediately from the first Hellraiser and finds Kirsty in mental hospital where she attempts to reason with her doctors and encourage them that what she saw was indeed very real. Doctor MacRae (William Hope) seems to sympathise with Kirsty, while Doctor Channard (Kenneth Cranham) has his own ominous means for believing her.A highly interesting, deeply sadistic film that ties in nicely with its predecessor.What Hellbound does extremely well, is to build upon the world that was set out in the first film and gives the audience a sense that the events of Hellraiser had far more reach than first imagined.It continues the style and trend set by Clive Barker's original film. The S&M fetish remains, as does the high level of fantastical gore. Director Tony Randel even manages to create one scene, involving the bed which Hellraiser's Julia was murdered on, that is as horrifically brilliant and just as memorable as Frank's rebirth in the first film.Randel manages to pay respect to Barker's vision, while also moving the film into new territory, and shows us an impossible Hell, that has the demented vision of someone who views the world in an all too unkind light.Randel's vision of what the Cenobites call home is as brutal as one would expect, with a deliciously haunting atmosphere.The Film is an endless labyrinth of puzzles to be solved. "},{"Title":"Hellbound is one of my all-time favorite horror films. Violence, fetishism, and perversion, Hellbound is a delicious feast.","Date":"2 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" In 1987, Clive Barker, the young master of literary horror, adapted his own novella, The Hellbound Heart, for the screen. In so doing, Hellraiser, which the writer also directed, became one of the seminal horror films of the 1980s and introduced the iconic Cenobites, leather and metal clad demons from Hell. These explorers in the further realms of experience come to earth only when they're called, when someone opens the mythical puzzle box known as the Lament Configuration. The Cenobites, led by Pinhead (Doug Bradley, Nightbreed), drag these willing souls into the depths to show them the limits of the flesh, pain and pleasure as one, from which there is no escape. One year after Hellraiser hit the screen, director Tony Randel (Fist of the North Star) took the reigns to helm the sequel, beginning right where the original left off.Hellbound Hellraiser II also expands the franchise's central theme from carnal lust to general obsession, depicting Channard not as a lowly pervert but as a sociopath who'll stop at nothing to satisfy his intellectual curiosity. Take, for example, his passive reaction to Julia's femme fatale routine. The man clearly shows more interest in the woman's knowledge of hell than in her feminine wiles, which provides some justification for the extreme and often gratuitous violence in the movie.The term cenobite is not an invention of Clive Barker's. Cenobites, traditionally, are people who live by the precepts of religious monastic orders, and this gives the best signal to where Pinhead and his cohorts come from. Sure, they reside in Hell, but I've never seen them as evil. Pinhead is a demon of principle and a man of his word; giving people the extreme experiences they crave. As he tells the female Cenobite after Tiffany (Imogen Boorman), a mentally ill, puzzle obsessed girl, opens the box It is not hands that call us, it is desire. He knows that Dr. Channard forced her to solve the puzzle and he is uninterested in her. Channard wants to see Hell and Pinhead wants to fulfill Channard's desires. He's violent, but he's an agent; it's man that's the real evil.This sets the Hellraiser series apart from other horror movies.This Sequel ranks up there with the likes of The Godfather Part II (1974), The Empire Strikes Back (1980), and The Dark Knight (2008) "},{"Title":"The strongest of all the sequels and the closest in spirit of the original.","Date":"30 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" There is a really good story in here and some really striking imagery.Tony Randel's positively dark attitude is one of the most prominent and uneasy characteristics of this sequel; the director claimed the film is so dark and bleak in tone as it reflected his state of mind at the time, and his outlook on the world. He utilises the same coldly forensic and unyielding approach to violence and suffering as Clive Barker did in the first film; only here it continues in a much more intensified manner. The film is rife with utterly disgusting , depressing and morbidly fascinating imagery.Dr Channard is an interesting enough character &#x96; there's potential in how we come to discover that he is just as obsessed in his own way as Frank Cotton was.The strongest of all the sequels and the closest in spirit of the original. "}{"Title":"Hellraiser II takes us to the greater depths of Madness","Date":"27 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Hellraiser II takes us to the greater depths of Madness. All in all, this is another great film. Exciting, involving and relentless, it draws us into a world we wouldn't dare imagine, and leaves us loving it. Ashley Laurence (Kirsty) is a lot more watchable and charismatic than she was in Hellraiser, this time Kirsty is more assured. She wants to beat it. Another great actress is Imogen Boorman playing Tiffany, a damaged mute girl who obsesses over solving puzzles, she joins Laurence on this adventure.Claire Higgins returns as Julia even more evil , but the ultimate villain in this sequel is Kenneth Cranham as Dr. Channard, of course we get the return of Pinhead and his gash. Tony Randel surprises with this top-rate sequel, coming as close to understanding and recreating Clive Barker's nightmarish world as anyone ever has. Dark themes of obsession and human desire are ever present, expanding on the mythology behind the characters without betraying Barker's original intent. The labyrinthine sets a cold and empty vision of hell that is wrapped in personal torment rather than fire and brimstone. Christopher Young builds on his previous work with another eloquent score, adding a note of whimsical dark fantasy on top of the horror. One of the better Horror sequels "},{"Title":"Hellbound Hellraiser II (1988) - 'Your suffering will be legendary, even in hell.'","Date":"26 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The success of the first film meant that a sequel was quick to come to fruition. Ashley Laurence and Clare Higgins would reprise their roles, as would Doug Bradley who appears both as Pinhead and as Captain Elliot Spencer in a small origins tale within the film. Tony Randel directs this tale which follows Kirsty now living in a mental institution after the demise of her family - where, rather conveniently, the head Doctor (a wonderfully theatrical Kenneth Cranham) is a devoted occultist who resurrects Julia and unleashes the Cenobites once again.) Hellbound keeps things fresh by taking us to the Cenobite's labyrinthine world in its conclusion. It is a mostly-focused and competent companion piece to Barker's original, despite relying on far more genre conventions than its innovative and exciting predecessor. In hindsight it is a strong-sequel "},{"Title":"Hellbound Hellraiser II feels as much a fantasy picture as a horror film","Date":"22 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Hellbound Hellraiser II feels as much a fantasy picture as a horror film, and as such it works quite nicely. In terms of its representation of the practice of psychiatric medicine, the film has also got a strong anti-authoritarian stance, and it's certainly a very nicely photographed film. Through the character of Channard, and his reign over the mental hospital, Hellbound Hellraiser II seems to offer an anti-psychiatry perspective to rival that of R D Laing. (This seems compounded in Barker's Nightbreed, 1990, the film that Barker loosened his grip on the reins of the Hellraiser sequel in order to direct.) The film's depiction of the mental hospital as a place of repression &#x96; where Kirsty is confined owing to the perception that her version of events cannot possibly be true and therefore must be suppressed &#x96; depicts psychiatry as having progressed little, if at all, since the Victorian era. This sense of psychiatry being stunted is partly communicated through the film's mise-en-scne and the depiction of Channard's psychiatric institution as existing within an old Nineteenth Century building. It's a depiction of a mental hospital that differs little from that of Mark Robson's Bedlam (1946).Channard is introduced performing invasive brain surgery on one of the patients at the hospital. He lords over the room, delivering a monologue as he drills into the patient's skull &#x96; an action which is mirrored later in the film when Leviathan, choosing to make a Cenobite of Channard, opts to have a device drill into Channard's skull and carry his body, thus allowing the Channard Cenobite to float above the ground. During the moment of brain surgery, Channard declares that 'The mind is a labyrinth, ladies and gentlemen; a puzzle. While the paths of the brain are plainly visible &#x85; its destinations are unknown, its secrets still secret. And, if we are honest, it is the lure of the labyrinth that draws us to our chosen field, to unlock these secrets'. Channard's monologue ends by drawing fairly explicit comparisons between his rhetoric and that of the Nazis Channard concludes by asserting that he and his colleagues must go further than their predecessors in the hope of finding 'ultimately, the final solution'. Channard's suggestion that the 'mind is a labyrinth' also implies that the journey into Leviathan's labyrinth later in the picture is, for the characters, also a journey into themselves. Another Classic horror film from the 80s. "},{"Title":"love the Cenobites","Date":"18 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" After the first movie, Kirsty Cotton is admitted to a psychiatric hospital under the care of Dr. Philip Channard and his assistant Kyle MacRae. The police has recovered the mattress where her stepmother Julia died on. She urges everybody to destroy the mattress but she doesn't know that Channard has been searching for the Cenobites. Tiffany is a mute patient obsessed with puzzles. Using the mattress and a patient, Channard is to retrieve a skinless Julia. MacRae witnesses the horrific scene and tells Kirsty.Clive Barker's disturbing ideas continue to be my favorite part of the franchise. The other world looks interesting. The human characters and the actors playing them continue to be my least favorite. I would be perfectly happy to have all new people. It would also mean that the flashbacks and recalls are not necessary. That's a good thing. This movie refers a lot to the first movie. "},{"Title":"Hellbound Hellraiser II","Date":"1 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" As the title indicates, this is a sequel; if you haven't seen Hellraiser, the first few minutes will bring you up to speed, after a fashion. Having escaped from a fate worse than death, the damsel from the first film finds herself in a booby hatch where she has some explaining to do, both to the shrink and the legal authorities. If you think that's bad, her murdered father is in Hell, and signals to her that he needs her help. And if those two aren't bad enough, the psychiatrist assigned to her is, well, let's just say he has been dabbling in the black arts, and it isn't long before he brings the femme fatale from the previous film back to life, but as before, to make the full transition requires others to die.After this it all gets rather confusing, but if you like special effects and don't mind a bit of gore you might find it of some interest. And at the end, well, what comes after the second film but third in the franchise, so the end is an open invitation to just that. "},{"Title":"Flesh for the inferno","Date":"22 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" In my view this is to Hellraiser what Aliens was to Alien. I think it's a sequel that's more than a classic in its own right and in scale at least, it outdoes the first film. It's also the sequel that is closest in tone and spirit to the original, which is something that seems to be unfairly disregarded about it. It has a very high amount of gore, with all the violence being shown directly rather than implied, which I reckon helps things immensely. It's very visually disturbing and graphic, with several great mad scenes and moments in it. The horrendous pit-like maintenence level of the asylum is a hell of man's own making, I find the rising pulse sound when Kirsty sees the apparition of what she believes is her dead father to be hair-raising, the scene of Julia's resurrection plays out like a little event that you don't really want to witness and is particularly full-on, the screams of the poor hallucinating mental patient bore right into you, and it's gotta be one of the most gruesome scenes in all horror cinema! There really is nothing more horrifying than watching human flesh be mutilated and damaged... I absolutely love the labyrinthine vision of hell, with its 'god' hovering over it in the form of an immense version of the puzzle, it's wondrously Gothic and foreboding. I like the idea of hell being a place that forces you to relive your darkest secrets and traumas, and scenes like the nightmare circus and when Kirsty sees the picture of her mother as well as the dark dimension beginning to spill over into the real world are strange and unsettling and it conveys the ominous feeling that good and evil, all of the characters are approaching the bottom of a descent into madness... Awesome chilling ending too, with the infernal pillar of souls and the face of the beast revealed. The locusts are a nice touch. Everyone in this does really well, Ashley Lawrence was great again as her beautiful feisty self, she and Imogen Boorman had good gal chemistry together and made for two great heroines. Boorman was fine, she was vital to the plot and all of that and had a lovely angelic quality of innocence to her that worked a lot more in her favour when she kept her gob shut.. The woman that played skinless Julia managed to give an eerily elegant and even alluring performance through her grotesquely amazing makeup effects. I never clicked on that it wasn't actually Claire Higgins, who was terrifically villainous in her role. Such a bitch, she was so good at making you despise her! Her trick of sucking the life out of unsuspecting victims with her fingernails was so vile. Great payoff for the character when she gets even with Frank by ripping out his still beating heart and holding it up to the fire! And what a legend of a character Hellraiser himself is, his every word is so commanding and magnetic, I'm totally compelled not to talk over any of his scenes! And even though they only contact with each other twice, I think it's enough that you get the feel of something between him and Kirsty, like a begrudging admiration of her spirit from him, as well as perhaps a desire for his soul to be set free? I love how the music swells so dramatically as he enters! Kenneth Cranham is excellent and quietly drives the events of the movie forward. When he's still just a man his coldblooded slaughter of human lives in his diabolical pursuit to know what lies beyond is horrific enough, but when he's transformed into an utterly insane cenobite who revels in his own viciousness and is constantly held aloft by a phallic thing and wields bizarre stigmata snakes that bloom into shifting instruments of murder, I just find the character to be terror incarnate and hideously creepy, I think he's one of the most genuinely nightmarish horror movie creations ever. I love all of his fun tacky medical-related punchlines! I think giving the guy a twisted sense of humour made him more scary. And he could only slaughter the cenobites like that because they were weak and expendable because of their newly awakened humanity. Disturbing, unsettling, scary and at times disgusting, this great horror film is always my pleasure, and I think this patient is finished! "},{"Title":"My favorite film in the series!!","Date":"27 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Hellbound Hellraiser 2 is a fantastic follow-up to the classic 1987 horror film, I found myself enjoying it a bit more than the first one.The film starts off by showing the origins of the lead cenobite pinhead Doug Bradley where he use to be captain Elliot Spencer who solved the box during world war 1 and transformed into pinhead where all his memory is erased, We than see Kirsty Ashley Laurence who is traumatized after the events of the first film, She is placed in a mental institution that is run by Dr Channard Kenneth Cranham who is obsessed with the lament configuration, He resurrects Julia Claire Higgins and they use a young girl named Tiffany who solves puzzles and solves the box to unleash pinhead and the cenobites, They are sucked into their world and Kirsti befriends tiffany and goes looking for her father.Hellbound is a more complicated film than the first one but what makes it stand out from the first one is Ashley Laurence's performance as Kirsti cotton, She was my favorite character from the original and she is now the central character in this film, She is a very strong presence, Also the whole scope of the film is more epic than the first one.Overall Hellbound Hellraiser 2 is a strong sequel and highly recommended!! "},{"Title":"Hell on the viewer!","Date":"20 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" 'Hellbound Hellraiser II' (to site it's full, but still listless, title) is a movie so confusing and detached that it breaks all known laws of movie construction and apparently pins hopes that the audience has an attention span that doesn't stretch past the end of their noses.What we have is a special effects clatterbox of the worst kind, a movie that sets up one minor idea then spends 90 minutes as a disjointed series of gruesome scenes for which the make-up department guys were likely patting themselves on the back.The movie is constructed to look like a nightmare but doesn't look like any nightmare that I have ever had. My nightmare (in movie terms) run along the lines of 'Night of the Living Dead' because at least that movie gave me an entry-point from which to enter my mind. I can imagine being chased by the living dead. I have a hard time imagining myself dreaming about what happens in this movie.The movie opens about an hour after the first 'Hellraiser' movie with Kirsty in the hospital having seen torture and dismay at the hands of her parents. We find that she isn't out of hell yet and that hell is in fact all around us and Kirsty and her friend Tiffiny are soon darting around the dusty corridors of the damned running into one bloody effects shot after another. This is one of those movies where the special effects credits are equal to the population of a small Third World country but only one person is credited with a screenplay.I got so tired of hearing the named Kirsty and Tiffiny by the end of this movie that I actually had to stop and clear them from my mind. I could swear that about six pages of the script was populated by nothing but the two girls screaming each other's names 'Kirsty!!' and 'Tiffiny!!' I mentioned the movie's construction &#x96; it has none. I don't ask much from a movie but I at least ask for an entryway so that I can get involved in the story. We are led to believe that KIRSTY! And TIFFINY! Have no hope of ever getting out of the corridors of hell and they never seem to be working on a plan, all they do is turn corners to the next bloody, tortured corpse. But nothing is so torturous as a special effects movie that isn't so special. "},{"Title":"Not better just bloodier","Date":"23 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" With HR 2 something interesting happened. The creators themselves broke apart the first one and made something almost completely new. HR 2 though only credits Barker as producer and co-writer, and Tony Randel was in the director's chair so he's not totally responsible for this newish scene. But it still is strange that he let the mythos he created to veer off in a new direction and for different things to be emphasized. Hellbound only starts a few hours after the first film and they started filming it a few weeks after they filmed the first one, it's still so different as the story allows despite the fact that it follows so closely on the heels of the first one. Of course that doesn't mean that the film is bad, in fact in a lot of ways it's really good. It's just that that original genius is lost and it sways to a whole different dimension. Doctor Channard is sent a new patient, a girl warning of the terrible creatures that have destroyed her family, Cenobites who offer the most intense sensations of pleasure and pain. But Channard has been searching for the doorway to Hell for years, and Kirsty must follow him to save her father and witness the power struggles among the newly damned. Peter Atkins with his first film and Barker didn't spend time on the script. A little bloodshed, a little chase and there you go the film is done. It's a typical sequel in the sense that it just needs to be more more brutal in this case. But hey you can't complain when there is so much that can turn your stomach, blood is spilling, meat is tearing right? And when an insane guy goes ahead and tries to cut the bugs and creepy crawlies from his skin with a razor even the most tried and tested horror geeks have a second of feeling they would rather hide their eyes. But you won't and that's the beauty of it. And it must be said that a few of the effects really look good. Unfortunately along with the gory stuff there isn't time for the horror elements used in the first one, that means that the characters are less defined than the effects. Even if we get to see Julia deskined she still isn't as scary as in the first part with just a hammer. Tiffany is kind of a pointless character, Frank's short scene is that too. So only the quiet at first then scary as hell Dr. Channard carries the film. Kenneth Cranham is awesome. The demons of the first film that were scary when they just stood in one spot and stared at the camera get an origin story in this film. That's kind of a mistake with a character whose whole creepiness lies in the mystery surrounding them. And we meet a new Cenobite that wrecks the old ones in a minute. I thought they were scary, immoral, untouchable, unbeatable demons? What gives? The idea of them being defeated would have been laughable in the first film and even if they try to give all this a logical expanaition it doesn't change the result. Hell's depiction though is great for a while, but running around in the same darkened hallway and tunnel gets massively boring and repetitive in the end. Less would have been more. But the whole asylum's basement halls being a kind of hell is a great idea All in all Hellraiser's sequel has traces of the first part but looses what was so unique about it. But if you don't use the first as a jumping off point then this is a great film that horror fans will like. 7/10 https//www.youtube.com/user/Videodromeblog "},{"Title":"Your suffering will be legendary ... even in Hell","Date":"28 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Sheesh, what a twisted ride. If you're coming to Hellbound looking for logic, character development, quality acting and subtlety, you're in the wrong place. But if you fancy spending 99 minutes trapped inside a nightmare, then buckle up and prepare yourself for a succession of the most gruesome, disorientating and downright disturbing images you'll have seen for a long while.Make no mistake, this film is very, very frightening. Not in a kind of killer in the woods way, but in the sort of psychedelic manner that happens in ... well ... your worst nightmares. I'll say it again this film has the logic of a nightmare. Things happen for no reason, it never seems to end, you're constantly unsure whether the two leading girls are back safely in the real world, and the entire proceedings are underscored with images of outrageous brutality. That's a hell (harhar) of a gamble to take with a movie, but it pays off magnificently. Just switch off reason and allow yourself to be sucked into this film's world, and trust me you will feel very, very nervous when you switch the lights back on. It's such a shame that the following Hellraiser sequels were such disasters in comparison to the first two instalments, but after Hellbound I really don't see where else they could have taken these ideas. "}{"Title":"A Go-To Hellraiser Film","Date":"2 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Hellbound is also a must see in this franchise, other than the first film of course. This film is crucial in the sense that the audience now ventures into the nether region of experience and sees what it looks and feels like. Improvements from the first film include a faster storyline where we don't have to wait until the end to see Pinhead and his Cenobite friends. The film score is a greater representation of the hellish world and for once, it makes sense. The only thing I believe this film is lacking is more history and story in relation to Hell as shown in this film. More story based on Leviathan itself would also be a key improvement. In relation to the franchise, this is one of the go-to films. "},{"Title":"Almost as good as the first, but quite different.","Date":"1 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" We start HR II more or less the next day after HR I ended.Kirsty is in a mental hospital after escaping the cenobites and failing to destroy the puzzle cube. The multiple murder investigation continues at her late father's house. Dr. Channard has custody (more or less) of Kirsty, who is not doing much at first to secure her independence from authorities.Meanwhile, the cube has found its way to another person. One needs to watch to the end to see this part explained.At the hospital, Dr. Channard actually listens to Kirsty's involved tale about Frank, Julia, Larry, and the cenobites. Dr. Channard has a great deal of knowledge about the puzzle cubes (plural) and occult matters in general. He keeps his arcana at his house.Perhaps even worse, the doctor uses his patients as experimental animals. One of his basement efforts draws a lot of blood, which brings back Julia. Judging from the first film, the cenobites will not be far behind. Kyle observes this since he was snooping in the Channard's private lab, and hid himself before the doc and the unfortunate patient came in.Julia practices her whiles on Dr. Channard after he takes her home, and lets him know that all she needs is skin. Julia gets her desired skin from other doomed patients that he brings to her.Meanwhile, Kyle springs Kirsty from the mental institution, since he now thinks that her story was blow-by-blow true. Kyle takes her to Channard's house, where she pores over his documents and objects. Unfortunately, Kyle meets a fully recovered Julia, and the end of his life.Channard employs the mute patient Tiffany to solve one of the puzzle boxes. Sure enough, the cenobites are summoned.Will Channard and Julia survive? How about Kirsty and Tiffany? Will Kirsty find Larry while the paths between worlds are still open?-----Scores------Cinematography 9/10 Better than the original, at least what I saw streamed on Netflix. This one had the correct aspect ratio, and was consistently better filmed.Sound 5/10 Not as good. There was no original score for this one, and the sound was not an effective part of the film.Acting 8/10 Clare Higgins was my favourite in this film. Sean Chapman was again good as Frank Cotton. Kenneth Cranhum was fine as Dr. Channard. Ashley Laurence had better lines, and gave a better performance than in the first film.Screenplay 5/10 The maze of the cenobites was murky and unclear, rather like playing a game where the rules are enforced, but not published. The influence of gaming gets even worse in some of the later sequels. The front end of the film could have used more careful exposition, but it did move right along. "},{"Title":"Decent follow-up to Clive Barker's horror hit.","Date":"28 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This film begins, appropriately, with sort of a highlight reel of memorable Hellraiser moments, and then we see what sort of boat Kirsty Cotton (Ashley Laurence) is in confined to a mental institution, where the head of the place, Dr. Channard (Kenneth Cranham) is an occult-obsessed wacko who's collected himself various artifacts. Soon the bad doctor has managed to resurrect Kirsty's evil stepmom Julia (Clare Higgins) and the whole bunch of them end up in Hell where Kirsty desperately tries to find her late father. This series continues to be a good bet for horror fans with its accent on graphic mayhem, its assault of incredibly surreal horrors, of both the mental and the physical variety, and its articulate, intelligent villain Pinhead. Each character has their own Hell, of course, and we get a taste of each. Veteran New World employee Tony Randel makes his official directing debut (after doing some uncredited work on Def-Con 4) and makes watching Hellbound Hellraiser II an effective sensory experience, if not particularly strong in the narrative department. (Then again, this was partly due to the script requiring hasty rewrites after actor Andrew Robinson declined to reprise the role of Larry Cotton.) Still, it's good fun much of the time, and it gives us just a little background into the character of Pinhead (Doug Bradley) and gives him and his fellow Cenobites some more opposition than usual as Dr. Channard undergoes something of a rebirth. It also gives us a rather delicious antagonist as Julia is in full evil bitch mode (the sexy Higgins looks like she's having a great time) and Kirsty is once again an appealing young protagonist. Sean Chapman and Oliver Smith reprise their roles as Uncle Frank and his skinless version (respectively), Angus MacInnes plays the part of the suspicious homicide detective Ronson, and Aliens fans will be amused to see actor William Hope, who was the ineffective Lt. Gorman in that film, playing the helpful doctor Kyle here. Adding some punch are the entertaining visual and makeup effects, while the production designer, Michael Buchanan, and cinematographer, Robin Vidgeon, give this production a striking look. It's not in the same league as its predecessor, understandably, but is still very acceptable entertainment that does have some fine moments, and a nice twist near the end, on the way to its setting-up-the-next-sequel conclusion. Seven out of 10. "},{"Title":"Your suffering will be legendary, even in hell! &#x96; I've actually used that line","Date":"24 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Freddy should be p*ssed. Pinhead's not only trying to take some of slasher shares, but pretty much just copied the superior (1987's) A Nightmare on Elm Street 3 Dream Warriors. Let's compare, shall we?Both take place in an insane asylum. Both have a blank stare blonde. Both have a doctor who doesn't believe up front, but starts to both side and help the main star. Both have a heroine that strangely looks like Heather Langenkamp. Both also have a character named Kirsty (yeah, I realize she was named that originally, but it's still too close.) Both involve a labyrinth of one's darkest fears. Both have a wise-cracking villain, including a new baddie who has clay-mation snakes, with blades, no less, coming out of his hands. Both have bad lightening affects. Heck, both have mute inmates with powers integral to the plot.Wow, I didn't know it was that many. Probably more, but suffice to say, Pinhead's first sequel, the only one in the long-running series that's a really a direct continuation, Hellbound Hellraiser II isn't as bad as I've portrayed it, but it's not up to #1's standards. They didn't even improve on the computer-generated flashes of light that causes more laughter than fear.Taking place seconds, then hours after the first one, Kirsty (Laurence) is magically in the aforementioned asylum being questioned for the deaths, including her father, in her late uncle's home. Quickly, the good doctor, Channard (Cranham) intervenes as he's a Brain Doc who knows how crazies work. It's obviously, up front, he's got ulterior motives for Kirsty, her next room over neighbor, the puzzle-solving mute, Tiffany (Boorman) and the objects in Kirsty's outlandish story of the Attack of the Cenobites.For plot's sake and the audience who may have not seen the original, Kirsty suddenly knows more than her character could possibly about the magical doorway opening box that calls upon the Cenobites and their motives&#x85;and what all happened at the house she just escaped when her family was wiped out in the first movie. Oh, and conveniently, not only is her love interest out of the picture, but she doesn't give him a second thought.So, let's see, she gets a message from her father, who's now in hell and it's not too difficult to tell that may not, in fact, be from her real father. Nevertheless, the first chance she gets, she dives headfirst into the labyrinth of Hades to rescue him. I thought most of those there just want a glass of iced water?Meanwhile, Doc Chan acquires the blood-soaked mattress where the Original's Diva Julia (Higgins) laid to rest. He knows (again, thanks convenient plot) enough to take nobodies or criminally insane patients of his, to that mattress, and allow them to kill themselves &#x96; in a really grotesque manner &#x96; to bring back Julia. Her transformation from the red mattress that's only fit for a Motel 6, into real flesh and blood kind of fast forward's the process that seemed to take a lot longer in #1.After the obvious parallel with The Bride of Frankenstein, or is that Bride of Re-Animator?, he willingly enters Hell's Maze to, I guess, learn more than his education allowed.There's a lot more, and I've only skimmed the surface. Suffice to say, all parties involved have fun in Pinhead's domain, each with their own agenda and a lot of plot holes surface &#x96; such as why there's no rules to Hell, then there are, then real is fake and real is real, etc, etc. (Not to give it away, but the ending's death to the new Cenobite and the spinning post had me shocked. A WTF shock, that is.)Pinhead finally shows up half way through, and he's been missed here, since I really did think I was watching Nightmare on Elm Street 3B. His lines were excellent Time to play, Your suffering will be legendary, even in Hell and How can it send us back, child? We're already here are just a few of some of my all time favorite lines. The good-doc also has some good lines (The Doctor is In,) but unfortunately, they overlapped the score a bit too loud and it was troublesome to actually hear him at the most opportune times.It certainly up'd the ante in blood &#x96; even for today's standards, this is pretty gruesome, and they kept up with the complex plot with multiple characters and story lines. The actors were delicious, namely Bradley, Higgins and Cranham. Even Booran tried &#x96; she did have a good line herself Shit!It's a good compliment to the first movie, though inferior. So, it's recommended, even with its multiple flaws and outrageously hilarious special effects &#x96; even for 1988. "},{"Title":"A lunch break in hell","Date":"5 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" To call this movie ingenious I'd have to watch it stoned, but it's not a total mess either. The true fans may have seen a really uncut uncut version that makes sense of the various horrible flashbacks of our hero(ine)s in the labyrinth, or of the labyrinth itself - the 139-DVD-version (PAL) does not.The first 40 minutes are very well worth watching. Starting off right where Hellraiser left off (and with some borrowed scenes) Kirsty, orphaned and traumatized survivor, is examined in a mental hospital while cops inspect the decaying corpses at her home. Dr. Chenard, her psychiatrist, is introduced on screen performing a lobotomy while holding a philosophic monologue, evoking creepy notions of the darkest side of psychiatry and instantly suggesting something is terribly wrong with him. Though apparently friendly and dedicated, albeit with a noticeable lack of affect, we suspect the guy slicing so coolly through living brain matter is capable of anything, and of course we're right. Chenard is a man of strange obsessions, a collector of macabre relics and explorer of occult-psychic phenomena. Intrigued by Kirsty's terrified ravings of demons and resurrection from hell through blood, he acquires the mattress her stepmother Julia died on, ready to test the theory with a little help from the incurable lunatics in his hospital's basement dungeon. So the inevitable blood feast starts, and Chenard gets what he is looking for - although in the end, of course, evil is defeated by the script.The Chenard character is very well drawn and acted by Kenneth Cranham, and his job description of course ideally chosen. Although he is ultimately just another human seduced by his desires, he is more complex than the sexy couple Frank & Julia or the arrow-straight Kirsty, or even the iconic Pinhead. When he is transformed into a cenobite, he becomes the mere extension of his operating tools - deprived of all his explorer's curiosity only the carnal pleasures of slashing into flesh remain.Chenard and the asylum are truly terrifying, psycho-horror assets of the movie. Right until after Julia is resurrected in a creepy-gory scene and Chenard displays his fleshly desires for her skinless mummified body, it's a real good hair-raiser. Then, the promising plot unravels into the obvious - and the inexplicable rest. Kirsty and Tiffany, a mute young girl obsessed with puzzles, run through an endless maze, run into the original cenobites (who let them go after pointless threats and teeth-clacking), meet them again, argue - Pinhead and his crew must really be starved for conversation - and in the end even sort of bond with them. The cenobites just needed a little reminder of their human origins. The cutest moment comes when they're annihilated and Pinhead is unmasked - greetings from Darth Vader. Dough Bradley is handsome (if no Adonis), but - oh, these skirts!, the nipple-clips! It's generally a bad idea to show Pinhead whole body (masked or unmasked) without a lot of smoke or chains. And when his eyes meet Kirsty's ... we KNOW HE HAS STILL GOOD (body parts) in him!!The cenobites are about as threatening as Grandma's false teeth. But there's the psychological horror we were hooked on from the start... er - ehm... we know (now) that Kirsty is not particularly blessed with forbidden desires. But Tiffany! She was in Chenard's claws for at least 6 weeks (months?), and has clearly experienced a severe trauma that made her mute. But - alas, we need to see the really uncut uncut version to find out what that was! We can only assume that Chenard physically messed with her brain and maybe did something to her mother. As for Chenard himself, I must have missed why he envisions the copulating couple in the hot bath. As for all the horrific visions - made flesh! - that hell must have sucked up during the ages, we can only imagine them. We came by at lunch break. Hell is infernally boring!Did I mention the special effects? I wonder why some say they're better than in the original. The body make-up and atmosphere are believable enough, as they were in film one - it's all the animated stuff that nowadays looks crappy (the same applies to Hellraiser 3). The old VHS tapes leave much more to imagination - keep them! The only reason to buy the DVD is to enjoy more of the great score by Christopher Young - the Hellraiser theme is simply a classic.So - who messed it up? We just missed a great horror flick. "},{"Title":"Hellbound by definition","Date":"25 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Hellbound is the first sequel to the great Hellraiser and unfortunately the worst of the first 4 movies but in no way all that bad because we get some background story on Pinhead and an unique look at a Hell dimension.It is set immediately after Hellraiser and continues the story of Kristy's ordeal. The story as such is good enough but it all seems a bit lacking, this can be due to the directing of Tony Randel who may have had a bit trouble getting his head around the 'bizaare' mind of Barker's universe, all in all he does a good enough job of it. What is great about this edition to the franchise apart from the fact that we learn more about Pinhead is the fact that we get to see how a Cenobite is made.The acting is all around okay but also seem a bit lacking or should we say confused Clare Higgins does a better job here than she did in the first as Julia Cotton; the newly returned seductress. Ashley Laurence again does a good job portraying Kristy Cotton; now placed in a mental institution. Sean Chapman and Oliver Smith reprises their role as Frank Cotton/Skinless Frank with Smith also portraying Browning; another patient at the Mental institution, this they does in an equally good way as in the first. We of cause also have Doug Bradley in his cult role as Pinhead/Capt. Elliot Spencer; This time with the added background role of Pinheads former human self, This he does with high grades yet again (in fact there could be no other Pinhead). In smaller roles we have William Hope as Kyle MacRae; a doctor at the mental institution whom falls for Kristy, and Imorgen Boorman as Tiffany; a patient at the institution who solve various puzzles and never speaks. Both does a okay job of their respective characters. A small note will go to Kenneth Crantham who plays Dr. Channard with a smidge over the top affection for the Lament configuration.This is well worth the look if you haven't seen it, the look and feel of the hell dimension gives you an idea of how Hell can be even though it's not what we have come to expect from popular beliefs. If you're a Hellraiser fan then by all means see this, it is in fact a good addition to the story, perhaps more so than any of the others (well we have one more including Kristy, I think it's number 6, which also continues the story of the Cottons, but I haven't seen it at the time of writing this.).All in all I give this 6, which may not seem like that high a grade but is still a grade above where I question if this is a movie that should have a place in my collection or not. And this is definitive one in my collection (in fact it's part of the Hellraiser Puzzle Box collection released by Anchor Bay containing Hellraiser 1-3 plus a bonus disc containing two Shorts by Clive Barker). "},{"Title":"Wildly uneven and almost incoherent sequel, but pulled together by haunting imagery and an intriguing back story","Date":"3 September 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Hellraiser IV Bloodline has been playing in fairly heavy rotation on digital cable lately, and while I felt it was the weakest film or the franchise (not counting the direct-to-DVD sequels), something about it made me want to go back and look at the 2nd film in the series, Hellbound. So I recently picked up a reissued DVD of it and sat down for a look, to see if it was as visceral and interesting as I remembered. I agree with Clive Barker's summary of this work (in a bonus featurette included with the DVD) Hellraiser II is an an uneven movie, but that it still has some very strong story and design elements, and some very effective acting and directing. It's not perfect, and it's not quite as well put together as the original, but there is plenty to like about it (if gruesome horror is your cuppa tea). Here's what I think is the strength of the franchise (or it was until the later filmmakers ran it into the ground and turned it into a kind of Twilight Zone with meat-hooks) along with some striking character designs and some cool SFX, the Hellraiser story managed to maintain a unique emotional feel and theme. It re-imagined the sufferings of damnation and torment in a vivid, memorable way that replaced Hellfire with Impalement and Cutting. It started out as a tale of a severely dysfunctional family, became the tale of a dysfunctional family's entanglement with Hell (re-imagined in a very compelling way), and then turned into the story of the principle denizen of that Hell and his attempts to invade our world to inflict his visions on us...but all of these versions of the story have been powered by the visceral dread of and fascination with, the spectacle of impalement and cutting...and the emotional consequences of it. The most interesting part of H II to me was the actual glimpse of the 'underverse'/dimension/version of Hell that spawned Pinhead and the Cenobites and the further exploration of their natures and origins. Even after 15 years, this envisioning of hell as an endless Labyrinth still has the power to fascinate...even if the 'modern eye', grown sophisticated from hours of multi-million dollar CGI, can now easily see matte paintings and process shots. It is still interesting and evocative enough that it helps the viewer overlook some of the more overblown and badly told portions of the movie, and once more 'get into' the mood Barker was trying to convey in the original. At the same time, what is revealed to the viewer doesn't really hang together, and tends to offend his desire for a consistent, coherent chain of cause-and-effect. It leaves a LOT of questions unanswered, or answered unsatisfactorily (although it is entirely possible that some of these answers were lost due to editing decisions). For instance Why doesn't Pinhead 'know' about Julia and Channard's entrance into Hell and Chennard's subsequent transformation? How does Channard get the power to so easily defeat the Cenobites? Why are some people turned into Cenobites (like the soldier who becomes Pinhead) and others are simply condemned to suffer (like Kristy's father and his brother Frank). Why does Julia's allegiance to Leviathan differ from Pinhead's (who seems to be the premier soldier of Hell?). Why isn't she working with him to accomplish Leviathan's aims? For that matter, why is Kristy in a sanitarium after the events of the first film, when her boyfriend is sent home with no ill effects after going through the same experiences? Etc. All these answers can be found by people willing to further investigate the back-story (such as www. cenobite.com), but they are not especially evident within the movie itself, and that feeling of incompleteness and information-glossed-over, weakens the film experience quite a bit. (By comparison, Star Wars IV, A New Hope has an enormous back-story, but you don't need to know it to understand the events of the film or the logic of the movie's plot). I feel there is really no need to get into the worth of the acting here - everyone here is at least perfectly adequate to the material, some of the actors are great, and everyone is as good as they need to be for a gruesome damage-fest like this. No one is here to win an Oscar - everyone is here for the paycheck. But they are all pros (even the oft maligned Ashley Laurence), and they get the job done. Everyone here is a pleasure to watch, in costume or out of it. So is it a 'classic' of modern horror? Hmmm. I'd say, no. But it IS a piece that holds up well, and still has a certain power and fascination to it even more than an decade after the fact. That's more than they will be able to say about Final Destination 2 (which I actually liked), or Jeepers Creepers 2, or the Jason or Freddy Kreuger series. "},{"Title":"A masterful visually stunning horror film and the best of the entire series. ****1/2 out of 5","Date":"8 June 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The first thing that grabs you when you watch this film is the profound and bombastic score by Christopher Young. With brass and choir blasting away it sends chills up the spine.Like a sequel should, this film is more lush and explores bigger territories. We're talking exploring the territories of Hell where we get to actually see the Leviathan.The cinematography and sets are just beautiful. And can you take gore? Because this has some very intense and hard to watch scenes of pure bloody mayhem. Get'em off meeeeee! I guarantee that scene alone we'll have you squirming.The Hellraiser series will forever remain the most interesting and provocative of all horror films because of their terrific back stories and intriguing characters. As grotesque and disturbing as this film is, you can no doubt admit that at times it is a very beautiful film to look at.The first film wallowed in the pleasures of pain and suffering in a house, this one takes you into the nether regions of Hell. There are no boundaries. There are no limits. This film goes all out.If you liked the first film you will definitely enjoy this.And remember... They Have Eternity To Know Your Flesh! "},{"Title":"Sweet Suffering","Date":"16 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This sequel to the groundbreaking Hellraiser is every bit as innovative and gory (if not gorier) than the first. Picking up right where the first film ended, Hellbound finds Kirsty Cotton in a mental institution, being questioned by police who have just found the bloody ruin in her fathers house. Not believing her story of demons and puzzle boxes from Hell, Kirsty is left in the Channard Institute, dismissed as a shell shocked lunatic. Unfortunately for Kirsty, not only is she completely sane but Doctor Channard, head of the Institution, believes her story. It seems the good doctor has been searching for the Lament Configuration for a very long time. The blood is soon flowing as Channard releases Julia from hell (through a very bloody doorway in a stained mattress) and supplies her with an inexhaustible amount of nubile young women to feed upon. Meanwhile, Kirsty takes an interest in a mute girl, Tiffany, who has a convenient knack for solving puzzles. She also gets a surprise visitor in the middle of the night; a skinless horror who scrawls a plea for help in blood upon the wall (a message that fans of Trent Reznor will have no problem recognizing). Kirsty, convinced her dead father is trapped in Hell, strikes out to save his soul. But Channard and Julia have beaten her to the puzzle box, and force young and innocent Tiffany to open it for them. Pinhead, making a most majestic entrance amid lightening and smoke, is wonderful to watch as he regally roams the corridors of Hell like the King of Pain himself. A GREAT and stunning prologue also tells us the tale of Pinheads' beginning, and the end sees him come full circle as he uses his instruments of torture to save the lives and souls of Kirsty and Tiffany.This is a nice, bloody, nasty sequel with interesting new characters and some neat surprises. It manages to answer most of the questions posed in the first film and does it with as much blood, guts and torn skin as possible. The great setting of the mental institution sets just the right mood, as the screams of the violently insane echo up and down the corridors of the hospital, which are not so very different from the halls of Hell. Careful attention is paid here to light, shadow, music and movement, and it all pays off, giving us what is probably the strongest entry in the Hellraiser series. Definitely worth seeing, even if only once. "},{"Title":"Gore Galore!","Date":"7 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Yes the self mulilation was cool but pinhead was barely in it thats my only complaint other than that good horror film. good for gorehounds that is I liked the scene where charnard gets his head ripped off. recomend to any sadist "}{"Title":"A big step up","Date":"26 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is where the Hellraiser series got good. This Was better then the first Hellraiser in every way. Bloodier...more Pinhead...Better Plot...more fun. This is where it really starts to get good. I didn't care much for the first one but this one suprised me with how much i liked it. If you havent seen the Hellraiser series check it out. Just dont give up after the first one cause regardless of what a lot of people with tell you it only gets better. "},{"Title":"Very sick, but a very beautiful follow-up","Date":"3 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I first saw Hellbound in the fall of 2000 when I was re-introduced to Pinhead. At the time, I had only seen Hellraiser, Hell on Earth, Bloodline, and Inferno (which now, I wish I had not seen). I heard many things about it. Some said it was either as good as or better than the first. Some said that the film was full of enough gore to put the original to shame. And when I rented it, I was first appalled, then I was shocked, and finally, I was in awe.Taking over the director's reins from Clive Barker, Tony Randal, along with newcomer horror writer Peter Atkins (who would go on to do Hellraiser III and IV, as well as the first Wishmaster, not to mention cameoing as the Barbie Cenobite in III) create a film that manages to be a bit darker than the first, with a just as good cast.Starting right where the first ended, Kirsty is now in a mental hospital, run by Dr. Channard. He has frightening fascinations involving the puzzle box and the world of darkness within. So, he resurrects Julia, uses a mute patient to solve the box, and once again, Hell is brought to Earth. But this time, the viewer actually gets to see how Cenobites are created and explains more of the Hell that the Cenobites serve.I won't lie. When I first saw this, there were images in that film that stayed in my mind for a long time. Only finding the unrated version, I wasn't prepared for such sights as Skinless Julia, Hell's Labyrinth, and, especially, the Channard Cenobite. When I first saw him on-screen, I knew that he would be the one that would put Pinhead's seething darkness into shame.SPOILERSI was a little bit surprised, though, that the Channard Cenobite actually had the nerve within to kill the original Cenobites (sans Pinhead). I could already figure out that Female and Butterball would turn back into their normal human selves, but when the Chatterer changed back into a little kid, I was completely off guard. I was so shocked to see that the puzzle box would actually transform a little kid into a Cenobite.And the Channard Cenobite's death was a fitting death to such a creepy character. He was a monster as both human and a Cenobite. And it was also a pretty ironic way that he dies by the hand of Leviathan, who actually seemed to have chosen him as his new Dark Pope. Well, a fitting end to a frightening monster.END SPOILERSThe acting in this one has improved. Returning from the original are Clare Higgens (Julia), Ashley Lawrence (Kirsty), Sean Chapman (Frank), and Doug Bradley (Pinhead), who take their roles to a new level. New bloods Kenneth Cranham (Channard) and Imogen Boorman (Tiffany) help bring more life into the film, but what really makes it the best, besides Bob Keen's excellent skinless/Cenobite makeup, is Christopher Young's beautifully haunting score which gives the film its own emotion.So, the next time you go to your video store, don't get a Freddy, Jason, or Leatherface movie. Go to the H section and look for Hellbound Hellraiser II, one of the 1980's best horror sequels.A+ "},{"Title":"Hellraiser 2","Date":"31 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is more simple to understand than the first, and in alot of ways much better. When I first came across it in the shops I thought it looked cheesy, but when I got round to watching it I found it really scary and of course gory as hell.Its defaintly better than all the Jason,Freddie and michael films put together. Clive Barker is an excellent writer! "},{"Title":"i had to see....  i had to know - Spoilers","Date":"15 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Your suffering will be legendary. Even in Hell. Ooh, scary. Pinhead and his gang of demons ('Cenobites') make a very welcome return after the semi-classic Hellraiser. Fans of the original will already be au-fait with the bucket-loads of bodily fluids and fairly difficult subject matters which dominate this film. The afore-mentioned self-harm scene is one of the most disturbing ninety seconds on tape. Although frankly if Clive Barker's vision of 'Hell' is indeed true, I shall become a devoted Christian just to avoid the boredom of empty tunnel upon empty tunnel. The transition between this film and the last is difficult. It's not one you could 'get' immediately without watching Hellrasier 1. But the insights from Kirsty Cotton, the unfortunate lass who lost the lion's share of her family in HR1, are enough to shed some light. The cast, none of whom we can call 'household names', do a good enough job of making their respective parts believable. The two older campaigners, Kennteh Cranham (Dr Chinard) and Clare Higgins (Julia) put on the strongest performances, and rookie Imogen Boorman (Tiffany) gives a convincing display. Doug Bradley, who plays Pinhead, the repulsive character who symbolises Hellraiser, has a slightly bigger role but still not one on which the show centres. Which is certainly not a bad thing, the last thing we need is another Freddy Kruger. But the budget for this picture was small, and it shows. Apart from the wonderful costuming applied to the cenobites and in particular to Dr Chinard in his Cenobite phase, the graphics don't do the film justice. But surely that's the norm for horror sequels, and where many fall by the wayside, Hellbound is as strong as and certainly more frightening than the original despite not being blessed with a Titanic-esque budget. The music to accompany the film is quite astounding. The main tune itself is pretty a simple, sobering, even depressing affair. But it works on several levels - the orchestral version which sees out the closing credits, and the choral piece which accompanies Tiffany's final showdown with the Leviathan (easily the worst part of the film) are both touching. So it's a good film if you're looking for the typical blood 'n' guts horror - there's enough of the red stuff to sink the HMS Ocean - although it is advisable to watch Hellraier 1 first, as the plot thickens more easily with the full insight. Those who already have seen HR1 may be disappointed at the 'lack' of Pinhead, but this is still one of the better Horror sequels in terms of emulating the quality of it's original - a feat not achieved by the likes of Nightmare On Elm Street, the Omen and the Evil Dead. "},{"Title":"Boring movie","Date":"11 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  And I thought this film was supposed to be good! Well, what a mistake. I remember when it came out, I liked this film. But now, after having watched it again, I must totally revise my opinion. Actually, this film sucks. Kirsty and Tiffany do almost nothing than walk through this labyrinth which is supposed to be Hell, and they're seemingly doing it for hours and hours to find Kirsty's father. But in the end, they don't even look for him anymore. Or did I miss something here? Then there is Dr. Channard, who turns into a cenobyte and tries to kill them. But why? This is not suspenseful or interesting or anything, it is just plain boring. Maybe I'm just too stupid to understand the plot? Maybe there is no plot?And the special effects and computer graphics - I better not talk about those, they are totally bad. The film is pretty gory and violent though, but this doesn't help it either. "},{"Title":" You were once human","Date":"20 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Ashley Laurence is stupendous as Kirsten in this thrilling horror movie. The supporting cast is terrific. The costumes are casual. One of the good films in the genre, Hellbound Hellraiser 2 will rip the viewer's spirit to shreds. 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Sequel done right--surprise!","Date":"24 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Indeed, I felt Hellbound exceeded the original in every way a sequel can. Even though the creativity of Barker's original is gone, Hellbound makes up for the loss by expanding the Hellraiser world. Now Hell no longer comes to us, now, friends, we venture into hell, itself.Largely the same cast as the first film, introducing new characters as needed; the main cast give varying performances, but most are on the better side of any horror film I've seen. The lesser the character, the lesser the performance but hey, this is horror, and for horror it's not bad. Laurence, Bradley, Boorman, Cranham, and Higgins do very well. My biggest gripes are some of the character reactions--which were the fault of the script writers, not the actors themselves necessarily. But guess what? Most of the reactions in Hellraiser was either silly or stupid.The trademark gore returns, perhaps a little toned down from the first; I never cared for excessive gore in horror films, but Hellraiser 1 and 2 does not make the blood its plot much like it never makes the cenobytes the plot. The plots in these two films revolve around dark characters bound for hell, their sins, deceptions, power struggles, and the puzzle box. The cenobytes, the puzzle box, it's all just the result of the plot. So the people who whine because the new Hellraisers don't show much of pinhead; well, actually sit down and watch the originals, he's not here very often either.Christopher Young returns in full force with a haunting and heavy handed main theme, but it evolves to something beautiful when accompanying likable characters. Very surprising and inspiring; I can't hardly name any orchestral horror scores from the 80s worth listening to.This sequel does something unique in horror history--it actually manages to pull off an explanation of its predecessor successfully. Most horror sequels falter not because they don't have a plot; rather because they have too much. Ex. Most sequels will dig into the mythology of the first to develop the new installment, until they dig so deep that you're getting to the source of the killings being because Joe's brother's mother's distant cousin's grandfather had a enchanted item given to him by a guy who knew a guy who knew a guy who knew some man from Cleveland, well now he's back and p***ed.How 'bout a specific example? Halloween 6 built an entire plot line for a 90 (or so) minute movie based on a handful of snippets of dialogue from Halloween 1 & 2. There was a reason why it was just snippets in Halloween 1 & 2, if they could've made a plot of it they would have. Back to this sequel, Hellraiser 2 brings up minimum detail from Hellraiser 1, gives just enough to push start Hellraiser 2's and goes no further. It combines enough of Hellraiser 1, while walking into new territory.Also, Hellraiser 2 has my favorite two word line in horror movie history. I would quote it but it's been used everywhere, the significance is when and who says it in this film.In the end, sequels are about combining old with new; different fans demand different mixtures, but for this fan . . . Hellraiser 2 is the only sequel in this franchise that's gotten the formula right. "},{"Title":"One of my favorites","Date":"25 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Right, the original movie directed by Clive Barker was great but this sequel is for me one of the best second parts in horror cinema. The atmosphere of a nightmare is greatly created and the story is not so good as in the first movie but nevertheless it is never boring. As a gore-fest it is superb, special effects are very well made, characters are engaging, so...What more can you demand? I have seen this movie six or seven times and I still have it recorded in an video tape because I like to watch it again from time to time, the plot is not complicated at all but the reasons for watching it are the gore, special effects and its scary scenes, chiefly. Recommended for all fans of the genre. "},{"Title":"So violent that it's hard to watch.","Date":"16 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Hellraiser two carries on from where the original left off (only we don't see the mystery buyer of that box).This time we learn that Pinhead and crew were all humans at one point who solved the box.Kirsty wakes up in a hospital in which no one will believe what caused the death of her family.She soon recieves a message from her father from hell and she must free his soul.She enters the box on the other side on a mission to free his soul but again has to get past Pinhead,Julia (who has been ressurected) and the evil Dr Channard who all have evil intentions.Hellraiser two is a watchable sequel but fails in all aspects of the original.If you are a fan of horror and have no expectations apart from gore you will not be dissapointed.The violence was so excessive that I found it unbearable to see.This doesn't mean this is the best one in the series,it is just the most violent out of al the others.I am looking forward to see this story continued in number 6.I rate 3/5. "},{"Title":"Don't consider this!","Date":"26 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I was disappointed here,a few of the scenes made no sense,the Cenobites just could not maintain there intimidating presence,like in one.The effects are VERY lame here,I could do better!A lot of the deaths were just stupid,and what happened to Pinhead coul've been great,but was just plain rotten.And the ending left it open for 3,which probaly isn't connected to this anyway,forget this,stick with the original! "}{"Title":"A wonderful film.","Date":"7 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  THIS REVIEW CONTAINS SPOILERS!!I think this is the best of the Hellraiser series, but only marginally better than the original. The cinematography throughout the entire movie is amazing. Beautifully surreal and nightmarish. For some strange reason the scene where they dress Julia in bandages seems like it belongs in a painting. Oddly enough this movie also nearly made me vomit the last time I watched it... no movie has ever done that to me before. So much gore... and all of it well done, an amazing feat considering the surreal quality that alot of the violence has. The transformation of the doctor into the weird-blue-headed scalpel-tentacled-demon-attached-to-a-giant-hellworm looks as real as something like that could possibly look. Speaking of the doctor, his character is absolutely brilliant. Completely evil from start to finish. When he says And to think... I almost hesitated as he is being mutilated and mutated it gives me chills just like the immortal Jesus wept scene from the first of the series. The only fault I can find with this movie is that Kirsty is really annoying. I'm probably the only person that finds as much weird artistry in this movie, but there is no denying that it is one of the goriest mainstream horror films ever and totally entertaining. "},{"Title":"Here we go again...","Date":"18 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  While some sequels can't live up to the first film, Hellbound isn't one of them.Set to pick right up from the first one, the story takes place a few hours after Kirsty's ordeal with the Cenobites. She ends up in an Institution for the Insane. Her doctor, as irony would have, is a mad doctor & hell bent on learning & unraveling all the mysteries of the puzzle box.While he deceives others into thinking he's a caring person, underneath he has a very malevolent nature just like Frank Cotton from the first film. Actually, he's more evil than Frank. Case in point, he keeps his un-treatable patients in the cellar of the institute & uses one of them in his twisted plan. As the film moves along, you learn very horrible things about the doctor, not only in the present but in his past as well.There are several plots going on in this film. For starters, Kirsty trying to get to hell to rescue her father (boy, this girl needs a serious bible study lesson! She's really convinced she can do it!), the return of Julia, and Dr. Channard trying to take over hell are just a few plots we see. One very interesting thing about this film is what I call the Battle of the Cenobites! Watch if you dare!While I like this film, I found some flaws in it. There a few special effects that look as if someone needed to go back to school. The battle of the Cenobites needed some more bite to it & it was too short. Some of the elements that I did enjoy are the plot that never stops and some of the special are quite good, especially Julia coming back. I was also glad that many of the original actors & their characters were brought back for the sequel. Also I liked the script which helped  the viewer to understand some things which occurred in the first film, sort of an update.For those that have never seen this film, take a few pointers in mindLike the first one, this not for the faint of heart!   See Hellraiser first because in that way, some of this film will make sense to you. And above all ENJOY! "},{"Title":"Stranger imagery","Date":"2 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Hellbound Hellraiser II is a good horror flick..while not as good as the first one, But still above par of the other followups in the series. Tony Randel directs this one with keeping with Clive Barker's original imagery and atmosphere. The Cenobites world is a must see in this film..Again its pretty bloody like the first one..But any true horror fan,and safe to say fantasy fan,because alot of fantasy elements are in this film, will enjoy it.. "},{"Title":"twister?  the wall?","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Yuck yuck yuck!!!!  This movie screams of potential, but reeks of failure. There's way too much trying to be addressed in one movie, yet there's not enough to keep this movie interesting. I loved the special effects, and the concept was frikin' amazing but thats about it.  There's a lot of dialogue which sounds so damn important, but in the end - - - - NOPE.  This movie doesn't follow the rules of the original or Barker's The Hellbound Heart damn it!!! (that girl gets skin pretty quick) Don't bother with this movie unless you wanna see a bunch of amazing special effects. It's fun and cool, but fun and cool don't make a movie great!  If you wanna see a good Hellraiser story then rent Inferno instead.  "},{"Title":"Enjoyable Horror","Date":"16 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This was the sequel to Clive Barker's Hellraiser and it is a worthy successor to the first film. After a brief replay of the ending of the first film and a flashback scene showing the creation of Pinhead, we see Kirsty as a patient in a mental home. Apparently, no-one believes her story about demons from hell. However, it appears her psychiatrist, Dr. Channard, appears to take interest in her. It turns out that he is obsessed with the puzzle box and after resurrecting Julia, he provides her with fresh bodies. When she is whole, Dr. Channard gives the puzzle box to a mysterious young girl called Tiffany who has a strange obsession with solving puzzles. She solves the puzzle box and Pinhead and co appear.However, they don't want Tiffany. Instead they want Dr. Channard. Tiffany meets Kirsty and the two girls go to look for Kirsty's father. After a run-in with Julia and Frank, they decide to leave Hell. Meanwhile, Julia has actually tricked Channard and he is put into a cenobite creation machine. He emerges as a powerful being who wishes to not only rule Hell but also the world. Kirsty and Tiffany have to find a way to stop him even if it means going back to Hell. The cast are pretty good and the plot is also interesting. We also find out more about the Cenobites and the fact that they were all once human. This later developed in later sequels especially in the case of Pinhead. Channard makes a pretty good cenobite and gets some good lines. Visually, the journey through Hell is kind of  cool. If you love gore, you will love this film. There is a nasty scene where one of the mental patients uses a razor to get maggots off his arm. There is also people with no skin, hooks digging into flesh, cheese wire wrapped round faces, injections of needles, throat slashings and more gory delights.Overall, this is a very enjoyable film with some nice ideas and excellent make up effects. However, if you are squeamish or don't like the sight of blood, then this a film you should avoid. If it doesn't scare you, it will make you launch your lunch.  "},{"Title":"Best of the sequels(So far).","Date":"9 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Out of the sequels to 1987's Hellraiser, Hellbound is my favorite.!!!POSSIBLE SPOILERS!!!We open up in the 40's where a soldier(Played by Doug Bradley)opens the lament configuration and becomes the infamous Pinhead. We then move forward to the night the original took place, where Kirtsy is in an institution, owned by a very talented, but very evil doctor. Dr. Chinnard finds the bed where Julia(Kirtsy's step mother)died and by using human blood, brings her back. Kirsty and another patient follow Julia and Chinnard into Hell's labyrinth where they must face the infamous cenobites, Julia, and Chinnard himself.Good story, effects, and acting. *** out of *****. "},{"Title":"Not as good as the original, but still fun to watch (Spoiler)","Date":"22 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  **Warning this review contains spoiler and tells about the death of Pinhead!!!** This was a good Hellraiser sequel to a good horror movie. However, it wasn't nearly as good as the first movie was. But it's still a fun movie to watch. This film got some decent death scenes. At the very ending of the movie, Pinhead becomes a good guy for just a few seconds, then a new bad guy (I forgot his name) appears and kill Pinhead off. Pinhead tries to kill him. But lost. This movie is worth a look, I also recommended the first movie.I give this film 6 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Dark, Moody, Entertaining Sequel","Date":"20 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Hellbound  Hellraiser II, the sequel to Clive Barker's hit Hellraiser, is just as good, maybe better.  Kirsty is confined to a mental hospital run by Dr. Channard, obsessed with the  Lament Configuration.  Sooner or later Channard uses a patient to resurrect Julia and bring forth the Cenobites.  Great, great sequel.Hellbound  Hellraiser II is UNRATED for extreme violence and gore, sexuality and brief nudity, and for language.NOTE  Hellbound  Hellraiser II is available in both a heavily cut R version and uncut UNRATED version. "},{"Title":"Not a bad sequel","Date":"17 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Hellbound Hellraiser 2 picks up where the first one left off which is something I like about sequels. But as this movie goes on, all we see is gore that we really don't need, and a confusing story. The ending is really bad, but hey what did you expect from the guy who helped write the next two very bad Hellraiser films. We as fans should have seen this coming. "},{"Title":"If you've got the stomach, SEE IT!","Date":"6 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The first film was definately an aquired taste, and while it was graphic, it also had complex characters and a clever plot. Of course, all horror films of the time need a sequel, and most are terrible. But not this one...Hellbound Hellraiser 2 really is a great sequel. Possibly better than the first (but much MUCH sicker), and although it has some rather poor special effects, its damn clever, and reveals a lot of interesting stuff about where Cenobites come from and who they are.Be warned This is a very very gory film, but if you can stand it, you'll see its great. "}{"Title":"Enjoyably silly follow up to a classy original","Date":"19 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Hellraiser was an odd ( where exactly was it set - North London or Los Angeles?) but highly original film which managed to retain much of the flavour of Clive Barker's  novella. The follow-up is far less successful but still manages to be enjoyably silly and just occasionally - especially during the first third of the film - highly effective. There is throughout a strong element of high camp which prevents the viewer taking proceedings at all seriously and goes some way to helping one overlook the truly dreadful script which is nevertheless delivered with great gusto by Clare Higgins and Kenneth Cranham. The former's character Julia, returns from the dead as a skinless seductress and  her resurrection and subsequent 'rehabilitation' are creepily impressive. Once 'human' again she is transformed into a backlit, begowned Hollywood goddess her appearance providing an amusing contrast to her subsequent behaviour. Higgins was obviously encouraged to go way over the top and doesn't disappoint. But there's far too little of Pinhead and his fellow Cenobites and the two heroines spend far too much time charging around in a labyrinth that is one of the most boring representations of Hell you are ever likely to see. But even here there are compensations, especially the truly awesome sight of evil psychiatrist Kenneth Cranham transformed into an entertainingly disgusting lord of hell ( or something ). All in all very silly, but good fun and with just enough of the original Hellraiser about it to be of interest to Clive Barker fans. "},{"Title":"Violent, shocking and brutal","Date":"5 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This grotesque movie is a rare example of a sequence that is better than the original. With an interesting and brave storyline, that mixes such different elements, like pain and pleasure, excellent special effects (the ending is a visual show, with bombastic scenes, like the Leviathan), terrific performances (good part of the original cast is back, including talented English actress Clare Higgins as Julia, and Ashley Laurence) and a daring filmmaker, Tony Randel. The storyline places Kirsty into a psychiatric hospital, commanded by the equally brilliant and evil dr. Channard (Kenneth Cranham, excellent. His part is unique, and Cranham makes his character a Humphrey Bogart type. Everything in Channard resembles Bogart). Channard manages to bring Julia, the evil stepmother, back, through the mattress,and not only he brings Julia back, but he also unleashes the cenobites. Counting with the help of a mute girl named Tiffany and Kyle,a medical assistant who learns too much too late and who ends up suffering a lot inside julia's arms (William Hope makes his even small interpretation one of the best things in the film), Kirsty decides to put an end in the cenobites. What is so good about Randel's direction and Peter Atkin's script is that both are not afraid to shot this sick, but interesting, story in a realistic and cruel way. Hellbound Hellraiser 2 is a strong entertainment. "},{"Title":"Great film","Date":"25 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie in two words KICKS ASS.  It really gets you thinking if hell is really like what this movie shows it to be (if you believe in hell that is) I can't really say anything more about this movie it really does rock, so go rent it. Oh ya there's a lot of gore as well so if you don't like that stuff don't rent it.  I also have the special edition and they have a few added things at the end of the movie, they show how they used makeup and stuff the dress the cenobites and its really neat how they did it. 8/10 "},{"Title":"my favorite in the series, but...","Date":"1 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Hellraiser II takes everything great about the first one and amplifies it to catastrophic proportions.  Unfortuneately, this also makes it a tad guilty of biting off more than it can chew.The coolest thing about this movie is that it takes place, for the most part, in Hell.  The new 'fantasy' element seen in the Labarynth segments is very well done.  There are, of course, the obligatory gory scenes.  The music is very cool (I bought the soundtrack!), and the acting is solid all around.The story here is that the head of a mental institute, Dr. Channard, has an obsessive interest with the mythos of the puzzle box.  He has collected and documented a houseful of research regarding hell and cenobites.  The movie gives (brief) insight into how Pinhead and his pupils became the way the are, although not information specific to each cenobite.Anyway, the doctor is using the mental patients as sort of specimens (or pawns really) in his research.  We also see the return of Frank and Julia, and are introduced to Tiffany, a little girl at the Channard Institute who does not speak, but is skilled at solving puzzles.The movie is important to me because it gives further insight into a mythology that I really enjoy.  The only thing is, for some of the ideas that are touched on to be fully developed, the movie would have to be hours long! "},{"Title":"A Horror sequel not to be missed","Date":"11 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Since most sequels are trash, cashing in on the success of their predecessors, I wasn't expecting this sequel to be anywhere near as good as the original Hellraiser.  How wrong could I be, Hellraiser II is every bit as good, continuing the original plot, maintaining the tension and exploring the characters, right upto the final ten minutes, where it all seems to fall apart for some reason.  Still, as far as sequels go, this is one of the best.  Watch it as part of a Hellraiser double-bill for twice the horror and a great evening.  "},{"Title":"A movie that remained with me....","Date":"7 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I haven't seen this movie in nearly ten years, but the imagery still remains.  I compare seeing this movie to playing Doom for the first time, it just mesmerizes you, the screenplay and atmosphere are first rate. Definitely one of the great all-time horror movies, not at all like the cheazy slashers of the time, it explores the concepts of hell like no other. This is one sequel that outdoes the original, no doubt about it.  "},{"Title":"A perfect horror movie!","Date":"20 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The first Hellraiser was great and so is its sequel, Hellbound. Hellbound continues the story and takes us to the realms of hell. If you were impressed by Hellraiser, you should watch Hellbound. It's magnificent! "},{"Title":"Why do do people complain about this movie?","Date":"2 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I could say this in many ways. One way is to say that the first movie was great and this one was even better. Doug Bradley does a great job, playing the coolest bad guy ever. The absolutely best in the Hellraiser series! "},{"Title":"like trying to compare Alien with Aliens.","Date":"18 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Hellbound Hellraiser II could have been an unquestionably inferior sequel to the amazing first film if it had been placed into the hands of a director who had a conflicting visionary approach to material that had been strongly established by Clive Barker, but wouldn't you know it, director Tony Randel delivers one of those few follow ups that manages to stand on its own merits and follow suit to its predecessor. Perhaps the most fantastic aspect to the story is how the dimension of the Cenobites, Hell, is further explored as well as the customs of those who reside within it. This is a place built upon unspeakable, primal transgressive desires mixed with degenerative violence but at the same time, it possesses a strongly human element in the form of Pinhead and his Cenobite brothers and sisters. At one point, every inhabitant of this place of pain and ecstasy was a human being, not mere creations of will and Kirsty comes to realise that these so-called demons aren't necessarily evil despite their appearances. On that note, allow me to say I love the designs of Pinhead's brethren, my favourite possibly being the Chatterer.There really is nothing out there like the Cenobites they are utterly precious creations. This brings me to the further explanation of Pinhead himself and his relationship with Kirsty in this film and how I feel it is truly one of the best male/female relationships in the horror genre.There is no sexual tension to be found between the two and that is absolutely, unquestionably refreshing to me. So many interpersonal relations between a female hero and a male villain tends to automatically favour some type of erotic tension- not here. I mean sure, there is fan fiction out there that tries to imply there was of course, but the chemistry between Bradley and Laurence hinges more on an understand of each other than attraction. If Pinhead is intrigued by something of Kirsty's it is her intellect. You see, Kirsty has come to understand that Pinhead is a businessman and follows a code of conduct when it comes to hunting down errant souls of which he makes claim to.when she finds the fortitude and strength to make a deal with him, he is impressed and agrees to the mutual contract. At this moment, Pinhead realises that he isn't striking a bond with a frightened girl, but a tactical and logical mind which he thoroughly respects. I don't think I've seen a heroine take such a cerebral approach such as this and Laurence's strength and skill as an actress shines through as Kirsty begins adapts and starts to master an art that so many are unable to comprehend. Now, the question you may be asking yourself is, is it as good as the original? Its close. as part of the ongoing Hellraiser legacy, Hellbound is an excellent sequel "},{"Title":"Even better than first one!","Date":"8 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" *****SPOILERS***** I watched the first Hellraiser last summer and I found it quite interesting. It had a good plot. I love how this one picks up RIGHT FROM the end of first and it involves Kirsty Cotton being put into a mental asylum and the doctor that is head of it is evil and wants to figure the box out. He eventually does and brings Julia back from the dead and she, of course, kills him and turns him into a Cenobite. I like how you got to see Pinhead and the other 3 Cenobites what they look like before they were turned. So, if you enjoyed the first Hellraiser, you'll most definitely wanting to be seeing this one. "}{"Title":"( electric guitar riff plays )","Date":"5 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" OK, Hellraiser Deuce, is it a good movie? No, it is not a good movie. Could they have done a better job? Well of course they could have done a better job, I mean no project is utterly doomed from the start, most times, anyways the potential was there and is still there if you ask me. Am I proposing a remake of Hellraiser 2 called Hellraiser 2? Yes. Who cares anyway--You ever read the Clive Barker novella The Hellbound Heart? Its awesome, its not about horror its about fascination, its about people. The first Hellraiser movie, this movie, and all other Hellraisers just keep missing the point, they focus on the gore and  Pinhead  and ignore the human element entirely. Same movie just different titles and actors, yawn. Once again Clive Barker's beautiful words become sh*tty films. "},{"Title":"A decent sequel, better than most of the 80's.","Date":"31 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I'm just briefly give my thoughts and opinions about this film, nothing too detailed. I was pretty excited to see this film after enjoying the first film. Well I got what I wanted to see, but that doesn't make it great, just decent. The characters were boring and very, very dumb, even by horror standards. I was actually yelling at the screen, which I never do. Sometimes I just had to laugh. The music fit with the film, but there was one brief song that sounded like it belonged in a Silent Hill movie or game, I liked it. The gore was much more graphic than any Friday the 13th film, that says a lot. The special effects were cool. Like the title says, this film is better than most horror sequels. The unique plot and Cenobites only make it better. Check it out if you want something different, just don't expect anything great. "},{"Title":"legendary suffering.......","Date":"13 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" After having her father and stepmother killed by the cenobites, Kirsty Cotton is sent to a psychiatric hospital. Even after trying to convince the authorities of what really happened, nobody believes her, and they place her in the institute, so that she rests.The hospital is commanded by Dr. Channard, who has been looking for the key for another dimension for a long time. The only person who believes in Kirsty is the assistant of Dr. Channard, Kyle MacRae.Following Kirsty's version of the story, Channard gets his hands on the bloodstained mattress where Julia died, and decides to resurrect her.She returns, and helps Channard to bring the forces of the evil to earth once again....The first Hellraiser movie I saw was Part 3, I was fifteen and thought it was one of the most strangest things I ever saw at the time. Obviously I wanted to see the other movies, so I saw the first one, hated it.Seeing the second one back then, I was blown away by the visuals and the haunting sound of the horn. On a second viewing nearly twenty years later, the visuals are all there, but it's just very, very boring.It's basically a little re-run of the first movie, but with the added back story, and when the makers have enough of that, they decide to literally send everyone to hell.Once Cranham turns into a cenobite, it goes beyond ridiculous almost into parody, and Pinhead is just, well I can't believe he has such a cult status.I understand why people love these movies, they are macabre and sadistic, and look sumptuous, but for me, it's just a little boring.I'd pick Nightbreed over this any day. "},{"Title":"Into Hell Again.","Date":"25 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Picking up where the original left off, Hellbound Hellraiser II follows our unlikely hero from the first film, Kristy (Ashley Laurence), as she is plunged into the depths of Hell in search for her father. With her is a new friend she made in the mental ward, Tiffany (Imogen Boorman), a mute with convenient puzzle-solving skills. Hot on her trail is her arch-nemesis and step mother, Julia (Claire Higgins), who has seduced Kristy's doctor and turned him onto the wild side of life (read Hellraising good times).While the film lacks the vision and focus of the original, it's certainly a worthy successor with more than a few creepy elements at play. First and foremost, the visions of Hell are unique and unlike anything seen in film before it. Also, there's plenty of bloodshed and elaborate special effects and make-up work to go around, making this one almost as visually unsettling and disgusting as its predecessor. Director Tony Randel doesn't work the same sort of magic behind the camera as Barker (it doesn't help that the script is a bit bloated) but is more than up to the task of delivering an intense and visually striking follow-up. It's also worth noting that the film lets us in on a bit on the origins of the lead cenobite from the first film, Pinhead, as portrayed by Doug Bradley, in one of the film's most imaginative and intense sequences.While it's certainly not a patch on the original, for what it's worth, Hellbound Hellraiser II is miles above and beyond the myriad of sequels that would follow in its wake. Fans of the first will appreciate the fact that it attempts to take things one step further, and although it stumbles along the way, in the end, it's a gruesome and grueling experience that more than lives up to its name. "},{"Title":"a worthy sequel","Date":"16 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" i really enjoyed this sequel.it's not as shocking or novel as the original obviously,but it still has plenty of gore.and it's fun.plus,Pinhead and the rest of the Cenobites have more screen time here.the film is not really linear or straightforward,and does get a bit confusing. and the special effects are not that special.in fact not as good as in the original.it's also a bit repetitive and the pieces look suspiciously like set pieces in a lot of cases.but despite that,it's still a worthy sequel.***possible minor spoiler ***it even shows(somewhat),the origin of Pinhead,the lead Cenobite***end of spoiler. first film was a brilliant experiential masterpiece.nothing could have or ever will live up to that standard,but this comes close.and a remake of the original is in the works for 20011 area.anyway,back to the sequel.i liked it,and look forward to watching the remaining five(so far)movies in the series.9/10 "},{"Title":"So-So Sequel","Date":"10 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I'm lenient on horror sequels, and when you compare Hellbound to every other Hellraiser film, it's moderately enjoyable.The production design is good (the labyrinth looks great!) the creature and gore fx are top-notch, and the story tries its best to keep fresh (As much as I enjoyed the insight into Pinhead's past, I just wish it could have been elaborated on a little further.) The acting is bad, though, and the story isn't as tight a narrative as the first one. It also gets a little redundant considering the first film (the idea of Clare Higgins having to rejuvenate off of human bodies is oh-so-predictable).Overall though, it's a pretty gritty descent into hell. It may not invoke Dante, but it's still a chilling sequel. My favorite scene is Kirsty's reunion with Uncle Frank -- I wish the whole movie had that kind of Dante-esquire feeling of Hell's bizarre tortures. Unfortunately, the series was all downhill from here. "},{"Title":"Big Let Down From Original","Date":"15 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" ****Four Out Of Ten Stars****This film was an incomprehensible disgusting mess! It had so much potential! It could have been a British horror classic, with style and class; but no, an easy turn-key formula was ruined by ridiculous writing and disgusting pointless violence. Besides the special effects, which are reason enough to view this debacle, this film is void of any and all talent. The script is torrid, the directing is incoherent, the acting is abysmal, the plot is incomprehensible, and the screenplay is putrid. What happened here? How could such a good movie, Hellraiser, be followed up with such utter nonsense. What was the main plot line in this movie anyway? I mean, the writing and plot are just non-existent. As stated, the special effects are decent, but the rest is a waste. Clive, why did you allow this thing to be made? I love horror movies but this one is simply unacceptable. "},{"Title":"Just as good if not better than the original","Date":"25 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Most people are automatically gonna give this one a low rating because it isn't the original. My question so what? Many sequels have surpassed the originals, but the closed minded people who watch these like to bad mouth any sequels made. This movie was just as good, if not better than the original. There's a new storyline than the original, which makes it something fun and new. Many will cry and complain that it's new, but its important to try new things. And this film succeeds. We even get to learn a little about the shady cenobites, particularly Pinhead (Lead Cenobite). My only regret to this movie was that some of the characters were built up quite nicely, only to be killed off once we actually got to know and like them. Other characters should have died much earlier on or even in the original. But I will not let that ruin your viewing of this movie. Highly recommended for fans of the original. "},{"Title":"Even better than the first","Date":"12 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The first 'Hellraiser' was a breath of fresh air at a time when the horror genre was starting to dry up. Of course, since it was a success and there was obviously more to tell, a sequel was unavoidable. And what a sequel it is! It achieves two rare feats 1. It's even better than it's predecessor and 2. It expands on what was only glimpsed at in the first. If you thought the first film was shocking and overwhelming, you ain't seen nothing yet.Pros A grand score, just as memorable as that in the original. A good, strong premise. Twice the amount of shocking imagery. Excellent performances from the cast. Lots of gore, blood, and carnage for those who love it. Elaborates on what was established in the original. Spectacular special effects. Moves at a good, steady pace. Impressive set design. Some really cool set pieces, my personal favorite being the one involving a circus. Newcomer Tony Randel gives an impressive show as director.Cons The Cenobites are done away with a little too easily. The plot is stretched a bit thin.Final thoughts If you go into this sequel expecting only more of the same, you'll be in for quite a surprise. Sure it has some familiar things, but there's so much more to be seen and explored. Unlike most other sequels, this one expands the universe only glimpsed at in the original. If only the series had continued on this path of greatness.My rating 5/5 "},{"Title":"Hell is a place on earth...","Date":"6 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Minutes after the thrilling conclusion of Hellraiser we find Kirsty Cotton (Ashley Laurence) in a hospital where she is trying to live down the trauma that she had just faced. (One that includes not only having Andrew Robinson as a dad but also seeing her uncle wear his flesh and try to rape her, there is an Aristocrat joke in the making for that one) Anyway it seems that hell is all around us and her father is begging her to save him from the depths of hell. Kirsty tries to do so but this time she has to do battle with her evil stepmother (Clare Higgons) who labels herself as the wicked queen. This is all brought together in a plot that was hard to follow but remained interesting enough for me due to mood and tons of gore. HellboundHellraiser II is one of those movies that leaves your brain numb after watching it. There are sequences of such nastiness that even I had to flinch a couple times (And I live and die by the genre of Horror) As usual it is the cast that provides interesting characters. Ashley Laurence was always an underrated talent and gives a great performance which centers the film. Clare Higgins works in the role but she lacks the edge she had in the first and her motivation seems rather random this time. Indeed that is the feeling through out. It is pure randomness that often times leaves the viewer unsure of what is going on at times. It makes enough sense that you get the gist of it but they're some loose ends which basically leave one scratching their heads. Where as I can't understand Roger Ebert's disdain for the original, I can see where he is coming from on the sequel as HellboundHellraiser II has no real plot or story and it consists of only gore effects. The movie also has a sense of crowdedness as if Tony Randel is so busy with so many things at once he can't balance them all and in the end it becomes a flaw. Still as it goes, HellboundHellraiser II is far superior to most slice and dice thrillers from the 80's.* * * out of 4-(Good) "}{"Title":"An archetypal dream landscapes of the unconscious, silhouetted in imagination, and dripping with blood.","Date":"14 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Firstly, I haven't seen part one since the late 80's, but I recently watched part 2 Hellbound again after many years and have to say it was ingeniously grotesque, and macabre. Artistic and malevolent, Hellbound is an inspiring dance of death in the land of Hell, where Hell finally is a truly terrifying place.I have never been so terrified of a portrayal of cinema's Hell as I was in Hellraiser. What Dreams May Come, Constantine, all relatively tame in comparison. The only other film that depicted Hell so dark is perhaps Beyond the Limits. I'm sure there are others, but those spring to mind readily.The effects and character's subtle nuances, emotions, and personal perspectives are so detailed, so rich, as to be truly an art form. Capturing in archetypal detail, the intricacies of each person's experience, I loved the use of surrealism as expressed not only by Julia, but by the M C Escher prints thrown about the film. At one point we find ourselves at the Lord of Labyrinth, Leviathan, who exists in a sort of living M C Escher, where each soul plays out it's own personal hell, trading soul for perfect apathy.Ashley Laurence returns as the lovely Kirsty Cotton, seeking to free her father who she believes is an innocent prisoner in Hell. When she must team up with a young girl apt at solving puzzles, who has not spoken a word since the death of her mother.An archetypal dream landscapes of the unconscious, silhouetted in imagination, and dripping with blood.Clive Barker hit this one out of the park.9/10 "},{"Title":"Interesting Sequel","Date":"1 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I really out to go back and re-review Hellraiser. I was a little rough on it. After re-seeing it I think I liked it better,and this sequel should be called Hellraiser Part 1 II. It continues the story perfectly,we learn a lot more about the cenobites,and it gives them a human feel,and we learn how they are created. The plot adds Dr.Channard an evil doctor who is obsessed with dimensions. When he meets Kirsty our hero from the first film,he resurrects the evil step-mother Julia,the same way Frank was. Kirsty plans to go to hell to save her father,who was skinned in the first film.The Cenobites,Julia,and Frank in a small scene stand in her way. Dr.Channard also becomes a mad cenobite,who looks neat,but has silly dialog. All in all 3/4  "},{"Title":"good like the first","Date":"8 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This one is good just like the original. This one explores the Pinheads a little bit more than the original. The movie went too fast. I mean all Kristy does in the is run away from the pinhead the whole movie. A new Cenobite comes in the movie. The Doctor in the movie becomes a Cenobite but dies just as quickly. He was barely in the movie. Even though the movie went fast I still liked the movie a lot. It was pretty gory, and scary. It was very entertaining. I recommend this movie to anyone who likes guts and gore, and liked the original Hellraiser.  "},{"Title":"Simply a good movie and sequel.","Date":"11 January 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Of course the most originality from the first movie is gone in this movie but they still did a more than great job with its story. The movie still manages to become an original sequel thanks to its story and it prevents the movie from becoming just a rehash of the first movie.It's a movie that picks different settings this time but still uses pretty much all of the characters from the first movie. Of course the movie also introduces some new characters and it explains more about the history and mystery of the cube and the its evil hellish characters, led by Pinhead. I love how some of the characters from the first movie suddenly and unexpectedly pop up and still serve a purpose within the movie as well.The movie takes us more into the labyrinth this time which makes the movie perhaps too different from the fist movie and a bit overlong toward its end but it also still helps to make the movie interesting and helps you want to watch the other sequels as well, to find out more about this world and characters. This time there is plenty of more gore, which no doubt was also due to the movie its higher budget this time. It's also pretty much really an effect loaded movie. You could perhaps say that this movie is more of a standard horror movie than the first one was but still not without loosing any of its own originality and creativity. The Hellraiser-series is one of those series that succeeded in creating a whole universe with followers, something that that many horror-series succeeded in. A great follow-up to the first movie.7/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Don't bother with this absolute dross","Date":"9 April 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Hellraiser was rather good if a little cheap and nasty, but the air of Britishness about it made it rather lovable. This however is of a quite different level. The script is almost non existent, and what there is is truly awful. There is little or no plot, and any kind of narrative is so poorly executed trying to understand the story is a fruitless exercise. The directing is truly pedestrian, the acting woeful, its only redeeming feature is the special effects.Maybe I'm expecting too much from this pathetic pile of tosh, but I have the feeling it was made for spotty, geeky teenage boys, with no life whatsoever, and no chance of ever getting a proper girlfriend. In those pre-internet days this was probably as good as it got for those rather sad little boys, no doubt they can find what they want on one of the many websites eager to give them a helping hand when it comes to a little bit of self-abuse these days.Like I say, don't bother with this rather pathetic 80's dross. "},{"Title":"Hard to judge properly, but let me give it a shot...?","Date":"12 April 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Looking back after nearly fifteen years, it's clear that Hellbound doesn't really hold up, especially when one compares it with it's semiclassic predecessor. The storyline and character motivations are muddled, to say the least, and there's little point to the affair. Truth be told, it was put together in a hurry to cash in on the original's success. From what I understand, the production was a stressful affair for all concerned. I suspect New World, on its last legs, was desperate for a hit.Yet, if you just sit back and let it entertain you on its own terms, it actually has a certain weird appeal. It makes little sense by human standards of logic, but it's great to watch when you're drunk or stoned. (Preferably both) If nothing, it works on a visceral level. The most graphic portion of the film concerns an act of self-mutilation, and a subsequent resurrection of a character from the original...minus her skin. It still has the capacity to disturb. In keeping with giving credit where it's due, the performances are more than adequate given the circumstances. Kenneth Cranham is effective as an amoral psychologist, and his eventual transformation is a masterpiece of makeup technology. Doug Bradley seems more comfortable playing Pinhead, and Ashley Laurence likewise has a better grip on her role than she originally did.Speaking of Pinhead, he receives more screen time than he did in part one, and his back story puts the Cenobites in a whole new light. One cannot discount the originality of Clive Barker's vision of Hell, although the time and budgetary constraints do hamper the effect to a degree. Nonetheless, the concept deserves credit for breaking away from the outmoded concept of sinners burning forever.**1/2 (out of ****)Released by New World Pictures "},{"Title":"Quite disappointing after the first movie","Date":"9 August 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Quite disappointing after the first movie.Hellraiser II picks up where the first movie left off. Kirsty (played bu Ashley Laurence) is in an institution after her experiences of the first movie. She is then visited by the gang of ghouls we previously met...The first movie was quite original for a horror movie. (Not that this says much, as most horror movies are incredibly formulaic and predictable). The plot was fairly solid too, with good direction and special effects.This, the second movie, is not anywhere near as good. Plot feels random, unoriginal and unengaging. The story just lurches from one contrived, inexplicable horror scene to another.Not worth watching - save your time. "},{"Title":"Brilliant sequel that captures all that made the original so incredible","Date":"12 July 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Sequels are hard. Sometimes they are done brilliantly well and sometimes they shame the original. Horror sequels are especially hard and when you have the brilliance of the original Hellraiser it would be hard to capture that same world again. But guess what? They did it and very well. It does not surpass the original, and it is lacking on some of the key qualities but regardless Hellraiser 2 raised the bar for this series. They knew what they were doing. More blood, more guts, more story, more of the original characters and they ran with it. Honestly the sequel starts out on shaky ground because it doesn't feel like it has the same strength of story but once the ball gets rolling it really does complement the original film. Best of all in the final moments of the film which takes place essentially inside 'hell' or inside the puzzle box, once again the special effects are absolutely outstanding. Not only that but instead of just having Pinhead return and the rest of the cennobites you have a new 'big bad' guy in the form of the head institution doctor whose obsession with the occult takes him into Pinhead's world and turns him into a beast of unspeakable terror. The blood and gore is probably twice that which was in the first film and that in itself is an impressive feat.Ashley Laurence returns as Kirsty Cotton, now institutionalized because of the events of the first film. While this isn't entirely a unique idea it is a solid staple into leading into a great horror film. Institutions always make great backdrops for horror flicks. Also returning in a superb manner is Clare Higgins who plays Kirsty's stepmother who has now been re-born much like her lover Frank was in the first film. Only now she wants vengeance on Kirsty. Higgins easily tops her original performance by becoming this monster, this twisted woman and creature and proves she is more than just a B-Movie actress which she sort of came off like in the first film. Higgins and Laurence have the perfect chemistry. Doug Bradley returns to his iconic role as Pinhead (again he is not called this in the film at all) and the best part of Hellraiser 2 is that we actually learn something about the man that 'Pinhead' was before he became the monster. This is of course explored in great depth later in the many, many sequels but it is delicately touched on in this film. Bradley is brilliant once again and manages to keep a lot of the mystery of his character which is a feat as well. Kenneth Cranham joins the cast as the head of the institution I mentioned earlier. He has a thirst for the occult and will stop at nothing to uncover the secret of the puzzle box. His doctor character is very campy but fits well in his scenes with Higgins but he truly flourishes as the latest cennobite that is blood thirsty and absolutely evil to the core. Imogen Boorman also joins the cast as a mute girl who is profoundly good at puzzles. The doctor is of course using her to try and solve the puzzle box. The problem with her character is that she starts out seeming almost autistic like there is something socially or mentally wrong with her but by the end of the film she seems to be fine other than she hadn't spoken since the death of her mother. Still she isn't in the film enough to make a huge impact.Tony Randel takes the helm from Clive Barker and I think that Barker must have had a significant hand in the film because it still has that distinct Barker quality and no offence to Mr. Randel but he doesn't exactly have an amazing career record especially at this time. The story falls short of what the original film was but that is bound to happen. Fortunately the characters and the incredible special effects and creatures win out again. The last half hour to 45 minutes of this film are terrifying, brilliantly filmed and breathtaking. A worthy follow up to the original film. And while as I said I don't believe it is as good as the original its too good to score it less than a solid 9/10. "},{"Title":"* * out of 4","Date":"19 May 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" After having survived the Cenobites from the first film, Kirsty Cotton (Ashley Laurence) finds herself in a psychiatric hospital, as no one believes her story. Dr. Channard, (Kenneth Cranham) the head of the institute, arrives to treat her, but like the others, doesn't believe her story. As certain elements become more believable, he decides to investigate more fully, eventually finding the mystical Lamont Configuration. In so doing, Julia Cotton, (Claire Higgins) is brought back into the world. When Kirsty discovers this, she finds the Cenobites, lead by Pinhead, (Doug Bradley) are behind the whole affair. Dr. Channard and Julia are also along, trapped in Hell with Pinhead and the others in an intense fight for survival.Pretty much a remake of the original, but with better differences. Features plenty of the gruesome special effects that made the original a sleeper hit. Eventually, it gets better after the first half-hour.Unrated for Extreme Graphic Violence, Sexual Situations, Profanity and Brief Nudity.Awesomely Bad Scale * * out of 4. "},{"Title":"Lots of lovely gore","Date":"22 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I really enjoyed Hellraiser 1, I loved the mysticism and the puzzle/riddle of the cube and story of the cenobites, and I was really looking forward to Hellbound. Unfortunately I got a bit disappointed... Its a great horror movie, lots of gore and freaky... things.I have no experience in the comics or other Hellraiser stuff. That said, I think it ruins the Hellraiser-story, by making pinhead become human or at least capable of emotion, also the crazy doctor can kill the cenobites!? I thought they were almighty, and not letting some loony doctor slay them.So, other than ruining my own Hellraiser fantasy, it was a great movie. I' m only giving it five, because not staying true to Hellraiser #1. Remember its only my own opinion. >B=D~ "}{"Title":"An excellent follow up.","Date":"12 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The sequel Hellbound Hellraiser II is a very good follow up to Clive Barker's classic Hellraiser. Peter Atkins who wrote Hellraiser III and IV did a good script and Tony Randel did a good job directing it. We get to know a little more of the Lead Cenobite now with his famous name Pinhead, we also get to see Julia forced to suck the blood from people to make her flesh return again just like Frank in the first film.Hellraiser II lets you see what is inside the Cenobites world with it's corridors that lead to different experiences and we get to the the heart of it all Leviathan. Ashley Laurence returns as Kirsty Cotton who teams up with mute girl Tiffany played by Imogen Boorman who is an expert at solving puzzles and Dr. Channard played by Kenneth Cranham uses her to open it.Hellbound Hellraiser II is a sequel that's fun to watch. Check it out. "},{"Title":"Best of the series","Date":"15 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" There's a lot of action in this movie and a lot of scary parts although a lot of it doesn't make any sense (mainly because we're not in their world). Costume and makeup is an A+++ among horror movies!!! Dr. Channard, Pinhead and the Cenobites were made-up with great detail right down to their teeth. I can't figure out how some of the makeup was made. It looks so real including the lines in Pinhead and Dr. Channard's faces. Some of the movie was hoky like Julia losing skin, etc. The first half is intriguing because Channard brings Julia back to life and is sexually attracted to her. He had always had a special interest in the box. Dr. Channard was the best actor in the film by far. The special effects, looking back now were primitive and laughable. That includes the animation of Dr. Channards protrusions from his arms. You can see the frame-by-frame motion of the animation which detracted from the realism. Don't let your mother or family members catch you watching this movie. They will try to pull you away from the TV set because of the gore and scare factor. Well done movie. One of my favorite horror films. Too bad it wasn't followed up with something just as intense and enjoyable. "},{"Title":"Poor God","Date":"6 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" In the movie world, any film that successfully rakes in a little bit of a profit will, inevitably, find itself blessed with a sequel or ten - resulting in many lame, brainless follow-ups to a successful horror flick polluting cinema screens and video-store shelves. Luckily for fans of Pinhead and Co., Hellraiser creator Clive Barker, after the sequel was given the go-ahead, decided to expand on the ideas and characters of the first movie to ensure that Hellbound was more than just a case of 'more of the same.' Barker's plot outline and ideas were passed to writer Peter Atkins and Tony Randel was signed up to direct the sequel.Visually, Hellbound retains a similar look to the original movie with flashes of bright lighting and some strikingly macabre images - the sight of a skinless Julia, wrapped in pure white bandages is especially memorable. It's worth mentioning at this point that Hellbound is one of the most relentlessly gory films that this reviewer has ever seen, with hardly a minute passing without some kind of gore effect being splashed across the screen. The previously mentioned scene with the hospital inmate hacking away at himself with a razor will send even hardened gore hounds stomachs a-churning and splatter-fans will be delighted with the grue on display here. Needless to say that the squeamish out there can consider themselves suitably forewarned! (Hellbound has suffered from censorship in some territories but the print on offer here is the unrated Director's cut of the film.) plus pointseverything negative pointsto short "},{"Title":"Certainly is better than the other hellraisers","Date":"9 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Hellraiser 2 is an exceptionally dark movie just like the others but hell is very different from the fire and brimstone we are all lead to believe exists at sunday school. It is the most darkest, twisted and bleakest place imaginable (with the exception of the movie 'Nineteen Eighty-Four' remake) and yes it is a great film but the replay factor is low as the second time around it is quite boring. Gutted pinhead and his gang got their bottoms kicked but heck we all need something to keep us on our toes. If you are feeling depressed and suicidal then stay away from this movie because even though it is a good watch it can make that happiness that is inside you disappear quite easily hehe 8/10 "},{"Title":"Horrible, and not in a good way","Date":"21 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The original Hellraiser had its flaws, but overall it worked. Hellbound is an utter disaster, which may only appeal to the absolute biggest fans of the Hellrasier series.  The story is not the least bit interesting, and lost me about halfway through.  If this were a film I really cared about, I'd burn as many brain cells as possible to make sense of it, but this clunker wasn't worth the effort.  The savvy gore f/x are still there, but that alone can't save this wreck.  Sequels are supposed to shed more light on its predecessor, and this shed very little light.  So we see Pinhead out of his makeup, as a human being.  Big deal!  The script even resorts to such cliched characters as the crazy girl, who's locked away in an asylum, doesn't talk to anyone and possesses the one power that can save the characters from eternal damnation.  And as if this wasn't unpleasant enough to sit through, there's a disgustingly graphic scene in which a crazed mental patient scrapes maggots off his body with a razor blade, slicing himself left and right.  I'm pretty jaded when it comes to violence on film, but I don't have a strong enough stomach to endure a scene of that nature. I guess it's because I react most negatively to violence I can relate to. I would never know what it feels like to be decapitated with a chainsaw, but I know what it feels like to cut myself with a razor.  It's not something I do regularly, but I know the feeling.  As I said before, hardcore Hellraiser fans may find merit in this sequel, but as for others--BEWARE!!!My score  4 (out of 10)     "},{"Title":"Scary Doesn't Even Begin To Describe This Film","Date":"24 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I thought the first Hellraiser was scary but this was bloody frightening indeed. As an adult, it takes a lot to scare me when it comes to movies but every now and then along comes a horror to scare the you know what out of me. Forget The Exorcist or The Omen or A Nightmare On Elm Street-this is the one to watch if you want scares.There's possibly as much blood and gore as there was in the first film. I would even go as far to say that this movie is just as scary as the original film. The really scary thing about this film is the sheer terror that the characters have to put up with and the consequences of certain people's actions. There's nothing safe in the world of Hellraiser...The special effects, the lighting, the camerawork all add up to create possibly the most gloomy, most pessimistic world ever created for the horror movie. It can be so depressing to watch at times and it really felt uneasy when I first watched this in 1990. I watched it again recently in 2002 and it still scared me-even though I had my girlfriend to hold hands with.All in all, HellboundHellraiser II was a horror masterpiece. It scared me and it scared my girlfriend and when a horror film can scare you it just shows how good the people behind the film really are. "},{"Title":"*1/2 out of 4.","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Dull sequel that seems to be going through the motions, features plenty of the gruesome special effects that made the original a sleeper hit. This time around the survivor (Ashley Laurence) of the original is tricked into going to Hell by her evil step-mother (Clare Higgins) and a crazed psychiatrist (Kenneth Cranham). You know there is something wrong when the writer and director try to make Pinhead and company sympathetic.Unrated; Extreme Graphic Violence, Nudity, Profanity, and Sexual Situations. "},{"Title":"I recommend..... amputation!","Date":"12 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is sick. There's some nutty individuals roaming the world. I wonder what the investors of this film thought when they saw this. There's enough blood and violence in this to make a hemophiliac squeal with excitement. Dr. Channard makes for a cool Cenobite in this one. He spouts some interesting one liners (What was on  today's agenda?.... ah yes....... evisceration! (insert singing-like laughter) There's some pretty upsetting stuff here people, staying fresh with every viewing. There's a nut in this who decides that he wants to take a straight razor to himself. Okaaay. About as much fun to watch as stepping on Lego pieces barefoot. Pretty painful. This is a nasty movie. Somewhat watchable. Oh yeah, this movie has one of the most hilarious I'm about to die screams that I have ever heard coming from this one gal they have chained up for Julia while she's still wrapped in her Ace bandages. This movie has good points and some shysty points. It's actually hard to review without laughing. **1/2 out of ***** (for the sheer audacity of it's filmmakers) "},{"Title":"Splat splot splut","Date":"3 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Like 'Hellraiser' this sequel relies on goo, blood and gore to shock and, like 'Hellraiser', it fails. Horror movies like this don't do a lot for me because there's no real reason to be scared, the film-makers assuming that a coating of splattery slodge will do all the work. The story carries on directly from the end of the first film, with survivor Ashley Laurence in a mental institution under the sinister care of doctor Kenneth Cranham, who's apparently doing an impression of James Mason. He's after the puzzle box, and he's in league with a resurrected Clare Higgins, and there's a mute girl, and the cenobites show up, and all Hell breaks loose, and then there's lots of screaming and shouting and suffering and for the rest of the movie everyone runs aimlessly through a maze.I didn't much like 'Hellraiser' but at least it was watchable and had a plot of sorts. 'Hellbound' loses its way soon after a brief recap of the first film and stops making sense altogether halfway through. The movie pulls out all the stops, yucky effect following yucky effect with a few yucky effects thrown in for good measure, some of which are absolutely rubbish, like Higgins' rubber skin. (How does a single layer of bandages cover her up without blood seeping through?) Without a story or interesting characters to hold all this up, the result is an extremely boring film with no time for breathing space or build up. It's overkill, overkilled further by the blaring score and rampant choral chanting.It's muddled nonsense and it's all too much. There's not much else to say about a film in which the mute character gets all the best dialogue. "},{"Title":"So um...WHAT?","Date":"20 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The first film was fantastic, it explained itself and had an interesting premise. So I thought if any horror franchise was to have at least one genuinely good sequel, it would probably be this one.WRONG! This was so all over the place and nonsensical. If you have a universe where all kinds of crazy things happen such as the one in this film, you NEED to explain it or at least give a general idea of the rules. The first film did this well. However, this time around there comes a certain point where things just start happening. The characters will do things with out any indication as to what their goal is like we are just supposed to know. The only good things it has going for it is that like the first film it has really creepy imagery and the special effects are incredible. Too bad that was all wasted on a crap screenplay. I feel like they just did one draft and went in to production. It's just a mess. "}{"Title":"Worth it...but glad I rented...","Date":"20 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I came THIIIIIIIIS close to buying this movie sight-unseen due to the inordinate number of reviewers on here that refer to this as unmissable and a must-have for any horror fan's collection...well...it was okay, but I'm glad I only paid 3 bucks to rent it and not the very steep 37.99 they were asking in the shop. I only saw it because (shocker) I have only seen the first one, and an atrocious sequel that looks like it was made last year for about ten bucks.I really DIG the cenobites...and the visions of hell were very cool, but overall it's pretty forgettable.For the most part I only like the originals in horror franchises, and I am thinking Hellraiser is no exception to this general rule. I AM talking about the Australian R-rated version (99 mins) but according to reviewers there's no extra story in the unrated version, just some more gore. Well, again the gore was okay...some pretty vile and effective scenes...but i can't honestly say I'd like to see any MORE of it... (the scene with the guy cutting himself with a straight razor DID give me chills though).Pinhead has some cool lines in this, but ultimately I think I find the IDEA of the cenobites more frightening than the characters themselves. Pinhead's eerie We have such sights to show you... is really creepy if you pause for a moment to try to imagine what sights he is referring to.And that is what the first Hellraiser did so exceptionally well and this one fails to do it left a lot to the imagination. I find the best horror flicks are ones that do just that. If you are going to see ONE of these movies...see the original. If you are going to see them all...good luck! And remember...don't go solving that Rubik's cube you've had lying around for 2 decades because you...just...never...know... "},{"Title":"Kristy  &  Pin  Head Team UP !","Date":"29 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Interesting second version of Hellraiser, where you actually have a good idea what hell is all about and after viewing this film from beginning to end, you have experienced a LIVING HELL ! Ashley Laurence,(Kristy Cotton),Pomegranate,01, found herself in a hospital and was in the bed only briefly. Kristy has a new doctor, head shrink, who loves those sweet puzzle boxes of pure horror and terror and seems to collect them as a hobby and put them under glass, all neatly place on his desk. The Doctor is Philip Channard,(Kenneth Cranham),Layer Cake,'04, who winds up getting all hot and bothered again with Kristy's aunt. The usual blood falls on a mattress and the love making seems to start and plenty of deep throat kissing and licking of blood. There is a young actress named TIffany (Imogen Boorman), who has a very easy job of acting, simply because, she never Says a Word through out the entire picture and I must say, has a great way of solving very difficult PUZZLES. If you liked Hellraiser before, you just might like this picture. "},{"Title":"A worthy companion piece to the fantastic original!","Date":"13 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" After briefly recapping the closing minutes of the first film, HELLBOUND HELLRAISER II opens up in an intriguing opener, that shows how the villainous lead cenobite PINHEAD came to be (in fact this is the film where he was given the name PINHEAD) the rest of the film is pure fun! I really enjoyed JULIA slipping into the role of the skinless seductor, previously held by her former lover Frank in the original. Several of the same cast & crew also return. The special effects by BOB KEEN is some of the best special effects work to ever grace a horror film! I really loved the character of Channard, he's so deliciously charismatic & evil, in fact along with him, Julia & Frank, one could almost consider it a crime, that neither of these villains ever turned up in future instalments. The scene where the mental patient razors himself on a bloody mattress is super gory, that it actually makes up for the lack of blood in the film. The film is imbued with marvellous, twisted & very weird visuals. The cenobites yet again serve only as mere window dressing to the real plot & not counting Pinhead's birth & flashbacks to the first film, only appear at the 53 minute mark. However they are given a little more screen time here, as does their master Levithan. Frank, the main villain in the original, is given a cameo appearance here & one can also see that Kirsty betraying Frank & leading the cenobites to him in the first film, has not dampened his sickening lust for his niece either. To be truthful, he is really only here in order to see him get his by Julia, seeking revenge for killing her in the original, since he serves the plot not at all. The character of Steve, Kirsty's love interest in the first film, is wisely dropped from the sequel, although one can well see a potential romantic interest going on between Dr. Channard's assistant Kyle & Kirsty, that never gets developed, as he is bumped off rather quickly. Director TONY RANDALL takes the directorial reigns from CLIVE BARKER (Who serves as Executive Producer here) & his direction serves the film well.On the downside however, there were things that bothered me, such as the following It is revealed midway that the message Kirsty thought she received from her skinless father believed trapped in hell, is actually from Frank, who was manipulating her in order to help him escape, making Kirsty's trip to hell rather pointless, since she never once runs into her dad & despite shedding some light on the cenobites & hell itself, the viewers visit into the cenobties universe, disappointingly turns out to be nothing more than a series of dark, dusty labyrinth hallways & despite it being around since the beginning of time, there's hardly anyone, if anyone, there. The film also fails to answer the questions of how Julia was able to emerge a bloody skinless corpse & yet Frank was forced to bludgeon several victims in order to obtain their blood, since he was a dry & rotting husk of a corpse. Julia also is able to retain her original human look & yet Frank couldn't? Julia remarks to Channard that she has such sites to show him & seems to have unlimited knowledge of hell itself & yet she has only been there one day? Channard has three puzzle boxes in his home & then later in the film, we see several mental patients playing with a series of them, is there more than one main puzzle box then? What is Channard doing with a picture of Elliot Spencer, Pinhead's human form? How can Channard, Julia & Frank all be killed, when they are already in hell? Kirsty meeting up with Frank in hell, also slows the exciting amount of momentum the film story had going in & who grabbed the mover & pulled him into the bed in the end sequence?. Continuity errors also abound In the original film, Kirsty's house burned to the ground, yet here, it is once again standing as the cops are investigating it. One of Julia & Frank's victims is found in a large wicker basket full of maggots, & yet this same corpse was hidden in the large oak cabinet in the first, while a rotting boned dusty corpse falls out of a large cabinet instead? The last film ended with another soon to be victim set to buy the puzzle box from the Asian seller, but this is never referred to here. I also admit to not caring much about giving the cenobites a back story, specifically having them be human at one time & Kirsty helping them to remember their humanity, I felt this watered the characters down some, wherein the original film, one assumed that they were always centuries old minions. Thankfully the sequels tended to ignore all of this & the story tends to jump around a lot.All in all, HELLBOUND HELLRAISER II despite it's many shortcomings, is one of the best horror films ever made & to be truthful, they really didn't need to do more sequels to this franchise, simply because the film ends with the cenobites dead & Levithan put to sleep no long able to control the minds of those in it's midst. Julia & Frank's along with Kirsty's story, has now been completely solved. Regardless of all this, I highly recommend this movie! Followed by a sequel, HELLRAISER III HELL ON EARTH **** stars "},{"Title":"Pointless exercise","Date":"4 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Occasionally, one of those movies comes along and you ask yourself Why? Hellbound Hellraiser II is a brilliant example of that situation in action.A sequel to the 1987 horror sleeper hit Hellraiser, Hellbound exists simply to keep that business flowing. It has no other purpose.For legal reasons, Hellraiser director and screenwriter Clive Barker had to step down from direct creative control over the sequel, and screenwriter Peter Atkins and director Tony Randel stepped up to the plate to deliver a film that is actually more plot less, confusing and gore-filled than its predecessor. To describe Hellbound Hellraiser II is an exercise in futility, but I will endeavor to explain it. Opening almost immediately after the conclusion of Hellraiser, Kirsty Cotton (Ashley Laurence), one of only two survivors of the first film, awakens in a psychiatric ward run by one Dr. Channard (Kenneth Cranham), a psychiatrist and surgeon who appears to have a side interest in the occult (how convenient). He discovers that an individual died on a mattress confiscated by police in Kirsty's father's house and determines that he must resurrect the individual on the mattress so he can get a better understanding of the afterlife, or another dimension, or something. So, he secures one of his more radical patients, takes him to his lavish home and proceeds to give him a straight razor to open himself up on the mattress, thus beginning the cycle of resurrection for Julia Cotton (Claire Higgins), who was Cenobite bait at the end of Hellraiser.Embued with flesh thanks to Channard's willingness to support her thirsty appetites for human blood and flesh, Julia agrees to show him everything he wants in Hell if he can only open the door. So, he recruits an autistic patient from his hospital, named Tiffany (Imogen Boorman), who has an amazing knack at solving puzzles, gives her one of the puzzle boxes that open the doors to Hell, and lets her rip. Meanwhile, Kirsty has had a vision of her father wallowing in Hell, and using a friendship with Channard's protg, Kyle MacRae (William Hope) they brake into Channard's house to prevent Julia from being brought back from the dead, but they are two late, and end up watching as Channard lets Tiffany open the doors to Hell and then follow them in.To describe the rest of the film would be useless, because there isn't much point. The film has the barest thread of a plot, Kirsty's search for her father, but that is just an excuse for us to be witness to some of the goriest stuff ever put to screen. Hellbound Hellraiser II is not an easy film to watch, and if you are even the slightest bit squeamish, just don't even bother. It is a constant stream of skinless bodies, people cutting themselves open, having themselves cut open, hearts ripped out, various torture implements stuck into skin, etc. There really are no characters to care about, everybody is thin as a sheet, and spend most of the film wandering around some dank, dark corridors running into various unsavory events and images. Randel isn't even trying to generate suspense, he is just letting the grotesqueries unfold on screen for all to see. We feel no tension or fear, no dread, just indifference. It also doesn't help that the film is wildly underexplained, as it's predecessor was. How is it that there apparently is somebody around every corner that has some strange interest in this puzzle box, and why has no one ever noticed that those who end up with it disappear never to return? I guess there is some message here about exploring the darker side of humanity, but it's buried underneath the gore. I must admit, when I was younger, I enjoyed this film, perhaps because the imagery was perverse enough to feed my need for rebellious youth, maybe I had a dark streak, who knows. But as time has progressed, I came to realize the Hellbound is nothing but an endless display of gory effects with no substance. I think we could all do better than this film for two hours of entertainment.  "},{"Title":"A different twist on the original tale","Date":"28 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  SPOILERSEvery time a horror movie is created, one of the first topics which comes up is it's ability to spawn a sequel. The original Hellraiser obviously was affirmative in this respect, because only one year after the original was released, this darker and slightly dumber sequel was released.Set almost straight after the original film, Hellbound Hellraiser II starts with a brief recap of events as Kirsty Cotton from the first movie awakes to find herself in a mental institute. With doctors and police questioning her story, Kirsty appears to be doomed to spend the rest of her life in this institute facing nightmares and visions of her father, Frank, Julia and anyone else who might now be in Hell. This is, however, until Dr Philip Channard (Kenneth Cranham) demonstrates a knowledge of the Cenobites by bringing Julia Cotton back from the dead. With Julia and the Dr both travelling into Hell, it ends up being upto Kirsty to once again stop her evil stepmother.Whilst the original film had an element of family to it, with the Cotton family fighting amongst themselves, this sequel spreads it's seed as it includes an entire mental institution. With Dr Channard himself eventually becoming a Cenobite, the institution becomes particularly relevant as this new badguy's favourite phrase appears to be The doctor is in.By spreading the range of people involved, the creators of this film have evolved the world of this series, but at the same time have devalued it. Hellraiser was never the best horror film around, but it was still a dark, formidable tale about the evils of the world. This second one has lost part of that mystic by creating an actual Hell where our characters spend most of their time. One thing which seems interesting is that whether the plot is inferior or not, the direction feels less superior under the leadership of Tony Randel than the original did under Clive Barker. Barker remains present on the set of the film, but in the main credits he is the original writer, rather than writer, script writer and director. It's a good question as to whether Barker's smaller role in the creation of this film has hampered it's effect, and personally the answer is a resounding yes. Whilst this film is far from awful, it's very much average. There are so many better horror films out there and even the original is vastly superior.Therefore to summarise, Hellbound Hellraiser II is a typical, average horror film. With nothing special going for it (except for Doug Bradley's Pinhead) and one or two bad points (the obsession with showing footage from the first film), it's far from perfect. It's not the worst film either however. It has a plot, it has acceptable acting across the board, and it has the odd spot of gore. Ultimately though, these don't make it particularly brilliant. It's worthy of a five out of ten, nothing higher, nothing lower. Totally average. "},{"Title":"Pinhead isn't in this one much either.","Date":"6 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Though he is in this one a bit more than the first one.  This one I like a tad more than the first, still this series is a bit freaky.  This one has this weird doctor doing experiments and stuff and he ends up bringing the wife of the first movie back to life by using a rather gory method.  Meanwhile, the daughter from the first one keeps having dreams of her father needing helped, trapped in some bizarre place.  There is also some gal who is catatonic and she is the one who opens the gates into the strange universe of Pinhead.  Some twists here and there as the good doctor is betrayed and turned into something like what Pinhead is, only he is a bit more deadly.  The daughter finds the source of the dreams and all sorts of other unpleasant things are revealed.  The ending is kind of over the top as it just gets weirder and weirder, but hey that is what this series is all about.   "},{"Title":"And...?","Date":"19 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Despite some interesting imagery (particularly the Leviathan), and winning performances by Ashley Lawrence and Imogen Boorman, you're just left at the end going, 'What...?'  The movie jumps around wildly, and the two women are left running around and clutching at each other...over, and over, and over again.  The new human angle to the Cenobites is introduced, and then dropped just as quickly (except for Pinhead, who will be explored a bit further in the next one). "},{"Title":"What the hell?","Date":"21 December 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" It had been a long time since my initial viewing of Hellbound, but I remember not enjoying it very much. However, wishing to add a comment about the film here on IMDb for the sake of completeness (I had already reviewed the original and part 3, and intend to watch the further instalments in the future), I decided to refresh my memory whilst also giving it another chance to impress me.And besides, it also seemed like a good excuse for me to get another fix of the lovely Ashley Laurence!Directed by Tony Randel, Hellbound follows on immediately from the events in Hellraiser, with a traumatised Kirsty (Laurence) recovering in a mental institution. In the first of several rather contrived plot developments, the head of the institute, Dr. Channard (Kenneth Cranham), turns out to be a student of all things 'Cenobite' and, upon hearing Kirsty ranting about demons and boxes, decides to seize his opportunity to experience Hell first-hand.After acquiring the blood-soaked mattress on which Kirsty's step-mother Julia (Clare Higgins) died, the nasty doctor takes one of his institute's more extreme nutters, who believes that he is covered in maggots, and hands the poor fellow an open cut-throat razor. The seriously disturbed lunatic slashes at the imaginary creepy-crawlies on his flesh, cutting himself to ribbons in the process (definitely not a scene for the squeamish!). The flow of blood revives Julia who, in one of the films most shocking and disturbing sequences, crawls from the mattress to feed.The twisted Dr. Channard then forms a bizarre relationship with the semi-rejuvenated Julia, bringing her more sustenance (and indulging with her in the occasional spot of slap 'n' tickle) until she is fully revived. In return for helping her, Julia (who thankfully no longer sports that horrible hairdo she had in Hellraiser) shows Channard the key to unlocking the doorway to hell Tiffany, another of his patients, who is adept at solving all manner of puzzles (another convenient coincidence, methinks!).Meanwhile, Kirsty has seen a bloody vision of her father pleading to be released from his suffering in Hell, and also seeks a way into the world of the Cenobites...Whilst I am sure all of this twisted sado-masochistic, occult-based nonsense makes perfect sense to creator Clive Barker, who obviously views this world (and beyond) in ways I cannot (or do not) want to imagine, it appears to me that Hellbound's director Randel and screenwriter Peter Atkins were not quite so clear about the author's vision when making this film (and who can blame them?).Hellbound begins well enough, but gradually becomes more and more confusing, until the totally incomprehensible finale which takes place in a labyrinthine version of hell consisting of dodgy matte paintings and cheap visual effects. Although there is undeniably loads of inventive imagery and gruesome gore to ensure that the film is never boring, it is way too messy (and I'm not talking about the blood and guts) and incoherent to be a satisfying experience.Throw in a silly cenobite version of Channard that makes wise-cracks ala Freddy Krueger, and a twist ending in which Kirsty wears Julia's skin to win her battle against evil, and you have a film that, although not quite as bad as I had remembered, is a long way from the quality of the original.5.5 out of 10, rounded up to 6 for IMDb. "},{"Title":"This movie is...really bad?","Date":"15 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" this movie was a huge disappointment. i followed up after the first movie to see what direction the franchise took. unfortunately, this movie might have kept me from seeing the other sequels if i didn't already own them. it had no linear plot and a bunch of pointless characters, and diminished the character of Pinhead to the point where i actually said how much he sucked out loud. He wasn't even the main villain--the weird doctor was, with a random cameo from Julia on the side. also, tiffany and her little puzzle-solving ability was nothing but a completely unsolved subplot. this movie is really a mess. i'm glad they continued exploring his past in the next film, which i think was the best in the series the only upside is that ashley laurence is HOTT ) "},{"Title":"Very Disappointing film","Date":"6 December 2008","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The Hellraiser guys really pulled a number on themselves here by following up arguably the best horror film of the 80s with one of the worst.This film just doesn't work, but in many ways it does exactly what a sequel should do, which is take what we've learnt in the first film and expand on it in over the top fashion. Unfortunately this film goes so over the top that it's nearly impossible to watch.In this one the audience is taken into hell, with Kirsty, sole survivor of the first film our tour guide. Again this is a terrific idea and they really go all out to make hell a surreal and horrifying place, but it just doesn't work. I mean Kirsty ends up befriending a young kid and wearing some fake human skin so she can save her life at movie's end and then we have a Disney soundtrack in the background and a feel good moment. Who's supposed to be watching this movie? Little kids? I won't complain too much because I'm not a whiner, but there is too much meaningless carnage, too much Pinhead and too little story for me to rate it as anything but a disappointment. "}{"Title":"Hellraiser Lowers the Bar...Again.","Date":"9 April 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  A pure mess of a film that is nothing but another in the long line of stomach-churning experiences that dominated the genre in the 1980s. This is a sequel to Hellraiser (a laughable, disgusting production) and the film picks up where its predecessor left off. Ashley Laurence (the girl from the original) is now in a psychiatric ward with a crazed doctor (Kenneth Cranham). The doctor naturally is obsessed with the occult and wants to find the way to hell that was released in the first film. Cranham also tries to resurrect Laurence's stepmother (played by duo actresses, the main one being Clare Higgins), much the way Higgins attempted to resurrect her former lover in the original. Also the dreaded Pinhead (Doug Bradley) is along for the tedious, confusing and tiring ride. Fans of charnel house ugliness should enjoy this waste, but all others should stay away if they know what is good for them. Turkey (0 stars out of 5).    "},{"Title":"Matchlessly gory.","Date":"23 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  If you watch this one for the first time unprepared, you may actually feel sick to your stomach (I know I did). There is a self-mutilation scene, early on, that goes far beyond anything you've ever seen in, say, Day of the Dead or Maniac. If you manage to sit through that, you'll probably be able to sit through the rest of the film, though it's not really worth it. The gore here is mostly gratuitous and the story pretty weak, making little sense and ending without a proper resolution. Many fans of the series were displeased with the introduction of the human side of the Cenobites, but frankly it's the one fresh angle the filmmakers managed to come up with, to give the film whatever reason for existence it has.    (*1/2) "},{"Title":"One of the Goriest Horror Films of All Time","Date":"30 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The Hellraiser series of horror films has always been one step ahead of its peers in the gore department, and Hellbound Hellraiser II went all out to prove this in probably one of the goriest, nastiest, most disgusting scene ever filmed. I'm referring to, of course, the horrific scene of a mental patient slashing himself repeatedly with a straight razor to rid himself of the hallucination of being covered with bugs. The premise is that the mattress that Julia from the original film died on is possessed with her spirit, and that she needs blood to resurrect herself. Well, she gets plenty via the poor mental patient, who unloads buckets of it onto the mattress, thus bringing Julia screaming and dripping right out of the middle of it. It is a very difficult scene to watch; I have to give the director/producer credit for the sheer horror of it as is extremely effective. Definitely not for the squeamish! "},{"Title":"Complete and utter waste of time!","Date":"27 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Time has caught up with this movie, which really reeks. It's so worthless that it's hard to even describe. I hated every minute of it and i'm usually very positive to horror movies of the past like A nightmare on Elm street or Poltergeist. But this had nothing. I think it sucked 1988 too, but maybe not as bad as it does if you see it today. I mean some of the effects used in this flick were a bit Star wars, but that has been done before and George Lucas did it much better in the 70's than Clive Barker would manage. Not even if he got private tutoring from Lucas himself. Really lame. Don't see it. Any other movie will do. "},{"Title":"Evil grows on to its path ...","Date":"10 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Hellbound is the fascinating and almost excellent sequel to the greatest horror story ever written Hellraiser by Clive Barker. This movie is a must see if you enjoyed the first one ( and I can't imagine you haven't ). Hellbound is a logical continuing of the saga and begins almost immediately where the first one left off. Like its predecessor, it's a tale of pure terror. Like no other movies, the Hellraiser films create this nightmare world you sure don't want to be a part of...I didn't think it would be possible but Hellbound creates and even more morbid and dark atmosphere than Hellraiser. Images of pure horror are showed here and it certainly ain't a pretty sight from time to time. Gruesome make-up effects and clearly showed violence make this motion picture the prototype of pure horror. Add a powerful plot and some terrifying characters to that you got yourself a pure horrorfest and even a damn good movie in general.  Doug Bradley returns as the most charismatic horror icon ever created. Pinhead, the lead cenobite. Also the very beautiful Ashley Laurence is back to take up her role again as Kirsty. Too bad these movies were the only highlights in her career. I would have wanted to see a lot more of her. Hellbound takes place in hell for a large part, and it's shown as an endless labyrinth filled with deadly traps, unpleasant surprises and nightmarish visions. Actually, just like you fear it to be...SPOILERS...the story begins a few hours after the first film finished. Kirsty still is in shock and she's brought to a mental institution. Over there, Dr. Channard is in charge and he happens to be totally obsessed by the mysterious box. He manages to bring Julia (who died in part one ) back to life but in return for that he asks Julia to show him what Hell is really like. In the meantime, Kirsty still is convinced that she can bring back her father and, along with a mute girl called Tiffany, she faces the Cenobites again. Pinhead and his fellow Cenobites don't want to show any mercy no more but Kirsty has a plan to survive...END SPOILERS !!!In my point of view, Hellbound is the perfect horror. I admit there are some flaws to it ( and even a few mistakes ) but it's the ideal movie if you want to be scared, intrigued and fascinated by the more macabre aspects of cinema. I know Robert Ebert doesn't like it very much but what the HELL does he know about it ?!?Favorite rewind-scene  So many to choose from, but I'll certainly go for an early scene in the movie. Through a pan, the attic of Dr.Channard is shown. This attic contains all the victims Julia needed to become her old self again. Horrific, cruel and brute...but oh so beautiful "},{"Title":"I Know It Has Fans But.....","Date":"22 May 2010","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Hellbound Hellraiser II (1988) * 1/2 (out of 4) Tiresome sequel picks up shortly after the events in the first film as Kristy (Ashley Laurence) wants to journey to Hell to try and save her father. Unfortunately for her Julia (Clare Higgins) is back as well and after getting her skin back she sets out for Hell where we're going to have a battle. I know this film has a large group of fans but I'm certainly not one of them. I will admit that it's always a good idea to start a sequel soon after the events in the first film but to me everything that needed to be told was done so in the original and this film just comes off as something made in order to make more money. Again, I'm sure fans would say everything that happens here is logical and carries on the original story but I just don't see it that way. This sequel really doesn't start to nearly the forty-minute mark and that's because we get several recaps of the first film and we have to get all the characters from that film back in action. Once we get to Hell nothing really picks up as we get all sorts of bad special effects with fake looking zaps and lasers. I think the biggest problem with the film is its screenplay as you never really can tell where the movie is headed or what it's trying to do. It just seems like a film that shows us one ugly scene after another hoping that we take something from it but usually we never do. What the film does have going for it are the gore scenes, which there are plenty of and especially if you watch the unrated version. Gorehounds, such as myself, will at least be able to sit through everything for the gore as we get countless scenes of stabbings, cuttings, flesh ripping and various other forms of gore. The highlight of the film has to be the sequence where Julia comes back from the dead but even this here isn't nearly as good as the sequence in the original with Frank. The performances are decent if nothing overly great and the same can be said about the direction. This is far from one of the worst movies ever made as there's some decent stuff here and there but in the end I couldn't help but feel no one knew where this movie was headed and why we were even bothering to get there. "},{"Title":"The even better sequel","Date":"1 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" HELLBOUND HELLRAISER II (1988)cast Clare Higgins, Ashley Laurence, Kenneth Cranham, Imogen Boorman, Sean Chapman, William Hope, Doug Bradley.plot Kirsty (Ashley Laurence) has just survived the massacre at her father's house and is put in a mental hospital. With her luck, her doctor (Kenneth Cranham) is obsessed with hell and the lament configuration (the puzzle box that opens the gates to hell). He eventually resurrects the evil Julia (Clare Higgins) and forces young, mute puzzle-solver Tiffany (Imogen Boorman) to open the box, and Kirsty soon follows. Kirsty begs the Cenobites (including the famous Pinhead (Doug Bradley)) to take her to her dead father, but ends up finding Frank (Sean Chapman), Tiffany is searching for her past, and Channard is searching for answers with the help of Julia.the goodThis sequel improves on the storyline, the characters, the acting, the gore, the special effects and answers all the questions left by the first. The two blend together like one long, great movie.the badSame as the first, none. "},{"Title":"Utter Rubbish","Date":"4 April 2010","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Im 25, and I remember being scared as a kid just by seeing posters of Pinhead at the video shop in England. I have never seen any of the Hellraiser films until now, neither have I read the book/s.But what a pile of utter s h i t this and the first Hellraiser is.The whole time I was watching this I was thinking wtf is GOING ON! This stupid bloody cube thing that people like to play with that summons these goons that are supposed to be/look scary and then they get killed in a torturous way???? Nothing makes sense at all, nothing.I was highly disappointed with this, and the first Hellraiser. Crap.Don't bother wasting your time seeing this, really. "},{"Title":"Hellbound Hellraiser II","Date":"21 April 2013","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The first film was a big hit, and in this first sequel and all following the leading villain became an icon of the genre, even though I had heard low reviews for this second film I did still want to watch it. Basically in the early 1920's or 1930's Captain Elliot Spencer (Doug Bradley) was one of the few people to solve the puzzle box, and besides opening up the gates of Hell, for him the consequences were much worse, he was forced into the cube to be chained and have nails hammered in his head, so he was transformed into Cenobite leader Pinhead. It forwards to the present day, where Kirsty Cotton (Ashley Laurence) who survived the events of the last film, her father and twisted stepmother killed, and she has woken in a psychiatric hospital. Of course no-one believes her stories about what happened to the people in her house, so she is kept in the institute to try and rest and at some point be studied by strange psychiatrist Dr. Philip Channard (Kenneth Cranham), who has been secretly studying the occult dimensions himself for years. One day hiding in his office, Channard's assistant Kyle MacRae (William Hope) witnesses the doctor leading an innocent mentally ill patient to the blood covered bed sheet that Kirsty warned could bring her stepmother Julia Cotton (Clare Higgins) back to life, and sure enough she is skinless and seeking more flesh to nourish herself. Kyle now believes Kirsty and plans to help her get out of the institute, but she knows the doctor will also plan to somehow bring back the Cenobites, and indeed he does this using innocent young semi-catatonic patient Tiffany (Imogen Boorman) who has a gift and incredible skill for solving puzzles, so she opens the puzzle box. Pinhead and the Cenobites, Chatterer (Nicholas Vince), The Female (Barbie Wilde) and Butterball (Simon Bamford) do not harm Tiffany because they know she was forced into releasing them, and Channard and Julia meanwhile travel through the passageways in the other dimension inside the cube, he is shown all sadomasochistic pleasures that await, before being turned into a Cenobite himself. Kirsty meanwhile also wanders through the maze to find her father, who she believes has been contacting her from beyond the grave from the Hell world, but in fact she discovers it was her uncle Frank Cotton (Sean Chapman), and at that moment Julia arrives to kill him in revenge, by ripping his heart out. Kirsty and Tiffany manage to get out of Hell world Leviathon, but they realise the dark realm has begun to crossover with the real world, so they return to close the box from the inside, and transformed Channard wanting to seize control of everything tries to stop both them and the other Cenobites. In the fight the Cenobites are all killed and revert to their true human forms, and Julia returns momentarily to interfere, but the cube is closed, and Julia is revealed to be Kirsty wearing her skin, and they escape back to the hospital before the portal closes, of course in the end while they walk away free a final event occurs with the bloody mattress that will lead to events continuing in the next film. Also starring Oliver Smith as Mr. Browning and Deborah Joel as Skinless Julia. The monsters are just about as interesting as the previous film, especially Pinhead of course who we see the origin of and has all the philosophical dialogue, Laurence isn't quite as convincing as the heroine like she was before, the special effects to create the bloody torture and deaths is still worth watching, but the story is muddled, it is obviously more about the blood and body count, so while fans will be happy enough it is a slightly disappointing horror. Okay! "}]