[{"Title":"Better-than-average thriller","Date":"22 August 2001","Score":"20 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Despite what some people have said about this movie, I must tell you I thoroughly enjoyed it. Sean Connery, as always, gets into his character Lt. Col. Caldwell very well (he should be cast as a military officer more often). Meg Ryan, though limited in screen time, shines as his daughter Donna...they're father-daughter sessions make for some good drama.Mark Harmon, who for some reason hasn't received many offers to star in big movie roles, plays Jay Austin. He's a cop who used to be an MP at The Presidio, the base at which a murder takes place. Harmon does an excellent job, both as Donna's lover and Caldwell's unwanted partner.The fact is, the performances are wonderful, the story is fascinating, and the chase scenes create pulse-pounding excitement. If you like action, romance, drama, and a little humor every now and then, I recommend The Presidio. "},{"Title":"Murder At The Presidio","Date":"11 March 2007","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" A Military Policeman investigating what looked like a break-in at the Officer's Club at the Presidio in San Francisco is shot down. The same man also shoots an SFPD officer while fleeing the first crime. This makes the whole thing a dual jurisdiction between the Army and the local law enforcement.Hard enough normally, but in this situation you have a detective played by Mark Harmon who's a former MP who has a bad history with Sean Connery the provost marshal in charge at the Presidio. Though they hate each other's guts they of necessity have to work together.Sean Connery is one of those players who just being in a film elevates in class. Without him in the thing this would be just a routine police yarn, might have been good enough for a made for TV film and nothing more. Another conflict in the film is Connery with daughter Meg Ryan who takes an interest in Harmon at first to spite dad, but then finds herself falling for him.Acting honors in this film go to Jack Warden the retired sergeant major who won a Congressional Medal of Honor saving Connery's life in Vietnam. Warden and Connery keep you interested in the film, in finding out just why the MP and the SFPD officer had to die. Without them, I doubt anyone would care. "},{"Title":"wasted opportunity","Date":"21 May 2009","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Harmon and Connery turn in decent performances. Meg Ryan is way over the top as spoiled sex-pot provost's daughter. The rest of the cast is only competent, but they aren't being asked to do more. Serviceable location photography of San Francisco, competent editing.Otherwise this is a completely formulaic buddy-cop action film of the later '80's. Totally predictable plot about diamond smuggling. No complications.And no sense of humor. The best films of this genre had heavy doses of comedy - 48 Hours, Beverly Hills Cop, Lethal Weapon. If there's anything supposed to be amusing here, I missed it. Instead we get a pretty unbelievable romance taking up that space.There's also a barroom brawl that has absolutely NOTHING to do with the story whatsoever. Perhaps that was supposed to be amusing. I just felt confused and depressed.Despite the title, this has very little to do with the famed military base. The film does try to convey a the Vietnam war is over salute to the soldiers who fought there, so I guess it gets a point for social conscience. The rest is just a waste of talent, locale, and audience interest. "},{"Title":"One hell of a love story!","Date":"6 February 2002","Score":"20 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  This story looks like other drama/action movies. The story take place at the Presidio (military base) and is nothing new (a criminal investigation inside military lines) but Meg Ryan, Sean Connery, Mark Harmon plays it so well that the thin story becomes a minimum. Though it isn't a complete love story and have a little attention to it, Mark Harmon and Meg Ryan does it very well. She has a complex since her father (Sean Connery) probably spent more time doing the army instead of his wife (her mother). She cannot concentrate her mind on one man for long. Of course he (Mark Harmon) falls in love with her after a few love scenes, and at a party he get furious when she wants to dance with another gentleman. They come apart. This is when I noticed that this movie was about love. At home she have a little fight with her father over the problem, and as a solution to this she goes back to Mark Harmon's apartment where she apologize. When the story reach top and they solve the puzzle the end comes very quickly, but as they walk away hand in hand I feel like something else has been solved. The love between father and daughter, and of course between daughter and her lover (Mark H.).See for yourself Meg Ryan is made to be a father's darling.  "},{"Title":"Meg and Harmon just cut to the chase&#133;","Date":"21 May 2007","Score":"14 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Detective Jay Austin (Mark Harmon) was sure that somebody wanted something badly from the storeroom that night&#133; So he broke in and killed his friend, an MP, Patti Jean Lynch (Jeanette Goldstein) during her routine patrol&#133; Austin used to be an MP under Lt. Colonel Caldwell's (Sean Connery) command&#133; He thought he could use the Colonel's help avoiding other channels&#133; His instinct tells him that the bullet belongs to someone on the base&#133; What we get here is an investigation involving both the Army and the San Francisco Police Department&#133; Now, while Caldwell considers Austin a man who has no respect for women and he'll use his daughter (whom he loves too much) to get at him&#133; his friend, Sgt. Maj. Ross Maclure (Jack Warden) knows that Donna is not a little girl anymore, and that her father doesn't want her to grow up&#133; As a woman in love, Donna (Meg Ryan) knows that her father and Austin don't like each other&#133; So she decides to find out about Austin, and about that incident in the Presidio, where the female MP that was shot to death was with Austin when he busted Colonel Paul Lawrence (Dana Gladstone)&#133; The investigation takes a turn when Caldwell knew that Arthur Peale (Mark Blum)&#151;a former province adviser to the CIA in Vietnam&#151;owns the Black Mountain Water Company&#133; Slowly, he begins to perceive that there's a piece missing, something worth killing for&#133; The film carries two car chases in the streets of San Francisco, a good fight in a bar, and a climactic shoot-out in a water bottling plant&#133; "},{"Title":"Understated movie, better than obvious at first glance","Date":"7 August 2000","Score":"13 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  While this one is no highlight in Sean Connery's or Meg Ryan's career it is better than many people make it be. It's main failing may be that it lacks a certain level of excitement we have come to expect from such films. On the other hand, it arrives at a little bit more depth than most of its contenders - which may have worked against it ...  "},{"Title":"Exciting action, good acting.","Date":"14 April 2005","Score":"11 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" In the first few minutes we witness the shooting of a woman who is a stranger to us. This is followed by a car chase through the Presidio and up and down the hills of the city. One of the cars in pursuit runs off the road. The remaining car in pursuit smashes into another vehicle, twirls through the air, and explodes on impact with the pavement. The next scene involves one of those police-station encounters in which a prisoner grabs a gun from one of the cops, and is faced down by the hero while the other police offers stand nonplussed.Not a promising start, right? We've seen it all before. More than once.Yet I kind of enjoy this movie and watch it once or twice a year if nothing else is on. The action sequences are well staged even if they're not believable. (Sean Connery, confronted by an ornery Hells Angels type, defeats him in combat while using only one finger.) But Connery is as good as ever, which is to say ultra-reliable and likable. Mark Harmon may not produce celluloid magic but he's likable as well, given that the role isn't especially original. He's an ex football player and it shows. He does at least some of his own physically demanding stunts while chasing a bad guy through Chinatown. He leaps nicely from roof to roof along a row of stalled cars. Meg Ryan is foxy and aggressive and there is a sexy and funny scene between her and Harmon. I've always admired Jack Warden too. Anyone who successfully leaves Newark, New Jersey, behind gets my vote.The plot. Alas. I hate seeing characters we've learned to truly like turn out in the end to be sneak thieves, even if they are reborn just before they pay their dues. Furthermore, the gospel truth is that I've seen this movie innumerable times and I still can't figure out the deal with the smuggled diamonds. Why the hell do they wind up in jugs of water? Who's kidding whom around here? The direction is competent and the story unfolds without complicating flashbacks or directorial razzle dazzle. The location shooting is admirable. If I were in the army I'd be happy to be stationed at the Presidio, although it IS right on the bay and therefor often foggy. My understanding is that the Presidio will be closed as a military base and made available to the public. I hope things don't change too drastically. A horde of tourists will spoil the currently empty beauty of the place with its manicured lawns and eucalyptus and Washingtonia palms.Worth seeing as a cool mystery/love/action movie, despite its weaknesses. "},{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"17 January 2005","Score":"30 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" An amazing movie. All the elements come together to make a very entertaining movie that gets better the more you watch it.From Bruce Broughton's masterful score (one of his very best in my view) to Peter Hyams' evocative photography, everything comes in focus around a first-class cast that include star-making performances by Mark Harmon and Meg Ryan and the wonderful turns we take all too easily for granted by Sean Connery and Jack Warden.The chase sequences are among the most inventive and gripping of modern cinema and are edited with just the right touch (take note you commercial directors who think chase scenes consist of unwatchable snippets of film) and highlight a great story full of lively characters.Overall, a very memorable movie, which helps explain why it keeps showing up again and again on our TVs. "},{"Title":"A predictable hackneyed detective drama better left to television","Date":"30 October 2006","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" This movie has all the makings of a grade B TV police show except for some exceptional actors in the form of Sean Connery, Meg Ryan, Mark Harmon and Jack Weston, who do an excellent job bringing some belief to their roles. In fact this is my number one complaint about the movie unbelievability. I can accept the basic premise of two characters who dislike each other being forced to work together to solve a crime. That one of them has a beautiful daughter in the form of Meg Ryan starts the ball of disbelief rolling. Meg forces Mark Harmon to chase her in a classic Corvette convertible, driving like a maniac. Who would treat a classic car that way? When the men begin to work together, we hear such original lines as you can ride along with me if you like and Why don't we stop for some coffee? Yeah, right, two guys who really hate each other. (Was there a strike of the Writer's Guild during this movie?) But there's more The officer who caused the falling out between the lead characters just happens to be a major suspect now and bad guy. The Medal of Honor character (Jack Weston) who is the best friend of Sean Connery turns out to be a bad guy, but finds his conscience in the end. Jay Austin (Mark Harmon) goes from MP to SFPD detective. (What a meteoric rise.) And he just happens to be uninvolved with any other female when he meets Meg Ryan. (Well, I guess this is San Francisco.) Even the underlying plot begs belief. The murder of the female MP was caused by the diamond smuggler leaving the diamonds at the Presidio's Officer Club, then breaking in at night to retrieve them. However, the water bottle that held the diamonds had a special holder. How could one be so careless? Did the MP really have to die in the first place? "},{"Title":"Great Action-Mystery","Date":"22 May 2000","Score":"12 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Sean Connery fans,this is a must. Mark Harmon fans, this is a must. Meg Ryan fans, this is a must. For a) Sean Connery fans (of which I am one), watching Scotland's favourite son beat up a bully with his thumb is impossible to miss. He's great as a solder, and acts well (as usual). b) Mark Harmon fans, watching him as a coool detective smirking down a barrel of a gun held by a pretty much insane villain is quite amusing AND c) Meg Ryan fans, though she appears in few scenes, she takes over each one with her wild hair and sexy manner. In other words, see it. It's got an element of mystery and and action, and, in my opinion, it's very well acted. Enjoy. "}{"Title":"Enjoyable But Predictable And Unexceptional Military Police Thriller","Date":"27 August 2009","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" When a military police officer is murdered on the Presidio of San Fransisco, a city detective and a provost marshal must form an uneasy alliance as they investigate the case.This is a fair thriller with some exciting elements and is slickly made all round from the always watchable Hyams. It's one of his weakest films though, and I think I lay the blame for that mostly in Larry Ferguson's script. It lacks originality - all the elements of the characters and their relationships come from In The Heat Of The Night, Dirty Harry, Lethal Weapon and a hundred other cop movies. Also, and this bothers me about a lot of Hollywood movies, what is the point of the whole daughter romantic interest subplot ? Unless I'm mistaken, this is a film about diamond smugglers and a murder investigation. I don't really see (or care) what that has to do with Connery's inability to communicate with Ryan. I'm also not very taken with the cast here; Harmon is one-note, Ryan pouts and preens in her usual whiny and annoying manner, and the supporting cast aren't very interesting. Connery and Warden fare better, but both are hamstrung by the predictable story. When it's moving though, it's a pretty good flick - what it has going for it are pleasing Frisco locations, a couple of taut chase sequences, good photography and a moody score by Bruce Broughton. There's one scene I really like - Harmon charms some information out of a dispatcher purely by talking about The Grateful Dead; it's quirky, original and unexpected. The problem with this movie is that every scene in Capricorn One or 2010 is like that. A pleasant way to kill some time, but a rather lacklustre thriller. Trivia - Calfa and DiSanti sort of reprise their roles from The Star Chamber. "},{"Title":"Great Chase Scenes Highlight an Engrossing Film","Date":"20 December 2005","Score":"11 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" I would be giving this film a 10 out of 10 if it weren't for the relative letdown of the ending which does not quite resonate the way it should have.But this small disappointment does nothing to erase the first hour of the film which brims with great characterization, great acting and great direction.Peter Hyams chose to pace his film with two great chase scenes which are so well directed, they should be studied by younger filmmakers who think fast cutting and CGI somehow makes action scenes exciting.Shot with long takes and real stunts, the car chase is a model of great action directing that takes your breath away even after the tenth viewing. As for the foot chase scene, it is so well-paced (kudos to Hyams' editor Jim Mitchell) that you can still see everything in spite of the frenetic action (again a craft that is totally lost in most of today's disappointing action films) Extra tip of the hat should also go to Bruce Broughton for his inspired and powerful score. "},{"Title":"Decent movie","Date":"5 February 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" If you have seen this sort of film before, than you'll foresee things happening. That is not necessarily a bad thing. It's just not a good thing either.The actors are very good, but also not extraordinary (even Mr. Connery had better performances in other movies). The plot moves in the normal speed as you'd expect and the editing isn't bad either, with the exception of a few scenes, especially near the ending. But that's it, it's nothing really special nor ground-breaking happening. What's left is a decent enough picture that you can watch and enjoy, but the experience will be like the movie Average! "},{"Title":"Every reviewer before me is narrow minded!","Date":"5 February 2000","Score":"18 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  I thought this movie was great!  Peter Hyams proves again that he is both a talented director and cinematographer, and this movie is a perfect showcase for his talents.Sure this movie is basically a rip off of the LETHAL WEAPON formula, but wasn't THAT movie a rip off of 48 HRS. as well?  You can't complain about the movie being poorly written, because I've seen movies worse then this get Academy Awards!I probably like the movie because of Sean Connery and Mark Harmon's chemistry, as well as all the cool chase scenes (the opening chase through the streets of San Francisco is one of the best ever filmed!)  True, Meg Ryan is virtually wasted in this movie, but what did you expect?  This movie was from 1988, years before SLEEPLESS IN SEATTLE made her famous, so she was lucky she even got a role in it!All in all, I recommend it to anyone who likes the 80's buddy cop genre (BLACK RAIN, TANGO AND CASH, LETHAL WEAPON, etc).  And for those of you before me who bad talked it, lighten up!  It's not like this movie was boring or anything.  If you don't like, don't ruin it for those of us who do! "},{"Title":"Entertaining if forgettable murder mystery","Date":"13 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" After an MP is shot and killed on the Presidio Military Base in San Francisco the killers flee into the city; here they kill two more people; this time city cops. Police Officer Jay Austin is put on the case as he used to be an MP who served at the Presidio. That doesn't make things easy for him though as he left the Army after his CO didn't back him when he struck a drunken colonel while arresting him&#x85; his old CO is Lt. Col. Alan Caldwell; the man he will have to liaise with if he is to solve the case. As is always the case in such movies they don't get along well at first and it looks like they will get worse when Austin goes out to dinner with the Colonel's daughter Donna. As the investigation proceeds a group of suspects emerges; all of whom served in Vietnam at the same time.This is a decent enough film but if you removed the unnecessary romance between Austin and Donna and some of the excessive banter the remaining mystery wouldn't sustain a one hour TV show! Sean Connery plays Caldwell the way he plays everybody; which isn't really a bad thing as he is an entertaining scene presence; even though I didn't buy that he'd still have that accent if he moved to the States when he was ten! Mark Harmon was OK as Austin although he has nowhere near the screen presence as Connery. The action scenes were pretty good; especially the opening night time car chase and the final shoot out in the water bottling plant. I wouldn't go out of my way to see this but it passes ninety minutes well enough if it is on TV. "},{"Title":"Entertaining","Date":"22 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Entertaining. I forgot all about this movie until I saw it today on TV as a Sunday Afternoon movie. I'd have to say that if the movie was intended to be serious they sort of failed. The opening series of events from the cop playing it dumb and getting shot to the cop cars crashing one after the other sort of reminded me of the episode of Monty Python in which they did a skit called Sam Peckinpa's Salad Days. A routine garden party goes terribly wrong. All in all I'd have to say the Sean Connery was still looking pretty good even in the late 80s. I thought that the storyline and premise were OK but a bit cliché' even for way bay then. However if you are willing to over look the terrible dialog, the almost comic level of tragedy, and some bad acting this is a good movie to watch if you are bored and having nothing else to do. Or if you are in the mood to play something in the background while your doing week end house work. I am not saying it's a terrible movie but the first 15 minutes of the movie made me laugh. I am guessing it was meant to shock the viewer with it's tragic car accidents but it felt more like I was watching Porky's than a serious movie. "},{"Title":"Everything Here is Indefensible","Date":"12 July 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" This is as painful to watch as it is predictable, clichéd, and completely forgettable. Wasting a fine Actor like Sean Connery is the least offense in this boring, formulaic Film. There is the haircut, pretty Boy Mark Harmon, who has zero Screen presence, along with the Female haircut, pretty Girl Meg Ryan. When they are together in this Dud, one would be hard pressed to find a spark anywhere. The on the hood of the car seduction Scene is only one of the many embarrassments in this wasted effort.The Director, who really should stick to Cinematography, has tried to grow into the Helmsman role from behind the Camera with varying results that have never reached beyond Mediocrity. Here with this awful mish-mash of Reagan era Flag waiving mixed with a Buddy-Cop Formula that is at best forced, there is just nothing here worth recommending.Fans of anyone involved in this Turkey would be better served to avoid, because it is an indefensible insult to Moviegoers from Big-Budget Studio Hacks. Oh yea...the Title, well that's a whole other misstep not worth your time. "},{"Title":"I've known buildings that were easier to talk to than you.","Date":"21 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" The role of Provost Marshall at the Presidio was not real stretch for Sean Connery. He just had to continue the role he played in The Untouchables the year before. That is not to say that he wasn't good, but it was a familiar type for him - tough cop and tough father.This time he was protecting his daughter, played by Meg Ryan in a role that is familiar also, against a San Francisco police detective (and former MP) played by Mark Harmon.Ryan gave that sweet role that she played in Sleepless in Seattle and You've Got Mail. The cute smile and the girlish manner that we all love; not the raw role we saw in In the Cut.I am a big fan of Harmon in NCIS and I always enjoyed his earlier roles. he does a good job here as well.There was plenty of action car chases, running through the streets of San Francisco, and a final gun battle that ends it all. "},{"Title":"Weak story ruins potentially interesting concept.","Date":"10 August 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" This is not an horrible movie but it's just one of those type of movies that is very formulaic and forgettable to watch. The movie its weakest element is its writing. The story focuses more on the personal and relational aspects of the characters rather than on the actual thriller plot-line of the movie. The movie often becomes just uninteresting because of that. But on top of that, the actual thriller plot-line of the movie also isn't exactly anything renewing or spectacular. It's quite weak honestly, as mostly shows in the end.It also doesn't feature exactly the most credible story. The two main characters in the movie, played by Mark Harmon and Sean Connery don't like each other from the start and they actually also share a long history of not liking each other but nevertheless they decide to team up with each other, without being forced to do so.Not really the director's fault though. As a matter of fact, Peter Hyams is a quite underrated director. Yes OK so most of his latest works such as A Sound of Thunder is horrible but he also directed Capricorn One, 2010 and Sudden Death, which are all kind of underrated movies within their genre. It is unlikely though that he will ever make a movie like this again, since I don't think a lot of studios are still willing to give Peter Hyams a go with a big movie production, considering all of the box office bombs he directed the last couple of years. His latest movie that is currently in production, Beyond a Reasonable Doubt will probably also not become a success I would suspect. Sure it stars Michael Douglas but lets also be honest here, Michael Douglas hasn't starred in anything decent ever since the 2000 movie Traffic.In this movie it's mostly notable that Peter Hayms started his directing career in the '70's. This movie features some very typical '70's thriller elements. Most notably are its chases. This movie features some real good chase sequences. Also some good old fashioned foot chases. You don't need fast cars, explosions and fancy editing to make a good chase sequence, as this movie shows. Sometimes I really miss some good old fashioned foot chases in most recent productions.It's also of course nice that the movie features some good and well known actors but it's not like they can uplift the movie to a much higher level. The script is too simplistic, unoriginal and restrained for that. A waste of Sean Connery's and Meg Ryan's talent you could say. Funny thing is that Mark Harmon more or less later would play the same type of role in the hit-series Navy NCIS Naval Criminal Investigative Service.The movie is basically one big waste of a potentially good and interesting concept but the story unfortunately picks some uninteresting approaches to it. The main concept gets for instance much better handled in the Columbo movie Columbo By Dawn's Early Light. Not that this movie is completely horrible, it's just so very standard and forgettable all.5/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Ho-hum military thriller","Date":"30 June 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Very ordinary and from this standpoint, dated so-called thriller fronted by big names in stereotypical roles delivering through the motions performances. Connery's the biggest star name here and while his character at least boasts Scottish ancestry this time to explain and excuse his accent, he portrays his typical latter-day grizzled old man routine as a tough-as-nails military general who after defining his character by delivering epithets like I'll have your balls for breakfast and single-thumbedly (literally) taking out a big-mouthed pub boor, of course melts sufficiently to eventually accept enforced cooperation with maverick cop and previous subordinate Mark Harmon and naturally bridge the generation-gap between him and his rebellious daughter Meg Ryan so that they all end up arm-in-arm at the movie's conclusion, one big happy family to-be, case solved. Harmon does his best sub-Tom Cruise pretty-boy act, mugging at the camera to convey emotion whilst Meg Ryan replays her trademark goofy persona, all sheepish grins and mood swings like some hormonal adolescent teenager. The dialogue is clichéd and clunky, but at least the action sequences, particularly the first extended car - chase are delivered well. Unfortunately director Hyams brings the fairly slow-moving action to an almost complete standstill midway through the piece as emotional crises emerge!!! as Ryan falls out with Connery (naturally), offends and then (naturally) makes up with Harmon, before we encounter the ever so slight twist in the tale prior to a fairly ridiculous shoot-out where Connery and Harmon (naturally) come through unscathed at the finish. San Francisco as a backdrop portrays more character than the actors here, but well-shot as it is, Vertigo and Bullit this most certainly isn't. "}{"Title":"Unspoiled, thriller, that is still power-packed. Not over done.","Date":"11 September 2006","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" I loved the very entrance of this film. The music score and the first scene leads your curiosity along. You can't help enthrallment, wondering, what's about to happen and then what comes next? From it's beautiful backdrop in San Fransico, to the military base the Presidio, this is an excellent source of inspiration for such a story. The ranking Col.Caldwell (Connery) is solid as an old steel girder. And right from the moment Austin walks in (Harmon) you could feel the situation become more complicated and tense. The one part of the film, the only part that was 'off' for me was the kid at the car on the hill with the drugs, he's talking to the officers as if it's he is in a fifties gangster-movie -'See!?'. Not but seconds past that little 'digression' into the 50's a call comes out over the security band radio and it gets increasingly better. I believe this to be undoubtedly, Mark Harmon's best action role, he has ever starred in. Beside, Navy NCIS of course. Harmon's Lt. chasing a suspect in the street over tops of cars and then in a shocking finally, for the 'spook' that Austin was chasing--Gripping.Connery is in no less form as he stands to take Austin to task at every point. The trail that they follow through this picture is a thought provoking one. The plot is nicely set-up and executed. Connery is thoroughly convincing as his, emotionally unavailable father figure, widower, military Colonel. Harmon is equally poignant as Inspector Austin. They have an interesting partner chemistry from the first scene face to face. At one point after Austin has brought news to Caldwell's house, in the kitchen (Harmon) Austin, summons him to go along on an investigative lead after being insulted by the good Col. As Austin is leaving in a 'huff' Sir Sean, does at least '5' different expressions before answering Austin's invitation, to go check out I believe it was Col.Paul Lawrence's office. One word for this type of mastery performance 'Brilliant!' The piece of this movie that emotionally delivers it all, starts at, the water company after the confrontation with (Mark Blum) Arthur Peale's crew. after the death of Ross Maclure,Sgt. Maj. (Jack Warden)Lt. Col. Caldwell asks, Jay (Harmon)if he will simply delay the official police report for 48 hours, so that he can bury his friend (Maclure) with his name. Austin (Harmon)looks at him pauses, then shakes his head and agrees. But the final, segment that I can't seem to ever just get through dry-eyed, is the funeral For Sgt. Maj. Ross Maclure. Lt. Caldwell, gives an outstanding eulogy, of his friendship to Ross, and the history that they had together and in so delivers a powerhouse Grieving performance that for Connery I will not forget. It has a reality that is only seen at a funeral for a close friend, or loved one. That was everything I would want in a story even if I was directing it myself, right there wrapping up the final scene. Outstanding. By the way in 1993 I got to act in a film and have lunch with the cia spook Dana Gladstone, he was a lot of fun. This is one not to miss, I love it every time I see it. I recommend this one highly. (*****) "},{"Title":"I think it's OK!","Date":"14 December 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  I like this film better than most of the reviewers, it seems. I thought that Mark Harmon and Sean Connery worked very well together. A then pretty much unknown Meg Ryan shows why she eventually became a superstar. Hers was a relatively minor part in this film, but she did a great job. As I said, Harmon and Connery are symbiosis personified and the film benefits from the interaction between the two. The plot has a surprise ending (at least it surprised me!). This isn't one of those classic films, but it's a good one. I doubt that I'll buy it but I sure may rent it in the future. "},{"Title":"Boring, dumb, and bad","Date":"11 August 2007","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" I found this film to be really boring, dumb, and bad.It's billed as a crime film, and despite the fact that a crime occurs in the opening minutes, it's actually primarily not a crime film and is more a film about the father-daughter relationship between Meg Ryan and Sean Connery.But the crime aspect of the story was dumb, and just what the crime was about was never explained. The crime aspect of the story was clearly just an excuse to have a fight scene in a bar, a car chase scene or two, and some shoot 'em up scenes. It's not at all interesting. There's really no kind of whodunnit stuff if that's the kind of thing you're looking for. None of the criminals' characters are developed at all, if that's the kind of thing you're looking for.The other non-crime aspects of the story were really what this movie was about, and they were incredibly cheesy. This is basically an incredibly boring and bad cheesefest interspliced with some pointless car chases, fist fights, and shoot 'em up action.I thought it was poorly cast and badly directed, but, in all fairness, it seems as though it would have been impossible to have made a good film out of this horrid screenplay. The story is just dumb and boring.Mark Harmon was terrible and is not at all believable as a police officer. Meg Ryan was even worse. Some of her cutesy expressions where she tries to seem like a lost puppy are likely to cause cringing. Meg Ryan appears to be posing for the camera most of the time. Even Sean Connery was a little off at times.This is truly an example of bad cinema. There are plenty of films that I do not like but can see how various other types of people might well enjoy them. But I can't for the life of me figure out how anyone could see anything of value in this film.Do yourself a favor and skip this one. There is no need for anyone to see this as far as I can tell. There are at least 1,000 other films that you haven't seen yet that are better than this one, and chances are that seeing almost any other film would be a better use of your time. "},{"Title":"functional but not much more","Date":"14 March 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Two men kill an MP at the Presidio base during a break-in. This leads to a wild chase in San Francisco killing two cops. Police detective Jay Austin (Mark Harmon) is assigned the case. He is forced to deal with MP Lieutenant Colonel Alan Caldwell (Sean Connery). Years before, Caldwell was his commanding officer. He arrested Colonel Paul Lawrence (Dana Gladstone) but Caldwell wouldn't back him. He quited over the incident. Lawrence is again a suspect in the new case. Austin and Caldwell's relationship gets even worst when Austin starts dating Caldwell's daughter Donna (Meg Ryan).Before Mark Harmon made it on NCIS, he played a variety of roles including cops like this one. This seems set for a great thriller pairing him with a veteran like Connery. Yet this is less than that. Some of it is the fact that their characters don't get along. This is no buddy cop drama. The investigation is forgettable. Meg Ryan is doing a sex kitten thing. Everything is functional but not much more. Nobody is really excelling in this one. "},{"Title":"Connery fans should dig it.","Date":"17 January 2016","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" A break-in at a military base leads to a murder; the perpetrators' escape causes the death of a cop outside the base, so the case will involve both the San Francisco P.D. and the military police. Former MP Jay Austin (Mark Harmon) is now a detective who will butt heads with his old commanding officer, Lieutenant Colonel Alan Caldwell (Sean Connery). They'll argue about methodology, and jurisdiction, and other such things, and Jay will naturally fall in lust with Caldwells' conveniently cute daughter Donna (Meg Ryan).Although there are some good moments for the main actors - Jack Warden also among them, as Caldwells' longtime friend Ross Maclure - this movie is more entertaining during its murder investigation scenes. It IS played awfully straight, with not much in the way of humour, but then, this is more of a serious thriller than the typical buddy-cop action film. It does also have, however, a ridiculous scene that serves no real purpose to the plot other than to show how bad ass Connery is, as he beats up Rick Zumwalt (as a bully in a bar) with his THUMB. Slickly made, with capable direction by Peter Hyams, who again serves as as his own cinematographer (and does a better job of lighting the proceedings than usual). The location work in SF is excellent, fortunately.The handsome Harmon is passable as our likable good guy protagonist, but he doesn't have much chemistry with either Connery or Ryan. The supporting cast is solid Mark Blum, Marvin J. McIntyre, Dana Gladstone, the much too briefly seen Jenette Goldstein, Don Calfa (in a quick cameo), John DiSanti, Robert Lesser, Patrick Kilpatrick, etc., but Connery is the principal reason to watch The Presidio. His effortlessly strong presence lends itself well to the role of a career military man.This is easy enough to watch, but also easy enough to forget.Six out of 10. "},{"Title":"A film from the last years of the Army Presidio","Date":"6 December 2013","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" This is an enjoyable mystery, crime and action movie, with a good plot. As Lt. Col. Alan Caldwell and Police Detective Jay Austin, Sean Connery and Mark Harman play well off each other, although neither role is outstanding. Meg. Ryan, Jack Warden and the rest of the supporting cast are okay. The script is the weakest part of the film, and seems almost to drag the story along at times. The cinematography is very good, but could have been much better, give the location. My higher rating for The Presidio is because of the film setting, and its historical value in capturing the place and time when the San Francisco Presidio reigned as a renowned Army installation. Many scenes in the film show historical parts of the Presidio then. In 1994, the Presidio was closed as a military base &#x96; just six years after this film was made. But thankfully, much of the former Presidio is being preserved as an historical area. In 1996, Congress established a trust to oversee the area. Today much of the Presidio is part of the Golden Gate National Park. Part of the area has a combination of commercial and residential lands with parkland and historical sites maintained by the trust and the National Park Service. When it closed in 1994, the Presidio was the oldest continuously operated military base in the U.S. Visitors today can enjoy the several historic sites around the Presidio. Its National Cemetery is one of only two cemeteries that remain within the city of San Francisco. And the area has great views of the Golden Gate Bridge and San Francisco Bay. "},{"Title":"Hopelessly muddled cop snoozer.","Date":"21 June 2008","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" My Take A fine cast can't save this boring cop thriller. It's a bad sign when, even at the first few minutes of a film, you already feel bored and tired, checking your watches with a yawn isn't a good sign itself. This is exactly what I felt during the first few minutes of THE PRESIDIO, a hopelessly muddled entry in a long line of cop-buddy thrillers. After the opening credits have loomed across the screen (featuring a montage of famous San Fransisco landmarks), the first chase sequences ensues. The chase, which is almost just the same car chase sequence in BULLITT shot at night, no matter how much crashing and bashing had me bored. In fact, so much of the action in THE PRESIDIO can't make up for the hopelessly uninteresting plot and sluggish pacing. Considering the cast list (which includes A-listers as Sean Connery and Meg Ryan ), this is a major disappointment.Like other cop-buddy movies behind it, this film combines two unlikely cops teaming together, this case, Connery and Harmon as two cops who hate each other. Connery plays Lt. Col. Caldwell, a well-decorated police officer in the Presidio who is teamed up with former partner Jay Austin (Harmon), who got him in a lot of trouble years back. They're sent to investigate a murder in the Presidio. Subplot rises when Austin falls for Caldwell's teen daughter (Meg Ryan), which is intended to be the film's romantic side, but fails to achieve it since it rips-off every single romantic cliché in the recycle bin. In fact, Harmon isn't really much of a charmer, as he sleepwalks or overacts in his role. Connery is such a good actor, he manages to save himself in his minor role, but the scene where he fights a thug with his thumbs goes a long way (all is forgiven for Connery for winning an Oscar the following year for his performance in THE UNTOUCHABLES).Up until the climax (which is actually quite enjoyable), THE PRESIDIO is a tremendously dull cop thriller with no bite nor thrill. Director Peter Hyams has a way behind the camera as both director and cinematographer, but he hardly grabs you in this tedious police thriller-wannabe.Rating *1/2 out of 5. "},{"Title":"Shallow, unimaginative action potboiler.","Date":"28 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Sean Connery reunites with his Outland director, action maestro Peter Hyams, but this simple-minded action flick is a pretty inauspicious entry in the buddy-buddy genre (already over-populated with films like 48 Hours, Lethal Weapon, Running Scared, et al). What makes The Presidio doubly disappointing is that it was the film Sean Connery made immediately after his Oscar-winning turn in The Untouchables. To see the big Scot go from something so fine to something so indifferent feels a bit anti-climactic.The Presidio - America's oldest active military base, located in San Francisco - is the scene of the slaying of a female military police officer. Old-fashioned army hard-nut Lt-Col Caldwell (Connery) wants to investigate the death as a military enquiry, but is annoyed when the San Francisco P.D. pull rank on him and stipulate that their own detective, Jay Austin (Mark Harmon), must also be allowed to join the hunt for the killers. The situation is aggravated by the fact that Austin was formerly a soldier under Caldwell's command, but a clash of interests between the pair of them resulted in Austin's resignation. As the mismatched duo close in on the truth - involving diamond smuggling, of all things - Austin further jeopardises his already volatile relationship with Caldwell by falling for the Lt-Col's sexy daughter Donna (Meg Ryan).The film is predictable and unimaginative stuff, with little to make the viewer see why Connery chose to lend his talents to it. Hyams adds some of his customary chase sequences and action set-pieces, but no amount of slick surface-glitz can disguise the staleness of this story. The most memorable moment involves Connery beating up a loud-mouthed bully using only his thumbs, but even though the scene is quite funny it loses some of its appeal when one reflects how physically implausible it is. Harmon's performance seems to have been rather heavily criticised by commentators here on the IMDb but, while it's true that his character is boring and he plays it with indifference, he does at least look quite at home during the action interludes. The Presidio is not really worth seeking out, not even for a rainy day, though fans of Connery might want to catch it just once so that they can tick it from their list. "},{"Title":"Deadly","Date":"13 November 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" This has to rate as one of the worst films of all time. Not even the great Sean Connery can save it.This rambling mess tries to combine some bizarre smuggling gang, a murder, old soldiers, a cop with a chip on his shoulder, and an angry, oversexed woman.The lines are all leaden with clichés, the forced animosity between Mark Harmon and Sean Connery as cop and soldier is just that, forced. The animal attraction between Meg Ryan (yes, her eyes are beautiful and so is her hair) and Mark Harmon is totally fabricated, and there is not one minute of this mess that is remotely believable.Every five minutes the movie is going off in a different direction, and you're like, Huh? What? Why? Where? Who? On top of the plot less plot, most of the scenes are shot from a distance without any sense of drama, intrigue, nothing. There was an explosion at some point in the film that got a rise out of me, but that was about 75 minutes into it.Do not waste 90 minutes of your life watching this unintended joke fest unless you enjoy laughing at bad movies (because that's the only enjoyment you'll get out of this).Anyway, this was a sad excuse for a movie. "},{"Title":"Memories of Nam","Date":"2 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" ***SPOILERS*** Even though the action in the film The Presidio takes place within San Francisco's city limits it all centers around something that went on in South Viet Nam back in the late 1960's that later spilled over into the Philippine Islands. It's when lady US Army MP Patti Gene Lynch, Jenette Goldstein, is shot and killed investigating a break-in at the San Francisco's Presidio's military base that her killer takes off and ends up gunning down outside the Presidio grounds a SF policeman who tried to arrest him.With both the military and the SFPD involved tensions arise between the Presidio's Provost Marshall Lt. Col. Alan Cardwell, Sean Connery, and SFPD investigative detective Jay Austin, Mark Harmon, who are put on the case. It turns out that Austin was a member of the Presidio and was busted by Lt. Col.Cardwell over something involving Patti Jean Lynch, one of the two murder victims, and the two have no use for each other. What exactly Austin was busted for is never really explained but it had to do with another member of the Presidio Col Paul Lawrence, Dana Gladstone, who according to Austin Let.Col. Cardwell was covering up for. If this isn't confusing enough in pops Arthur Peale, Mark Blum, who's stolen car was found to be the getaway car in the crime! As it soon turns out Peale was also in Nam back in 1968 as a CIA undercover man who was very close to Col. Lawrence! What exactly does all this have to do with MP Patti Jean as well as SF cop getting killed over a break-in at the Presidio's officer club! As it soon turned out it was the delivery of the supply spring water to the club to water the plants there! But what was in the water bottle wasn't just water it was something that men as well as women would kill for and in this case they did!The movie gets even more confusing when were introduced to Medal of Honor winner and the curator of the Presidio's War Museum Sgt.Major Ross Maclure, Jack Warden, who's got a secret he's been hiding since his being back in Nam that he's being blackmailed over. Whatever that secret is were never told in the movie but it had to be a real whopper since it being made public can very well put the Medal of Honor winner behind bars for life or even in front of a US Army firing squad! We also have the handsome Jay Austin provided with a love interest in the film Let. Col. Cardwell's free spirited and non conformist daughter Donna, Meg Ryan. Donna's been driving her pop nuts for years in holding him responsible for the death of her mom who she claims the by the books and doing it, the housework and groceries, right Maj. Col. Cardwell drove to kill herself when Donna was two years old.***MAJOR SPOILERS*** It's after all the shooting and running in the movie and with the dozen or so bodies finally carted away that actor Sean Connery as the up tight Let.Col. Alan Cardwell had his finest moment. Giving a heart filled speech at the local military cemetery for his good friend and now departed Sgt. Major Maclure Connelly was so good and convincing that for a moment I forget that he was acting and broke into tears along with him and those in attendance at the funeral!P.S Check out the bar room fight that Let. Col. Cardwell has with the taunting and abrasive 270 pound world arm wrestling champ Rich Zumwalt. All it took for Let.Col.Cardwell to put the big guy away by busting him up, along with the bar they were in, was not even his right arm but his right thumb! Like Let.Col. Cardwell told the big lug before he really got to work on him that in using his left thumb it wouldn't be an even fight! I guess what Let. Col. Cardwell meant by that was that he was left-handed. "}{"Title":"Below par action comedy","Date":"25 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Mark Harmon plays a street-wise, smart-mouth San Francisco detective who is forced to team up with his former Military Police c.o. in Peter Hyams' thriller-comedy. The two reluctantly join forces in order to track down the murderer of a young ex-colleague.The Presidio is well photographed (Peter Hyams himself was Director of Photography) and features some excitingly staged action sequences, while the plot is quite reasonable and remains fairly interesting throughout. Unfortunately this movie is lacking the fabulous comedy Hyams delivered to us in Running Scared. One or two humorous moments do prevail, but it's never enough. And the final action sequence is a little disappointing as it is predictable and rather takes the easy way out.Sean Connery is a very enjoyable screen presence of course, and always an entertainment, but otherwise this is a below par action-comedy which fails to find sufficient consistency.Monday, February 14, 1994 - T.V. "},{"Title":"Buddy action thriller with a military twist","Date":"21 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" 'The Presidio' is a decent enough military action thriller, dating back to before 'JAG' or 'NCIS' were ever conceived. The film sees a military policewoman being murdered on her rounds at a San Francisco Army base. As the ensuing chase for the assailants involves both the military and civilian police, there is a resulting clash over who has jurisdiction to investigate the murder. Civilian Detective Jay Austin is sent only to find himself working with Lieutentant Colonel Caldell, his former commanding officer when he was an MP. To make matters worse, Austin finds himself falling for Caldwell's daughter.Sean Connery, as Caldwell, is suitably gruff with Austin and his men yet loving with his daughter. Mark Harmon plays Austin well as the brash young cop who is weary with military protocol despite expecting no less. The pair portray an interesting partnership that is contentious, at times, yet there is genuine affection there with Caldwell being almost paternalistic on occasion.The story is solid enough, keep viewers involved and throwing up well-depicted characters as well as reflecting upon the differences between the military and civilian police force. There is also plenty of action to keep things going. Fans of 'NCIS' would certainly enjoy this, if only to see Mark Harmon playing the less experienced, boisterous 'DiNozzo' character in Austin (a stark comparison to the stern Gibbs of the TV show, who may well have been modelled a bit on Caldwell!). A well-made buddy flick with a difference. "},{"Title":"Connery, Harmon, Ryan... What's not to like?","Date":"12 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" This movie has four of my favorite stars in it. Sean Connery, Mark Harmon, Meg Ryan and... San Francisco! At first, there is the obligatory friction between the Connery and Harmon characters. In the end, it takes a murder and Meg Ryan to get them working together.None of the main characters are really outstanding, but taken together, they make this film work. The whole is better than the sum of it's parts, especially when the direction of Hyams and the score of Broughton are added to the mix.Insofar as the ending is concerned, I suppose it could have been handled differently, but this was the eighties and having the Jack Warden character end up the way he did is a sign of the times.The actors perform well without overdoing it, the background is beautiful without stealing the scenes and the music is moving without being overwhelming. Overall, an enjoyable film I watch often.Received ** in my local ratings. I give it *** "},{"Title":"A cop and an MP who hate each other have to cooperate to solve a whodunit.","Date":"21 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" I enjoyed this film, even though it began and ended with typical unbelievable Hollywood action sequences -- one car flies over another and bursts into flames, instead of simply smashing into it broadside. Both also resulted from cops failing to call for backup, which predictably results in people getting killed.However, the performances, chemistry, and relationships between the four principals (Sean Connery, Mark Harmon, Meg Ryan, and Jack Warden), all of whom are damaged goods, makes for a very entertaining couple of hours. The characters held my interest because they learn about each other, about themselves, and about love.Sean Connery and Meg Ryan fans will love this. "},{"Title":"Okay military crime drama,","Date":"16 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" but nothing special.no suspense or tension,and characters i didn't care about.i also thought the storyline was underdeveloped.for me,there was way too much talking and very little in the way of action or excitement.it's 92 minutes i could have been doing something else.it's not horrible,by any means,but it certainly didn't live up to my expectations.which is a real shame,considering Sean Connery and Mark Harmon are in it.both put in real good performances,but it's the story that lets them down.Meg Ryan also appears but has a very small role.long before it was over,i didn't care what happened to who,and i just wanted it too end.i give The Presidio a 5/10 "},{"Title":"Couldn't finish it .. 3 Times !!!","Date":"17 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" If anybody told me 10 years ago that there is a thriller starring (Sean Connery) and (Meg Ryan) together and I won't be able to bear it to its end 3 times.. Maybe I would call him names, smash at least his face, and destroy his future for good !!!Just kidding. But the makers of this movie weren't ! However they made a movie which impelled me to wonder; what's the secret of that one's silliness ??I'm crazy about the queen of cheerfulness (Ryan) and the original James Bond (Connery). And yes, I'm not a fan of (Mark Harmon). But none of them is the one to blame here.Maybe it's the screenplay which was so tense between being a movie about having peace among one family and in one's soul, or being a bang bang action thriller. Both ways I thought it did an accepted job so you can see (The Presidio) as a mediocre social Film or a mediocre action movie !! But I didn't have a real fun while watching. Mainly because some kind of lame direction from (Peter Hyams), so with the low budget you might think it's a TV movie. And a boring one too !The only thing which survived, and still that original till now, is of course the love scene between (Meg Ryan) and (Mark Harmon) IN THE STREET !! When their love was exploding to the extent that they almost made love on the parked cars ! That's the one and only thing to enjoy in such a languid tasteless movie. But knowing that (Ryan) will end up in the arms of (Harmon) kept eating me all the time to tell you the truth. So here's another reason to dislike the whole thing!P.S  I've never ever commented on a movie without finishing it. So I had to watch the end of (Presidio) at last but in the fourth time. Yes, I was that board to death to find any other more important thing to do !! "},{"Title":"Good job by Connery & Harmon","Date":"18 September 2002","Score":"8 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is VERY underated. I think the chemistry between Mark Harmon and Sean Connery is great. They play off of each other very well. I'll have to see if they're in anything else together. Meg Ryan plays a kind of slutty girl at the start and never does become the wholesome type that people are always saying she plays. Jack Warden is also good in this one. "},{"Title":"Not as bad as everyone says, but don't expect too much","Date":"8 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Mark Harmon isn't a paragon of acting talent, but I think the presence of Sean Connery made him really try to get into his character for this movie. There's a lot of time between action for character reflection and it's a good thing that they spent some time developing these characters, otherwise we wouldn't care too much about the crime part of the story.I liked the chemistry between Harmon and Connery - they look like they really enjoyed themselves in the scenes they had together. I'm not a huge fan of Meg Ryan's cutesie act, but she doesn't annoy me enough here to detract from the overall experience. "},{"Title":"  Plenty of car chases around San Francisco.","Date":"12 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Lt. Colonel Alan Caldwell, Sean Connery (James Bond, Dragonheart) is an Army officer  who left the military police over a controversy in a  drunk driver case.  Jay Austin, Mark Harmon (From the Earth to the Moon, St. Elsewhere) and Caldwell hate each other.   Donna Caldwell,  Meg Ryan (Joe versus the Volcano, You've Got Mail)  is Lt.Caldwell's daughter. Father and daughter have a good relationship.  Jay and  Donna are instantly attracted to each other, but he does not like her dad.  Jay is investigating a murder that took place on The Presidio, a military base in San Francisco. The plot of this movie is more for a television series than for the big screen. Plenty of car chases around San Francisco.Although I purchased the tape because of Meg Ryan, whom I very much like,  she has very little screen time.  There is nothing spectacular about this movie. It is just an OK cop movie, if you are into cop movies.  Sgt. Major Ross Maclure, Jack Warden (While you Were Sleeping; Mighty Aphrodite) is a good actor,  whether he plays a bad guy,  or a good guy. It is more like a rental tape, and not one to enhance your video library with because after you have watched it once there is nothing much there to dig into. Just rent it and enjoy it once!  "},{"Title":"A Good Film but...","Date":"29 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" This is a good movie and a good story. Sean Connery was great in this film as well as Jack Warden and Meg Ryan. I can't say that I like Mark Harmon's character that much because he was too hard and basically argued everything with Connery. Peter Hyams is a talented film maker with both directed and cinematography. His previous film 2010, The Year We Make Contact proved it. This film could have been nominated for an Oscar or two such as Film Editing. The script was good but could have taken itself a little less seriously and had some more points of humor. If you ever get a chance to see this movie, give it a look. It's entertaining. *** out of ****. "}{"Title":"Too many subplots","Date":"12 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  This movie had the potential for greatness.  But, as other people have said, there are too many subplots going on, and it makes the movie seem watered down.  The plot that was established in the beginning (the MP being shot) doesn't seem to be the focus of the rest of the movie.HOWEVER, the reason why I like this movie is the funeral scene w/ Sean Connery.  I LOVED it.  I could watch that scene again and again.  It made sitting through the rest of it worth the wait.   "},{"Title":"The TV listings said suspense; I say yawner.","Date":"18 February 2001","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  An utter waste of time, where the sum of the parts is close to zero.The biggest problem with this movie is that it tries to tell a half-dozen or more separate stories, each in isolated compartments.  This does not make for a single integrated, engaging tale.Nominally, the plot is a search for the killers of an on-duty Army MP of no further relevance to the plot. The quest keeps getting shoved aside by separate stories about (a) the antipathy between detective Mark Harmon, as an ex-MP, and his military former superior,  Sean Connery; (b) the severe tensions between Connery and Meg Ryan, as his eligible only daughter; (c) the rocky courtship of Ryan by Harmon, and the deep psychology behind the difficulties; (d) Connery's also-deep unresolved issues over the long-ago loss of his wife; (e) the friendship between Jack Warden and Connery, apparently a result of some heroic actions in Viet Nam, and explored in several leisurely scenes;  (f) the relationship between Ryan and quasi surrogate father Warden; (g) a Major that Harmon previously roughed up while an MP and still hates; (h) a businessman who owned the killers' getaway car and has a drink coaster lying in his office (are either he or the Major a part of the plot or not?); (g) Connery's innate combativeness, as demonstrated in an extended bar fight totally extraneous to the plot; (h) various other scenes intended to remind us that, really, relationships have not been left out of the story; (i) the mystery of Connery's peculiar speech a real accent  or just an idiosyncrasy, and if real, from where; etc. --- Now, do you remember what the plot is about???Except for some routine San Francisco car chases, not even the participants are in a hurry to solve this case, since to compare notes they schedule meetings  for breakfast the next day.A penultimate scene involving automatic weapons in a bottled-water warehouse could have been staged for more spectacle, though that would not have saved this unstitched patchwork quilt of a non-story. "},{"Title":"Waste of time for Sean Connery and whoever watches this movie","Date":"26 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  My Age 13There is a murder at the Presidio army base.  Police Detective Jay Austin, played by Mark Harmon, is brought in to investigate, and must see and put up with his old enemy Lt. Colonel Alan Caldwell, played by Sean Connery.  They had a disagreement years earlier and now hate each other, but they must co-operate if they are to solve the case.  Austin is also in love with Caldwell's daughter, Donna, played by Meg Ryan.Sean Connery is one of my favourite actors, and I am baffled as to why he is in this film.  My guess is he was just picking up a paycheck.  This film doesn't deserve Sean Connery or Meg Ryan either.  Connery's acting isn't that great in this film, but Ryan does well, and Mark Harmon, who is not a particularly good actor, isn't great.  I have never seen a plot get unravelled easier than in this film.  One piece of evidence leads them straight to the killer.  The film is also boring throughout most of it, and Jack Warden also has a rather small role in the film.  Whether it is Caldwell or Austin, you don't care about what happens to any of the characters in this film.  This film is a disappointment, one that you should avoid.Australian Classification M 15+Rating 43 out of 100 "},{"Title":"Lame action movie","Date":"28 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  The Presidio is boring film. It includes ok acting, but the plot is stupid and the finale action scene is stupid. The movie has sub-plots, but they lead to nowhere. There's not much action scenes, when they come, they're boring too common chase scenes. Simply awful film.* out of ***** "},{"Title":"You know how you've heard this movie is really bad? Well, whoever told you that is RIGHT...","Date":"26 October 2003","Score":"4 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  48 Hours--two mismatched cops. Red Heat--two mismatched cops. Lethal Weapon--two mismatched cops. Do we really need any more entries into this genre? No. But at least the preceeding films had either a level of wit or chemistry--perhaps both--that made them quality entertainment. The Presidio, a cop-buddy film with Sean Connery and Mark Harmon, is nothing special at all. It's routine and boring, and if that wets your lips then dig in.Mark Harmon plays a Chicago cop brought in to investigate the murder of a fellow officer of the law. Sean Connery is his Scottish partner, a hard-nosed fellow with an attractive daughter (played by Meg Ryan) who takes a liking to Harmon (by matter of script cliches). They hit it off much to the chagrin of her father, who continues to be paired with the young American. They end up in the usual car chases and on-foot pursuits.Action purses around just about every corner. There's a chase where Harmon is leaping over the hoods of cars and Sean Connery is dragging behind, looking very much out of breath and tired. But this is a boring film--one that put me to sleep in the first minute and, from the looks of it, many other people, too. Connery tries hard to fight against the material, but Harmon is the film's primary flaw--he's like Kevin Costner on sleeping medication. Meg Ryan is the typical sweet Girl Next Door love interest, but she would display much more acting skills in the next year's When Harry Met Sally with Billy Crystal.The script leaps all logic. It's as bleak, dry and typical as a film in this genre can get. I expected a nice source of entertainment in this film. It not only does not entertain, it literally repulses the viewer. Sean Connery and Mark Harmon have no chemistry on-screen. They pretty much just run about screaming at each other. Sean Connery has the Straight Man role that Arnold Schwarzenegger, Danny Glover and Nick Nolte have all played before. Which leaves room for the Comic Loose Man. But Harmon isn't a comical guy, and he isn't as loose as he is just plain ignorant. This is a poor example of buddies.The movie was directed by Peter Hyams, who obviously needs a lesson in how to properly construct a fast-paced and engaging cop-buddy film. This movie suffers from lack of pace and lack of solid direction--one of its biggest flaws apart from casting decisions. Not only that, but the writer, Larry Ferguson, needs to take some lessons in how to cross the boundaries of a regular script and breathe into his characters life. There's a difference between written characters and typed characters. His are in the latter category.The movie is 97 minutes long and it feels two times longer. I recently saw a buddy flick called Hollywood Homicide with Harrison Ford and Josh Hartnett. Even that film was better than this--and Hollywood is making my list of the worst films of 2003. Only really big fans of Sean Connery should venture near this. And the fans of Mark Harmon should all be taken out to a field and shot.1/5 stars.- John Ulmer "},{"Title":"Worst chase scene in film history","Date":"29 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  There isn't a lot to recommend this film. Sean Connery is an American military officer. Complete with Scottish accent. Meg Ryan is out of place as his daughter, and too old for the role she is given. Mark Harmon is a one dimensional actor and that one dimension isn't enough as a San Francisco police officer. What this basically comes down to is another police buddy picture with a bit of a twist, one is a cop (Harmon) and the other is military police (Connery). It's pretty typical stuff except that a great actor is miscast, an average actress is so far out of place her character should be in another movie, and a lesser actor is in the lead. The screenplay is predictable and the direction is almost absent. And as if that weren't bad enough, the worst chase scene in film history is present. A foot chase with Harmon chasing a suspect. Everything that can be thrown into the scene to slow Harmon down is tossed in right after the suspect passes by. People, flashing barricades, milk crates, luggage, and even a horse are thrown in Harmon's way during the chase that ends so routinely that a monkey could have written it. "},{"Title":"Avoid This","Date":"20 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  What a lame, shallow waste of time talent and money. I wanted the antagonist to kill the good guy after the first half hour and put all of us out of our misery. It's movies like this, with big production budgets promotional dollars that should go down as the worst movies of all time (Men At Work also comes to mind) instead of clearly underambitious drivel like Manos or Eeeeagh. It made me angry that this got made and released and that I actually paid to watch it. "},{"Title":"I was unhappy enough to watch it, but you beware","Date":"1 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" I was unhappy enough to watch it in our cheap national called new television private TV station. I was first intrigued to see Sean Connery and Meg Ryan to it; then understand that Ms Ryan takes off her shorts faster than I can put mine on... and that an American military officer speaks English with outstanding Scottish accent ... I should turn my TV off right after the sex scene between Ryan and that police officer (... huh forgot the actor's name ... was it because he is no actor?) but I didn't. What I found out - as usual - pretty damn much clichés including chase scenes and especially shoot scenes at the end. What a lack of imagination! How stupid do you think we are, Mr Director of the movie! How can they cannot hit the good guy from 10 meters with a machine gun shot and especially when the bad guy shoots the good guy when he runs out to him (what a good way to get yourself killed in the real world). The scene with the thumb battle is more than ridiculous especially from my point of view - I deal with Aikido and Karate for more than 10 years. What else to say - avoid this cheap pile of crap! Record bare breast of Ms Ryan if you're fond of her and delete the rest. I really do agree with the previous viewers who think that Mr Connery was participating only because of the paycheck. In the end of the long run, I do understand him - he has to pay taxes too so he is in need to play in turkeys. "},{"Title":"I would like to set the record straight","Date":"15 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Regarding military institutionsArmy institutions are called PostsNavy, BaseMarines, CampAir Force, ah, who really cares. They do have some nice golf courses.So you see, when you call an Army Post a base, you are insulting the Department of the Navy.It seems I need to write at least a minimum to get this posted. This film is pretty sorry, but its a Peter Hyams film. I am curious why Connery worked with Hyams a few times. The chase scene in the second act is pretty funny as you can see extras throwing everything but the kitchen sink in Harmon's way, as he probably demanded the chance to show off his agility and re-live his Quarterbacking days from UCLA. "}]