[{"Title":"Decent","Date":"27 July 2006","Score":"22 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I was able to see Lady in White today on TV. At first I was just mildly interested in what I believed to be a kids movie. Once I realized this film was no children's film, I was sucked right in.Frankie is a young, smart child of an Italian family in the town of Willowpoint Falls. He has a great imagination and is able to express it on Halloween while in school. Afterwards however, Frankie is locked into the school's coat room for the night by two bullies and witnesses something remarkable. He witnesses the ghost of a little girl being killed by the hands of an unknown man 10 years prior. The ghost begins to follow Frankie and he sort of befriends her as he attempts to discover who killed the little girl and 10 other children in the town. Lukas Haas is exceptional in the lead role of Frankie. He is sweet, fun-loving, and extremely enjoyable to watch on the screen. Haas does a fine job in his portrayal of the haunted boy and brings out his character quite easily. Alex Rocco also does quite well in his supporting role of Frankie's father. You are able to tell, even without it being talked about, that he is a good, kind man and father. That he is always looking out for his sons with the loss of his wife. Rocco shows his acting ability well.Originally I thought this film to be a children's film and was quite convinced it was until I saw the coat room sequence. The acting of the little girl as she is killed by the invisible force is shocking and terrifying. I was truly frightened by the scene and knew it was no longer a children's film. My only complaint, which is a large one, is the lack of emphasis on the Lady in White. SHe is barely shown the whole film and it confused me slightly why they named the film after her.Age does show on this film with the cheesy special effects. However the story is able to overthrow the poor special effects. The acting is solid, the story is well thought out and the characters are quite enjoyable to watch. 3 out of 5 Stars "},{"Title":"This is a beautiful ghost story, nothing terrible about it!","Date":"11 April 2005","Score":"25 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I saw this movie when I was only seven or so and have loved it ever since. Perhaps it is not has high tech as other movies but it has really wonderful elements. The execution of this film is wonderful. As opposed to the last comment on this movie, I have to disagree. I think an open mind is needed to fully appreciate older films. If you do not feel that something from the eighties and older is worthy of your time this probably is not the movie for you. If you do love a good ghost story, try this one on for size. It isn't a scary movie, relatively mild with very little violence and no blood. It is creative and really heart warming. "},{"Title":"Very Atmospheric","Date":"23 January 2006","Score":"14 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Despite a few plot gaps, this is a very charming, atmospheric movie. The view is through the eyes of the main child-character, Frankie Scarlatti, and we see what he sees. This is a wonderful ghost story, not a horror film at all. Lukas Haas' character, Frankie, is vulnerable, yet determined to get at the heart of the mystery. Katherine Helmond is touchingly effective in her role as the grandmother of the murdered girl. My only complaint is that I get no clues from the plot or characterizations about what caused the killer to act. Yet I can suspend belief long enough to go with the childlike curiosity into the mysterious story. This is what I call a little movie, no splashy special effects or over-the-top story lines, just a simple, sweet movie. "},{"Title":"I enjoy this movie every time I watch it!","Date":"7 February 2008","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I just don't know what it is but this movie is like an Old Friend to my older sister and I. We always watch it together and now my 6 1/2 yr old watches it with us. I think because it's scary,but not too scary and YES we always end up singing that song for day's after we watch it.When ever we ask people have you seen this movie they are alway glad we told them about it..it's one of those movies you either never heard of, or never thought to watch and once you do your glad you did.I love the Halloween theme and the Little Sleepy Town feeling you get in this movie. Grandma & Grandpa are by far my favorite's in this film, There is such a Loving Closeness between them.It's just a good anytime movie. "},{"Title":"dark memories","Date":"30 April 2011","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" If you're expecting a typical slasher, you'll be disappointed. Frank LaLoggia's Lady in White is a more subtle horror flick, with limited violence and no sex or nudity. It depicts a boy who witnesses an apparition of a murder and then tries to find out what happened. The movie makes a lot of use of shadows to elicit its horror, and the answer to the mystery slowly but surely evolves. Moreover, it's also interesting to see a horror movie seen from the eyes of a child, as opposed to horny teenagers. Of course, there's no shortage of comic relief, especially from the boy's grandparents. This movie isn't any kind of masterpiece, but I still enjoyed it.Starring Lukas Haas (the Amish boy in Witness), Len Cariou, Alex Rocco (Moe Greene in The Godfather) and Katherine Helmond. "},{"Title":"Help me find her!","Date":"20 October 2010","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Lady in White is directed, produced & written by Frank LaLoggia. It stars Lukas Haas, Len Cariou, Alex Rocco, and Katherine Helmond.Lady In White arrived to no great fanfare in 1988, it got a limited release in theatres and promptly vanished from the public view. However, it did find a cult following thanks to the burgeoning success of the VHS home format. It seemed that, for home viewings at least, there was a market for a good old fashioned ghost story with a mystery killer kicker at its core. 1988 was the year that cash cow blood movies really started to bang the horror fans over the head. There were sequels for Elm Street, Critters, Friday the 13th, Fright Night, Hellraiser, Halloween, Poltergeist, Phantasm, Living Dead and Killer Tomatoes. But in amongst all that grue and lazy film making were two smart atmospheric movies splicing fantasy realms with their horror. One was the magnificent Paperhouse, the other was of course Lady In White.It would be foolish of me to claim that Lady In White is flawless because that simply isn't the case, the rubbish score and its budgetary restrictions mean it simply hasn't aged as well as the afore mentioned Paperhouse. Suffice to say this isn't a film for everyone, and certainly not for those who drooled spittle over Halloween 4 The Return of Michael Myers or Friday the 13th Part VII The New Blood. But LaLoggia's ambition and genuine affection for his story lifts this far above many of 1988's tepid releases.Plot sees Lukas Haas play Frankie, a young boy who as part of a bully prank gets locked in the school cloak-room on Halloween night 1962. Whilst there he observes the ghostly apparition of a young girl, from where he then learns how she sadly became a ghost in the first place. First as he witnesses her murder, then as he is attacked by the unknown assailant who has returned to the cloak-room for some incriminating evidence he left behind. Surviving the attack (one of the film's itchy flaws since the killer must closely know him to let him live), Frankie embarks upon a mission to uncover the story behind the little girl's murder. It's a story that involves ghosts wandering around searching for closure, a serial child killer and the potentially wrongful incarceration of the school's black janitor. All of which is set in the delightfully named Willowpoint Falls; which by day has ethereal charm, but by night oozes with creepy hues.It's using this home town feel of small Americana that gives the film its solid base to build from. LaLoggia knows that we have seen all too many ghost stories framed around the creepy mansion formula, so he sets this up in and around an everyday life that most can identify with. This Capraesque type town has a very human feel to it, thus the dark secrets that unravel gain added chills. It's an approach that David Koepp's criminally undervalued Stir Of Echoes would harness in 1999. LaLoggia's movie also benefits from strong performances from the principal actors, with Haas (unassuming with commonsense child mannerisms) & Rocco (emotionally tortured but stoic father) playing out two of the best turns in the horror calendar year.Guessing the killer isn't hard, and in fact he shows up rather too early. While the motive(s) for the monstrous acts that are committed here are never given (he just does it it seems). But this is a clever and well made film. The monsters lay not with the ghosts that glide in and out of Frankie's life, but in the maniac that kills children and the racist undertones that bubbles behind the surface of Willowpoint Falls' pretty facade. Factors that sadly over 30 years on still trouble society greatly. 7.5/10 "},{"Title":"Locked away.","Date":"19 July 2008","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Frankie and his so called friends are having a Halloween party at school but his friends end up locking him in the cloak room for the weekend. Some friends they are. So Frankie is sitting there freezing when he sees a ghost and it leads to solving a series of murders over the past ten years. Frankie gets out of the cloak room of course and then he has to figure out who did what.It was a pretty good mystery. The special effects were pretty corny but the story is well thought out. There is also a little dark humor in it too that involves the grandfather. The older brother is a big jerk but not really a major character until he becomes the hero at the end. Sort of. It's not too scary but it's a pretty good family mystery movie. "},{"Title":"Why independent movies are so weird?","Date":"1 August 2008","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" What makes a good mystery? First of all, weirdness. I've seen a lot of ghost-movies but only a few come close to the beautiful weirdness of this independent movie. Over 4000 people gave their pennies to make this movie come true and it was really worth it. Just like Taboada's Hasta el viento tiene miedo, LaLoggia's Lady in White is an absolutely astonishing movie in every part of it, starting from the visual style to the plot. Of course, like in every movie made on low budget it has pretty bad special effects, sometimes so bad that you want the movie to be remade, but in fact, this is the kind of movie that's totally impossible to be remade without ruining its incomprehensible glamor. Once finished watching, someone would think that it's the plot that makes this movie so unique, but for a movie-lover it's not too hard to remember at least a couple of other flicks with similar plots but miles weaker than Lady in White, so it's obvious that everything acting, direction, music, design, photography; so well fit together so they create a potion of pure imagination incredibly interknit with an almost touchable reality. It's the best movie that can be called a screen version of a Christmas story told by the fire by your grand. More than worth watching.Unfortunately this movie has not been released on DVD in Russia (just as Hasta el viento... and many other amazing fantasy movies), so I can share my admiration with only a few people. "},{"Title":"Perfect for Hallowe'en","Date":"11 October 2005","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" This film combines elements from many other genres, and makes itself unique. It is a ghost story, a murder mystery, a nostalgia film, and a family drama.The story is centered on Frankie, a successful novelist of horror stories. He returns to his home town in the Northeastern United States, during autumn, and the basic film is a flashback.Within the film are hints that make it more intriguing. Frankie sells greeting cards, and from them gets a typewriter, presaging his career as an author. His schoolwork reflects this, as he writes a frightening short story to spook his schoolmates -- and his teacher. A couple of his classmates trick him into going into the coat closet as the school is closing, and lock him in.After trying to get out, he eventually falls asleep, and wakens to the sight of the ghost of a young girl, who is condemned to relive, as it were, her murder. Later, the murderer comes into the closet and nearly strangles Frankie to death.Frankie has a near-death experience, but is revived. He then experiences a number of unusual events, such as seeing The Lady In White, a ghost of a woman seeking her missing daughter. Much of the story is seen in the context of an Italo-American family, with mild comedic incidents.Major spoiler The identity of the murderer is a bit easy to figure out, particularly with him whistling an early Bing Crosby song that Frankie (and the audience) knows is connected to the little girl's ghost.The film delivers on all its fronts, and is perfect to watch after the Trick-Or-Treaters have finished. "},{"Title":"Expectations Should Be Exceeded","Date":"22 November 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Picture a sleepy rural community by the sea where children play in fields, family members work together and a ghost appears to a young boy to receive aid in finding peace. These are some of the story lines of Lady in White. the picture was directed by Frank LaLoggia and he gives it a picturesque Ray Bradbury kind of tone, mood, and setting. It was as if I were transported back into some aspects of my childhood as the film centers on the point of view of a young boy named Frankie Scarlatti. The story is not grandiose by any means you will know the identity of the killer fairly quickly just by instincts. The real power of the film for me was the presentation of the film - the creepy moments with the Lady in White, Katherine Helmond as a crazed woman obsessed with candles, and the claustrophobic atmosphere of a little school room. The rural setting is wonderfully portrayed and the resolution to the story has heart and scares. I was impressed with the acting all around from Lukas Haas as Frankie, to Alex Rocco as his father giving a great performance and certainly one not his general type, Len Cariou as a family friend, and Helmond as well. This is at its core a ghost story and one of the better ones I have seen of late. It is family-friendly yet eerily frightening. This is one of those perfect films to watch on a cold, winter evening. "}{"Title":"Freaky and Great Little Flick","Date":"24 July 2005","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I bought the DVD last year when it was limited, as i loved this movie as a kid.Now, its coming back out on DVD again under the MGM Company, so i suggest people to buy this movie. Don't let this sleeper hit slip away again before the DVDs get sold out again.The movie has a scary feeling to it, sort of like The Midnight Hour or The Monster Squad (which wasn't scary really) but i hope you know what i mean when you see it.For those of you who have seen it, get voting on here too, it deserves more than 6.7!! "},{"Title":"The perfect for Halloween and Christmas movies to Horror fans.","Date":"31 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" This was not what I expected at all, I thought it about Haunted school by a Lady in white, (By the title)The first Half or so , where really lighthearted , it felt bit kids Halloween movie as first, then we get ghostly part of the movie. (Which wasn't really creepy.)Then the movies goes Mystery away, finding out who the attack or Killer was, (Some clues long the away, which make sense in the end,)I liked it how it was revealed who the attack was, it something so small give away, some of the of the fantasy scenes were really pointless.Some of effects this movie looked really outdated now, I think they should just kept Halloween theme though out the movie, (However this could be watch at Halloween and Xmas).However I felt missed out on the aftermath of the whole story, Wanted to see people find who the killer was, it never get to see that, which I way going give this movie. 7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Excellent independent film","Date":"10 January 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I enjoyed Lady in White in general. Lucas Haas' performance was wonderful and the acting in general was of very high quality. It took the film a long time to get started. In fact it dragged in the beginning with not much of anything compelling to care about. I realize this is in keeping with the concept that nothing very much ordinarily happens in a town of the kind we see but the point is belabored. The music was simply not very good. It was heavy-handed and not always necessary. Sometimes it actually got in the way. I suppose the director/actor/composer wore one hat too many.Curtis Stotlar "},{"Title":"A Decent Ghost Story","Date":"17 February 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" This is a nicely done, embracing effort that has some visual elements mindful of ET. The young people are really quite believable. There are bullies, unpredictable brothers, secrets, and lots of love in a family missing a mother. This draws us into a small town which sits on the fringes of an unnamed city. A young boy sees a ghost after being locked in an elementary school cloakroom. He comes to realize it is the restless spirit of a little girl who longs to find her mother. This sets things up nicely. Unfortunately and tragically, the black janitor of the school is blamed for the assault and then charged with the murders of twelve other children. This is absurd because anyone with common sense could see that, while he could have committed the assault, he couldn't have been charged with a capital crime. The movie involves the young boy putting together the pieces, including a class ring found in a heating vent. This is a nice enough story. It's weakness is that it gets too sappy at times. I really got tired of the grandpa and his excuses to smoke. They were just overly cute. Still, it's pretty captivating and works pretty well. "},{"Title":"A Rare Treat","Date":"12 July 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" This is one of the few occasions that the little guy shows Hollywood how it should be done. I have watched this movie on both video & DVD since it was first released and it never grows tiresome. The mature acting of LUCAS HAAS & the rest of the cast, The splendid photography and the memorable music score make this movie stand up to repeated viewing. The music was written by the director himself and could teach certain composers a trick or two about the art of music composition for films. This movie only gets a 9 vote because there is no such thing as a perfect 10. All of this makes The Lady in White a rare treat. I have to say Mr.La Loggia a job well done. "},{"Title":"Cliché-ridden, cloying and way too precious","Date":"24 May 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Having read some good reviews for this film, I made a point of recording it from Flix this week. Somehow, over the years, I had missed seeing it, but knew of it.The movie is a major disappointment. Badly directed, with cartoonish performances, horrible special effects (yes, even for 1988) and an overbearing soundtrack, the whole thing plays like a Lifetime movie as channeled through an 80s Spielberg wanna-be. The presentation of 1962 small town America is apparently intentionally meant to be a cliché to the extreme, but to what end? The style lends a comic, sit-com atmosphere throughout the film, that fights against any horror elements present in the script.The outcome is telegraphed so blatantly, that it would be impossible to imagine that anyone cannot immediately figure out who the killer is.If this movie is meant for children in the five-to-ten age range, it is offset by surprising violence and profanity. Of course, in the 80s, it was a trend to throw these elements into the mix of a 'family film, especially in those related to Amblin, or its copycats.Overall, a laughable, cringe-inducing viewing experience, not recommended for young children or discerning adults. "},{"Title":"somewhat lame but I enjoyed it.","Date":"6 June 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" LADY IN WHITE tackles a ghost story, comedy, racism and family in a movie that doesn't quite deliver all the goods but I liked it for what it was.Young Frankie Scarlatti, upon having a trick played on him by two smart ass classmates, is locked in the cloakroom (closet-whatever you want to call it) of his school and witnesses the murder of a little girl. Only thing is, what he is witnessing is the girl's ghost being murdered as what happened 10 years ago replays right there before Frankie's eyes. Suddenly, the man who did this returns to look for the school ring he lost that night he murdered the young girl because he knows that the school's heating system is being renewed and if the ring is found he'll certainly be caught and sent to jail. That's when he spots Frankie and starts to strangle him. But somehow Frankie survives and his father shows up and Frankie is carted off to the hospital. The police automatically haul off the black janitor of the school to jail because he was the only one in the building at the time these events happened. He was there because he got drunk and fell asleep. Makes sense to me. Anyway, the young girl's ghost returns and helps Frankie (and even his older turd of a brother) figure out who the real culprit is. Unfortunately for the janitor, this is too late. In one of the most shocking scenes in a movie like this, the janitor is shot to death outside of the Court House, after he is let free, by one of the dead children's mothers (this killer killed quite a few kids). What I mean by shocking is that this scene doesn't really fit a movie of this nature but would of been more suited for a much more riveting film. LADY IN WHITE is not riveting by any means what-so-ever but I sure did enjoy myself while watching it. "},{"Title":"Interesting ghost story","Date":"13 July 2000","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I suppose _Lady in White_ can be viewed as a horror film. It is a supernaturalistic ghost story that relies on mood and suspense to generate its scares, rather than gratuitous and explicit gore. And while some of the special effects seem dated by today's standards, that didn't really detract from my interest in the film. Creative camera work and moody score on a couple of scenes actually gave me chills. I also think that this is a film that fans of good mystery should also find to their liking. Overall, this is a good film from a relatively unknown director, Frank LaLo "},{"Title":"Patchey Ghost Story","Date":"14 January 2006","Score":"16 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" On FILM 88 legendary British film critic Barry Norman reviewed two  horror  movies. One was HELLBOUNDHELLRAISER 2 and the other was LADY IN WHITE . Barry hated HELLBOUND which is unsurprising since he is notoriouslyintolerant of gore and violence but he did praise THE LADY IN WHITE but after finally seeing it I have to admit it's a very patchy movie Much of the problem lies in the film trying to say a little too much . It's set in Willowpoint Falls in 1962 and of course the civil rights campaign is just getting in to flow which means there's a subplot that isn't actually needed . If it'd been set in 1988 you'd have a much more streamlined story . Considering the title of the movie the title character doesn't make an appearance until well into the second half of the running time and up till then GIRL IN PINK would have been a more appropriate title In fact nothing much at all happens until a subplot featuring a ring comes to the fore and when it does the story becomes compelling and exciting and a little bit disturbing . Unfortunately this doesn't happen until something like 15 minutes before the credits start rolling which gives you an idea of how much potential is wasted and that's a great shame "},{"Title":"Not for kids..","Date":"10 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I may be the odd dissenter here, but I don't think this is really a kids movie. IMDb rates it as R, yet other places list it as PG-13. For a movie from 1988, it suffers from extremely poor special effects. The movie itself seems to suffer from having green mile and sling blade ambitions, but gets confused and a instead, ends up a goosebumps style, Saturday afternoon special that is little more than a train wreck of styles and themes. There's a racial subplot and a subtle theme of pedophilia that run throughout the movie and sadly, the former never ends up being resolved and the latter does little more than skew this movie away from being for kids, despite its B grade special effects and the fact that most of the main characters are children.It is a good movie an it's directed quite well, however the movie sadly feels like it was caught in a tug of war between the director, writer and the people financing the film. It falls too far short to be an entertaining film for adults and yet contains too many adult themes and language for kids. "}{"Title":"Good  classic ghost story but could have been told in less time","Date":"27 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Yes I liked this 'ghost' story. It's pretty classic storyline. A young boy is locked up in the cloak room at school by two of his classmates. He witnesses a tragedy that happened 10 years ago. He almost gets killed by the child murderer himself. Seeing the ghost of the murdered little girl again begging him to reunite her with her mother he is dedicated to find out what happened and even more who the killer is. His quest is full of suspense, spooky at times with the legend of the lady in white making it even more mysterious. One of the minor issues I have with the movie is its duration with the pretty unnecessary sub plot of the accusation of the school janitor who happens to be black. Also the real motives of the killer for his killings are not quite clear, I would have loved to get some more light on that. But overall really enjoyable and interesting movie with a good story. "},{"Title":"Fine Halloween viewing.","Date":"26 October 2014","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Writer / director / composer Frank LaLoggia concocted this effective, truly independent production that crosses over a few genres childhood vignette, intense human drama, supernatural thriller. Despite the presence of some cheese ball special effects, it's an absorbing story that does get a number of things right. For example, it perfectly captures that small town feel, in this case an upstate New York town in the 1960s. It also creates vivid images in the way that this town moves through the seasons. The atmosphere is just about perfect. Some of the material may be a little too intense for younger viewers, but LaLoggia eschews graphic gore in favour in mood and suspense. And the performances are all quite good.Young Lukas Haas stars as Frankie Scarlatti, living with an older brother (Jason Presson), widowed father (Alex Rocco), and grandparents (Renata Vanni, Angelo Bertolini). During Halloween season, he's locked in the cloakroom of his school by bullying classmates. There he witnesses the ghostly murder of a little girl (which had taken place 10 years previous). Then the killer actually makes an appearance, throttling Frankie during their search for a piece of evidence. Surviving the ordeal, Frankie makes it a point of solving the killing (and other molestation-killings of children in the town over the past decade) and helping the girls' spirit to rest. It all seems to be tied to the presence of a mysterious, legendary Lady in White (Katherine Helmond) residing in a forlorn old house.Haas couldn't be more appealing, and the adult cast is excellent. Rocco gets one of the nicer, more sensitive roles of his career as the loving dad; also appearing are Len Cariou, Jared Rushton, Lucy Lee Flippin, Tom Bower, Sydney Lassick, and Bruce Kirby. LaLoggia, who'd previously done the horror film Fear No Evil, makes the tale emotionally involving even if the viewer is able to figure out the identity of the psycho early on. He also works in a subtext of racism into the proceedings, with the hapless janitor (Henry Harris) at his school implicated in this series of murders. Vanni and Bertolini supply a heavy dose of comedy relief as the grandparents, with him often foiled in his attempts to sneak cigarettes.All shot in style by Russell Carpenter, this is a good little film worthy of some respect.Eight out of 10. "},{"Title":"Blast from the Past","Date":"9 August 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" This was a strange but perfect Halloween movie for me growing up in the early 90s.It has all the ingredients in it for a eerie and chilling movie. Lucas Haas was great in it as usual and the full cast played a good roll in the movie.If you liked movies like The Monster Squad, The Midnight Hour and Trick r' Treat (2008), then this is a movie for you.It is a haunting movie that not only puts chills through your spine, but also the younger audiences too. I watched it when I was around 5 or 6 for the first time, and never forgot it.I absolutely recommend this movie to everyone, especially throughout the Halloween season! "},{"Title":"Atmospheric Ghost Story With Distracting Special Effects.","Date":"20 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Lady in White is about a young boy named Frankie Scarlatti (Lukas Haas), who lives in a rural small town. It's 1962, and the small community of Willowpoint Falls is about to celebrate the Halloween season. Unfortunately, for Frankie, he ends up spending his Halloween night locked away in the school's coat closet, in a prank by some bullying peers. But what he witnesses that night changes his life forever - he sees the apparition of a young girl be savagely murdered. The killer of the young girl himself arrives in the coat closet to retrieve a piece of evidence, and stumbles upon Frankie and nearly kills him. After the horrific incident, Frankie becomes immersed in a mystery involving the young murdered girl, her relation to a ghostly woman known as the 'Lady in white', and the serial killer who has claimed the lives of countless other children for the past ten years.I watched this movie when I was about nine or ten years old, and it truly frightened me. I remember particularly being haunted by the apparition of the girl's murder in the coat closet, and the home of the Lady in white on the rocky sea cliffs. I ended up buying this on DVD when I saw it sitting on the shelf at a local store, and it was cheap so I decided to give it another watch, not having seen it for many years. Sadly, much of what frightened me in this movie then was lost due to my age, among other things. I didn't find the film nearly as frightening, and this time around I realized how horrible some of the special effects in this film were. I'm not sure what they were capable of in 1988, but I was really surprised at how cheap a lot of these scenes looked. Anyway, I suppose I can't judge the film too much based on this, but the effects were a bit distracting.The script is pretty interesting, and I thought the entire premise of the film is really great. The story is an attempt at something original, and I can honestly say that it isn't your typical ghost story. It's different in the fact that it doesn't focus on one solid incident - it encompasses many different things, and I liked that about it. A couple of good plot twists enter midway through the film, and the mysterious 'Lady in white' is introduced. There are a few plot holes here and there, too, which were a little disappointing, but I'm not going to nit pick those. Style-wise, this movie is truly stunning. The cinematography is outstanding and abstract, and the director's vision really shines through in the sets, colors, etc. There are some truly chilling scenes and a couple of really frightening moments that were still spooky enough to get a reaction out of me all these years later, so I give it credit there as well. The atmosphere in this movie is amazing, with the fall leaves, 1960s setting, small town-feel, and the seasonal elements (Halloween, Christmas) which also really add to it. It seems to attain a surreal quality about it, and the surrealism and imagery used in the film set it apart from most other stories of its type. Sometimes it feels like a bit of a Tim Burton film, mainly with its unique sets and unusual cinematography - but I liked that about it. The acting is also quite good, particularly from young Lukas Haas who carries the film. Katherine Helmond plays the spooky title role quite well, and Len Cariou and Alex Rocco also turn in solid performances. The film's conclusion on the seaside cliffs was a tad predictable and I was again distracted by the special effects, but alas, I was happy with the way it tied together.Overall, Lady in White is a fairly unusual movie. It's a bit of a light ghost story that has a decent premise and some truly frightening moments, along with a great style, vision, and atmosphere. I feel that the production went overboard and got a little special-effects crazy, and the quality of them really distracted me. However, it's still a nice ghost story with enough positive points, and a perfect little piece of nostalgia - but sadly, in some instances it isn't what I remembered it to be. I'd recommend watching it though for the unique style and the strong atmosphere (the plot is pretty solid also) - it's a decent ghost story, but it it isn't perfect. 6/10. "},{"Title":"The greatest story of the 20th century (and someone should thank Harper Lee)","Date":"13 September 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I watch this movie each year between Halloween and Christmas. It's a quirky movie that catches you off guard and grows on you. Great acting, with characters you care about. Production values are a bit low (but impressive considering the budget), and sometimes the movie spends too much time attempting to be arty.While obviously a re-working of To Kill A Mockingbird (and could never equal the original), there are enough differences to make it worth viewing. And it's fun to catch all the similarities, from the music to the widowed father, to the POV, to the spooky recluse, to the secondary story about racist injustice and the scapegoat, to the nostalgic setting, to the danger in the woods, to the Halloween setting and mask, to the choking, to the young central character who outside the story grows up to be a story teller, and so on. LaLoggia didn't try to hide it.It's appropriate that this movie often gets compared to ET. Just like this movie was a reworking of a great source story, ET was a reworking of the Messiah story. Hard to go wrong with great material.Knowing this east coast-centric movie is Harper Lee's story from flyover territory might help viewers who are puzzled by some aspects of the movie (oh, so THAT'S why the irrelevant sub-plot about the janitor). It also explains why the movie gets corny or saccharine from time to time. LaLoggia doesn't have Lee's ability. Maybe at some future time he'll grow into it, but he wasn't there yet with this movie.As for some of the things that would make the movie tighter if omitted, LaLoggia tried too hard to stay with Lee's original plot. While these story elements help propel To Kill a Mockingbird, and have everything to do with the moral values of that film, in Lady in White they don't work as well. They work, just not as well.The best aspect of this movie is Alex Rocco. When he equates being a parent to knowing what true fear is, you feel it in your bones. He acted this role as only a parent in real life could. THIS is his greatest performance so far.People who are impressed with the great story, plot, and characters, and people who think the movie was a cluttered attempt to be complex (with elements which are seemingly gratuitous and unneeded), will understand why once they realize where the story was derived, and how closely LaLoggia tried to follow the original (unfortunately without many of the original's ennobling ideals).While To Kill a Mockingbird is a gourmet meal, Lady in White is candy. But it's good candy. Even so, LaLoggia owes Harper Lee a thank you (and probably some royalties). I hope he realized that and did the right thing. I haven't been able to find out if he did.By the way, LaLoggia isn't alone at reworking a good story. Shakespeare's Hamlet was based on the ancient Egyptian myths, as was The Lion King. But one gets the impression from the movie and comments from LaLoggia that he really thinks the story is creatively all his.None of this isn't to detract from the worth of the Lady in White. Frank LaLoggia took Harper Lee's great story, and put his unique stamp on it. It's worth viewing. I liked it enough that I went out of my way to find a source from which I could order the film.Worth buying if you can find it. "},{"Title":"One of the best ghost stories ever!","Date":"12 August 2006","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Some friends and I saw this movie in Yellow Springs, OH the year it was released, the week of Halloween. Try walking out of a dark movie theatre after this movie onto a deserted street in a small midwest town during Halloween and TRY not to be a little creeped out. Atmospheric and eerie without being over-the-top or going for the cheap scare, Lady In White was my favorite ghost story until I saw The Others. Being #2 isn't always bad. I just finished watching the new DVD release and it is a total must-have for a movie fan's collection. (The commentary, while straightforward, is worth a listen. The new print is beautiful as well. And what a great score... and so on.) Highly recommended! "},{"Title":"Epilogue Needed!","Date":"13 March 2009","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I was amazed that this film was even made because it was like A Christmas Story meets M (with the Hardy Boys thrown in). A big mix of parent-cringing darkness and family fun.This could have been phenomenal, but a couple of weird and stupid things happened. Most importantly, at times we'd go from daylight to darkness on a whim. Scenes would continue as if they were outrageously and illogically stretched over time. When Franky is trying to escape at the end this starts before twilight then suddenly it's 10pm. Ridiculous.Spoiler followsWhat's worse, was the film needed an epilogue after the drawn out climax. It would have been great to see the husband who's wife shot the janitor, go and visit the surviving wife to apologize - as well as the rest of the town. And the movie should have finished where it began - at the cemetery with the adult Franky. Since we never returned to that, then it shouldn't have been part of the beginning. "},{"Title":"Did you ever see such a horror film - Well I did","Date":"21 August 2001","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This film is unique. I have never found anything else by the director so presumably this was the only film he made. That said, it has a quality and texture all of its own, combining comedy, horror, nostalgia and fantasy as well as the haunting Bing Crosby song which is a clue to the outcome. The story is extremely well constructed and you can't guess who the baddie is. What is frightening is that it starts out as a sort of light-hearted kid's fantasy, progresses to the spooky with the apparition of ghosts ( but nice cute ghosts ) and then enters a long phase of horror starting with the murder of the black janitor and then .. I need go no further to avoid spoiling for those who haven't seen it. I thought it up till now unknown in Europe and purchased it from the USA on DVD Elite Entertaintement - regrettably no foreign language tracks or subtitles for non-english speakers BUT to my amazement saw it on French TV this evening under the title  Les Fantômes d'Halloween . When I saw the film's director was Laloggia, I thought this could only be..... Lady in White .  Highly recommended due to its original style,setting plot and all the rest. "},{"Title":"Saturday morning cheesy feel","Date":"21 November 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I was more than a bit disappointed with this one after reading the reviews here. It feels like a stretched out ghost story that might be told at a campfire with the cheap cheesy feel you might get from one of those movies shown on Saturday morning. Not the ones that make it to Monster Theater in the afternoon but the ones in the morning for the really little kids. No scarier than Casper the Friendly Ghost with the same cuddly family values to please any squeamish adults that might be watching. Also it takes itself a bit too seriously and is not quite bad enough to be campy, just staying in the predictable and cheesy range of mediocrity. It's obvious why this one has remained forgotten. "},{"Title":"In All, a Bush-League Effort","Date":"27 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I get the sense that this is a Frank LaLoggia vanity project. As writer and director, it's clear that this movie is his creative vision. The story idea is quite good, but this fails on multiple fronts.The acting is good by the young actors, particularly Lukas Haas. He is most likely best known for his role in Witness. He is a fine young actor, who is hampered by poor direction. In fact, all in this movie are hampered by poor direction. Even the timing of the dialog is off in places.For starters, this movies tries to be a comedy and a horror flick, perhaps with a little coming-of-age thrown in, but accomplishes none of them well. Technically, the filming and editing are pretty bush league. It looks like those after-school specials from the 1960's. There are numerous obvious continuity errors.If you are looking for an entertaining horror flick, this isn't it. "}{"Title":"Small town charm and a creepy horror story beneath it","Date":"28 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Why 10/10? I can't believe some of the bad reviews this amazing film has gotten. It is a memoir of a fictional but very successful horror novelist who grew up in a small town in 1962. His father, Angelo, moved there from Italy years ago with his own parents. Frankie, the author and narrator, tells his story from the perspective of his 11-year-old self.On Halloween Frankie gets locked in the cloakroom of his school by two mischievous peers. While in there, he sees a little girl's murder repeated and finds himself strangled nearly to death by an unknown criminal. Angelo saves him and the school janitor is arrested, although he's innocent, because of the racist police officer who states that Harold is the perfect scapegoat, he's black! Angelo befriends Matty, Harold's wife, and tells her that he doesn't believe Harold was the killer. Meanwhile Frankie, with the help of his prankster older brother Geno, tries to solve the mystery of the murdered little girl, and winds up drawn into the mystery of a mysterious phantom called The Lady in White.This film captures so many of the things that we don't have today, little things, even just things we no longer appreciate. Having a package of books shipped to your house, exploring town instead of texting at the mall, celebrating Christmas as a family, writing by hand, old music and so many other little things. It also captures a small town atmosphere. I grew up in Nova Scotia in a small town much like this one, and today it's not the same. Kids never go outside, they just text. Music is bad, the polluted industrial areas are gone and a new frozen yogurt gourmet crud store or Starbucks opens every week across the province. If you've grown up in a small town you might understand what I mean. It doesn't matter where you live though, to appreciate this movie you only need a sense of adventure and an open mind.The Lady in White is very similar to the novels Smog City by Rebecca McNutt and the Lovely Bones by Alice Sebold. Told by fictional characters, yet very vivid and as if you're in the story yourself. The scenery of autumn is very beautiful in the movie, and it has some comedy as well. Donald and Louie, the two boys responsible for locking Frankie in the cloakroom, one of them buys a pet alligator (a popular pet at the time), names it Sam, but it escapes in the haunted house they're exploring. Another ongoing comedic thing in the film is the grandfather. The grandmother repeatedly hides his cigarettes and he has to resort to smoking in the root cellar at night to keep from losing his bliss.The acting was amazing, especially from the child actors/actresses. I loved the soundtrack, none of it was that pop music, rap, hip-hop or country stuff that's popular today. The plot was actually based on an old urban legend originating from New York.Don't pass up the chance to see this movie, especially if you're an avid horror fan. Although it has a childish premise it's an excellent movie and more nostalgic than it is creepy. "},{"Title":"A good, multifaceted movie","Date":"26 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I saw this movie first in the early 1990's on cable.I enjoyed the plot of this movie. The screenplay encompassed the young man's relationship with his whole family, instead of just a one note profile. It is a very refreshing way of dealing with this subject.This is not a horror movie, or any other single genre. It combines several and, IMO, cannot really be confined to just one. There are several ghosts, and the subject of children being murdered over a ten year period. If you have children that you watch this with, you will need to explain things as the movie progresses, so that they understand. Don't expect to be scared out of your mind, this is not that kind of movie. But it is enjoyable. My son at the time was about 6 years old and enjoyed this movie, too. "},{"Title":"Ghost of Halloween","Date":"4 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Frank LaLoggia's Lady's in White is a film that is seen from a young boy's perspective. The director, who also wrote the screen, play takes us back to Willowpoint Heights, a small town with a dark past.As the film opens, the grown up Frankie Scarlatti returns for a visit. He is a well known novelist who decides to stop at the local cemetery before doing anything else. In fact, that cemetery holds the key to the mystery that happened years ago, in which Frankie, was the principal player.The film reverts to a Halloween day, years ago, in which young Frankie first meets the evil person that is committing the horrendous crimes in the area. Only young children are murdered. During a prank, two of Frankie's friends lock him that night in a cloakroom. He sees the ghost of a young girl that has been a victim, years ago. Also, he gets to see a person enter the room to leave things in a hiding place. Those things, Frankie discovers, later on, belong to the children that were murdered in the town.Lucas Haas, who started in films as a young boy, was an unusual presence in his early appearances. His contribution to the film is one of the best things in it. Len Cariou, Alex Rocco, Katherine Helmond, Jason Presson, are seen among the supporting players.Lady in White will please young minds who will watch the film without comparing it to other better made films of this genre. "},{"Title":"Have you ever seen a dream walking...","Date":"28 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Lady In White is a chilling ghost story. Despite not being filled with senseless voilence, monsters, blood and gore, Lady In White is still very much a horror film. It IS scary, especially the scenes with Melissa, the little girl ghost, being murdered, and the ghostly re-enactment of her mother's suicide later on...and then there's the extremely suspensful (and again scary) scene of young Frankie fighting for his life when the same man who murdered Melissa tries to throw him off the cliffs...trust me, it's pretty heavy stuff.The basic plot is that on Halloween in 1962 (the setting of the story), Frankie Scarlotti is locked in his schools cloak room when two of his friends play a prank on him. However the prank turns dangerous when a mysterious man comes in and tries to murder Frankie. Frankie survives the attack but can't identify the attacker because it was too dark to see the man's face.Frankie, who before being attacked, witnessed the re-enactment of a brutal murder of Melissa Montgomery which took place in the cloakroom about 10 years before. Now Frankie, after making a promise to Melissa when he met her while in a near-death like state, is determind to solve the murders of Melissa so that the little ghost girl can re-unit with her mother...a white robed woman who roams the local cliffs, labelled by many as the lady in white.The best things about Lady In White, aside from the great story, are the cast, sets and costumes. A young Lucas Haas does a remarkable job playing Frankie, giving the role realism and depth. Alex Rocco is also good as Frankie's father, Katherine Helmond is super as the spooky Amanda and little Joelle Jacobi is excellent as Melissa. Karen Powell, in a far-too-short apperence, plays the title role, the Lady In White excellently. Joelle Jacobi was wonderful in Lady In White, it's very sad she seems to have disappeared completely from the film/TV scene, ditto with Karen Powell.Lady In White is a wonderful movie, but is very under-rated. Not so long ago a special edition DVD was released and if you are already a fan it is WELL worth picking up. It's amazing, it has a very informative and fascinating commentary by director Frank LaLoggia, a 15 minute-ish behind-the-scenes piece, the full soundtrack, and a picture still gallery. It's a must have for every Lady In White fan!  "},{"Title":"Definitely 80's but good nonetheless","Date":"11 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I really enjoyed the Lady in White, however, this is not a movie for all people. If you're a die hard horror fan, chances are you won't like this movie. However, this is a great family ghost story that young and old can enjoy. The story focuses on Frankie Scarlatti. After being locked in the school cloak room following a class Halloween party, he sees the ghost of a young girl and the man who murders her (although the man's back is to him). The only clue left behind for Frankie is the man's ring, which falls into the grating of the cloak room floor. Frankie soon finds himself being stalked and chased by the man, leading him to the home of the mysterious Lady in White. The young boy soon finds himself on a path to identify the murderer and help the ghost of the young girl.What I really enjoyed about this movie was the ability to cause tension and fear (even if minimalistically) without gore, cheap scares, and superficial jump scenes. The setting of a small town in fall, particular shown at dusk or during the night, with the trees losing their leaves and casting long shadows on the ground, allowed for a dramatic build up of suspense and an overall feeling of uneasiness. Throughout, the setting played a major role in creating a creepy and chilling atmosphere without the need for any gore or violence.Also, there was a pretty good storyline that wasn't overly silly and certainly wasn't inane. The acting was actually pretty good, although not the best Hollywood has ever given us, but nevertheless decent enough. Young Lukas Haas does an amazing job portraying Frankie with is quiet meekness and seemingly soft fragility. There is a sensitivity about him, but at the same time he exudes the playful energy of any young boy at that age.For those looking for a decent ghost story that is also something the kids can enjoy (naturally, not for small kids), then this is definitely worth a watch. Out of five stars, I give Lady in White 3 1/2. "},{"Title":"to the faithful departed.","Date":"18 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  When you see where the Halloween topic has been through,the likes of Carpenter's stuff,it's a wonder one can make a non-gore ,adult,clever movie on such a hackneyed subject.The main theme in lady in white is the fear of losing our dear ones,a fear which dwells in every child.Not only the young hero-played by a sensitive actor-lost his mother at such an early age but remember that Phil suffered the death of both his father and his mother too.Even the ghost (the little girl) cannot find peace of mind because of her splintered childhood.The black children will experience this terrible fate.The spirit of HALLOWEEN  is the core of the movie who could be dedicated to our faithful departed. It's amazing to see Lucy Lee Flippin,resuming her schoolteacher career,which she began in little house as Eliza-Jane Wilder,Laura's sister in law.Lady in white is a movie one can recommend .It paved a reliable way for the sixth sense.Its incredible several moments will make your watching worthwhile. "},{"Title":"Not perfect, but a good one all the same","Date":"13 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I have this one on vhs (need to get it on dvd). This movie is a really good ghost story, but no, not perfect. There is always room for improvement in every film..but hey! This is a real find. I think what puts most ppl off of this is that it is a very ambitious film. Frank LaLoggia tried to put many concepts in this one film, and somehow (for me), it works. This film is one you can pop in and watch with the (older) kids comfortably. This is not your big budget, 10+ writers films that you see so much of now, and I think it is all the better for it. I cannot speak for Mr LaLoggia, but it appears to be a labor of love, and who cares if it isn't made by an important director/writer...that is nonsense. If anything I think it is sad that Mr. LaLoggia has not made more. All in all, worth watching if you like spooky tales. A perennial favorite around Halloween for our family. "},{"Title":"One of the best ghost stories ever made...","Date":"27 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  While I was working on the retail side of the video store business, there were a few special films I knew I could recommend without reserve, that would usually wind up pleasing everybody. LADY IN WHITE is one of those rare gems.A murder mystery, a ghost story and a coming-of-age dramedy all wrapped up in one, it is the realization of the vision of one very gifted director, Frank La Loggia, whom I believe has paid a heavy price for staying true to his instincts, when it comes to what kind of films he wants to make. Hollywood has left us all poorer for not supporting his quest to make more movies like this, and shame on them for that. The story begins with the recollection of author Frankie Scarlatti, whose specialty runs into Stephen King-like novels and stories, as he remembers his childhood in the town of Willowpoint Falls, in upstate New York, and the events there that would shape the rest of his life and his career.Young Frankie, (Lukas Hass from WITNESS) becomes the victim of a prank played on him by two of his school chums. They lock him in the school cloak room on Halloween Night, and there he discovers the pieces to a chilling puzzle that has long baffled and bewildered the town's citizens for years, and has especially been a source of terror for the children.   Ten local children have all fallen victim in the past ten years to a mysterious serial killer who has never been caught. The most recent victim, Melissa Ann Montgomery, is the ghost that Frankie encounters in the cloak room. But more than that; he becomes a reluctant witness to her murder after the fact, and nearly victim number eleven.Frankie survives the ordeal, and in the events that follow, he learns about prejudice, paranoia, how not to fear the darkness or the dead, and that the greatest terror of all comes from the living, especially when evil strikes closer to home than you ever dared believe.The most amazing thing about this film is how, on such a limited budget, La Loggia evokes such a strong sense of time and place. What's more, the care and skill he used to coax such remarkable performances out of the cast reflect what a labor of love this was for him, and I believe that if he never makes another film, LADY IN WHITE will stand the test of time as one of the best films of its kind.Aside from the great work done by Haas, then about midway through his child-acting days, Alex Rocco, Len Cariou and Katherine Helmond give some of the best performances of their careers. The efforts of the entire cast, as orchestrated by La Loggia, ensure that this is one character-driven movie that does not suffer for lack of car-chases, explosions or elaborate CGI set pieces.Though it may be a little too intense for members of the younger set, (under 13), for a story that will delight, chill, amaze and move you, you won't get better than this, whether you sit down to watch it alone, or preferably, with the entire family.  "},{"Title":"Spooky","Date":"8 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I was around nine years old when I saw this movie for the very first time.It came on tv at Easter and I remember begging my mother to let me stay up and watch it when I found out it was a ghost story(I've always loved those).In the end my mother and I watched the movie together and we both loved it.Today I have just seen Lady in White for the first time in four years and I still love it as much as I did back then.Its a very stylish chiller about a young boy who gets locked in his school cloakroom and sees a young girl being murdered.After the boy is almost murdered himself,the ghost of the girl appears to him and begs him for help to find her mother,who is known as the Lady In White.The movie is very entertaining and at some places,creepy.If you love ghost stories or chillers then try and get hold of this movie.You'll love it.Five out of five stars. "},{"Title":"A Thrilling, Chilling, Wonderful Masterpiece!","Date":"31 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  There is so much to say about this fantastic masterpiece of a movie!  Everything from the absolutely Beautiful cinematography, well-crafted story, phenomenal acting, haunting score, and top-notch special effects deserves a standing ovation!  This truly touching ghost story is one of the best movies ever made.   After getting locked into his school's cloak-room by a couple of class bullies on Halloween night, Frankie witnesses a ghostly re-enactment of a murder that took place there years ago!  Now, the ghost of the young girl who was murdered wants Frankie to help reunite her with her mother...and help reveal the identity of her killer! It's a riveting mystery full of thrills, suspense, and a haunting creepiness that will stay with you long after the movie has ended! Writer/Director Frank LaLoggia filled this movie with heart unlike you've ever felt in a movie!  His love for this story can be seen and felt in every magnificent shot.  This is film-making at it's absolute best!! I recommend this masterpiece to one and all... Not many movies can touch you like LADY IN WHITE!  "}{"Title":"Surreal and Creepy- Loved it!","Date":"30 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I'm not sure exactly how well known this film is because almost everyone I know has never seen it. If you haven't seen it, by all means, make it your next rental.Personally, I loved this film. It is a very unique film that brings together many different feelings which are both dramatic and surreal. The film has much to offer the viewer and does so in a way which is completely unique. It touches on many elements of childhood fears, nostalgia, fantasy, suspense, death and near-death experiences, sibling rivalries, the racial bigotry and injustice of the 60's, family happiness, remorse, compassion, fear, mystery and even comedy. The setting is placed in a small lovable New England town, which is quickly transposed into  a genuinely creepy and surreal atmosphere when a young boy Franki gets locked in his school closet on Halloween night and witnesses a ghostly reenactment of the murder of a young schoolgirl.He then holds the key to help the girl rest in peace by finding her killer....... that is....if the killer doesn't kill him first! Some people will actually tell you to skip the directors commentary on the DVD because he's made only 3 films?????????? Huh?????????? I watched his commentary and found it very insightful. Personally, as a film student, I love it when directors include commentary on their DVD's. Frank LaLoggia is no exception, and he rightfully deserves to celebrate his fine achievements. Besides, who judges a director based on how many films he/she has done?At this point in time, M. Night Shyamalan (The Sixth Sense), like Frank LaLoggia, has only 3 movies under his belt. Does this make him any less of an important film maker? -Of course not! You can bet that all of Hollywood is hailing M. Night Shyamalan as one of the most important new film makers out there!! -Shallow thinking drives me bonkers!    BOTTOM LINE Frank LaLoggia great job! Lady In White is an excellent movie that can be enjoyed by almost any audience.  "},{"Title":"Terrific and creepy, will haunt the viewer","Date":"12 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  On Halloween night 1962, Frankie is accidentally locked in the cloakroom of his class.  He is scared already, but when he sees the ghost of a young girl come skipping into the cloakroom, he is terrified, and is then horrorstruck when her murder is re-enacted in front of him.  Suddenly, this ghostly girl is haunting him constantly, showing up, wanting him to follow her, wanting him to help solve the mystery of her murder so that she can rest in peace.In a parallel ghost story within the film, a mysterious Lady in White, another ghost, haunts the seaside cliffs in the small town, walking back and forth and weeping. How are the two apparitions connected?  And who killed Melissa, the young girl?  Frankie is about to find out, and the answer will shock both him and the viewer.This is one awesome, creepy tale that will stay with you. "},{"Title":"Good Ghost Story","Date":"11 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Set in the '60's, a young boy is locked in the cloak room of his elementary school by bullying classmates on Halloween night. There he witnesses the murder of a young girl which took place ten years earlier. Well-crafted ghost story brimming with good characters, plenty of atmosphere, and a spooky setting. A tight pace keeps everything flowing fine and the story itself is pretty good. Some horror fans might be put off with the somewhat sappy approach the story sometimes rings with. Pretty dramatic in areas and some of the scarier scenes are padded too thinly with a light approach. But all in all, a well told ghost story. Two And A Half Stars. "},{"Title":"Recapture the Halloween of your youth!","Date":"21 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is one of my favorites. It takes us back to the Halloween of our youth. Remember the feelings you got when your friends told you a spooky ghost story? The excitement you felt all day at school on Halloween day? This movie is told in retrospect and takes us back to those days of our youth. It's not a lot of hype or special effects but it is a good telling of a ghost story and mystery. A must see for Halloween. "},{"Title":"An inconsequential film, but highly enjoyable","Date":"10 November 2002","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This film is a low budget, late 80's horror film that dared to be different from most of that time and genre.  Without the use of blood and gore, it succeeds in presenting some very haunting moments and images.  The overall concept is muddied by extraneous side-plots, which are occasionally distracting and occasionally helpful to character development.  Lukas Haas is one of very few children who could convincingly pull off this main role, and the supporting cast was strong; I felt, however, that more help from the director in the use of camera angles and timing was in order.  The ending, unfortunately, is laughable, thus ruining much of the effect of the film.  Overlooking that, I would happily watch and re-watch the movie for its kinder-gentler thrills.  Perhaps this is not a film that deserves to live forever, but it makes for a pleasant evening. "},{"Title":"film with an identity crisis","Date":"26 May 2001","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The problem I see with LADY IN WHITE is that it tries too hard to tackle several unrelated themes withing a horror movie framework. The prologue with the adult main character returning to his old hometown and the ensuing exposition about his brother and father made me think of STAND BY ME, which LADY IN WHITE is definitely not. Also, the subplot involving the African-American janitor's wrongful arrest and the subsequent events that lead to tragedy inject a race relations/civil rights theme that really is superfulous to the main plot. What's going on here? Is the filmmaker trying to make a horror film, or a coming of age film, or a social commentary on prejudice? The film could have been complex enough without all these other elements, and the heavy-handed way in which he uses them in film makes for a very muddled, busy state of affairs.  "},{"Title":"When the pieces don't fit","Date":"17 December 2001","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"     Whatever entertainment value this picture might have for a particular member of the audience, it stands as an inept piece of filmmaking that needs the viewer's indulgence and rationalizing in its defense.   You don't really believe that stuff you write, do you?  So the narrator (as an adult) is asked in the opening, leading to a flashback that can qualify as a figment of his imagination, and justify the fantasy elements - or serve as a quasi-realistic account of something that did actually happen.     The tone early on is that of a quaint comedy school pranks, squabbling grandparents, etc. - which does not prepare the viewer for what the filmmaker seemingly intends to be the emotional focus.  It hardly serves as an effective  contrast, and damages the unity that every kind of creative work needs.  The fantasy element seems gratuitous - e.g., introduce it, and you are free to inject anything into the story, relevant or not, coherent or not.  Along with the comedy and fantasy, we are provided with the pure shock effect of the exonerated janitor being shot point blank - a sequence altogether unrelated to the film's seeming intentions.  Add in not one, not two, but three false endings to confirm the lack of artistic integrity this picture offers.   Perhaps there is the germ of an absorbing film here, but as the filmmaker keeps tripping over his own feet, some viewers are bound to be distracted. "},{"Title":"Extremely lame ghost story - nothing worth seeing here!","Date":"25 January 2006","Score":"8 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I went into this film expecting a horror film, as that's what my TV guide touted it as - but was disappointed (to say the least!) when it turned out that this film is actually a childish fantasy, in the vein of that other load of rubbish; Paperhouse (also from 1988). It took about twenty minutes for me to realise that I was in the wrong movie, but by then it was too late, as I hate making it half way through a film. I was turned off instantly by 'happy' tone of the film, and further turned off by the irritating soundtrack; which gives away the fact that the film is going to end sentimentally. The fact that it stars that irritating kid from Witness was the final straw, and I was only ever going to hate this film (unless something really great happened in the last 90 minutes, of course...). The plot follows a kid who finds himself locked in the cloakroom on Halloween night. Cloakrooms aren't the best places to spend Halloween; and this one in particular isn't, as our 'hero' witnesses the death of a girl from years before. Naturally, he resolves to solve the mystery...blah blah blah.Aside from featuring an annoying kid, bad music and a 'fun' tone; Lady in White is also really, really boring. I was really struggling not to hit the fast forward button before long, and tears of boredom were cascading down my face by the time the final credits (finally!) rolled. This is one of those films that you really have to see when you're a kid to appreciate it; and even then, you shouldn't really appreciate it. It's like E.T., in that it's a film where the only good point once you reach adulthood is a sense of nostalgia. Don't get me wrong; I'm no fan of E.T., but at least Spielberg's film gives the audience reason to like it; you will find no such thing here. I've never been a big fan of ghost stories anyway, and it's films like this that are to blame for that. Ghosts simply don't make for entertaining horror; especially not when they're the goody-goody ones seen here. It's really hard to find them frightening, too, as the leads are impossible to care about. On the whole, I'd rather throw a hammer at my TV set than watch this rubbish again; and if your TV guide leads you to believe it's worth watching - take my word for it, it's not. "},{"Title":"not as good as I once thought","Date":"23 June 2004","Score":"9 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I really enjoyed this film when it first came out and so was very excited to get this on dvd as I hadn't seen it in so many years.While not quite upset with what I saw I couldn't help but think my younger self was a lot more forgiving of its faults.I used to like that it combined so many different styles and themes but now think that although this still makes this an interesting film they were not executed that well. I think the idea is good and the performances are excellent, especially Lucas Haas and Alex Rocco but that the script, direction and over-the-top corny moments hinder it.If you don't mind ropey effects and are a sucker for sugar then you may well love this as much as I once did, if you love films and can over-look glaring faults then I would recommend checking it out (the archery scene is still stand out for me and the best part of the film).If you are very discerning it will grate too much, still I don't regret buying it and will no doubt watch it again. "},{"Title":"A mixed bag.","Date":"17 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Lady in White is set in the small US town of Willowpoint Falls during 1962 where a young ten year old boy Frankie Scarlatti (Lukas Haas) has been locked inside the school cloakroom by two bullies the night before Halloween, trapped inside Frankie sees the ghost of a young girl playing before she is killed. Then a man enters the cloakroom looking for something that has fallen down a grate that could tie him with the murder of the girl which actually happened several years ago, the man notices Frankie & tries to kill him but paramedics manage to resuscitate him later that night. Frankie remembers what happened but cannot identify his attacker although it is believed to be the 'Cliffside Killer' who has murdered eleven children over the past few years including the girl whose ghost Frankie saw. Frankie decides to investigate the murders & expose the killer with some help from his new ghostly friend...Written, produced & directed by Frank LaLoggia who also composed the music for it Lady in White is a strange film to watch, it mixes all sorts of genres & styles to reasonable if not amazing success. The first thing in the film is a prologue that sets up the older Frankie to tell the story of what happened in 1962 upon his return to Willowpoint Falls after having lived in the city but oddly there is no epilogue at the end that rounds the framing story off which would have finished the film on a natural roundabout sort of way. Lady in White is basically a fairly mild ghost story that goes in many different directions as it's told from the perspective of a young boy it's a coming of age drama, comedic at times emotional tear jerking nostalgic chiller that even has a stab at bringing up the idea of racism from the early 60's. As you would imagine with so many different aspects to the film so it keeps going off in different directions all the time it's a very slow moving film, it's not totally boring as the character's are well fleshed out & the ambiance of the early 60's small town is spot on, you do end up quite liking these people although it's nearly 30 minutes before anything happens & because of that it felt like it took forever to get going & I don't think I would want to watch it again. The ghost story is alright, although the film centers on a child killer the details are kept to a minimum & there's nothing graphic here, the ending is rather sentimental like the rest of the film & it just gets a little bit too mushy. The ghosts here are not evil & merely want to rest in peace which Frankie helps them do eventually, as a slow moving drama dressed up as a ghost film Lady in White is alright but it's not my type of film really & it's far from perfect as the killer is never given any reason or motive & it's never explained why the ring in the grate could have tied him to the little girls murder or the significance of the yearbook Frankie's brother found in the trunk.Apparently writer & director based the ghost story on an actual real life urban legend about a lady in white searching for her missing daughter. The depiction of small town upstate New York life is well realised & a big selling point of the film, the atmosphere & feel of the film will enchant many bit it didn't do much for me. The film has a very natural autumnal feel to it with brown & orange being the primary colours used. There's no real gore although someone is shot & not much violence either, Lady in White goes for mood rather than scares.With a supposed budget of about $4,700,000 this had a lot more money behind it than many independent horror films ever had or ever will have, it looks nice enough & has good production values although some of the special effects have dated badly. The acting is very good here & one of the films strongest points, the child actor's have that rare ability not to be annoying & feel natural & at ease while director LaLoggia has an uncredited cameo as Frankie later in life during the opening prologue.Lady in White is an odd film that feels like a mix of ideas & themes, it's a very slow film which I think hurts it but the quaint small town drama of family life intertwined with a ghost story may be enough for some to like it. I didn't dislike it but I didn't love it either, worth a watch but be prepared to put the time & effort in. "}{"Title":"The lady in white is a great movie for all ages","Date":"19 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I originally saw this movie when my children were small. They loved it as did I. It was scary, but humorous. One of the funniest exchanges in the movie revolves around the grandparents. The grandfather is a smoker and the grandmother is adamant that he not smoke. Each of the conversations between the two is hilarious.Another relationship worth exploring is that between the two brothers Frankie and Geno. They have a fairly typical older brother to younger brother relationship.There was no gore. It was extremely well cast and obviously a labor of love. It pains me that no one has ever heard of this movie. If you have an opportunity definitely buy or rent it. You will be extremely happy that you did. "},{"Title":"Katherine Helmond Is Illuminated in a Film of Darkness.","Date":"3 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Lukas Haas gets locked in a school closet in 1962 and sees the ghost of a girl his age who was brutally murdered years earlier. The suspense builds when he continues to see the titled character (Katherine Helmond) and it becomes unclear what the woman's motives are. Soon Haas realizes that the murderer of the young girl may now be after him to keep the mystery alive. Lady in White is an odd product that nearly works, but fails with a climax that comes too fast and subject matter that does not have a clear cinematic audience. Thus we are left with yet another could-have-been movie that struggles to stay afloat. Helmond, usually stuck in TV Land, is the film's greatest asset in a well-calculated part. 2.5 out of 5 stars.  "},{"Title":"* * *1/2 out of 4.","Date":"10 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Young school boy locked in a closet as a prank witnesses a murder that occurred in the school many years ago, being renacted the victim's ghost. As he starts to solve the puzzle behind the person's killer, he finds out that it may be someone very close to him and he is possibly next. Extremely predictable, but lovingly acted with vivid sets and an enchanting score. The direction is near perfect. Rated PG-13; Violence and Profanity. "},{"Title":"Could have been better now","Date":"20 April 1999","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I really loved the whole idea, and some of the scenes of this movie. But, it was made in 1988 - I know it could have been made even better today. If they kept the woods, the cliffs, the house to the Lady in white - and her nightdress - then it would be perfect. I loved, as I said, the whole idea. And the grandfather was sweet with all his smoking. But all in all this movie was a bit weird. Hope to see a new version someday.  "},{"Title":"Not Quite","Date":"4 January 2003","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Lady in White really tries hard, and you can see what it is aiming for, but the writer/director scatters his narrative too many directions and can't quite reel it all back together into a coherent whole.  The film might be better if most of the fantasy/dream visuals were cut and it focused on solving the mystery in a more earthbound, conventional manner.  Because this really is a conventional movie in a lot of ways, and the scenes dealing with life in a small town are sometimes quite effective.  But every time one of the characters (be they ghost or mortal) starts flying, you'll be unable to supress your titters.  I like Lady in White because I WANT to like it.  You have to forgive the moments of awkwardness (sometimes plain old ineptness) and enjoy what might have been. "},{"Title":"Concept is imaginative, but the execution bad.","Date":"27 June 1999","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This story of a boy who slowly uncovers the secrets behind the deaths of a number of children in a small community attempts to address too many issues, and consequently has trouble in tying the sub-plots together.  The scenes of harsh reality conflict with the unconvincing surreal ghostly images.  It could have been a lot better, and this possibly states a strong case for not having a writer/director/producer, but allowing the diversification of creatives to produce a more coherent feature. "},{"Title":"A Hitchcock type movie","Date":"7 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  If you like Hitchcock type of horror and suspense movies this will be just right for you. Hitchcock did not use the gore or blood baths that you tend to see in more modern type scare movies, but he used the psychological and this movie is right up there with those movies. I enjoyed this movie and the song, Have you ever seen a dream walking is great too. Basically the movie is surrounding a young boy who gets locked in his school's coatroom on Halloween night from his bully friends and he experiences a ghostly death. From there you try to help Frankie and his brother figure out who the killer still is and you will be surprised I am sure by the answer as I was too. It does leave you guessing until near the very end.  "},{"Title":"A Hitchcock type movie","Date":"7 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  If you like Hitchcock type of horror and suspense movies this will be just right for you. Hitchcock did not use the gore or blood baths that you tend to see in more modern type scare movies, but he used the psychological and this movie is right up there with those movies. I enjoyed this movie and the song, Have you ever seen a dream walking is great too. Basically the movie is surrounding a young boy who gets locked in his school's coatroom on Halloween night from his bully friends and he experiences a ghostly death. From there you try to help Frankie and his brother figure out who the killer still is and you will be surprised I am sure by the answer as I was too. It does leave you guessing until near the very end.  "},{"Title":"First Rate Thriller","Date":"7 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  A thoroughly entertaining flick that successfully weaves several thematic elements into a whole story. The film takes place in 1962, and centers around the winter young Frankie sees a spirit that leads him to a child killer. With underlying themes of racism and secret lives, that never seemed heavy-handed, the story has depth not often seen in thriller-type movies.The movie is worth watching just to get to the first sighting of The Lady in White. But there is so much more, the characters have interesting, the story is fun and keeps moving along, and there are quite a few surprises. The film has many supernatural elements in common with What Lies Beneath, but obviously with the independent budget, does not share that movies production values.A few comments about the Elite Entertainment DVD, the coloring of this DVD is fairly bad in several scenes-- the hues are off, shadows that should be black are blue and colors oversaturated. Also the soundtrack of the DVD is not so good, the voice over narration is barely audible in most parts. But there is a fun little promotional short that the director used to raise money for the production.  "},{"Title":"Skip the Director's Commentary on DVD","Date":"10 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The movie is fine, worth seeing if you like the genre. But if  you watch the DVD, by all means skip the director's pompous commentary. He's made all of 3 very minor films in almost twenty  years, but talks about this one with all the seriousness and  self-importance one would expect from, well, a more important  filmmaker. For someone whose output is so slim, LaLoggia loves  to make grandiose generalizations about actors, his working  methods, technique--and it's all just a bit much.  "}{"Title":"Near-perfect gothic thriller","Date":"18 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Lady In White is beautiful.  It's a tale about murder and revenge set in a small town...that just happens to be haunted by a the ghost of one of the victims.  Director Frank LaLoggia gives the tale plenty of common sense and allows the stars to portray their characters very realistically, which adds a much more sinister element once the ghosts are introduced.  What's more scarier than ghosts appearing to real people?  It's smart, scary, stylish, and keeps you guessing.  I highly recommend this movie. "},{"Title":"Great photography - imaginative plot,  but heavy-handed at times","Date":"6 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Scenes with the lady in white were almost comic book-like. But, overall enjoyed this movie very much. Cinematography of the town and other scenes is a treat for the eyes. The scene in the cloakroom and the subsequent interactions between the young girl's ghost and the boy were entertaining and imaginative. I enjoyed how during the playback of the original crime the girl became aware of the young boy watching. The older brother's change from tormentor to protector was also good - if predictable. Would definitely recommend this movie to anyone who grew up with saturday matinées. Anyone enjoying this movie would also like The Uninvited with Ray Milland and Ruth Hussy from the 1940s which was a very spooky movie for its time. "},{"Title":"Not worth the time...","Date":"4 September 2003","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I was having a Halloween party and my sister suggested watching this as a scary movie.  The Lady In White, however, was not only not scary, it wasn't even enjoyable.  The idea of this movie is not too bad, but the execution is not at all good.  Granted, the special effects are not what they are now, but the characters are not strong enough to carry the story. Unfortunately, I think that there is a reason that Frank LaLoggia only made one film.  I would suggest another choice. "},{"Title":"great movie","Date":"17 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  lady in white is a great movie great story line only wish more horror films could be as good as the lady in white highly recommend on a scale of 1-10 ten being highsist i give it a ten cant say enough about this movie it is the best of its kind i have ever seen  "},{"Title":"Truly heartfelt with a touch of twisted sickness.","Date":"2 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  After watching this gloriously directed film, my heart broke because Frank Laloggia the director apparently didn't get the recognition he deserved. Why wasn't this movie the first of twenty others. I hate hollywood for not opening their arms to him. "},{"Title":"My 2nd Time Watching Lady In White","Date":"3 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I remember very vaguely when I was a kid seeing Lady In White when it was on video. My mother rented it when it came on video during the late 1980s. I remember some memorable scenesLukas Haas being trap in the coat room and actually climbing to view the window outside the school campusI remember when he was reciting a ghost story and the teacher jumped.My first glimpse of seeing the Lady in White the first time(she scarred me when I was little and I must confess this was it)The lizard incident with Lukas Haas scared me the most.The shooting involving the mother killing the accused black man.Now, seeing it the second time. I finally understood the story so farIt is 1962 and the setting is the fall. Lukas Haas is a teacher's pet and has been riding his bike until he started chasing his brother and went smack into the mud. After recovering, he says Why did you do that for? And when the scene happens of him seeing the ghost of a murdered girl, I knew the story right then and there. I also remember the grandparents arguing together.I really wanted to see this on IFC because I think it won't cut out the most parts. Probably USA Channel. It'll show the uncut scenes, I am sure. "}]