[{"Title":"The best special effect of  Big Blue  is its freedom.","Date":"6 May 1999","Score":"125 out of 161 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This is the movie of my life !I never before saw a film that i could identify myself so much with. I´m lucky enough to live in a place near the sea very similar and as beautiful as those in the movie and the opening scenes always remind me of my teenage years and the waters i explored like young Jaqques Mayol does in the beginning of the movie. Things that i still do. So i immediatley related to the character and its love for the ocean.I guess that´s the beauty of this movie. It makes us feel that we could be any of its characters, because they´re so real. We almost can´t believe that they don´t exist outside of the movie. This is an amazing ,beautifuly well written ,acted, photographed and directed movie ! It carries us into an extraordinary world, and it´s our world !! (mine at least to some point) Not some hollywood depiction of reality !But what it´s about it ? This is the worst thing anyone can ask about this movie.I would hate to be the guy who had to publicize this in USA. And i can see why it failed there.But what can i say about it?... That it´s the story of two friends who compete to find out who´s best ?...It´s more than that ! That it´s a love story ? It goes beyond every love story ! That it´s an adventure ? You bet it is ! But it has no action, no chases,no dangerous cliffangers, no guns and no explosions. It doesn´t even has bad guys ! Or good guys in fact. That it´s a travel or a road movie ? Probably. This movie has better locations than any James Bond movie will ever get and they´re all real !But they don´t matter much compared to the characters in the film. The characters then... There´s a hero right ?... Well there´s two of them. Two men. But they´re not heroes.Probably the hero is a woman who sacrifices her happiness for love. So, there´s a woman and two men. There´s got to be a love triangle there to cause all those love story rivalary subplots, right ? Well, there´s a love triangle, but there aren´t subplots attached to it. In fact the love triangle has more than three people. All characters are a part of it realy. Including dolphins ! Even the ocean.Aha ! So this is some sort of a kinky erotic and exotic movie thing ? Wrong ! There´s sex in it, but not in that way at all.It´s a comedy then... You´ll laugh, but you´ll cry too. It´s a drama ... Not in the conventional cliché way. Not at all. A dramatic comedy... Nope !It´s a sci-fi film !... Well there´s scientists in it, and deep underwater, and even under ice diving scenes, but it´s not a scifi film, although the American version Movie Trailler presented it like if it were some new esotheric adventure underwater sci-fi horror movie, when in fact it is not.So what is this movie about ?!!It´s about what you want it to be. About what you´re feeling. It´s that open. You just have to feel it.As Luc Besson said in an interview, at some point in the movie he was stuck, because he didn´t know how to carry the audience inside.Then the real Jaqques Mayol, who worked in the film as a diving and story consultant took Besson diving with him one day and made him experience the sea in his way. Then Besson understood that he didn´t had to explain anything to the audience. He just had to make people feel what it was like !And boy, did he make it ! The atmosphere in this movie goes beyond words. It has to be felt ! Also the soundtrack is out of this world and trully magical.To me this film is about love, but in a much deeper meaning than the usual. Beyond race, beyond gender, beyond sex, beyond nationality. Love as an emotion. And about freedom !So get a wide screen TV and a full blast surround. This movie is the reason to buy one if you don´t have it! Believe me ! And watch it in the dark.Try to get the european full version of the movie. The american is not that terrible, the feeling is there, but it´s diferent from the original.This movie is a masterpiece ! ( in any version ) "},{"Title":"The Greatest Dream Movie of All Time","Date":"22 October 2000","Score":"94 out of 116 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This movie is the most fantastic contemplation of earth paradise in existence.First it's imperative that we notice one major difference the short version and the version longue are two completely different films. From tip to toe. I only knew this film previously in its short version. Yesterday I bought the version longue in my local FNAC store without subtitles (it's rare these days).And.................... I fell in love with everything about it, stunned and mesmerized, being at the same time riddled by the way that the short version lost all sense, in comparison with the longue version. You can think of an integral version like a way to stuff a film with pictures, but in this movie we have the feeling that the movie was intended to have 164 minutes, and not nearly two.And you can picture the transformation that occurred in my perception of this film, as I passed from that mutilated, full-screen, mono-sound version to a full, widescreen and hi-fi version. This is why Le Grand Bleu passed from just a movie by Luc Besson to the greatest movie of my greatest director.My perception is that this is the great underwater epic he always wanted to make. And he achieves it in every way, specially letting the audience identify themselves with it.Perhaps my favorite Besson movie was The Fifth Element (I like them all), but after having the privilege of experiencing this fantastic, beautiful, stunning, vivid and moving film, The Big Blue passed from one of the medium levels to definitely the top one. The characters all gained strength, the underwater scenes all made sense, the previous movie was completely backed up, and the feeling that this movie was a contemplative journey gained finally its place.I gave it a 10 out of 10, not for the US version (how can they even think of erasing Eric Serra's score?!?!?) which, for its mutilations, deserved a 1, but for the version longue, which is the only way the movie shall be seen. What a masterpiece! After I saw this movie, I rewinded it thinking that my only wish is that one day I get to take part on such an experience, being there, dreaming and sharing my dream with everyone who would like to share it with me. Perhaps one day, a beautiful blue day...  "},{"Title":"Hynoptic Masterpiece","Date":"22 August 2002","Score":"72 out of 83 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I have to watch this movie once a year just to calm my nerves.   One of the few films to which I have also purchased the soundtrack.  This film, like the sea which is its subject, hypnotizes you, seduces you, rocks you into a state of oneness with the lush scenery.   Rosanna Arquette is beautiful and sexy in an uncharacteristically understated way.  Barr makes the perfect beau and embodies the spirit of the film and the ocean.  I fell in love with Jean Reno in this film.   Unforgettable imagery, interesting premise, good chemistry between Arquette and Barr, and Reno is a joy to watch. Masterfully directed by Luc Besson and a film to treasure. "},{"Title":"a synonym for the ocean","Date":"2 March 2003","Score":"45 out of 62 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" THE movie that made Besson go down in history. A key-movie that divided the French public between the ones who saw on it, only a tedious documentary about the ocean and the others who acclaimed this passionating movie. As far as I'm concerned, I rank in the second category. Le grand bleu, it's simply a periphrase with a tinge of euphemism to design the ocean, a universe that always inspired to men fear but also fascination. The two main characters, Jacques Maillol and Enzo Molinari are fascinated by the sea but for different reasons. If Reno devotes all his energies to diving so as to access to success and glory, the sea is more than this for Jacques. He was born with it, he swears by it (so much that he neglects Johanna's love) and the sea will lead him to death. A place of athletic competition, an ideal place for rest and entertaining where dolphins are his real and sole friends, finally the eternal heaven, the ocean epitomizes all this to Jacques. le grand bleu also ranks among the movies that you must watch rather than telling it. Of course, there isn't almost any plot, dialogs are short and rare but pictures are gorgeous enough to create an entrancing climate supported by Eric Serra's mesmerizing music. The movie's technical qualities can only arouse admiration a shiny photography that perfectly reflects the color of the sea, the blue and a fluid making sometimes clever Jacques' childhood is made in black and white. Besides, the movie enabled to discover two outstanding actors Jean-Marc Barr and Jean Reno but oddly if Reno became one of the most popular French actors, it wasn't the case with Barr. In spite of a promising debut, he has never be able to make a movie that could have got back him in the saddle. Maybe was he so elated at the bottom of the sea, in heaven where everything is fine... "},{"Title":"Very real..","Date":"9 November 2004","Score":"39 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" For me the grand bleu is something unique...i have never seen a movie were everybody has the same love for the sea,and for their sport... Even if the movie is from 1988...it is still one of a kind!!! Go and see it yourself!! When i lived in France in 1989..everybody was talking about Le Grand Bleu...I still have the music.. And a poster on the toilet..It remindes me of the good old time.. I have also the movie version long on DVD...it is so beautiful!! You will laugh and cry during Le Grand Bleu. Find out for yourself what your impression is, and you wont be disappointed! "},{"Title":"Enchanting","Date":"16 September 2000","Score":"29 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  A captivating film that appears almost magical. Fine performance by Jean-Marc Barr that is too easily overlooked. His sensitive portrayal captures one's heart and mind and locks you in for the duration. Well backed up by Arquette and Reno with perhaps too much taken out for the US release. Watch and enjoy and allow yourself to be taken on a magical journey into and through a mans heart and soul. Congratulations to all involved. This one is a modern day classic. "},{"Title":"Stop #3 Into Besson's Mind","Date":"10 January 2006","Score":"25 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This was my 3rd stop (2nd real stop, I have decided not to count Fifth Element)into the world of Luc Besson, and i have to say I was mightily impressed, Leon is still topping my list, I was absolutely blown away by that, but it is almost impossible to compare the two as they are completely different in mood and genre. For anyone wanting to watch a fantastic dream of a film, with absorbing characters, true love in all its forms and some awesome underwater photography then this is for you! The characters are all formed perfectly, almost exaggerated but not, Jean Reno is his usual astounding self, and Jean-Marc Barr really out does himself, with Rosanna Arquette in a superb supporting roll. the story ambles along at its own pace but never stops or gets dull keeping you interested along the way, I don't want to go too much into it as it was kind of spoiled for my by reading too much of these boards, needless to say I was crying at one point, and that doesn't happen often. The score compliments the film perfectly, Eric Serra has done a wonderfully emotive score that almost interacts with the scenes along the way.Overall I'd give this film a 9/10, yet again awesome direction, acting and soundtrack, and definitely in my top films! just a shame i've borrowed it off a mate and have to give it back tomorrow, it's definitely something i could watch again and again! "},{"Title":"took my breath away","Date":"26 December 2000","Score":"32 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This movie has been a favorite of mine since it was first released.  I enjoy the romance of the films locations.  I enjoy the small bits of humor within the twisting plot.  Unlike any movie anyone has ever seen before.  just beautiful. "},{"Title":"Beautiful movie","Date":"22 April 2003","Score":"20 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The Big Blue is a story mainly centred around Jacques Mayol (Jean-Marc Barr), a free diver. Free diving is a sport where people dive as deep as they can with a single breath, and no equipment other than a rope and a weighted mechanism to take them to the required depth. Although to say the story of Big Blue is just about free diving does not do it any justice. The story starts in Greece with Jacques as a child, then moves forward to present day. In the story we also have Enzo (Jean Reno), Jacque's lifelong friend and nemesis who motivates him to free dive in competition (so he has some competition) and also gets him work in other areas of diving. During this work Jacques meets an insurance investigator Johana (Rosanna Arquette), and a romance starts (albeit mostly from her). The story continues as Jacques struggles with problems in his past, present and future.The Big Blue is an unusual movie. There is some silly (but arguably funny) humour. Also there are some serious levels including romance, and how we deal with problems from our past, our existence, and our future. The film is also quite long (in the aptly named version longue) at about 2 hours and 40 minutes. Fans of Jean Reno would certainly love this movie.I really enjoyed this film. The main story is very light and thinly stretched, so to really enjoy it I feel you have to look deeper at the characters and read between the lines. I also really enjoyed the humour, which was silly but fun and was a good counterpoint to the serious scenes. Jean-Marc Barr was absolutely stunning as Jacques, bearing in mind the number of underwater sequences that were required as well. It's a real shame that we don't see Jean-Marc in more leading roles. Jean Reno was also extremely good, and although for me an irritating character Rosanna Arquette put in a reasonable performance. The cinematography is another lush element of the film, with the beautiful locations and underwater sequences (especially those with the dolphins). Eric Serra's soundtrack is pretty good also, although sounds a little dated. As mentioned, this review is based on the version longue. 5/5 "},{"Title":"Cult Movies 47","Date":"6 November 1998","Score":"29 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" 47. THE BIG BLUE (adv.-romance, 1988) Mayol (Jean-Marc Barr) is determined to dethrone current world-free diving champion Enzo (Jean Reno). Childhood friends, they share a fierce rivalry that, nonetheless, has kept their friendship alive. Both of them share an almost spiritual affinity with the sea, especially Mayol who lost his father. His love for his sport, however, is put on hold when he meets Joanna (Rosanna Arquette). But as Mayol and Enzo's competition become more fierce, Joanna slowly feels herself drifting away from Mayol, as his fascination with the sea takes on an obsessive turn.Critique Marvelouslly filmed underwater adventure from master-Frenchman Luc Besson, who has specialized on action films. This is his most personal work to date, thus taking on a uniquely surreal quality. The exquisite camera-work is very special, at times almost documentary in quality. This mix of 'art' cinematography and romance made it a big money earner all over Europe but, not surprisingly, only gained critical acclaim elsewhere. Adding to its failure is a somewhat downbeat ending that, I think, complements the film's mythic storyline. Besson's 'epic masterpiece' has yet to reach many viewers who would embrace his visionary talents. "}{"Title":"Unbelievable. A must-see for divers!","Date":"5 January 2004","Score":"16 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Well, some people try to analyze this film critically, and end up with, well, interesting accounts.  Don't.This isn't a regular film. In fact, it isn't like any other film I've ever seen (and apart from diving, I watch lots of movies). It's so different that I can't find the words to describe it. Just feel it. And that is exactly the right word. FEEL. You see, you can say that it's kitschy, and that the soundtrack is this and that, and that there are may dull moments - but again, things that count in regular films don't count in this one. Have you ever felt what it's like to float, absolutely float in this mystical blue around you? It wraps and holds you, and you just stay there. You are surrounded by the bluest of light, and it's everywhere you look. Only when you get out of the water you realize how much your scuba gear weighs (I envy free-divers... )  ). Underwater, just for a while, you can close your eyes and imagine that you're not a limited human being anymore, just for some short, precious moments. And to think that Jacques Mayol did that all the time... He really belongs more to the sea than to us.So watch the movie thinking about that. Feel arms around you when Jacques and Johanna make love; feel how water encircles you when Jacques dives with the dolphins; and cry with Johanna when he doesn't come back. And yes, for him, it's the best of endings, because he doesn't belong here, and the sea always takes back what's hers. Praise Jacques Mayol! "},{"Title":"Wonderfully human and honest epic about romantic love versus one's life passion","Date":"8 July 2003","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Seems like this film divides people on this board, which is always a sure guarantee that there's something to talk about. For me, THE BIG BLUE is simply a masterpiece, a wonderfully-shot, wonderfully funny and wonderfully human and honest epic about romantic love versus one's life passion. There is so much I'd love to say in praise of this film, but I just can't put into words the moods of exquisite melancholy and hope conjured by Besson, cinematographer Carlo Verini and composer Eric Serra (note - this review refers only to the full-length European version without the Bill Conti score, happy Hollywood ending, etc.). I think a lot of people miss the point of the ending (**SPOILER**). All too often the reaction is Huh? He leaves Rosanna Arquette to become some kind of half-man half-dolphin at the bottom of the ocean? What the heck is THAT about? For me, the ending is symbolic, not to be taken literally, just as Jacques' fevered dream of his bedroom becoming the sea is not to be taken literally (another analogy would be Renton disappearing down the toilet bowl and swimming in Trainspotting). It doesn't happen - it's just a visual metaphor. As I interpret it, Jacques does indeed leave the soon-to-be mother of his child. He knows, and she knows, and we the viewers know that he just cannot, when it comes to the crunch, commit to her as wholeheartedly as to his life's passion, the sea. We see the signs at various points in the film, especially during the truly unnerving scene in which he abandons her when she's trying to talk to him, by doing one of his virtuoso dives. A character as pure, as driven by passion as he is cannot compromise. Rather than focus partly on his woman and partly on the sea, he choses to focus wholeheartedly on the latter. Even the news that he is going to be a father cannot alter his decision. Ever since he was a small boy and his own father drowned, Jacques' life has been an obsessive quest to in some way master the sea, master diving, and somehow cheat the death his father had, almost in revenge for it. This film could so easily have delivered a happy ending (indeed, I understand that in the US version it does), and given the tremendous highs and lows, the comic joy, the thrilling dives, the scene-stealing dolphins and the sexual chemistry of Jean-Marc Barr and Rosanna Arquette with which it dazzles us, such a happy ending would not have left viewers feeling let down. Instead, Besson pulls off a master stroke, showing us how human beings can fail to connect with each other, and how even great loves are doomed to flicker out in the face of other, greater obsessions. Alternatively, the ending may be read as Jacques' brief descent to say his goodbyes to the depths and to the past before surfacing to take up a happy future life with his lover and their child. But the guts to fashion an ending open to interpretation is the icing on the cake of a tremendous film that is both a celebration of and meditation on life, life's passions, and romantic love. Simply amazing stuff. "},{"Title":"Pointless and Depressing","Date":"27 August 2002","Score":"15 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  OK, OK.  I sent in the following comment just after seeing this movie for the first timeThe summary Stupid, Pointless, Terrible pretty much says it all. Save yourself 2.5h of boring, hard-to-watch stupid movie. Perhaps the only conclusion about this movie is that accidents involving parents during childhood can really, really mess someone up.I admit that I was upset, and not just a little bit.  After some relaxing and thinking, the above needs some elaboration to be useful to anyone that has not yet seen this movie.First, this could have been a very good movie; it comes close in a lot of areas, especially in the cinematography.  The Greek locations are spectacular.  But I have to say that the underwater shots left me unimpressed.**SPOILERS** More importantly, this movie _seems_ to be a movie about love  the lead male (Jacques Mayol) is conflicted between his love of the ocean, love of his family of dolphins, and love of his human partner, Johanna. This is where I just don't get this movie, and the almost overwhelmingly positive response to it at IMDB.  Mayol is in many respects a classic male lead  he reminds me of Clint Eastwood in many of his westerns, and as Dirty Harry.  Does Clint portray a loving male role model in these movies?  Not in my book, and Mayol misses even more so in this movie.  Mayol doesn't communicate with anyone in a reasonable fashion, except, it seems, his dolphins.  My initial response to his adult character is that he's just a really messed up individual that never got over the abandonment of his mother and the death of his father, who was a diver for his living.Nothing I saw in the movie leads me to believe otherwise about Mayol.  One wonders why Johanna would possible stay with this guy.  He and she never have anything more than extremely tense, completely dysfunctional interactions.  Johanna tries to get him to interact with her, but other than sex, absolutely nothing happens that one could view as positive in any way.  Mayol has sex with her, tells her he _thinks_ he's in love with her, and then takes off and spends the rest of the night swimming in the ocean with his dolphin friends (lovers?).  A lot is made about the friendship between Mayol and his boyhood bully Enzo.  Forget it; Enzo tries his best to be friends with Mayol in their adult life, but again Mayol seems completely disinterested in this other form of human contact.  Enzo and Mayol compete in free diving, but Mayol clearly just doesn't care about the competitions, taking any real interest away from this part of the movie.Mayol is just flat nuts in the head, and the end of the movie proves that he is more seriously suicidal that Enzo.  Enzo dies trying to prove he is the best; Mayol dives away from the love and family that is offered to him with Johanna.  So my anger has to do with watching such a destructive, unhappy, dysfunctional individual not only mess his own life up, but also that of the people that need and love him.  There's some weird talk in the movie about the call of the deep blue, and mermaids that await males in the depths of the ocean if their love is true.  What a load of baloney!  It would work if the movie went toward showing how Mayol was psychologically damaged by his father's death, and how Johanna (and Enzo's death) help bring him back to humanity.  But the movie goes in just the opposite direction.I found this movie utterly depressing and pointless.  It's clear a lot of other people saw something else in it.  Even as a fairytale--Mayol swims away to live as a weird human/dolphin--the movie just doesn't work.  He leaves a wife and unborn child for no justifiable reason.I finally gave the movie a 4 of 10 rating, only for the cinematography.  If you like weepy love stories, there have to be many better movies out there!  This one just makes no sense at all. "},{"Title":"Leaves you speechless, with a curious warmth in your heart","Date":"27 June 2007","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I can truly say The Big Blue has had a significant influence on my life, thus my sporadic conflicts with 21st century techno lifestyle. It made me calmer, more thoughtful, and more critical of materialism. In France the film was such a phenomenon that a whole generation of youth who saw it was renamed The Big Blue Generation. These people became more laid back and balanced in life, like it was an emotional revolution. Something that was quite the contrary of angry youths rioting on the streets in the 60s.Jacques Mayol and Enzo Molinari are both world-class free-divers and lovers of the big blue sea. Everything they do revolves around it they live in it, they dream with it every single day. They are like sea creatures, only without gills. They both grew up in the same Greek island but lost contact of each other after the tragic death of Jacques's father. Now, they are reunited in Taormina, Sicily to compete in the World Championships of free diving and really challenge one another. Their circles are subtly breached and stirred up by the arrival and intrusion of an American woman blindly in love with Jacques.Luc Besson's masterpiece is both breath-taking and thought-provoking. What's more, it really inspired/-s (in its own, non-intentional way) conservationism by depicting nature's wonders as they are beautifully and lachrymosely unique, tranquilizing and therapeutic. Had everybody seen this movie there would be no wars, but content and creative people aspiring to make this planet more cozy and livable. Or, at least, that is what I'd like to think. "},{"Title":"Interesting but slow, long and clumsy","Date":"31 August 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Interesting but slow, long and clumsy.The story of two childhood friends with a love for the sea and diving. They drift apart but are reunited by the competitive world of free diving. Their eagerness to set new depth records drives them to incredible feats, and great danger...Starts off quite amateurishly. The childhood scenes and the acting therein is quite badly done. However, it gets better after that and the plot is interesting enough. It never does shake that clumsy amateurishness present in the first few scenes though.Is very slow and overly long too. Far too many scenes in the movie that could easily have been cut or at least edited somewhat.Performances are mostly OK, but not brilliant. Nobody really stands out. Jean Reno is probably the best of the bunch. "},{"Title":"''This is the One of the best movie I will ever watch''","Date":"21 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" ''You can see it so many times and always you will feel the same. The same wish and the same beauty of feeling about it.'' This is the One of the best movie I will ever watch, is there any movie around who can be compared with this one? Titanic perhaps... But the Big Blue is the master peace of this earth ever. Two main actors in this movie are the most if I can express ma self the nicest and the prettiest actors ever!!! Not mamas blond boys...I would like to see something similar to it... but you can found, nothing than a shark stupidity on Atlantic / Pacific oceans. Mediterranean will live for ever as it beautiful and always welcome. "},{"Title":"The Original Cut.","Date":"17 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The two hour original American cut of this film is much better thanthe extended DVD version.  Most of the changes weakened thefilm.  I am searching for the original version on DVD - it is one ofmy favorite films.  Extremely beautiful, poetic, and charming. Direction is excellent, acting is great, and the story is enjoyable. "},{"Title":"Nothing New To Say","Date":"6 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This film continually amazes me. I have seen this film many, many times and never tire of it. There is not a minute in the film which I am thinking Get a move on.Every moment the visuals are stunning. Starting with Luc Besson's traditional opening of the Camera skimming over the surface, here the sea, Leon (The Professional), with the New York street and I seem to remember the same in Le Femme Nikita. A beautiful introduction with the young Jacques Mayol filmed in Black and White which you don't always realise till the remainder of the film continues in colour.I could go on but you only get 1,000 words here and I do not want to give it all away, though many have before me.I do want to say just one thing, how, upon seeing Le Version Longue could anyone decide to cut away any one scene never mind 40+ minutes and then to replace the perfect music from Eric Serra. As good as he may be (Conti) surely his music and style could not match Eric Serra's for this film.I love this film so much I only lend my DVD to people whose opinion I can rely on as being positive.Please if you have not seen it, SEE IT AND PLEASE PLEASE LOVE IT!! "},{"Title":"my favorite movie besides The English Patient","Date":"7 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** My heart drowned together with Jacques when he left go of the rope and disappeared following the dolphin deep in the sea.  And i couldn't help thinking for many days what did he want to pursue with the little dolphin. Finally a friend told me that is FREEDOM.  But i am still puzzled, why a man must die if he want freedom. Whereas i am not trying to talk about the abstruse philosophy here, because there are too many easy and delighted plots to share in.  For Example, when Enzo got that ten thousand dollars, he firstly brushed his little ragged car into freshly red, and then sent his assistant to buy him a suit and a big house with garden for his mother... ...when Enzo placed his macaroni hastily before Johanna as he heard that his mother was coming... ...when the Japanese fainted because of catatonia before his dive in the world championship... ...when Jacques and Enzo got drunk and bet to drink under the water... ...i couldn't help laughing loudly.  Furthermore, the beautiful and charming scenery in South-Europe impressed me deeply. And the director may also want to tell us to fall in love does not mean to live together.  Johanna is so much fed up with the boring life in New York, so it is easy to understand why she fell in love so quickly when she had the first sight of Jacques, a mysterious and handsome young man. Jacques could accept Johanna's love, but he could not give all his life to her, because diving is the most important in his life, so he choose to follow the dolphin, not Johanna at last. Anyway this is a pleasant movie to see except the heart-broken ending of Enzo, Jacques and Johanna. "},{"Title":"Love of the sea, challenge,friendship and antagonism.","Date":"28 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I absolutely love this film! It's perfect! Cinematography at one of its best moments. The plot, the characters, the still photography, the music, all contribute to make this picture a masterpiece. Emotions of friendship, love, jealousy, antagonism, and compassion flow in your heart as you watch this movie. I was extremely touched by the relationship Jacques  had with the dolphins, his only real family, his remoteness and diversity. Le grand bleu is not only a visual and audio feast but also sweet and moving!  "}{"Title":"Fantastic","Date":"17 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This is one of my all time favorite movies.  No matter how many times I see this movie, it still draws me in.  Eric Serra's music makes this movie.  A perfect blend of cinematography, nature, music, and a simple, yet good story line. "},{"Title":"This film set the standards of what love is truly about","Date":"25 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I have loved this movie and Jacques Mayol ever since I was in the sixth grade. That was 11 years ago and still this movie has stayed with me. How unbelievably beautiful this man is for his love of the sea and the connection he has with the dolphins. Within his heart and his soul and his being, he is what a man should be. Loyal, loving , and pure. Jean-Marc Barr added so much to this movie with his innocent eyes and his delicious smile. If you want to get lost in a movie and fall desperately in love with a man, watch this movie and he shall set the standards for all future men who shall enter your life. Jean-Marc, wherever you are, in whatever film you are doing now, I know that the essence and beauty you brought to this part, is still with you and those around you will only benefit from it. I love this movie and you will too. "},{"Title":"Not an enjoyable film if story is important to you...","Date":"8 March 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" A lot of people seem to rave about the film because they felt emotionally affected by it. I got recommendations to watch this from so many people. And yet when I asked them what it's about, not 1 could tell me. Well, I'll tell you. Essentially, it's the story of two childhood friends who grow up by the sea and develop an obsession with it. Unable to connect with real people, they become world-champion free divers, and the film is basically about them competing for the world record.This could be an intense, beautifully shot film, but it ends up being long, meandering, and nonsensical. I thought Jean Reno was great in it, as I've known some Italians like him. However, the other characters were completely unbelievable to me, and the story was...well, kind of retarded.Without spoilers, I will say there are several deaths in the film that are ridiculous and completely avoidable, at least from the way Besson shows them, they are.The character choices are also ridiculous, with women reduced to broad, sexist stereotypes of becoming easily obsessed with commitment and children, and chasing men with little or no reason.There are a whole lot of beautiful shots of dolphins and ocean locales, but if you want to see that, you can watch the Discovery Channel or Planet Earth, no need to make a 3 hour excuse for a story.In the end, I can't possibly recommend anyone waste their time on this. There are so many better films for nearly any way you could look at it...romance, story, acting, atmosphere, etc. "},{"Title":"The Subplot IS the Story","Date":"13 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I found this movie haunting, to say the least. After looking at so many of the other reviews, I was more than amazed that so many people hated it, but then I realized that they just didn't get it. Everyone seems to think the story is a romance (the love triangle) or a sports flick (the free diving), and that Jacques obsession with the sea is a mere subplot, but that's completely backwards. The romance and the free diving are just the mechanisms that Luc Besson uses to reveal the real story and to resolve the main character's emotional turmoil. The subplot lying deep beneath the other stories (what a brilliant analogy by Besson) is summed up in only a few scenes the opening sequences that reveals Jacques love and fear of the sea; his admittedly bizarre relationship with dolphins as his family; the myth about the mermaids; the release of the female dolphin from captivity; and finally the end, where he fulfills the myth by proving that his love for the deep sea is pure and sincere so that she takes him away forever (to paraphrase the myth). It was this final image that haunted me for days and drove me to write this review. I agree with many people that the movie was quite long and had unrelated scenes, but so what. Besson's directing is great. The first appearance of the young Enzo, the first appearance of the older Jacques, Enzo's car and flamboyance, the tide of water flowing downward from the ceiling, and the very last scene, all these bold images were fantastic. By the time the movie is complete all that weight from above is focused down to that one instant when Jacques releases the lifeline. Luc Besson clearly demonstrated the art in film. It's a great flick, that's really all there is to it. "},{"Title":"You'll laugh, you'll cry, you'll be blown away","Date":"11 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Just a quick notice, this review refers to the version longue, European edition Beautiful scenery, extraordinary underwater photography and possibly the best ever film-soundtrack combination (why they cut Eric Serra's magnificent score for the US edition is beyond me) the Big Blue is a stunning film to look and actually brings you into this extraordinary world. But there's also a good story behind it. Starting initially with the rivalry between legendary free divers Jacques Mayol (Jean Marc Barr) and Enzo Molinari (Jean Reno), a love interest is quickly added in the form of Rosanna Arquette's Joanna as the competition heightens.There are some hilarious moments (mostly coming from Jean Reno) but at the same time it's also very sad as Joanna finds her love being ignored. To watch this properly, tell no one to interrupt you on fear of death, disconnect the phone and put the volume up load and prepare to to be taken away to another world "},{"Title":"Don't get the Director's Cut","Date":"8 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This is a great movie... in it's original form.   Do not bother with the extended 168m Director's Cut.   All of the original's style and subtlety get taken out of the movie and  replaced with new and extended scenes of silliness and added, cheesy 80's music...very French.   The core of the film is lost. The original 119m film is focused and provides some very memorable scenes that place you in a very  certain moment and feel.   Makes you want to immediately take a bath for some reason. "},{"Title":"Big Blue is a deep one.","Date":"22 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Based on R2 DVD 160 minThis is based on the European version of the movie, the shorter American version is not to be recommended.This is a deep, philosophical almost, story. It explores the relations between two men and the sea. Some of the cinematography is breathtaking.Sometimes it can be confusing, I'm still unsure how the depth record is established despite several scenes having been devoted to it.7/10 well worth watching "},{"Title":"blue is a myth","Date":"29 December 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This movie is about a myth and the main character is a god that accidental crossed our world and has to come back into his. The diving is, in fact a conquest of absolute freedom and knowledge, a space of no pain and great joy. Don't ever use the word romance to describe a film made by an intelligent and extremely gifted European director. Don't ever say about such a movie that is too long. May be your understanding abilities are too short. Music and acting and location are superlatives. Enjoy this invitation to a sacred world so close to us. Take that step that tell the difference from taxes and news to pure beauty. Amorgos is the island where they made the movie. May be this is a place we all should go to sense the mythical reality of our world. And there we'll understand Marquez's Macondo, and Homer's island of Alcinou and Naussica. "},{"Title":"Jacques Yves Cousteau must surely have had enjoyed this film.","Date":"7 August 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Le Grand Bleu is the true story of famous French diver Jacques Mayol who challenged death.Jacques and Enzo were always passionate about sea and this passion gave rise to their spirited rivalry.Enzo will never give up as he doesn't want to be beaten at all by anyone.They approve the widespread notion that one who goes for a thing will get it not the one who saw the thing.Mayol's character portrayed by Jean Marc Barr reminds one of celebrated Jacques Yves Cousteau who advocated the philosophy of profundity by making underwater his home.Le Grand Bleu's strength lies in its wonderfully shot visuals as well as catchy musical score by Eric Serra.Even,Jacques Mayol offered his indispensable contribution as a technical consultant on this film.The film was a massive hit among youngsters throughout Europe attracting nine million viewers in France.Luc Besson created one of the best films of his career featuring impressive underwater images.The film's success proved that the aesthetic quality can only save the cinema which is facing tough competition from television. "},{"Title":"Stupid kid drowns and wins Darwin award","Date":"28 September 2009","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The photography was great but the plot, directing really was horrible. And this coming from me, a person whose done over 100+ scuba dives and has a desire to dive down to the bottom of the Marianas Trench, 10,000m under the sea (and not return).1. Can someone tell me why the kid and the Uncle didn't attempt to pull out the dad at the start of the film? He was only in about 10m of water for crying out loud. They let him plunge to his death for no apparent reason other than to create a silly melodrama.2. The Uncle should have pulled the dive rope and hauled back the father asap when trouble occurred but he didn't. Why? 3. It seems all the characters, esp the lead character, are morons.4. The female lead is also a moron, sacrificing her job and career to go chase after a pretty boy idiot she barely knows.5. Morons and diving don't mix. And worse, they endanger the lives of the rest of the dive team. There's a scene where the divers are drinking alcohol before doing deep sea work. Its not funny. If they get into trouble - other people have to risk their lives to pull them out.6. This is the best part - when Enzo fails in his dive attempt and is pulled out of the water - the moron scientist pushes away the rest of the crew including the medics who are trying to render first aid to Enzo. WTF??? 7. This is the second best part - when the lead character learns that his lover is pregnant with his child and wants him to marry him etc.. - the fool dives into the bottom of the sea to swim with a dolphin and dies. Father fail. Partner fail. Human fail.8. This film is very long and boring - and normally I like long boring films. "}{"Title":"not sure","Date":"29 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" In 1965 Greece, Jacques Mayol and Enzo Molinari are childhood rivals in freediving. Jacques loses his father in a diving accident. In 1988 Sicily, Enzo (Jean Reno) is an arrogant diver for hire with Roberto. He wants to challenge Jacques. In Peru, insurance adjuster Johana Baker (Rosanna Arquette) visits Dr. Laurence's icy research station after an incident and falls for diver Jacques (Jean-Marc Barr). She lies to her boss Duffy (Griffin Dunne) to follow Jacques in his reunion with Enzo at the World Championship of Freediving in Sicily.I'm not sure which version I saw. I don't like the flighty Johana. I would preferred concentrating on the relationship between Jacques and Enzo. Anyways, why can't she simply be a tourist in Sicily. Her slightly off-center sensibility seems wrong. I don't like the insurance side trip and chasing a man she barely knows halfway around the globe by lying and stealing from the company. Sometimes, Luc Besson has that off-center sense of humor which usually works well with his energetic action style. This is far from an action movie. The underwater diving adds a zen quality. Jean Reno is great as usual. Jean-Marc Barr was a newbie by comparison at the time. He's a little stiff. I don't think this movie works (at least not the version I saw). "},{"Title":"Ethereal, emotive and breath taking images. A love-of-the-sea story.","Date":"22 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  If you need a film with haunting images, atmospheric music and a deep understanding of the emotions that pass between soul brothers in a bid to outdo each other in the chase for respect and admiration, essentially form each other, then this is it.It's about a love of the sea and a love of nature and a love of solitude.It is not a thriller, or a love story or an action drama. It is a human drama that I challenge viewers not to relate to. "},{"Title":"As comprehensive an evaluation as I can write","Date":"6 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Years ago I saw 'Nikita', more recently I loved 'Leon', and I even managed to enjoy Besson's rather more bizarre 'Fifth Element'.  Knowing in advance that 'The Big Blue' was a very different film, I approached it with as much curiosity as I did enthusiasm.I shouldn't have worried.  If Besson can bring beauty to the work of a professional killer, he can certainly bring beauty to free diving.  From the picturesque opening to the heart-warming bit parts, the stunning shots of dolphins to the overlaid love scenes, this film is a visual treat.  It doesn't take much to imagine that choreographed dolphins and five-minute long underwater shots will be impressive, but Besson's execution is somewhat more than that.Jean Reno plays his typical gruff but kind-hearted lead, but this time with the additional flair of arrogance that throws his typecast role into relief.  His on-screen friend and rival takes to his part with an understand calm and emotional intensity that lend believability to his innocence, the result being a well-realised character that is convincingly flawed but ultimately beautiful to behold.Having seen the extended directors cut, and knowing the differences throughout the films two and a half hours, the final scene was nonetheless wrought with emotion.  Without giving anything away, I can't help but believe that the American release will be a much shallower film for its cut scenes and alternative ending.I cannot recommend this film enough.  Whilst it does not lend itself easily to stylistic comparisons, it is certainly of a similar quality to many 'classics' of the past quarter-century. "},{"Title":"Impressive","Date":"3 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Luc Besson provides another impressive effort, again in the sense of a  slightly unconventional love story, centreing around 2 diving brothers and a New York girl. Jean Reno is statuesque as the brother who always assumes power and superiority (whilst seemingly knowing he may not be the better of the two) over his younger counterpart played by an equally capable Jean-Marc Barr. Thrown into all this is an airy Roseanna Arquette who gets her wits about her upon running into Barr as he prepares for a dive into icey waters, and immediately falls in love. Her character is perfect for this role, being so completely contrasting to the personality that Barr represents. To me his charcter was quite an enigma - we are never totally sure what he wants, although he is obviously leaning towards the life he is so used to - life by and in the sea. He is very resistant to change. Reno's role is slightly comedic and well played by the huge gangly figure.The music score is also worth a mention, as usual in Besson films it helps to create the whole marine feel and breathes atmosphere throughout the deep visuals. These are also worth a mention - the underwater scenes are very well crafted, and at the risk of repeating myself, very impressive. It all is, a wonderful couple of hours. If only this damn thing was available on video somewhere over here! Well deserved 10/10 "},{"Title":"Pure Serenity","Date":"27 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I'd heard about this film a number of times but never got round to watching it.  Finally managed to borrow it off a mate, the Directors cut and it blew me away.  Anyone with a love for the sea will be enthralled by this movie, the ending was kind of unexpected but did the film total justice.  Very glad I saw the Eurpoean long version rather than the US version, the 'happier' ending just would not have done it justice. Characters where all played supurbly and the cinematography was flawless, it really touched me I gotta say, I hope more people out there watch it and gain something from it aswell.Take it easy ppl "},{"Title":"Beautiful,Fascinating,Intriguing.....","Date":"2 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I can't find sufficiently powerful words to express my feeling for the unique picture.I didn't ever feel so regretful that I'm not a native speaker on English.But I can ensure you it's one of the most beautiful,fascinating,intriguing pictures ever made.It's an absolute must-see!Recommend it highly!  "},{"Title":"Stunningly beautiful film about a different world, the sea.","Date":"2 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This is a wonderful story that takes you into a world few of us know; that of the lives of world record chasing free divers. The story centers around two rivals and friends who push each other further toward the edge of human endurance. There is humor, heartache, spectacular scenery and underwater photography, and wonderful acting from all three lead actors. It was a terrific introduction for me to two great foreign actors, Jean Reno and Jean-Marc Barr.  Both could hardly have been better in conveying these very different but driven men.  The final scene is both striking and satisfying.  A powerful film. "},{"Title":"Memorable cinematography","Date":"21 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I have remembered this movie for years for a couple of very simple reasons, the incredible cinematography and the hints of the greatness of Jean Reno that come through the movie.  I first saw this movie soon after it was first shown in the United States and rented it again and again and recommended it to friends.  Now that I have finally seen the full version (DVD) with the scenes cut from the US version previously it is even better.  Luc Besson has his missteps, but this film should have let everyone know that he is a great director.   "},{"Title":"The depths of the sea, the depth of our soul.","Date":"14 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This film has always been something of enigma. It certainly is welcome to see the full length European version available now in the US.This simply put it is a masterful film, that challenges us to explore our own depths as individuals. This film for me has the ability to change itself according to my mood. It can be funny and romantic, yet cold and calculating. It can be one of those curled up on the couch, rainy Sunday afternoon movies, yet is equally at home on a Friday night for a group of friends with a great bottle of wine.Luc Besson has such an incredibly talented eye for visual impact that draw us in. We feel as if we are with these people and are made part of the film. Jean Reno and Eric Serra(that's his fabulous score for the European version) are often used by Luc as they are so INCREDIBLY talented. Jean makes us feel like he's an old friend and Eric's music puts us so at ease.The film is about what we want it to be about. Don't analyze it, just exist with it and let it take you wherever you want to go. It's so rare in this world that we get a glimpse of true genius in a film. Luc Besson has bared his soul, and allowed us to be in his shoes for a while. The beauty of this film is immense. "},{"Title":"The atmosphere is blue, deep blue","Date":"31 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The plot is a statement for friendship of men. But the plot is not important for this kind of film. From the beginning you dive deep into a timeless, color-filtered, watersounded world of silence and freedom. It's a passion for deep blue.  "}{"Title":"Maybe I shouldn't have seen the director's cut","Date":"10 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I'd never seen the film, but had been only told passionate things about it, and indeed there are many aspects of The Big Blue to recommend it. I just came home from seeing the director's cut in a theater on La Brea in Los Angeles called the Showcase. This bloated cut masked what could have been a very tight film that probably resembles more closely the comments that I've been reading since I came home.It's funny how the non-American actors totally out-did their American co-actors. I really feel that the Americans could have been cut back considerably for a far more pleasing film. The sequences with Arquette, particularly toward the end, felt unnatural compared to the world Besson created between the two divers, though I did care enough about their relationship that I got pretty upset when Mayol left the pregnant Joanna behind for the sea, just like his own father...Anyway, an interesting story, fairly involving for the most part, but I have a feeling I would have been better off seeing the non-US, non-director's cut. That said, if you live in Los Angeles, you may be one of the few people in the world who get to see this film on the big screen. Check it out. "},{"Title":"grandiose film-making","Date":"7 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  What can I say?I was 17 when I first saw this movie and am still in love with it ever since.Only truly sea-bound people can grasp how I feel about this magnificent piece of work done by Luc Besson,a holy man.Sometimes hovering on the borders of a documentary,this unique story-telling takes you into the tranquil world of a man who is deeply in love with sea,where we all come from.The basic element of life, H2O.Where he finds the meaning of love from his true friends,dolphins.Extraordinary music and camera-work unsurpassed since then for me.You don't need to look for any decent plot or aim with this movie.If you have the chance,try to watch it at night,lights-off,alone and with good home-theater system.You won't be disappointed to feel what Jacques Mayol and Enzo Molinari feels.Jean Reno is outrageously mesmerizing in all of his roles and of course this one is no exception.If I were a lady I would promptly fall in love with Jean-Marque Barr,I have to admit.On 15th August we're lucky to be able to get the extended director's cut from AMAZON.COM...See for your self and get drifted into a world of innocence,friendship and romance. "},{"Title":"Deep and pure poetry","Date":"15 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The first thing I knew about this film, was the wonderful music.I was totally enchanted by the music. From this moment on, I knew, I had to see that film.And it went beyond my expectations... The great images, the breathtaking music, and the brilliant story, which is full of the fascination and the love for the sea. This film touches you deep in your soul, you are caught on the fishing gear and it will never let you off the hook.Melancholic and honestly, but humorous and lively at the same time. Every time, I watch the film, I wonder, how to find the balance for both of it, but Luc Besson found it perfectly.Its deep and pure poetry enchanted me and there is no film, that could be compared with The Big Blue (Version Longue). "},{"Title":"The competitiveness in us all brought out through friendship..","Date":"6 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This film is very hard to describe. Never has a movie captured the very essence of friendship like this one. Not just growing up with someone and sharing experiences, but rather the jealousy and desire to compete with your peers. The scenes are very beautiful and Luc really brings the beauty of the ocean to life. One of my top ten favorite movies of all time. "},{"Title":"Beautiful and heart-wrenching","Date":"27 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I have notices that this particular Luc Besson film often gets forgotten, overshadowed by bigger exploits like La Femme Nikita, The Professional and Fifth Element. But I have loved this movie since the first time I saw it. It is physically gorgeous, and is very easy to watch. Jean Reno is great as Enzo. "},{"Title":"The Greatest of All Stories","Date":"20 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I've always been obsessed with sea, with that Big Blue, and before I had the chance to see Besson's movie, I thought it was impossible for anyone to put that love and obsession on screen and make a great movie out of it. Besson succeeded in it and for that he has a special place in my life. I know that lot of people think that the movie's not so good; they dislike the story, etc., but I feel that they miss the crucial about the film it's not the story that's important, or anything like that - I believe that people who don't feel that special kind of connection to the sea can't really understand the meaning of the movie. The meaning cannot be explained in words; to really understand it, you just have to feel it. "},{"Title":"The Big Blue Beautiful Movie.","Date":"14 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  My favorite movies typically involve light sabers and aliens, but this movie brought me down to Earth.Few movies these days are inspiring, what with an enormous budget for lousy actors and special effects to make up for lack of plot. This movie has neither, little-known yet recognizable actors, and special effects replaced by natural beauty. And it will inspire you. To do what? You decide. This is a movie to watch over and over again, catching new views and perspectives and beauty each time. Oh yeah, this is not a chick-flick. PERFECT date movie. "},{"Title":"Pure Magic","Date":"9 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The Big Blue - the most magic movie ever made.Maybe it`s because of it`s diffuse context. Maybe it`s the stunning scenes and photography.  Maybe it`s the strong personalities. Maybe it`s the genuine music of Eric Serra. Maybe it`s a mix of it all.It`s hard to define Luc Bessons real message with this movie.  It`s a drama, a love story, an epic travel under water, a movie about friendship, respect and the love of the sea.  The Big Blue is a movie that goes beyond all that. It takes us to a higher level of freedom, love and respect.I actually don`t care to find the movies plot.  I just want the Big Blue to be the movie it appears as to me as an individual. This movie can give it`s audience very individual meanings, depending of how open-minded you are when exposed for this magical world.The two parallel love stories,  Jaques Mayol - Johanna / Jaques - the dolphines,  are two emotionally extreme strong affaires.  After Jaques Mayol has found the deepest love, in both the dolphins / the sea, and to Johanna, he is heading towards a paradox. He is aware that this love is bound to fail and he is doomed to choose between the two things in life he really loves; A life under the sea, or a life with Johanna.  This must be the worst situation you possible can imagine.  From how I know Jaques Mayol I believe he did the right choice.!After being on several of the movie`s locations, I am still in search of the real magic of the Big Blue. And the more I search for it, the more I realise that it`s magic is untouchable and goes way beyond man`s ability to sense the beauty of life.At last a prayer to Luc Besson Please - never ever make a sequel.  "},{"Title":"Poetry in motion picture","Date":"15 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Le grand bleu is a love letter to the ocean. Luc Besson carries on this watery affair with Atlantis, a kind-of documentary hereby strongly recommended. What is it with this movie that hits you?? The characters aren't all that convincing, but the photography is pure poetry. And the mix of melancholy, hopeless love, and passion for the mysterious big blue, together with THAT music...wow. The ending may be downbeat, but who knows? He chooses to seize his real love, and we don't know what happens next. Maybe the fairy tale is true. The sea has a secret, you know...  "},{"Title":"My heart, my soul, my love, my life","Date":"15 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I can't add anything to what was written by Luis P. from Portugal... His comment shook my heart and all I can say is YES!.This movie is, was and will ever be the best kept secret of my soul and a never ending love story.Thank you for this film!!!! "}{"Title":"It will never get boring!","Date":"3 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Yesterday, I watched this movie for about the seventh time, and I enjoyed it still as much as the first time. Each time I see this movie I`m even more sure that it`s the best movie between water and sky.I think there are two main stories in `The Big Blue`. The first one is the story of two childhood friends, Enzo Mollinari and Jaques Mayol, who compete against each other in the World Free Diving Championships. The second one is the tale of a man (Mayol) with a great passion for the sea (his family are three dolphins; he lost his parents when he was very young), who falls in love with a girl from New York.The difficult part of Mayol is played by Jean-Marc Barr, who movingly portrays Jaques` dilemma. French actor Jean Reno takes the part of Enzo in all his pride. And last but not least the American girl is played by Patricia Arquette. After `Subway` this is the second big movie written and directed by Luc Besson, in my opinion one of the best directors of our time. His other great movies are `The Professional`, `Nikita` and the Sci-Fi-Opus `The Fifth Element`. `The Big Blue` features the best soundtrack I`ve ever heard. It`s a masterpiece composed and performed by Eric Serra. Just listening to this music gives you the relaxing feeling of being underwater.It`s enormously difficult to give an adequate impression of this marvellous movie. Just watch it - and then watch it again...  "},{"Title":"This is my favorite movie of all-time.","Date":"12 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I am a huge fan of both Luc Besson and Jean Reno.  This is my favorite movie of all-time and it is not an effect of my 'fandom' for these two but a cause.  I have come to love their work because of this one film.I first saw this movie in the summer of 1989 and I've seen it at least two-dozen times since.  Every time I see it it has the same effect on me. I am drawn into this fascinating world.  It is, in fact, a very ordinary world made extraordinary by the characters inhabiting it.The friendship shared by Jacques and Enzo reminds me of the relationships I have with my longtime friends, both loving and competetive.  I think that may be what really gets me about this movie.Other than that, the story is excellently written.  You can tell it was not made for the average Hollywood executive.  Too boring, he'd say. Americans will never go for it.  Phooey on Hollywood.  (By the way, don't even bother with the 'American' version, please, try to find the longer version.)The scenery and the music are incredible and the boy who plays the young Enzo Molinari is hilarious.  He is the spitting-image of Jean Reno and is exactly as I imagine the young Enzo to be.  Great casting there.Please, watch this movie.  I have voted on over 500 movies on the IMDb and this is my favorite by far.  "},{"Title":"Freedom","Date":"7 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This movie is about freedom, inevitability and of course independence. In this film to be free is to be independent. Jacques simply finds his freedom deeply under the surface of water. Nobody tells him what should he do and what should he to believe in...he is alone only for himself. And finally a girl- Johanna fells in love with him. At the first look Jacques is unfair, he only cares about his freedom and doesn't even try to understand her....But in fact it is not that....Jacques is free (the girl wants him to share with it), he doesn't belong to our world, he belongs to the sea. If she wants to love him she must accept this fact, she must love him also for his freedom and doesn't even try to take some for herself...because he will escape. "},{"Title":"An excellent movie -- one of the most beautiful films ever made.","Date":"21 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Plot aside, 'The Big Blue' is one of the best movies I've ever seen. The visuals are unsurpassed -- exquisite and achingly beautiful.The movie shows much better in the European version -- where Jacques dies in the end. The U.S. distributors ruined the movie -- they changed the ending for release in the U.S., thinking that American audiences would be repelled by the sad ending. However, the new, happier ending resulted in a confused movie. Added to that, there was very little advertisement or marketing in the U.S. -- it was not released on many screens. It opened and left the theaters very quickly.In any case, no amount of editing/chopping can hide Luc Besson's stunning cinematography. It is one of the most beautiful movies ever made. "},{"Title":"A beautiful film experience","Date":"7 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Le Grand Bleu is my number one movie. It is the best film ever made and Mr. Luc Besson is my kind of man!!! The first time I saw it, I was only 12 years old and I fell deeply in love with Jacques Mayol. Last year, ten years later I saw it again with a couple of friends (who hadn't seen it before). I was a bit worried, I wasn't sure whether I was to like  it like I did when I was 12. Can a film be that great? My answer is simple YES!!! I experienced it different this time, I saw freedom. It was amasing, it is an amasing film. See it and enjoy!!!  "},{"Title":"`my friend is a world champion'!!","Date":"3 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  That,in short,sums up the whole movie in a nut shell.The Big Blue is,more than anything,about friendship and trust.The ambience and the mood of the movie is almost surreal at times while superlative performances by every member of the cast can easily bring the house down.I immediately took up diving(not with the greatest success!!)after watching the movie and Eic Serra's soundtrack still haunts me every time I listen to it. "},{"Title":"The best movie ever.","Date":"19 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Having Freediving as a hobby for myself,and knowing the whole background on which the movie was based,I was thrilled when I learned about the release of such a movie. The movie is simply the best one ever made,especially the extended version is something unbelievable. I don't know what else to say,this movie is worth more than a billion words. Just see it. "},{"Title":"Sea Mammal Eroticism!","Date":"10 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  For some reason when we were watching this film the cinematography of the dolphin scenes made it extremely erotic.  Luc Besson uses the intensely interesting concept of a man's love for a dolphin and displays it with beautifully filmed scenes, reminsicent of the love scenes in Ghost.The film also took an incredibly touching view of Jacques' perplexing position as a dolphin/human hybrid.  This thematic brought tears to my eyes more than once--ah, the pain of being trapped between two words aquatic love or Rosanna Arquette...The choice, the film intones, is difficult.  The overt eroticism of sea mammals or a woman with huge hair?  Few films have addressed this issue with such candor or such splendor. "},{"Title":"Definitely in my Top 5 Films !","Date":"3 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This movie (if you haven't seen it) is totally fantastic.  The scenes are amazing, Luc Besson outdoing himself as usual, and the music (Eric Serra) is just superb.  It's one of those films that you can watch over and over and notice something more interesting about it every time...  An absolute Classic. "},{"Title":"One of the best films I've ever seen","Date":"18 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This has got to be one of the best films I've ever seen.  Yet, if somebody asks me what it's about, I find it difficult to answer them.  It starts off with two childhood friends, and ends up with them competing for the free diving world championship.  It's about the competitiveness between the two divers, and the way their friendship develops over the years.If you're ever going to see this film, don't watch the shorter version.  For some reason if you watch the short version you get the idea that Enzo (Jean Reno) just wants to beat Jacques (Jean-Marc Barr) - but the longer version shows him as a much nicer character.The scenery is amazing, from the Andes mountains to the Greek islands, and the music by Eric Serra is moving to say the least. "}{"Title":"One of the worst films I've seen.","Date":"12 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Before a reviewer pans a movie, you should know something about that person...I enjoy avant garde and foreign movies. Especially movies that are not the typical Hollywood block buster.The Big Blue isn't a typical Hollywood movie, it's a French produced film. It's a meandering, tedious 2 hours and 48 minutes of pointless scenes, that have no reason for being spliced into the film other than the director shot them.The idea of the movie would seem to be a winner Two men who love free diving and have known and competed with each other since childhood are engaged in a dangerous contest to break the world's record in free diving. Sounds good but...The movie misses the mark by a mile. The acting, if you can call it that is ridiculous. The characters seem to be in some state of daze and behave in a unbelievable manner. And the script? It seems to have been written without any skill level at all.Rosanna Arquette and Jean-Marc Barr characters might be the stupidest written characters in cinema. Which is sad for both the actors, if they had been given some sort of a decent script to work with, they might have looked better. "},{"Title":"The Great Blue","Date":"28 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" 'Le Grand Bleu' is unlike any Luc Besson film I've ever seen and what a movie it is! It's also one of the most difficult movies to define with a few words. For one thing, the trailer is misleading as it gives the interpretation that this is going to be some underwater adventurous horror flick which this movie definitely isn't. It's also one of the hardest movies to categorize because what is it really? A love story? Yes but certainly not the typical boy meets girl kind. The love story here is between a man and a woman who gave up everything for the sake of love, between two friends, between a man and his only family whose picture he carries in his wallet, between man and the sea and it continues. Is it a thriller? It has elements of a thriller but not the kind with jumps and silly twists. The viewer is so engaged and involved in the characters' lives that you simply are left with little choice but to follow them. Is it an adventure movie? Yes, definitely but it's not another James Bond or Indiana Jones, you'll see why. It has a few elements of science fiction. I could go on and on but as my time is limited at the moment, I'll continue with the technical aspects.'Le Grand Bleu' is a character driven, story driven and atmospheric piece. Besson's direction and writing are exceptionally remarkable.I saw the extended version which is about a good two hours and forty minutes but not for a single moment was I bored. It just flows beautifully. The visuals are mesmerizing (thanks to the superb cinematography, art direction, locations and lighting), the atmosphere is captivating and the score is wonderful.The characters are excellently defined. The title role is stunningly portrayed as being seductive, mysterious, alluring, limitless and above all, free. All the actors do a commendable job. Every actor who is given a speaking part (including the dolphins) does full justice to their character. The three leads, Jean-Marc Barr, Jean Reno and Rosanna Arquette are outstanding.There's passion, romance, adventure, freedom but above all 'Le Grand Bleu' is about love. It has a very laidback and calming feel to it and I would suggest to make yourself comfortable and watch this on a big screen television with great sound system and prepare yourself to experience something cinematically extraordinary. "},{"Title":"under the deep water","Date":"6 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" At first, the reason why I chose to watch this film was the beautiful movie poster that was portrayed like a commercial advertisement about the sea made by a travel agency. No wonder the poster was nominated as a Best Poster Award at the Cesar Awards France in 1989.Luc Besson is a great director. In this film he didn't disappoint me at all. He became a household name in the same year. This story is based on his childhood dream. Due to his parents who worked as diving instructors, he dreamed of being a dolphin trainer. He grew up near the shore of the Mediterranean. This experience affected the movie a lot and made the unbelievable atmosphere. In the last scene with a dolphin, he put an extraordinary visual element into the movie. And also the soundtrack is one of the wonderful aspects in this movie.The music deserved to get a Cesar Award as a best sound in 1989.Johana (Rosanna Arquette), Jacques (Jean-Mark Barr), Enjo (Jean Reno) are the 3 main characters who conflict emotions with each other and lead the story to the end. The dolphins and the ocean are also the main elements to understand Jacques who is going through mental problem caused by his father's death. He looks lonesome but composed. He needs friends to share his dreams and worries with, but once somebody gets close to him, he runs away from them and goes to the water and dolphins. He doesn't seem to know how to get along with people. On the contrast dolphins look like his sole friends. Jacques and Enjo are childhood friends but also rivals in many ways. If Enjo devotes all his energies to diving so as to access to success and glory, the sea is more than this for Jacques. He was born with it, and the sea will lead him to death. When his rival Enjo dies at the competition, he is in agony and sends him to the sea where he loves. The ocean means all this to Jacques. I'm scared to be in the dark like in the deep dark ocean, but Jacques looks very comfortable and happy with dolphins under the deep dark ocean. The calm and peaceful music makes the scenes under the water astonishing. Music and his move with dolphins make a good combination. Johana is quite logical and sensible as a magazine reporter but she is getting emotional and feels sorry for Jacques. That makes her hard to concentrate on her job about the divers. But she can't help it but falls in love with him.If you're a big fan of Hollywood theatrical releases, you might not love it with no action, no chases, no dangerous cliffhangers, no guns and no explosions. It doesn't even has bad guys. It's more than a love story, or a friendship. You'll be happy when Jacques and Johanna finally love each other, you feel how the ocean is beautiful and peaceful when Jacques dives with the dolphins and you'll cry with Johanna when he doesn't come back. And yes, for him, it's the best of endings, because he doesn't belong here, he really belongs more to the sea than to us.This film is quite different from Hollywood movies, but there are some aspects to attract us to watch more than once. You can think about your life, love and family. It'll help you understand other European movies also. "},{"Title":"Taoism and deep-sea diving","Date":"22 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Le Grand Bleu of Luc Besson is an unusual film, unique in a sense that it is devoid of any special effect of Hollywood productions. Its cinematography is beautiful but not superior by today's HD standard.The really interesting thing about the film is its depiction of the extraordinary personality of Jacques Mayol, a renowned free diver. Built upon the theme of competition between two diving champions, with a subplot of romance, the film delved into the psycho-physical idiosyncrasy of Jacques Mayol, and painted a portrait of a man who lives in a different universe from the rest of the mankind. Jacques Mayol is not just a free diver. He is a marine animal himself who possesses a physique that could mimic the biological conditions of a dolphin. Since the day he lost his parents, he has chosen a path of life to distance himself from his human folks. Among humans, he appears gauche, naive, almost childish, lack of tact or common sense. He is not interested in competing with another human being. Nor is he interested in falling in love with a woman. He cannot feel the thrill of love or lust or hatred for another human. His awkwardness in socialising with other humans made him an eccentric, introverted and lonely person. As he finds it hard to communicate with humans, he developed an inseparable bond with fish, especially with dolphins. There is an interesting line he said, When I went down to the bottom of the sea, I couldn't find any good reason of coming back up to the surface. This sums up his philosophical view.By detaching himself from the mundane drudgery of earthly life, avoiding ugly competitiveness, cut-throat jealousy, greed and hatred in human society he reaches a Utopia of his own. In this sense, he is almost non-human. He is a Taoist who lives in harmony with nature, who interacts only with creatures born and bred in nature. "},{"Title":"It's just so damn blue!","Date":"30 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Im not talking just about the water, i am talking about the entire movie. From the second you start watching it, you get overwhelmed by the feeling of being under the sea. The music, the photography, the actors, all together create a feeling of a deep abyss. But not a dark one, but a white.Some individuals that are born, are not meant to be amongst other people, i don't know how to explain it. Maybe it is something you are born with, a feeling of some sort. Maybe you fall in love with something as a child and no matter what you cant never forget about it. It has become a part of you.And when you put those two together, that white abyss and that love from your childhood. I think you will understand that it is the same. When you have found home, there is no other place for you... This is the place you live, and this is the place you die... "},{"Title":"This is a great story of unique a man with a deep love for the ocean, it's creatures and it's dangers.","Date":"5 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This is a well kept secret, and like a great deal of films made without mainstream American actors it suffered at the box office. The European cast and locations are truly magnificent in themselves. The Big Blue has so much atmosphere, that it almost captures the residual wave motion we can feel before sleeping. The most striking thing I remember about the The Big Blue is the respect and friendship developed by the two main characters. Enzo has a brilliant presence in the film the character almost steals the the limelight from the lead character Jacque. Free diving may well be the most extreme sports on the planet, the real life hero's Jacques Mayol and Enzo Molinari must have been at the height of their talent and in amazing physical condition. Anyone who loves the ocean should see this film, I am sure this will stand the test of time.  ) "},{"Title":"Movie with a soul","Date":"2 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" When you watch some Oscar-winner movie with perfect acting and somebody-leaves-somebody screenplay you say &#132;It's a nice movie. You see it again 20 years later and you say &#132; It's a nice movie. You see Le Grand Bleu and say &#132;Amazing!. See it 20 years later and all you'll be able to say is &#132;Amazing!. That makes all the difference.For me Le Grand Bleu will always have a special meaning in my life. In fact, I realized that it is a reason (and there aren't many movies of that kind for me, perhaps just few) why I really love this art. I said reason because Le Grand Bleu is much more than a movie. You can consider it as a poetry in motion dedicated to the See, but it goes far beyond that.Difference between this and other movies (even Besson's) is that director really &#132;put himself into it, he made it personal (see dedication), right from the heart. Result is a movie with a soul. I have feeling this is just the movie he wanted to make, without anyone forcing him to change anything (I'm talking about 163min version longer and original French version).Beautiful story about love, friendship, connection between man and a Nature (See) and something we seek for all our lives goes much deeper than the spoken or written words can say. Just look what reviews people wrote about it!However, here is technical part Luc Besson did excellent job, camera is incredible (notice usage of blue colour), actors fit their role perfectly and screenplay is great (some would say there isn't any &#150; yes there is, but sometimes picture reveals something words never could). It would be a shame not to mention incredible music composed by Eric Serra &#150; one of the best soundtracks ever follows movie perfectly (nothing can beat original ending with My Lady Blue).Of course, I can tell you that Le Grand Bleu belongs to the top 3 movies I have ever seen and believe me, I have seen a lot (forget &#132;soulless, Oscar winners described above and top 100 classics people always talk about, this is something different) and that it is the most underrated movie on this site (it should be ranked over 9, at least 8.8), but when it comes to Le Grand Bleu, it really doesn't matter.Without smallest hesitation, 10/10. "},{"Title":"...caught you holding your breath, didn't  I?...","Date":"28 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" ...I certainly held mine.If you ever wanted to know what the international sport of SCUBA-less, very-deep, 'free-diving' was about, here's your film with a dream-like twist.Haunting, exquisite, sublime, beautifully photographed and scored, THE BIG BLUE will find you pushing-the-envelope inside your own lungs right on the living room couch. You'll find Jean Reno at his best - and you'll definitely want the recipe for 'Spaghetti Fruti di Mari.' I'm very partial to the US version (and I own both the US and European CDs) with John Conti's superior musical score (others agree - see Pat Epstein's review). I loved Luc Besson's international flavor in this film. Prepare a Greek or Italian dinner for your friends, open a fresh bottle of Chianti or Ouzo, butter the Italian/French bread-loaf slices, launch yourself into the couches around the coffee table, push the 'Play' button and enjoy...'Roberto, yo parma!' "},{"Title":"Hold your breath!","Date":"19 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Rosanna Arquette is nice to look at but the story here is about free diving and the competitive nature of the two divers. The cinematography is stunning and, as the divers are under water, you begin to feel like you're running out of air; you'll feel like you're there with them.Never thought I'd identify with a free diver (as I'm strictly a surface swimmer) but the director and the actors do a great job of helping you understand the motives of these divers.Did I mention that Rosanna Arquette is nice to look at? She's actually a distraction, believe it or not. I'd say that she was miscast in this role. Probably would have been more believable if (a-not-yet-a-superstar) Jodie Foster had played this role.Nevertheless, I'll give this movie a strong thumb's up. Get a bucket of popcorn, a soft drink and an Aqualung, then enjoy. "},{"Title":"It co-stars Jean Reno, who could fart and I'd think its great!","Date":"20 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The Big Blue (aka Le Grand Bleu) is a strange one.Filmed in Europe in both English and French with American and French actors, it was well received in France but fell on its face commercially in the US. There is a FRENCH version. `Cut,' says our director Luc Besson, `OK Action, this time now in ENGLISH.' There are literally TWO versions of the same movie.  Because they had this English language version in the can, along with a American female lead in Rosanna Arquette, it got a big commercial US release.The male lead is played by Jean-Marc Barr who is a hot looking French dude who never really to made another big English language film.  They dig him in France and you can see why here.  It co-stars Jean Reno, who could fart and I'd think its great (Ok maybe not so great in Godzilla and Rollerball). The problem with the film is just the subject matter is goofy to ignorant Americans like me; championship free diving. What?  Guys who go down in the water without scuba gear.  I mean go really, really deep straight down in the water while holding their breath.  Do people really do this as a sport? They do and in its way it is engaging and exciting, but odd to an American audience.Still, the movie is beautifully shot with great music and creates an odd mix or serenity and frustration.  Arquette is a fish out of water, but that's the point. Reno is obnoxious, but that's the point.  Barr is more Dolphin than human, but guess what, that's the point. It is a great movie in my opinion, but how they thought this would play in Peoria is beyond comprehension.  It was made during the  New Wave  of the 80's, but it has it roots far more in the French New Wave of the 50's.  If you liked François Truffaut's The 400 Blows, you'll dig this flick.  "}{"Title":"The Big Blue Director's Cut 169mins","Date":"22 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The director's cut is dated 2000 and is 169 minutes long.  It is in english and is *not* dubbed.  The box does indicate that the musical score from Eric Serra is there.  Perhaps it is with this director's cut that they corrected some of the issues that have been discussed on this board.Either way, it is an utterly fantastic movie and retains what I would consider the true happy ending, at least for Jaques. "},{"Title":"A nostalgic Mediterranean tale","Date":"27 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Luc Besson is a very gifted director and an artist. His talent clearly shows in this movie. It's a tale about two friends for whom deep-sea diving is what life is all about. No question this movie will appeal to those who love diving and the sea. A few comments from a layman - it's a little hard to believe how long these guys can stay under, even if they've been doing it all their life. Isn't this a bit of an exaggeration? The scientific explanation about their special inborn ability I find a little hard to swallow. It seems that the director tried to impress the audience a bit too forcefully. Another point - to me at least the black depths of the really deep sea shown here don't look appetizing, and so the line I'd like to stay there and don't come up sounds a little crazy. The film tries to be as international as possible, trying especially hard to impress the American audience with the scenes in NYC and the The best in the world line repeated over and over, faithfully following the Hollywood recipe, which orders every movie to have at least one of. Reno's friend and opponent can't act. He doesn't know what to do with his face and he behaves like a spoiled kid. It's hard to follow his motivations and actions. Reno's voice really annoyed my wife Anetka. He sounded as if someone was cutting his neck with a saw. Otherwise ok. Excellent cinematography and great atmosphere. "},{"Title":"Director's Cut","Date":"22 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The Big Clue is one of my favourite movies ever.I love the human touch to it... their relation to other people, to the water and what it means to live in this world but not to really be here.I recently saw the Director's Cut and I was really confused by it. This is a completely different movie.. the first half is the same, and then the story take a mayor turn. (In my opinion, to the worst)I was disappointed to see that the things that attracted me from the first one weren't there any more... the awkwardness of Jack, and how lost he was in the human world was lost.If you want to see it.. make sure you see the non-director's cut version.  "},{"Title":"A wonderful film, but the US release was better","Date":"29 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This is one of my favorite films, beautiful, atmospheric, thought provoking. Unfortunately, the DVD version is the long original european cut, which is inferior to the original US released version.  A great deal of extra footage was crammed into the movie, changing the character of the film a great deal and altering the development of Barr's character considerably. It also restores the terrible new-age soundtrack that was wisely replaced in the US version.  Sometimes directors are not great editors.  Someone in Hollywood made this into a better movie at one point, and that has been undone in the DVD release. "},{"Title":"If ever a movie, There can be only one.. This One..!","Date":"2 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  There has been a lot of movies made through the years, since and before Le Grand Blue, BUT, This movie is the absolute TOP Production ever made by MORTAL man.Also considder seeing Sophies Choice with the actingof Meryl Streep or the Passion of Braveheart done by Mel Gibson.Coming Back to this movie nothing will ever and I mean this Literally Ever come close to the Essence of being than this MOVIE.If there should be an example movie as there is the Bible as a book,  this one is definately it.Men created camera's and vision to make this movie. I would recommend this movie for everybody to see once every month.All this I said is even an understatement!!!!!oh yeah, Bless the man --Luc Besson--and the creative mind of -Eric Serra- which I compare with Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart. ---Never Make a Sequel---  "},{"Title":"this movie should be released again","Date":"8 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This is my absolute favorite movie of all time. Filmed in the 1980's it takes you back to a time when movie making was real. No blue screens,or special effects.Filmed on location,in Europe and Peru. It also tells a story of Europe with-out high rises,cars, tons of tourists. If you want to take a trip to Southren Europe, check out this film before you leave. The acting was natural, apart from the 80's poofed up hair,Rosanna Arquette,was charming and funny. Jean-Marc Barr, what can I say,he's a hunk and a joy to watch dancing with the dolphins. Jean Reno has never given a bad performance. To play Enzo as a child ,I wonder where they found a chlid actor that looked just like Reno. Great casting. Great Movie. "},{"Title":"Magnificent, no matter which version you see","Date":"1 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" THE BIG BLUE (Le Grand Bleu) Aspect ratio 2.391 (Technovision)Sound format 6-track Dolby Stereo SR(35mm and 70mm release prints)Two of the world's greatest free divers (Jean-Marc Barr and Jean Reno) are divided by their competitive spirit, and their professional rivalry is further complicated when Barr falls in love with a beautiful admirer (Rosanna Arquette).Luc Besson first expressed his love of the sea with this magical visual poem, in which the plot (Barr's struggle between physical reality and the spiritual lure of the sea) takes a back seat to the stunning widescreen visuals. The longer version - currently available on home video worldwide - simply extends the existing plot without adding anything new or significant to proceedings, and while some will find the extended print lumbering and awkward in places, others will relish the spiritual dimension invested in every frame. In fact, the only thing more beautiful than the scenery itself is Barr, who almost steals the show from bombastic Gallic superstar Reno. Almost, but not quite.The movie was photographed with anamorphic Technovision lenses, credited as 'CinemaScope' on-screen. Besson returned to the aquatic theme with ATLANTIS (1991), a non-narrative celebration of the ocean depths.(English version) "},{"Title":"Eric Serra VS. Bill Conti","Date":"2 April 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I appreciate all of the reviews and comments on The Big Blue, but after reading all the feedback on how great the movie and soundtrack has meant to everyone, I failed to here much on the signature theme, or opening/ending music track used in the US release with Bill Conti's music score! You see, the first time I watched this great film, there was this wonderful fantasy style track with a beautiful hook in it that linked Jacques,the dolphins, and the viewers together. This track quickly prompted me to go out and buy the soundtrack, but To my disappointment, that particular track was missing! This was the joyous music used when Jacques swam and connected with the dolphins. Back in the early 90's, and as a former DJ who still makes mixed CD's,...I loved the track so much I wanted to include it in one of my mixes. I did actually,...but ended up having to cue the track up LIVE from a VHS tape while my audio cassette master was rolling. It was difficult with the timing issue, and I remember my VHS deck only put out mono...so the mix ultimately suffered! ...It was much later that I realized the whole soundtrack was entirely different all together. OK! The name of the CD matches the movie, but we have a different composer, - Eric Serra. This was confusing! As a film & video director now myself, I could not understand why they would have switched composers. For awhile I thought there might have been a breach of contract or some kind of falling out or something. Still...this puzzles me today! This reminds me of a version of Blade Runner (My all time Favorite!) I saw in Los Angeles which had one word switched. Roy Batty walks into Tyrell's place looking for answers. Most version's the public is used to seeing, we hear the line... I want more life&#133;FU**ER.... But a special viewing at the Santa Monica; Numark theatre, I saw a version where Roy Batty walks into focus and say's...I want more life...FATHER &#133;It blew me away!...It made sense!...I can only imagine some studio exec in need of some ego deflation, stepped in with The Big decision on that one. Well I want answers to this Big Blue composer thing dammit! More than likely it was Luc Besson's choice after all&#133;but either way, I would like to know. I let it go for a number of years until one summer on a job filming in France, I decided to hunt down the CD soundtrack once again&#133; thinking, if any luck, this would be the place to find it. Well I did (I thought), but again the track I was initially looking for was missing! Why would the credit on the film have Bill Conti, and the CD soundtrack have Eric Serra's?...and for the longest time, I didn't here anything about the original Le Grand bleu version on VHS! ...Alot of times, directors will re-release their ultimate version once their film reaches a demand and/or a cult type following. By this time they probably have the chip's to finance it themselves. I realized since then, the existence of two films and finally after seeing the original, (or longer) version on DVD and reading the submissions here in IMDb, ...the knowledge of a US version verses a European version...must be the link, and subsequently it was Serra who had originally scored Luc's picture and it was the studio that pushed to have Eric's work replaced, as they believed the American audiences simply did not GET Eric Serra's original score. Still, this does not add up to a meager replacement. Bill Conti's score is still a wonderful collection of work to many Big Blue fans who were fortunate to have seen it; replacement or not!!As far as the longer original version everybody is talking about?...Who's to say what is the original version?...Directors are notorious for tinkering with their projects. Were never satisfied!!!...I really dug it though...The more of those characters on the screen, the better! The ending makes more sense and works with me, leaving room for your own imagination. But I am still stuck on that idea of why replace Bill's work?&#133; And that ONE TRACK that I still can't get off my mind of Bill Conti's&#133;why release a version for the states with Eric's original tracks replaced by Conti's? I found them both to be very appropriate for the film, but what was the problem here?...and does Bill Conti's soundtrack version of The Big Blue soundtrack even exist?...yes it does! I was, but am no longer on that quest for that wonderful Conti score. I finally acquired this CD from a new friend in England, thanks to this forum. If anybody wants a copy...email me and I will set you up personally the way my friend helped me end this long awaited Conti soundtrack.Again, Eric's music is great, but I disagree with what some have said about Conti's score. Some people act as if the music was night and day!, which Isn't true. I found them both to be great, and Bill did an excellent job as far as I'm concerned! ... I favor his personally, and I'm still obsessed over that one particular track, which I now know to be simply called Main Theme...or Finale.The rest of the score is wonderful as well! "},{"Title":"Don't Luc Now ...","Date":"24 April 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" ... but it's been done before. On the other hand what hasn't but so many posters seem to regard this as totally original that I have to question whether they are real movie buffs or maybe just like underwater stuff. It's not necessary to have actually SEEN every film ever made or even say a Tenth of all the films ever made but serious movie buffs should be AWARE of what has gone before and I refuse to believe that I'm the only person who has ever HEARD of if not actually seen 'Beyond The 12-Mile Reef, a Fox entry from the early fifties with a fairly starry cast-list for the time; Robert Wagner, then just establishing himself as a handsome hunk if not actually an actor, played a young Greek conch fisherman who spent his days diving with his father, Gilbert Roland, for conches (sponges) and as the supply dwindled obliged to move into the much deeper waters of the title. Richard Boone was on hand as a rival fisherman with a comely daughter, Tery Moore, engaged to Peter Graves (shortly before he appeared as the German 'plant' in Billy Wilder's Stalag 17) until Wagner comes on the scene. As if that line up weren't enough J. Carroll Naish was along for the ride to steal every scene that wasn't nailed down and let's not forget Wagner's Greek mother who does a lot of cooking. Luc Besson has taken this plot and refined it slightly; it's still about diving to great depths and there's still an attractive woman to complicate things although Besson is not completely without shame and dispenses with the rivalry between divers Jean Reno and Jean-Marc Barr almost as soon as it manifests itself. It has a tendency to be episodic rather than continuous and there are too many non sequiters - we have, for example, to imagine how Barr got to Peru and from there to Taormina and not worry too much about stealing a dolphin and releasing it into the sea. It's always good to see Jean Reno and it was interesting to catch Sergio Castellitto in an early performance but that's about it. "},{"Title":"This film is the ish.","Date":"15 November 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" How can someone not like this movie. It is relaxing, funny, all around good. I watch this movie when I'm down and need to see something uplifting....what more can I say. "}{"Title":"It's got Jean Reno, what more reason do you need?","Date":"15 March 2004","Score":"12 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The Big Blue started out to be a fine film. Two childhood friends, Enzo and Jacques, test their strengths against the deep blue sea. Departing ways when they were younger Enzo, the seventeen time world record holder, summons his long lost friend, Jacques, to compete with him in the upcoming championships. Aside from the story of competitive passions and soul searching, you have the love story between Insurance Agent Joanna and Jacques, who she loves, but just can't seem to understand his level of appreciate for deep sea diving. Not only that, Enzo and Jacques are really two different type of divers. Enzo is a flamboyant competitive spirit, while Jacques isn't really doing it to break records or rack up points. He's a natural for diving simply because he finds greater importance in it. And cockiness, as you may know, always leads to some kind of downfall.It started a great film that is, until they paint Jacques to be some sort of dolphin whisperer. No longer does being in the water and competing conjure up memories of the death of his father, but now he finds it to be a way of joining a bunch of dolphins, that which he refers to as his family. Even more frustrating is Jacque's unresponsive relationship to Joanna, which starts out sweet, but eventually becomes a question of, what is Joanna going to do with this guy?The photography is beautiful, and really something to see and something to learn if you don't particularly know much about the sport or how it operates. Plus, the European scenery is gorgeous. But, above anything else, this is a fine display of the great charm that Reno adds to all of his characters. It's a lot of fun to watch. But, be warned, it is also a sad story. "},{"Title":"The 'calmest' movie you will watch","Date":"16 October 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Classic Luc Besson - slightly surreal, other-worldly story about free-diving.Beautifully-shot, this film tells the story of childhood friends and free-divers Jacques and Enzo, and Besson cleverly captures their slowed-heart-rate world, in a relaxed, slow-pace film. Even when there is excitement, it feels slow-motion, from the camera angles and lighting, to the musical score, which also has an ethereal quality.It's a dreamlike film, well-shot and well-acted - on the edge of 'art house' but with enough to be popular with regular blockbuster watchers as well.Give it a look, if you haven't already. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Luc Besson Looks Beautiful","Date":"27 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Enzo (Jean Reno) and Jacques (Jean-Marc Barr) have known each other for a long time. Their friendship started in their childhood days in the Mediterranean. They were not real friends in these days, but there was something they both loved and used to do the whole day long diving.Luc Besson makes some beautiful films, and tends to push the imagery into the realm of fantasy. This is a much more down to earth film, focusing on two divers who are more or less based on actual people. A straight telling of the story makes fantasy less likely, but it does not mean Besson strays from his imagery. The colors (or lack thereof) are as strong as ever, and he knows that one of the ways to make diving fascinating is to focus on the fish.Somehow one of the Arquette sisters ends up in the movie, which is neither good not bad. Just odd for what presents itself as a French-Italian film. "},{"Title":"- Unforgettable -","Date":"22 June 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This is a movie requiring certain compromise with the sense of reality - as what is seen is what feels surreal. The entire story is an emotional journey captivating the birth of an unbreakable friendship. The ocean, as the main stage, serves as the meaning of two friends' lives - and that's what makes The Big Blue absolutely unique. Even though not easy to understand, this movie contains more chemistry than what can be found in many love stories we've seen.The Big Blue is about the three dimensions of life living, loving, and leaving. The way this movie ends invites you to start watching it all over again. Isn't that the everlasting desire of one's life? "},{"Title":"Best Movie Forever","Date":"8 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" There are times when you can not explain things. I really recommend not to read this before you watch. No, this review does not contains spoilers, but it does contain all the unexplainable feelings, emotions. I can immediately love someone and be a friend if he/she loves this movie. Also I most definitely might not be a good friend who dislikes. Yes sometimes some people might dislike banana, chocolate, Michael Jackson or The Big Blue... From the very beginning you are set to hypnotized mood until the final scene. Since 1988 I feel like a relative to Jean Reno, Jean Marc Barr and Luc Besson. I even dreamed acting on The Big Blue 2 (as the son of Jacques Mayol). ))So my friends I am glad to meet you here and we are best friends forever. "},{"Title":"Fantastic directing, cinematography, musical score and acting!","Date":"25 February 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Besson did a superb job on The Big Blue. Directing and writing was spot on and everything gelled perfectly. Very good use of hidden text. Varini captured awesome camera angles with many difficult shots. He and Besson were able to make use of the under-water scenes to give the haunting effect needed for the story line.As for the music, well Bill Conti, can I say any more? It moved the story forward at the right pace. Reno did probably his best acting. Besson and Reno also teamed up in Leon bringing out the same lonely character bent upon perfection of his art. Barr, his quiet presence, dominated the emotional scenes and acquired the effect desired upon the audience.Arquette was beautiful and entertaining. She brought the audience to fall in love with Barr at the same time.The ending leaves you wondering and looking for something that so many of us seek, but few of us ever find. I never tire of watching this masterpiece. Bravo! Chris Prochownik "},{"Title":"It's not man that takes the sea, but the sea that takes the man (dvd)","Date":"25 September 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I was 14 years when this movie engulfed a generation and I was left ashore. One year later, I tried to embark but I fainted in front of the theater desk, too much pushed by the crowd of a free movie day. A bit later, the VHS box-set was a gift to my father all the family watched it on New Year's Day and I didn't get it except for a scene. Years later, I discovered it again and it finally talks to me.I am just totally hooked by this reunion of lost people, unfit to the real world and fascinated by the nature, the beyond and silent world. Besson depicts with great wisdom the best of friendship and the best of love. When Rosanna pushes the button to his final dive, it's the essential act of love she doesn't like him for herself and she wants him to be happy, she loves him all, with his good and bad sides. Thus, Besson had a good hand by picking this cast Reno has a heart as big as his height, Barr is so right being shy and dreamy and Rosanna is just incredible as a passionate lover, very fragile compared to those men but as strong as them as well. It's said that Passion is a fire, that it's pleasure and pain at the same time and each of those characters shares it dangerously. In addition, it's the only movie where nature, sea is depicted with such a gripping, compelling call.With such primitive and powerful feelings and setting, it was a challenge to score it well and Serra delivers a miracle. His soundtrack matches beautifully the frames and can be listened apart. The Peruvian tracks are deeply haunting and say it all it's about being lost and in love...With Titanic, this movie is just another proof that there is enchantment under the sea and i recommend everyone to dive into this big blue. "},{"Title":"Has become part of my psyche","Date":"26 May 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This movie has become part of my psyche. With very few words from the protagonists, the film manages to leave the viewer with a philosophy to challenge every day norms of thinking about existence and the meaning and value of life.There are pictorial essays about nature, the environment and man's place in the world. There are subtle hints at the possibility of returning to simpler modes of life style and alternative/counter-culture.There is a very clear theme of respect for others and respect for nature.There is also a wonderfully gentle reminder that not every editorial of the mind is worthy of publishing. Sometimes that which is left unsaid has a greater impact than the spoken word.I truly love this film and I am grateful to its makers for bringing it to life. "},{"Title":"Good v Bad","Date":"21 March 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Wow! The reviews really do vary here and I notice that the best reviews seem to start at the beginning of this thread, the worse at the end. This explains a lot, and having watched yesterday what is one of my favourite films, I think I can answer why for someone watching this film today, you'll find that the acting (particularly Arquette's shocking performance) is over the top and dated. It's a shame that this film has not lasted as well as it could have with a better female lead (however you could say it was down to bad directing). Anyway, that's the bad part.The good part is that this is a special film, in places it's very moving and anyone with a connection to the sea will immediately understand this film, and where the director is taking us. I myself grew up as a child on a Greek Island and spent every day of my childhood diving and fishing - each time I watch this film it takes me back to a special time and place and I can relate to the two main characters.If you're looking for a fast-paced action or comedy then this isn't for you. If you want to shut yourself off from the world, and immerse yourself in an underwater paradise with a touching and humorous storyline then you'll love it.The beginning part of the film is shot on the small Greek Island of Amorgos. It's a stunning Island and if you ever visit you can go to the Monastery built into the mountain, visit the shipwreck and there's also a small bar called 'The Big Blue' which also plays this film EVERY night! "},{"Title":"A wonderful, haunting, compelling film","Date":"21 December 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" One of the most haunting and beautifully constructed films I've ever seen. Unique in theme, unusual in story, masterfully photographed, compelling in content - and with a gorgeous, dreamy musical score by Bill Conti in the 'short'-version USA release (owning, and having seen both releases, I much prefer the 'short' one). In my viewing of both versions, the 'long' one stutters and stammers, becomes much too complicated, and misses the poignancy of emotion directly attached to this film - which is the essence of its beauty. A film unlike any you've seen in content, viewers are compelled to attempt to put together the 'theme' from the outset&#x85;? The first clues come in black and white at the film's beginning as we realize the slight French boy and the burly Italian kid are heart-friends - yet rivals at a distance. The scene is set, and now we can't wait to experience their reunion (and a hint at the plot!) years later, as they meet each other from vastly different venues within the same dangerous sport of free diving. How many of you even realized there was such an extreme sport as 'Competitive Apnea', http//en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Free_diving, when you first viewed this film?&#x85;and more, that it is world-class?? I'll wager the vast majority of you hadn't a clue. And yet I see the many reviews as if it were 'extreme skate-boarding'(!) Here's a shiny Euro in the harbor, buy yourself a life with it - if you can hold your breath that long. This is a glorious movie. See 'both' versions - then, be honest with yourself. Luc Besson is not to be toyed with&#x85; ~Bob Shank, Tucson, AZ (and, yes, I dive - in the Sea of Cortez, Baja California - 4 hours away) "}{"Title":"Luc Besson's best work","Date":"25 April 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I have watched this film for the first time many years ago, though I couldn't understand it very well then, I thought it was beautiful and fascinating. So when I recognized the original soundtrack in a TV program accidentally, I decided to watch it again. This time I chose the director's cut version which is almost 3-hour long. And I have to say it did worth the 3 hours.The film is definitely a masterpiece from Luc Besson. Unlike many of Besson's later works (Nikita, Léon, The Fifth Element), this one has no action, no violence, no bloody scenes. Thus, to many of the Hollywood blockbuster lovers, this film is just too boring. Personally, I don't like French films much, for many of them seems ridiculous to me. But this one isn't ridiculous at all, it's a dreamlike tribute to the purity of soul. It doesn't have much about love between boys and girls, but it's one of the most romantic films I have ever seen. Because it's about a much more romantic love, the pure love of the sea and the peace. However, it's no at all an abstract poetry, it has many hilarious moments. The French sense of humor is quite enjoyable in this film. Besides, the film also showed the reality and the gap between reality and ideality. The love between the American girl and the French boy is somewhat like the reality, while the boy's love of the sea is ideality. What the girl wants is reality while the boy wants ideality. The gap between them is just like the gap between reality and ideality. The boy is like a symbol of purity, and he chooses ideality at last, the ideal world of peace. It's always sad to admit that purity only belongs to the ideal world.All of the sea scenes in this film is incredibly beautiful. My favourite parts are the French boy's illusions of sea and dolphins, one scene is when he's brought back from the deep sea, and another is when he wakes up from sleep. The ending of the director cut version is also very good. The so-called happy ending of the American version is really ridiculous. The soundtrack of the director cut version suits the sea scenes very well, making the whole film more enthralling. I don't know why the soundtrack in the American version is different, but the change is also a great loss of the charm. "},{"Title":"Haunting Rite of Passage Film - MILD SPOILER","Date":"22 May 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" In The Big Blue, brilliant writer/director Luc Besson (Leon, Nikita, The Fifth Element) weaves together romance, comedy and a very serious treatment of disturbing psychological themes (fear of commitment, detachment, refusal of responsibility) into a powerful post-modern drama. Many people see very different themes in this film, but it is essentially a story about growing up (rather late in life) and falling in love. Personally, I found it more disturbing than most of the film's fans.The Big Blue is the story of two boyhood friends - Enzo (Jean Reno) and Jacques (Jean-Marc Barr) - and American insurance claims inspector Johanna (Rosanna Arquette). Jacques and Enzo grow up by the sea in Greece and are very competitive with each other, but share a genuine friendly affection for each other. Johanna falls in love with the psychologically damaged Jacques... Essentially, the plot is about a man who is in love with competition (Enzo), a disturbed man in love with the sea (Jacques) and a woman in love with a man who can not seem to face adulthood with the same fearlessness he approaches deep dive competition. The film centers on annual deep-diving competitions and a budding romance between Jacques and Johanna.Johanna is the most sympathetic character, and Besson stops just shy of telling the story from her perspective. She comes to represent redemption and salvation for the tragically damaged Jacques, and wants nothing more for him (and Enzo too) than a happy life.The cast is excellent. The three principal castmembers give remarkable performances. Barr, who, at times, resembles Keanu Reeves, lends a subtly powerful interpretation to his role. Reno, who obviously likes his character, brings the vital Enzo to vivid life. Johanna may be the under-appreciated Rosanna Arquette's best role.The film is nicely shot, and many reviewers have commented on the lovely underwater scenes with dolphins. Personally, I felt that these scenes went on for too long, and eventually felt gratuitous. "},{"Title":"Shun the US Version","Date":"21 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" It's hard to believe the US distributors could muck up this masterpiece as much as they have, but it isn't the first time. Central to this movie, beyond the incredible camera-work, is the music, and for once Eric Serra turns in an astounding score. Save for his attempt at being a rock singer at the very end, this is great work. (And yes it would have been a lot better if he'd stuck to one of his themes for the movie for the closing credits, but he does things like this, did it for a 007 movie, and was gratefully never asked back again.)Besson's parents were scuba diving instructors, so you get where he got the idea for this movie. And it's 'inspired' by real life stories - those of Jacques Mayol and Enzo Maiorca (called Molinari in the movie). Mayol also collaborates on the screenplay.Besson's photography is amazing. He's also made a short about dolphins dolphins and nothing but dolphins, so you get the fact he likes and is inspired by dolphins.Rosanna Arquette plays her part to a 't' and it's questionable if she's ever looked so delicious. And there are great locations for this one, especially in Taormina and what most likely is the renowned San Domenico Palace Hotel.Don't go for the shorter version, no matter on what side of the Atlantic it was made. Of course the one for the US market is directly atrocious, but cutting this down to a theatrical running time simply doesn't work. This one takes three hours grin and bear it.There doesn't have to be a lot 'happening' in a movie to make it good, and this is proof. You want action? Rent a Jackie Chan or a Jean Claude god Damme. You want a movie that really gives you something sublime? Get this one. "},{"Title":"Search your feelings, Luc....","Date":"12 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" What happened to Luc Besson The Writer/Director during the decade from 1988 to 1999? We used to get moody, wandering films that kept you (well, me, anyway) looking at the screen, transfixed even if you didn't know where Besson was going. In fact, that's part of the attraction of Le Grand bleu (as well as La Femme Nikita and The Professional) I can become so involved while viewing it that I feel as though I should be doing breath-holding exercises. (One observation 15 years ago, if you had to guess who would become better known in the U.S., Jean-Marc Barr or Jean Reno, who would you have gone for?) I refuse to blame Milla Jovovich for the subsequent - occasionally engaging - goofiness of Fifth Element; and she was a trooper (sorry) for large chunks (pretty much everything between the opening and closing credits) of I Can't Believe I've Been Together For This Long With Milla, But Now...--oops, I mean Joan of Arc. Let's face it Jovovich can't carry a movie. But a director should know that. It will be interesting - with Besson returning to the director's chair - to see what becomes of Arthur. To paraphrase Rosanna Arquette's Big Blue character, Luc, we're here, we're real, and we want to see if you've still got it...! "},{"Title":"a refreshing, calming film","Date":"20 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I am not a film critic in any way, shape, or form, but I can give an insight on why I really enjoyed watching this film. I found it very relaxing to watch, there was something about the visuals (probably the calming blue) and the music that gave it a very calming feel.I liked the characters, and how they interacted with each other, as they were all very different from each other. I also liked this film because I found it very unpredictable, which was quite refreshing.One of the main reasons that I enjoyed this film was because of the ocean, of which I am a big fan, and it is also shown in a very different way.It is a strange film, but a refreshing one, and I would recommend it to anyone. 10/10Enjoy.  "},{"Title":"10 years later it impresses me even more","Date":"11 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  It's a really great movie. When I saw it for the first time I couldn't understand half of it (my french teacher showed us the movie in french class) but it still impressed me a lot. And now almost 10 years later it impresses me even more. It's a beautiful story that actually touches me.When they dive into the ocean, the music that they play fits so nicely into it it seems to me that you really get sucked into the ocean yourself. You can almost feel and taste the water. And underneath this all there lies the struggle from both Enzo as Jaques for a grasp on life and friendship.  "},{"Title":"Reflection on the End of Le grand bleu","Date":"29 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I watched the extended version of this remarkable cinematic masterpiece with the ambiguous ending last weekend. I had never seen or heard of the movie before. And it has walked with me through my days ever since, playing on my mind.I am told the alternate ending involved a reunion of Jacques to Johana, instigated by his friend the female dolphin (who he had helped release from captivity earlier in the movie). I think this ending, if executed properly, would seem so much more complete, though I've read a lot of comments from people of all nationalities online that say this is the Hollywood ending. I don't agree. After reflecting on it, I think this ending makes most sense. Jacques had been living his life through the sea, and we witnessed how much pain his detachment had caused him, (for example in the scene where he cries to Johana). I think with Enzo's death he was at a crossroads. He could have chosen either direction Life, or death in the sea. I think with the help of some friends (the dolphin) it would make sense that he should choose his life. Just as he freed the female dolphin from her captivity, she would have had the power to free him there in the end, by bringing him back to the surface, reuniting him with his humanity, which he had been in grave danger of severing ties with forever&#133;Enzo's 'crossroads' was very different from that of Jacques, and ended in his death. He did not discover the true spiritual connection with the sea until the very last, but he had pursued it furiously. Up to that point, his diving had been an exercise to him in beating out the competition. He was convinced he could prove his superiority over other men, and over the sea, I believe. He was the one to summon 'the Frenchman' back into his life, knowing he might meet his true match in him, but to his continual frustration, Jacques was not interested in competing or in winning. Enzo finally experienced that life is not a competition. There can be great beauty in the experience of being small and weak in comparison to something. I think at the last moment, he chose the ultimate experience he found for himself there in the sea, though I'll argue it wasn't the sea itself that he chose. His actions in life demonstrated his fear of being lesser than and in the end he drew to him the ultimate experience of this. There is nothing on earth like the power of the ocean to impress upon us our minuscule size in this massive world of the relative. But it is my belief that there can be no true experience of one extreme without the exact opposite experience to accompany it. And that was the surprise for Enzo. That was what he had been looking for, but didn't realize. Enzo's final moments taking him to his death reunited him of course with That Which Is the Divine within himself, and revealed to him that there is nothing else, not in the faces of the world around him, not in the hearts of men, not in the sea. There is nothing else. In the deep, black, depths of the sea, Enzo must have seen through his inner eye for the first time clearly, only to discover that the ocean, the earth, the universe itself--is all an illusion. A Grand Illusion.His experience of the ocean's truth, that it is bigger than he, and bigger than any man however skillful at diving, was contradicted absolutely by this One Truth. And he united with this in a moment that precluded his life. And of course it was the most beautiful thing. That's my thought. I cannot say enough about the beauty contained within this movie, accessible to the viewer who will allow himself to be carried away, cast without expectation into the vastness of Le grand bleu.  "},{"Title":"Very Devise Movie (look at other reviews!), I'm on the brilliant side","Date":"10 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  yada yada...beautiful cinematography..yada yada... Jean Reno, Luc Besson....yada yada.all reviews are mostly the same so i wont repeat them. what i will say it that it will be an amazing DVD rental if and only if you will watch it in the dark with no distractions. if you will watch it with lights on, while reading a book, surfing the internet, talking to your spouse/girlfriend/kids, this movie (especially extended cut) will be HORRIBLE so stay away.Besson creates a visual world in this movie and the slow pace necessitates the viewers full attention. that way one becomes lost in the grandeur of the movie and cinematography. If the lights are on while you watch, you cannot be lost in that world. if you aren't focused on the movie but reading People magazine, it seems slow, you miss out on dialogue and slowly you could care less because you don't know what is going on and there are no scenes where there is story exposition.let;s put it this way, drop any in on any scene of die hard (without ever having scene it before) any one gets the gist of the movie pretty quickly. ditto for pretty woman. people dislike this movie because they don't really turn off the lights, sit quietly, and just watch the movie. as a background movie it is torture.great movie to watch byoneself on a Saturday night.8.5  "},{"Title":"Beauty","Date":"7 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Le Grand Bleu   Le Grand FilmA movie that inspires serenity, peace and heavenly nostalgia (at least for me...). Loved the movie, really did. My only regret is that i should have seen it sooner.If u haven't seen this movie yet give it chance like i did, i don't think you'll regret it! "},{"Title":"You either get it or you don't","Date":"29 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This is probably one of my favorite 5 movies of all time.   It's not a Hollywood linear movie, though it may seem like one to some people.I just saw Kill Bill (loved it, of course), and if you say that one girl killing 88 japanese fighters doesn't make sense then you can't understand why Mayol flees with the dolphin at the end of the movie.Can't say much 'cause all the people writing reviews have summed it up pretty well. "}{"Title":"Go and see my love","Date":"9 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Actually this is the most beautful breathtaking film that has ever been made! Seriously! I have seen it onehundredandseventeen times by know for sure, and I go every summer to the Greek Island Amorgos where most of the first part of the film is recorded.Number one on my best films in the history list.Go and see my love... "},{"Title":"tis strange","Date":"1 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  and amazing to see this movie displayed on my housemates wall with a vivid LCD projector, for I had stumbled upon a verse  that started off with   I was a dead man   my mind had already gone to that black water   ...I won't bore you with the details -- it's just a happy coincidence of the ending scene. Execpt -- or so I've been told -- the verse was based on a real life and actually had a *happy* ending. Its striking how both visions were so alike. Quite a primal memory that this movie touches on. My limbic system was submerged in pure joy. "},{"Title":"Great Movie !!","Date":"20 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The best film I have ever seen.As I was living in Paris by the time this movie arrived, I was able to see the version that everybody saw and the other version that lasts 3 hours !!(Well,actually I have seen it for a dozen times since then...).The music has also a big part in the magic of the movie...and so the actors..of course (and obviously the DOLPHINS !!!) "},{"Title":"True, this is a great movie","Date":"22 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  If one are to watch this movie one would discover what a great director Luc Basson is. The cinimotography is this movie is from the best and the classic kubric long silences are apperent. it really touches once heart when Jacques go down under to let go of Enzo , I would say this is one of the most awarding moment's in movie history.The story is about two childhood friends that find comford in the see as they are world-class deep divers that are in conflict to the title.If your alone one night and want to see a movie, you can't go wrong. "},{"Title":"a classic film","Date":"9 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  well like Sabine says I totally get Luis' description of the Big Blue.I heard the soundtrack before the film and just fell in love with it.Its probably not fair to say this but Jean Marc Barr is reason enough for me to watch it countless times!!! "},{"Title":"my forever bleu","Date":"6 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  To be frankly, I cried when I saw this movie this afternoon, though it's not my first time seeing it. It is the movie that makes me experience what love is, what dream is.I can only feel that it's the kind of love beyond everything, also it's the most pure dream always lies in the deepest place in our hearts.The love and dream which surpass any description. "},{"Title":"The enthousiastic review of a Luc Besson/Jean Reno Die-hard!","Date":"26 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The first 'Besson'-movie I ever saw and the best. Where other movies by director Luc Besson tend to have more action, this movie has a superb, rather long, story with several interesting story-lines.Beautiful under-water photography and exactly the right amount of jokes to keep the story moving along wihtout it becoming either boring or slapstick a definite must see! "},{"Title":"Beautiful film","Date":"30 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Anyone expecting an action film similar to Besson's later films La Femme Nikita, Leon (aka The Professional), The Fifth Element, or Joan of Arc (aka The Messenger) is bound to be dissapointed, but this is still required viewing for anyone interested in the films of Luc Besson (well, actually, I'd say all of his films are).  I just love Besson's visual style, here aided by Carlo Varini's excellent cinematography.  From La Femme Nikita on, Besson would use Thierry Arbogast as his DP. Some incredible location shooting and underwater photography, the diving scenes of the two main characters are simply stunning.  I wonder what kind of training these actors had to go through.  Jean Reno, one of my favorite actors, gives a great performance, as always.  Overall great film.  Definately try and find the original European version, the American version is missing about 40 minutes, has different music (Eric Serra's music is a major component in Besson's films, changing it would be like replacing the Ennio Morricone score for a Sergio Leone film or the Bernard Herrmann score for an Alfred Hitchcock film), and has a more Hollywood-like ending.  Also definately try and find it letterboxed, some films are watchable pan and scanned, this is not one of them. "},{"Title":"I really enjoy this moving but it isn't really that well done","Date":"14 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I just have to put that disclaimer there.I enjoy the movie.1) I love friendship stories 2) I love the water and freediving 3) I like a movie that can be both sad and funnyBecause I would only give it a 7 otherwise.For me 5 or greater means it is not a waste of time.The Love story is atrocious. The acting is inconsistent. Some actors, Jean Reno do a great job. The guy with the boat is an embaressment in this film.The filming is well done, the pacing is well done, and the competition between friends story is great.I have watched it multiple times, I have brought other people down and made them watch it. How can I not rate it 9 for the rankings? "},{"Title":"Capturing a bit of the ocean","Date":"19 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Enzo and Jacques, and all the other characters in this story become dear friends as you watch this film again and again. The eternal longing of Jacques for the ocean, and unfulfilled longing of Johanna for love and a family is enveloping. Themes like friendship, freedom, love and above all conquering personal goals are portrayed in a full, inspiring, yet sad way.This portrayal of how mankind's interaction with the ocean can become a totally spiritual experience, drawing him forever deeper with her joys, mystery, beauty, power and even cruelty is compelling. It leaves you with a sense of wonder, pondering what the story was all about and making one reconsider your own goals, actions and motivations.Above all, it captures a little bit of the ungraspable, eternal ocean. "}{"Title":"My son Enzo","Date":"18 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" i saw this movie while attending Chiropractic College and immediately fell in love with the imagery, acting, direction and story. Fantastic movie about love, loss and sport. i have only met a handful of people that have seen the movie. Everyone that has seen it, feels the same way i do. the scenery, the dialogue and the acting falls directly in line with Besson. I told my roommates that when and if I get married, my first sons name will be ENZO, after the Character in the movie. Well, my son was born in 1999. I fought hard and long for the name. My son Enzo has the coolest name and I tell everyone where and when I decided to use the name. "},{"Title":"The competitive spirit and camaraderie between childhood friends in free-diving competition and one man's love and affinity with the ocean and his newly found love of a woman.","Date":"15 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" It's true this is a hard movie to describe to one's friends especially if you know that they are not the 'sensitive' type. I thought the wide open shots of the ocean took my breath away, the dolphins made me want to dive in and swim away forever. I have been diving so understand the silence, peace and tranquility found beneath the surface of a large body of water and can relate to the hunger to stay where everything appears perfect and calm. But diving in these competitions gets very scientific and dangerous and I can see that after the trauma of his father's death he felt responsible for his friend's death. It was inevitable that in trying to help out the doctor he sentenced his friend to a watery grave as he knew he would have to rise to the challenge set by Jacque it was Enzo's nature. I think that when he took him down for the last time there was a moment there where he thought about staying himself, hence the blackout. Which to my version was cut to quickly from ocean to deck. Not seeing the dolphin at the end as it was too black I thought that he knew he had brain damage from the 400ft, and didn't want to burden anyone, knowing it was his time to go to the bottom to see the mermaids. But if I had seen the dolphin taking him up it would have made more sense to me as he did have something to go up for, which he alluded to on the balcony, and that was a baby on the way and the love of a woman for the 'first time', in his life. Loved the movie. Love to see more like this. "},{"Title":"Everything is better in the bottom of the sea","Date":"22 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I have watched a lot of cinema; I love it. But through the years, I haven't locked myself up in my own world, with my own types of films and actors. That doesn't work. I've tried to listen older people, and learn from them. They know much more and they always want to show it. I wasn't even in the world when some of them probably saw Le Grand Bleu, Luc Besson's third full-length written and directed feature. They were the ones that said to me in some occasion European is the best cinema.Le grand Bleu has encouraged me to watch more European movies. I have watched some, but not enough. In this world full of the American films (I mean USA), which is the most distributed cinema, we don't get much more. We get French movies spoken in English so everyone can understand them; I'm talking about Swimming Pool. These movies try to show what European cinema is about, and they fail most of the times. Le grand Bleu is spoken in three languages; English, French and Italian. But that's another story, because of the characters in the script. The film was realized by French people; it's a French movie.Now the characters are incredibly complex, and we get to know them with their own cultures and thoughts. The film manages to amaze us with the language exchange, so we can hear every accent without missing the plot. The characters were written this way. Enzo (Jean Reno) is eating pasta at a restaurant. He's Italian. One minute later his mother arrives and he gives his dish to Johana (Rosanna Arquette). Her mother doesn't allow him to pasta unless she cooks it! Jacques (Jean-Marc Barr) is a unique person. He lost his father when he was young; he died diving. Enzo was there. However, Jacques dives every day of his life. It's his nature maybe. He reaches depth levels that human beings can't. Johana sees the uniqueness in him; and falls in love, without knowing that uniqueness could betray her feelings later on.After many years, Enzo and Jacques meet again in an unbelievable event. Get me the petit-français (little French in English), Enzo says. There's a diving competition and Enzo, the world champion, invites Jacques because he could be beaten by him. They haven't seen each other for years, but it's like they know everything about them; you'll find out. Enzo is arrogant and selfish, knows about women and about love. Jacques is the opposite honest, humble and he needs to ask questions about everything but he doesn't know how. His honesty is remarkably raw I'm going to beat you, he tells Enzo. Of course he will; he knows it more than anyone. The situations you'll see in this movie, you won't see them ever again. As I was trying to explain, Besson's movie escapes the world of clichés and simplicity, creating a whole different world for each of its scenes.Wonderful scenes, I must say. As Besson tells the story, he takes us to every kind of place (countries) and does it magically. Starting in Greece, then Italy, USA, Perú...It's amazing. And the sea...Well, the film's about it, but I don't want to spoil much. I will only say If the sea could be a country, because Besson makes it look like one. He wanders over the water as if he owned it. He also goes underwater, introducing us to the dolphins (my favorite animals) in Jacques' world. They are his family and he admits it. No human being has this type of family, he explains to Johana. He belongs with them, somehow; he belongs with the sea. The last scenes are gifts from cinematography to us. The music is another world of its own. What a man must Eric Serra be! I make music, and this is a dream score for a film. It just fits perfectly in every frame, with its peaceful sound. For a moment I thought I would dive into the sea, and listen to those melodies, because I wouldn't mind at all.Many things are left to be said here that I wouldn't finish today. The ending has an emotional power I haven't seen in a long time. We understand it if we have watched the film. It's right there for us; we don't need to be guessing because the movie is not trying hard to achieve the metaphor. But long before, Jacques is lying in a jetty and watches the water. Then a few dolphins arrive. He looks at them, they look at him and he speaks Thank you. He's happy. "},{"Title":"It's certainly not Free Willy","Date":"30 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  First, let's be clear about which version we're dealing with if you're offered the US edition 119 minute cut with a happy ending and a Bill Conti soundtrack - walk away, quickly. If it's the 132 minute French cut with English subtitles and the original and superior Eric (I've been listening to too many Peter Gabriel albums) Sierra soundtrack. Well, that'll do nicely. However, if you like your bleu to be grand then check out the magnificent directors cut which runs to just over 160 minutes and has been well worth the wait. It's a beautifully shot film that really needs to be seen in a cinema to be fully appreciated. The sea is the star of this movie but Jean Reno, Jean-Marc Barr and Rosanna Arquette put in good supporting performances. Jean Reno's character has an adversarial relationship with the sea. He measures himself against it; he needs to prove his mastery, his superiority. Jacques' (Jean-Marc Barr's character - insert your own Cousteau joke here) relationship with the sea is far more complex As a child his mother abandoned him to cross the sea; his father left him when he drowned in the sea. Jacques is drawn by, obsessed with and at home in the sea. Perhaps it's a surrogate womb to replace the mother that left him, or maybe it's a haven from the harsh realities of his life on land. Even as an adult Jacques is awkward and inarticulate on land but graceful and expressive in the water. Besson beautifully illustrates this relationship when Jacques realises he's falling in love with Rosanna Arquette's character. After making love he leaves her bed and spends the night in the sea, finding complete spiritual and physical satisfaction; cleansing himself of his infidelity. Part romance, part comedy, and part drama. This film takes a dark turn towards the end as the various physical and psychological relationships resolve themselves and Besson leaves us with an ending that fades into inky black ambiguity. 8.5 / 10. "},{"Title":"Two of my favorite movies.","Date":"6 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I saw The Big Blue in theatres.  (in America).  I fell in love with it.  Itwas by far the most amazing movie I had ever seen.  I made all ofmy friends see it too.  When they asked me what it was about, Iwasn't really sure.  Love. Insecurity. Understanding. Longing.Isolation. Peace.  That's what I told them.  Then I went to buy thescore.  The score by Eric Serra was new to me.  I had Heard theConti version in the American release.  I listened to the album.Over and over again.  Then I went to the ocean to swim.  Yearslater, i was talking to a friend about my favorite movie in the world. He introduced me to Le Grand Bleu.  My second favorite movie inthe world.  I love both versions of the film.  They are very different.  Iwas actually felt more strongly for the American version.  It seemedto be missing something.  And i thought that was the point of themovie.  The second, Le Grand Bleu, shows you that nothing ismissing.  You only have to change your expectations.  Watch themboth. One will mean more to you than the other.  Whichever oneworks for you, that's the better.  "},{"Title":"This is my heart!","Date":"1 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The first time I saw this movie I was about fifteen years old and was blown away by the physical beauty of the film.  I hadn't seen enough of the ocean to realize that it could be that way.  Of course the physical beauty of Jean-Marc Barr helped too! This also helped me to realize what kind of person I wanted to love, and as I got older I was able to find and connect myself to someone who had that same wide-eyed wonder and passion as I did the first time I saw this incredible ethereal movie.  Unfortunately he died.  The next time I saw The Big Blue I was deep in mourning and it almost killed me to watch, but it was like being wrapped up in the arms of that wide-eyed passionate boy who I loved SO profoundly..I have never been able to watch this movie without being reminded of that boy who I loved and lost, but it fills me with joy and hope and a sense that beauty and LOVE can be with me!  I have the strength now to go on!The story, the view, the music, the way Johanna feels when she sees Jacques for the first time... Its like dying and living and feeling everything you've ever felt all in one breath.  "},{"Title":"The only film I can ever decide on as being my favourite of all time","Date":"18 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The Big Blue absolutely stunned me when I saw it, the photography makes it the most beautiful film ever made (in my opinion) and, well, just everything about it is perfect. And I've never known any other film to connect people like this one does - when I started university there were all the 'gatherings' we held to meet people in our halls...difficult to talk to most of them, so I found the most intriguing looking person and sat next to him, asked him what his favourite film was and his answer was exactly like mine would have been...wow, difficult to explain...erm, well there are just so many! Hmm, have you ever seen a film, The Big Blue? I was literally breathtaken for a moment, it took me a few seconds to blurt out that it was my favourite film, and he was as stunned as I was! From then on we talked continuously for weeks.I just wish more people could see it, and not the us version - I've not seen it, but I'm terrified at the prospect of a different ending.One last thing - I absolutely have to have this film on DVD, but I don't think its on that format yet ( If I'm wrong...please let me know where I can get it.  "},{"Title":"Gasp!","Date":"28 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I really liked this movie and Luc Besson is one of my favorite directors. I´ve never felt like this watching a movie when he was diving I really stopped breathing too and I felt pretty bad all through out the film... "},{"Title":"Perfect!!!","Date":"10 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This Movie is Simply the Best and Beautiful.  Fantastic! Emotionally strong. "},{"Title":"Weird, but worth seeing","Date":"20 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This is one strange movie, I think it could be placed in the Avant-Garde genre.  It consists of two freedivers and a ditzy girlfriend, well played by Roseanna Arquette.  The version I got was the directors cut which ran about 3 hours, and seemed a little too long, but it was still a watchable film, especially for the breathtaking underwater shots.  This film is often considered a turkey in the U.S., but it's really not bad at all, I think many critics expected too much.  Griffin Dunne, who starred in After Hours(1985), with Arquette has a brief, almost useless cameo as her boss.  This film is a difficult one to find, I had been looking for it for quite a while, and I was shocked to find it in the $3.00 bin at Wal-Mart.  A unique experience. ***1/2 out of *****. "}{"Title":"The most beautiful movie ever!","Date":"15 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" You just have to see this one! Has everything Beautiful nature, romantic story, a lot of humour...But don't see any other version than the long version! "},{"Title":"I'm going to sink this movie deep in the sea so no one else has to watch it","Date":"31 October 2008","Score":"11 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This movie was so horrible I just have to vent my anger at having wasted more than two hours of my life on this cheesy, pointless movie. First I'll tackle the love story. You've got this really annoying broad from NYC who ends up meeting this diver dude. He's pretty hot so of course all of a sudden she's madly in love. Are you kidding me? The guy obviously has an IQ of about 50 but the dumb broad is madly in love. She's obviously and idiot, and the diver can barely put a sentence together in any language so it's obvious he's a moron. So she goes back to the city and obsesses about this dude she barely even spoke to, so much that she defrauds her boss who seems like a good enough dude to go see him in Italy. So she ends up losing her job and even opens herself to criminal fraud charges just to see this hot Italian guy cause she's horny. Right. Then the main diver dude and his retarded friend compete in diving, and this simple scene that should last about 15 minutes goes on and on for most of the rest of the movie, and the dumb broad falls deeper and deeper in love with the guy even though he's a complete moron who bangs her and then refuses to talk to her as much as is possible. So of course you know either him or his friend are going to die diving. His friend goes down too far, comes up, wakes up enough to beg his friend to take him back down instead of have the doctors standing right by try to save him. Completely retarded. Then of course the b**ch gets knocked up, and he feels the need to commit suicide instead of deal with his pregnant woman. Which is of course not AT ALL selfish or anything. What a great guy. But the woman helps him do it anyways because they're both really stupid people. One can only hope she aborts the baby because people this stupid shouldn't even be allowed to have kids. So this is a stupid and pointless movie and I fail to comprehend how anyone could possibly like this piece of crap. The characters are so stupid and pathetic you really just wish a big missile will hit Sicily and wipe them all out. That's the stuff dreams are made of. "},{"Title":"What if/when habits and hobbies govern your life...","Date":"28 October 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Is it possible to change, for example, through love, different profession, new circle? When a healthy competition and rivalry becomes a pig-headed and dangerous race with time? Will some people never grow up? Those issues/questions are strongly at present in this splendid film by Luc Besson, different from most of his other films. I really enjoyed it in spite of the context uninteresting to me (free-diving). But thanks to subtle dialogs, beautiful landscape, suitable music score and talented cast it is no wonder, that we do here with one of the most successful French films ever.All the actors are premium, but Jean Reno still outperforms all others, including Jean-Marc Barr and Rosanna Arquette. As for the latter, I would have chosen an actress with a more oval face, let's say ). Jean Bouis does a grand small performance as Uncle Louis.Usually I am biased to watch films over 2,5 hours, but this one did not become dull or boring, even the long water-related scenes were appropriate. "},{"Title":"Awesome Movie","Date":"25 December 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" One of the best movies ever made. The original soundtrack is outstanding and I wish it was more readily available. Only the Americanized soundtrack is obtainable in USA. Luc is a master at capturing the magical cinematography of the ocean. A tale of the classic doomed love story that more accurately emulates real life unlike the typical Hollywood version.The typical Hollywood love story has nothing to do with reality. Luc captures what's real in his tale of the star crossed lovers unable to actually have a Hollywood happy ending. Rarely does a movie capture the pursuit of a persons passion like this movie manages to do, you have no question about the love of the ocean for the characters he creates. "},{"Title":"Beautiful cinematography with some terrific performances from the cast makes up most of the flaws.","Date":"5 July 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" From the mid 1960's in Greece, a young boy named Jacques (Bruce Guerre-Berthelot) lost his father, when he died from a serious unexpected accident from losing pressure being under the sea. Which it traumatized him over the years until he becomes an man. Over twenty years has passed, Jacques (Jean Marc-Barr) is a professional diver, who longs under the sea without air for several minutes. When an assurance investigator from New York named Johana (Rosanna Arquette) falls in love with Jacques meeting him at first sight. She becomes very fascinated with this interesting if very shy man. Jacques' best friend Enzo (Jean Reno) wants him to be his rival at the diving competition. Which Enzo is the current diving champion. Johana becomes close friends with Jacques and Enzo, which she's enjoying their company. But Jacques is often quite unusual, since he feels more connected with the sea and the dolphin than any human begins. While Johana and Jacques fall in love, they try very hard to make their relationship work.Directed by Luc Besson (The Fifth Element, The MessengerThe Story of Joan of Arc, Subway) made an intriguing if flawed film about the sea, diving, love and friendships. Carlo Varini's widescreen cinematography is one of the true highlights of this movie. Which it looks great on land and especially in the sea. The picture comes alive... when they focus on the sea, especially the deep diving sequences and Jacques's connections to the dolphins are the film's best moments. Barr's performance is especially good but Reno steals the show with his often good hearted performance as the man, who compete's endlessly with his best friend. Arquette's role is annoying at first but her character improves during the second half.I never seen the original U.S. version, which it was shorter and it had Bill Conti's score. I am sure the characterization of the American Cut didn't make much sense as the french version did and it had Eric Serra's original score. This is the review for the Director's Cut, which he added 50 minutes more in this new version. Besson added more character development to make them more satisfying than they were in the U.S. and French versions. Sometimes the feature switches mood from being a Drama, Comedy and Fantasy. Which it is not entirely successful.DVD has an sharp if occasionally grainy anamorphic Widescreen (2.351) transfer and an good Dolby Digital 5.1 Surround Sound. DVD includes an isolated music score, a brief photo gallery, cast & crew information and the U.S. theatrical trailer (The American trailer makes it looked like it was a big Science-Fiction adventure, which it's not). The Big Blue must have been something at the big screen for sure. Of course, it doesn't reach the same impact on video. Overall i liked this movie but i didn't loved it. At times, i felt The Big Blue was empty experience at times. I just think Besson did better movies as a director, screenwriter or producer. I think he had different opinions from the screenwriters, since he wrote it with four other writers. But for sure, it was a personal project for Besson and i respect that. The Big Blue is a good one but if they were playing it at the film festival and i finally get to see it in a movie theater. I would see it again... only at the Big Screen. Technovision. (*** ½/*****). "},{"Title":"Beautiful score, vibrant U/W Scenes, Bad Acting","Date":"20 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I saw this film in Paris, 1991, in VO (French), with subtitles. Perhaps the subtitles didn't do the storyline justice, I'll give it that, but what captured and held my attention were the beautiful score and vibrant underwater scenes. Being a Navy-trained diver, I must say Besson made the undersea world look idyllic. I also agree that the 'American cut' butchered this film and score.I would love to get my hands on the VO DVD, if only for the original soundtrack. It seems the US-vended soundtrack is missing some of the aspects that really made the French, V.O. soundtrack wonderful ('diving bell' effect, etc.). The Americanized 'happy end' also takes away some of the sting and effect that made the French version so hard-hitting.Lastly, the July, 2007 edition of DIVE TRAINING discussed the sport of free diving and the Grande Bleu naturally came up.According to the author (t)he Big Blue, depicts the pitched battle that took place during the 1060s and 70s between the icons Jacques Mayol and Enzo Mairorca for the world free-diving record. What the film neglected to include was the upstart, chain-smoking U.S. Navy diver had challenged, and for a while, beat, this dynamic duo. Croft set the no limits free-diving record in both 1967 (220 feet) and 1968, 240 feet.C'mon, you cheese-eating surrender monkeys, can't you give the US its due, and not just depict Americans as, 1) a duped, desperate rich guy, or, 2) a good-looking, mendacious, self-centered nympho? "},{"Title":"Magnificent","Date":"8 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Have you ever wondered what life is really about? Have you ever thought that the world is not enough for you? That you belong somewhere else, far away from the normal, somewhere where there is absolute silence yet so much life. The big blue is an escape from the world we know, to a world we love. It is an extraordinary adventure that reveals true love and friendship. An epic film made by one of the greatest directors. Luc Besson. The big blue takes you away from the routine and guides you into a magnificent world, a world where the soul and the body become one. In the case of Jacques Mayol this world is full of blue, this world is the sea. For everybody else it is what we really love, it is what we are ready to give everything away, even are own life, in order to become part of it. This movie goes beyond all themes and issues and beyond all films. It is the ultimate film about a man's will to become part of the world he loves and the sacrifices he has to make. The big blue is a journey full of liveliness. The choice of music is outstanding, the cinematography is just magnificent and the acting is up to the standard. Featuring the amazing sites of the astonishing Greek island Amorgos, and the marvelous Sicily this film will amaze you not only because of its beauty but also because of its theme. Through the magnificent journey of Jacques Mayol and Enzo Mollinary in places where the sun is always present and the color blue is dominant, the film leaves you with a feeling of aw and love, love for life. A life which many people around you may not understand and call you weird, a life full of surprises. A life in a world of mystery. A life in the big blue&#133;.Magnificent! "},{"Title":"It holds your breath.","Date":"7 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  A man, the sea and a pretty Yankee woman. That's not all! There is also spectacular underwater scenes and an interesting spiritual connection between the hero and the dolphines. There is also a bit of romance but don't let that get in the way. "},{"Title":"Alles les bleu","Date":"12 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  A very well built story that touched my heart. The deep friendship between the divers, the giving love that Rosanna Arquette teaches at the end of the movie and the true love and belonging to a world that can only exists if one's spirit is not contaminated by the everyday life of western 'culture'. A marvelous movie that you can't just sit and watch, but buy it and use it as reference when you want to find an idea of what it means to be in touch with oneself. "},{"Title":"Besson takes a dive.","Date":"29 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  A man, the sea and a pretty yankee woman. That's not all! There is also spectacular underwater scenes and an interesting spiritual connection between the hero and the dolphins. There is also a bit of romance but don't let that get in the way. "}{"Title":"Fish story","Date":"22 February 2004","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The Big Blue Director's Cut is a glossy, slick mess of a movie which starts as a monochrome backstory drama and then dissolves into a color present day story which goes nowhere at the speed of light. The film wanders drunkenly from comedy to romance to drama to dolphin documentary while not serving well in any genre. All the while the players seem at a loss for a sense of character and the story drifts slowly into oblivion. A beautiful snoozer. (C+) "},{"Title":"Music and the Blue","Date":"17 November 1998","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" A few years ago I went to Greece and took the soundtrack to the Big Blue with me, It was only a few months previous that I had actually watched the film (only watch the long version!). Anyhow, if you are ever planning on a trip to Greece, make sure you buy and take this mystical masterpiece of music with you. Even now, when I hear that beautiful intro with its echoing dolphins and lonely sax; I smell the sea, the food, and remember the faces of all those dear lost friends, and in a way, I have this most wonderful film (or Luc Besson et al) to thank for accompanying me, through a wonderful time in my life. "},{"Title":"The Big Bore","Date":"2 April 2004","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"    I rented 'The Big Blue' expecting and wanting to like it. I expected a lot of beautiful cinematography by the gifted, stylish director Luc Besson (which it does have), and an in depth(pun) exploration of the mysterious, exciting and dangerous world of breath-hold deep diving. What I didn't expect was that most of the film would be devoted to the boring love story between the enigmatic dolphin-man Jacques Mayhol played by Jean-Marc Barr, and the ditzy Johana Baker played by Roseanna Arquette. I'm not against love stories, but it was excruciating in this film. This couple didn't seem to click, and just caused the film to drag out to a long and meandering at 2.5 hours! POSSIBLE SPOILERS The friendship and rivalry between Mayhol and Enzo Molinari, played by the Besson regular Jean Reno was good, and should have been enough to give the film a 'human' element. However, even this element of the story becomes a cliche, and any movie viewer should be able to predict the outcome of their dangerous competitions.   The diving scenes are few and far between, and only really seem to gain momentum in the last half of the film. The first hour of the film has about 3 minutes of diving action, which should have been the main source of interest in this film. Even later on, the actual diving scenes are interspersed with the 'love story angst' scenes that make the viewer finally resort to the fast forward button.   The movie should have been more true to its subject matter and the men and mysteries surrounding it, and not the typical Hollywood relationship driven drivel it has in spades. It could have been great, but it drowns in cliches and its boring love story.   "},{"Title":"oh....yawn!","Date":"17 January 2006","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I was intrigued by the cover of this DVD and rented the extra-long director's cut. Someone on ebay said it had mesmorizing scenes under the sea. Well, the few sea scenes there were just weren't that great. I knew this wasn't an action movie and I certainly didn't want or need any sea monsters, sharks or underwater scuba-diver fights ala James Bond. What I thought might be a love story turned out to center around a clueless, self-centered, cold-hearted man of little intellectual depth or emotion, so I really couldn't get into the main character at all. Imagine him choosing to go play with a dolphin rather than maintain and nurture a loving relationship with a human female. (I have to say that the guy who plays Enzo is the real star of the show.) And hours later (as I had to see what ending our hero had destined for himself), well, I won't spoil it here but both my wife and I uttered out simultaneously...Huh??? What a dud this movie was! It figures this movie would be a big deal in France. This movie was about as exciting as watching a prerecorded conference for Insurance salesmen. Yawn>>>>save your time and money. If you like Luc Besson try The Messenger or La Femme Nikita-both GREAT films. "},{"Title":"Esotherapy","Date":"16 September 2005","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Yesterday, I saw the long version 2 h and 40 minutes of pure Esotherapy. Now, I am healed to confront the problems of this world ... OK, you clearly see that this film is from the end of the eighties at that time, a lot of people had posters with dolphins, sunsets or islands with palm trees on their wall. The music was identical to the elevator or mall music, used to relax the people. But the most annoying part was the character Jacques Mayol (NOT the actor JM Barr, he was excellent). Having finally found a nice girl, pregnant with him, he flees before the responsibilities that are waiting for him. What a sissy ! The funniest parts of the film, of course, were when Enzo Molinari aka Jean Reno was talking. The same film in a shorter version, another end and more of Molinari's opinions would have been great. Ah, yes, and another music would be nice. "},{"Title":"blasphemy?","Date":"5 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" is what you will all say...but I like the American version better, with the exception of the ending. It really is a much better ending on the 'Euro' version. However...I like Bill Conti's music much better. Eric Serra's music is ponderous and boring. Conti's captures the whimsical floating nature of the film and the ambient Med light and water. ..and makes them soar, but in their proper place(s). Serra's just kind of drones on, and misses all the great but subtle cues. I saw the American version back when it went (probably straight) to video in the states, or on one of the movie channels. Thought it was a great film, still do. I'm gonna take an American cut and shave off the ending to make it work. Don't need all that extra director's cut stuff. Don't understand how people can like the Serra track better...I kept trying to remember the Conti track as I watched it, and felt empty afterwards. Maybe this has something to do with it I also think soccer is the most boring game in the world. And in the rest of the world, it's the only game in town. In the US, it's only interesting to watch children (particularly your own) play soccer. Maybe non-Americans also like to watch the grass grow or the paint dry, and then get all snobby because it's so obvious that all of us un-cultured Americans are missing something crucial to life, like there is some hidden deep meaning in watching grass grow, paint dry, a soccer match played and taken seriously by adults (enough so that in some places they get violent over it)..or listening to Eric Serra's boring music ruin a great film. Come to think of it, I thought the Fifth Element was pretty good the first few times...now it looks silly. Maybe I should check out some other of Besson's movies..but they are probably as deadly dull as all those so-called 'great' European film makers that are supposedly such sacred cows because they make films about 'life'. Not a car chase in the lot, I'll bet. Now what's a film without a car chase? Or at the very least someone yelling in the rising climax Let's get outta here!Here's what you people need to live your childhoods again with a Carl Stalling soundtrack. Then you will grow up as adults bored to tears by..soccer...growing grass...drying paint..and movie soundtracks by Eric Serra. "},{"Title":"Stupid, pointless, terrible","Date":"24 August 2002","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The summary pretty much says it all.  Save yourself 2.5h of boring, hard-to-watch stupid movie.  Perhaps the only conclusion about this movie is that accidents involving parents during childhood can really, really mess someone up.  "},{"Title":"The Big Bore...","Date":"16 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  After an eternity of trying to find the director's cut on laserdisc, I finally got to see it...and I understand why the original release was an hour shorter.  There are two films here - a love story, and a competition among friends. Unfortunately, neither story is fully developed, and the final result is a mess that just begs for editing.  He loves her?  Probably not.  It doesn't really matter, because she just wants a baby.  Why? Because another character with about three minutes of screen time told her she did. From that point on, it's her obsession.  A diving competition? Not really, because Jacques doesn't seem to care.  Eric Serra's score is nice, and Reno's performance is solid.  The photography is nice, but if you want nice photography, you can always check out Koyaanisqatsi instead, where you won't have to deal with ambiguous/non-existent narrative.  All in all, it's a film full of loose ends that never quite come together.Two stars out of four, even in the director's cut. "},{"Title":"What a dissapointment!","Date":"8 March 2004","Score":"6 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Quite a few people had recommended this film to me and I really looked forward seeing it, but I was to be very disappointed.What a messy, shallow (excuse the pun), daft movie. The awful dialogue and terrible acting are only slightly redeemed by some nice cinematography.Reno over-acts tremendously and Arquette plays quite possibly the dumbest blonde character ever (For goodness sake - your boyfriend prefers to spend the night with a dolphin - go figure!).Oh, I so wish I watched the original version, not the bloated forty minute longer directors cut!What a shame. I'll stick to Jaws, at least that has teeth.  "},{"Title":"163 minutes of my life utterly wasted...","Date":"4 June 2006","Score":"9 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" 163 minutes of my life utterly wasted...Unfortunately I hired the long version! A pretentious, treacle-powered snail's-pace film with terrible over-acting from Arquette.Brief shots of the incredible dolphins. I could have watched 163 minutes of these angelic creatures.Don't be fooled - this is a meandering mush mash that is two hours too long. Leave it on the shelf. Ignore the hype; go and hire something else - like 'The Chorus' or 'Il Postino.'Luc Besson should be ashamed of himself.French smash-hit, indeed. What does that say about French cinema!? "}{"Title":"what's so great about that film?","Date":"7 July 2005","Score":"4 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" So many people are just fanatic about that film. I've seen it yesterday for the first time. Sorry, but I can't see the point out of it. There are two maniac twisting each other up about being better than the other. Two egocentric, who just care about them selves and don't realize what's going on around them. I expected more pictures about the Big Blue (Ocean), not just their championship circles. Compared to the Movie Deep Blue, The Big Blue just says nothing about the Ocean Life.Did the Director intend to show something about free diving, or about the life in the Ocean? But why was it necessary to put on kind of a love story? Just to attract more interested? "},{"Title":"Cold and inedible","Date":"18 April 2005","Score":"7 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This was such a boring movie. It was tacky and painful. As some others have mentioned, the acting was weird, but that's not so bad. The champagne in the pool scene was quirky and fun and the sex scenes were OK, but it didn't warrant the three hours of agony I endured trying to sit through it! I had heard nothing about the film so I had no expectations (except that I'd love it). Well I didn't. And sadly, it was the director's cut *yawn*. For a film to have a (positive) profound effect on me, it has to make me feel something. There were a lot of opportunities to show real passion, but instead, for reasons of budget, laziness or just bad planning, it just didn't come together.There's the diving, but a better example of this is the use of spaghetti in the film. Perhaps it's a film only for dolphin lovers, but personally, I love food, and what Besson did with the mountains of anaemic spaghetti is just inexcusable. In one scene, Enzo orders spaghetti del mare, saying to Jacques, It's delicious here. It's the one thing they really know how to make. Well it's the one thing that Besson knows how to ruin. Did he think that the camera would not pick up the fact that there was no sauce whatsoever on the spaghetti? Did he think that the audience wouldn't notice or care? Well I did. The fact that the spaghetti seems to be a recurring theme should entail that more care be put into its presentation. But no. There's another scene where we are with the family and a lot of spaghetti is being served. This time there is a little bit of sauce adorning the pasta, but then when they start eating, it's just plain white spaghetti. Firstly, where's the continuity and secondly, where's the flavour? You can see that Jacques is just struggling with this inedible cold pasta that's been on the set for hours. And I guess that's how I'd sum up the movie cold inedible pasta, only now with the director's cut, there's more of it. Great if you like that stuff I suppose. "},{"Title":"boring","Date":"27 February 2005","Score":"3 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" this film turned me off Besson and Reno. It's just too adolescent. The 'love' scene is awful, the plot turgid. The relationship with his mother is pretty suspect and possibly explains his weakness as an adult. The directors cut is way too long and doesn't give us anything the already overlong original release gives. Three hours of two emotionally underdeveloped men trying to out dive each other! Give me strength. Only the glorious photography kept me awake. Perhaps it would've worked better as a comedy, Reno is actually quite funny in places, but it just doesn't hold water as an adult film. Ah........, maybe it's not meant to be,maybe I've missed the point "}]