[{"Title":"Underrated, brilliant masterpiece!","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"102 out of 122 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I really don't understand how this movie could have such a low score at this site. Perhaps the European atmosphere doesn't appeal as much to Americans as it does to Europeans.....just like most french top-films never made it to the US.Nevertheless, Roman Polanski is terribly underrated as a master of suspence. In fact, looking back at Hitchcock's movies (which is unfair, since they've been made in a completely different era) I don't think he ever made movies written this well.For some reason most of the time film making starts with putting the director together with some of the best or most popular actors of that period. But this one certainly doesn't.... It shows that Polanski wrote this himself, with his close friend and film-writing-partner, because he really knows what this story is about - he knows where to be funny, where to make it tense, where to make things kind of 'sensual'.The weird thing is, that looking at all the things that happen in this movie, it's still so relatively shot, and doesn't feel at all too paced, or rushed. No, it rather feels like you are watching a 4 hour movie.Anyway, those who have ever lost track of someone (for a short moment) in a strange, big city or those who have ever tried to find out something in France, will know and recognize exactly what Harrison Ford's character is going through - people not taking you seriously, people who don't care, people who refuse (or aren't able) to help you in your own language. All these things are put in this movie, so well, that -at least for me- it is really very realistic.Most writers and directors nowadays seem to ruin most great movies/thrillers by not being able to make a good ending to the developing story. At one point our main character has got to find out what is happening....and how to do that, without taking away the suspence is incredibly difficult. Roman Polanski has done this very well, by not making this story too complicated and slowly unraveling a -looking back- simple mistery. There is no need to glue parts of the story together to make it all fit, or just skip parts to make it easier for him/you.No, this is the first movie I've seen where when someone looses his shoes on a roof, he has to walk barefoot the next day. Most movies just ignore these little facts, but Roman makes it always difficult for himself in order to make it more easy (or, more easy to believe) for us.There are no things that make me wonder 'how this is possible' - no, if you are a well known surgeon, many other surgeons from all over the world will know you. And if you will go to a convention in Paris, it's not at all unrealistic that you will run into a few of your friends...even when it's such a big city. Having problems with luggage when you're flying, isn't unrealistic too...nor is the story of this movie, the reason why what happened, happened.Although I've never understood why our friend wanted his own wife back, instead of staying with the beautifull french girl ;) Again, that's what most people would do in real life....Bart "},{"Title":"Something Happened on the Way to Paris.","Date":"6 April 2005","Score":"41 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Roman Polanski has an interesting way of returning to tell the story of a simple person whose surroundings, while completely familiar, suddenly become alien and even dangerous. With ROSEMARY'S BABY, neighbors plotted against misguided Mia Farrow; in REPULSION, Catherine Deneuve lost her mind; in THE TENANT, another apartment became the center of some odd occurrences. Even in THE PIANIST, the main character, played by Adrien Brody, slowly gets the rug pulled off his feet as his surroundings become the setting for the horrific Holocaust.FRANTIC came out in 1988 to critical acclaim but little notice but has since then enjoyed an interesting life on HBO who keeps playing it over and over again. A movie that tells the story of an American couple (played by Harrison Ford and Betty Buckley) who get caught in a web of intrigue while vacationing in Paris, France, FRANTIC is an exceptional and overlooked thriller that evolves slowly, but not too slowly -- deliberately -- and gives its main characters ample time to evolve from how we first see them to full blooded people in a nasty, alien, deadly situation.Harrison Ford gives yet another of his powerful, masculine performances as Dr. Richard Walker, who is at the center of this intrigue, and his is a performance equally comparable to that of James Stewart in VERTIGO and THE MAN WHO KNEW TOO MUCH. As a tourist searching for his missing wife, Ford displays an amazing amount of control over his character who is virtually in every scene in the movie we see how he goes from loving husband, to befuddled, to angry at the apparent nonchalance of the Parisian authorities, to flat-out taking matters to his hands, while thankfully not being overblown to the status of an indestructible male god wielding phallic guns that shoot endlessly for the plot's convenience and who not only gets his wife back but a sexy girl in tow. Watch for a quiet moment when he is talking to his daughter over the phone. We never cut to the daughter -- that would have ruined the sequence -- but the camera stays on his face as he speaks to her, listening to the haunting Grace Jones song that pops up ominously, and something she says gives us a hint he and his wife may have gone through rough patches, which tells layers of the Walker's dynamics together even though they're only seen together for the first 10 minutes. The restraint in his face is so intense that it's a wonder he doesn't explode in tears of rage and impotence, because he has to hide the fact that no, he isn't having a swell time in Paris, but also, Mom's gone missing, and no one seems to know what to do, and he is feeling like the world's closed in on him in this alien place.A lesser movie would have had more exposition of the facts and used a more conventional approach. Polanski has always been a master of subtlety the scene when Sondra Parker disappears is the best scene in the entire film because it's done without intrusiveness, which makes her disappearance the more troubling and even though Buckley only has several minutes of screen time, she is all we think about; the plot revolves around her. Never do we see flash-cuts; it's all left to us. Never do we see sudden red-herrings that lead nowhere -- here, like in the aforementioned Hitchcock movies, they build upon the story. Never do we see high officials closing in from all around -- this is a resolution that involves the players and only them. Music is kept to a low-key presence, scenes of violence only occur sporadically, which is uncommon for a thriller. Scenes are played out so we don't get too much information as to what exactly is happening, but not so little that allows for those pesky surprise endings. This only makes us go through what Ford is going through right to the end.Interestingly enough, there is an extremely subtle comedy (also a Hitchcock trademark) interspersed throughout scenes of emotional tension are followed by an almost casual references to humor, and much of it comes from Seigner who plays the tough cookie who only wants her 10,000 francs and even sprays mace on the faces of two Embassy officials (one of them played by John Mahoney) who don't give much help and also casually steals a wallet from a cab driver because, as she practically states, He won't be needing it anymore. This is a great move -- to make this movie so totally dramatic would have made it feel longer than its 120 minutes.FRANTIC is a stand-alone thriller from the 80s that feels anything but a product from that decade. "},{"Title":"Roman Hitchcock Polanski","Date":"13 October 2005","Score":"43 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Frantic is the most Hitchcock-influenced movie of Roman Polanski. The director has touched almost every cinematic genre, although always with a special taste for mysteries and disturbing elements. That's his trademark.Frantic is a more conventional movie in Polanski filmography, but it's very well done and the sensation of something disquieting &#150;typical of his films- is always there. An American doctor (Harrison Ford) goes to Paris for a medical congress with his wife. In their hotel the woman disappears without explanations and Harrison Ford begins a nightmarish research throughout the city&#133;The film reminds us of the Alfred Hitchcock thriller North by Northwest (1959) &#150;in that movie a misunderstanding is the motor of the story, here it's something similar but more enigmatic, because we don't know who kidnapped doctor's wife.This is the first cinematic collaboration between the Polish-French director and his future wife, actress Emmanuelle Seigner &#150;she's the girl who helps Harrison Ford in this adventure.Intriguing and exciting these are the words for Frantic. Perhaps it's not considered among Polanski's most important movies, but it still looks fresh and entertaining. "},{"Title":"Quiet, but intense and quite excellent","Date":"2 July 2004","Score":"47 out of 59 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The title does not 100 percent reflect the atmosphere of the film. Yes, as Ford's character rummages through a strange city looking for his kidnapped wife he does become frantic, it is in a very quiet fashion. No screaming or fits of hysterics, but you can sense it in Ford's acting. Speaking of acting, this film is almost all Ford and Emmanuelle Seigner, very few of the supporting characters make much of a mark here. For me, the most intriguing part is the almost total lack of chemistry between those two characters. Though they are in most of the second half of the film together, neither one cares a rip about the other's wish (him=to get his wife back, her=to get her money). But if you think about it, how much would a young, drug-pushing European girl and a middle-aged, successful American doctor have in common anyway? Theirs is an inspired pairing, and a very good movie is the result. Watch this one.  "},{"Title":"An enjoyably stylish film that is quite thrilling without resorting to gimmicks or tricks","Date":"16 May 2004","Score":"40 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Richard and Sondra Walker return to Paris for the first time since their honeymoon for him to attend a medical conference. While Richard is in the shower, Sondra leaves the hotel and vanishes. Unsure of where she has gone or if she left under duress or not, Richard begins a search that quickly reveals that she has gone missing. A mix-up with luggage and a smuggled substance lead him into the life of the mysterious Michelle who is more mixed up with his wife's disappearance than she lets on.I have seen this film several times and I think the fact that it isn't a spectacularly gimmicky film is a big part of the reason why it doesn't really stick in my mind over the years. For this reason I watched it again yesterday as I'd forgotten most of the plot and felt it would be like seeing it all over again for the first time. The film takes the simple plot and uses the 'object' as a McGuffin of sorts of quite a big chunk of the film &#150; we don't need to know why his wife has been kidnapped, only that Richard is desperate to get her back and is sucked into a situation he knows nothing of. In this regard the film really works well and manages to keep the pace up even if some of the characters are difficult to fit into the narrative. As a story it lacks fireworks and has a rather understated feel but it still works really well and I enjoyed the simplicity of the story combined with the ease with which it involved me.The cast are good but it is Ford's film and he leads it really well. He convinces as the man becoming increasingly 'frantic' and he manages to involve humour as his character becomes savvier about what is happening and also appears to be seedier and less professional as a result! Seigner is good even if her character is easier to play; she is a fun character and her performance is good. Outside of these two, few are memorable and it is to their credit (mostly Ford's) that the film is still strong regardless. Other familiar faces include Pinon, Weeks and Huddleston.Overall this is a solid little thriller that is rather old fashioned in it's telling. It relies on good set pieces within a good mystery plot rather than explosions or car chases and is much more satisfying as a result. Small bits of it don't totally come together but the overall effect is one of a simple film that is delivered with style and is enjoyable to watch.  "},{"Title":"The best thing in Polanski's movies...","Date":"31 December 2004","Score":"21 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" ...is that they are thoroughly unlike those standard Hollywood flicks where the endings are happy, the baddies get punished or die, and no animals ever get harmed during production despite all the Hollywood Babylon clichés, the stench of moralistic fiction rising from its Studios is normally unbearable.Not here. Has anyone noticed the regret in Harrison Ford's eyes, just before the movie's end? He hugs his dutifully rescued bland wife, and fighting back his tears he whispers I love you baby. Alas, not to her to the soul of the fragile, exciting, dangerous, scandalous little drifter who died in his arms; and to the brief dash of walking on the wild side that, for a few precious days, brought excitement - and guilt feelings, given the circumstances - in an otherwise very respectable and utterly boring life. Those who can't connect with that, can always watch Harrison Ford in films directed by Steven Spielberg. "},{"Title":"Hitchcockian in so many ways","Date":"14 May 2006","Score":"19 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Frantic is a movie that bears, like Hitchock's films, repeated viewing. At first sight it might appear a Hollywood thriller of the genre that has been too prevalent lately with violence, thrills and miracle rescues. This film is much more than that. The scene where the wife tries to speak to her showering husband and he can't hear, has ominous suggestion, and echoes Hitchcock's 'silent exposition' scenes form Torn Curtain and Rear Window. It is not a copy, because Polanski has taken the idea and made it fit an entirely new scenario. The humour flits along with the tension. The scene where the husband is kicked to the ground wearing nothing but a teddy bear is a welcome relief, and the scene on the roof, like the unlikely teaser in Vertigo stands up well, despite having been imitated so many times by so many other directors. Frantic has many moments of honest acting that could almost count as cinema verite moments. At the end of the film, these moments and characters stay with you. You have been emotionally challenged. If Hitchcock had lived into the 1980s and been given this script, he would probably have done the film in a way not altogether dissimilar. A triumph for 1980s Hollywood. -Phil Kafcaloudes "},{"Title":"A great 80's film from one of the world's best directors","Date":"28 March 2003","Score":"26 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I highly recommend this film to this site members and visitors so that they can appreciate an excellent drama-thriller combination from director Roman Polanski. This film shows one of Harrison Ford's best, if not his best performance ever, and the introduction of Emmanuelle Seigner, whose character plays the most important role in the movie. Though the story takes place in a beautiful city, Polanski takes you to Paris' ordinary dark streets and alleys, and also gives us a realistic view of how good or dangerous people can be. Up to this day, I really don't know why this movie has not been that popular in the U.S. and even less why it didn't get nominated for any major awards when it was well done. Now that Polanski is popular again, I hope movie collectors take the chance to see why he is one of the greatest of all time. "},{"Title":"Frantic","Date":"19 June 2006","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Frantic is a frantastic movie .. I had seen it at a movie theatre years ago and managed to get a early DVD later on. I was disappointed at the square format, 4x3,and the bad grain thru the whole movie. Recently, I managed to get a new Widescreen 14x9 version and to my amazement the DVD was just as bad with grainy look on the earlier version. The surrounds sound speakers hardly used at all . The picture quality was only average . It may have been sauced from a VHS cassette tape?. The acting, scripting and the Morricone film music is 10 out of 10. Well worth looking at this fantastic movie FRANTIC.. On the edge of the seat excitement...... Ray "},{"Title":"Simplicity at its best","Date":"17 April 2003","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  An excellent film from start to finish. The plot is somewhat simple, but the acting of Harrison Ford (Walker) and Emmanuelle Seigner (Michelle) throughout make it an unmissable movie. At times it seemed as if Walker and Michelle would 'get it on', especially in the dance scene in The Touch of Class Club. However Walker didn't let his mind slip for one minute, totally focused on rescuing his wife.  "}{"Title":"Amazingly Unfrantic","Date":"4 July 2006","Score":"25 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Frantic, a film by Roman Polanski is largely unnoticed. He is credited for pictures such as Chinatown and The Pianist, but certainly his best action-adventure flick is this one.The film stars Harrison Ford, who plays a idiotic doctor who cannot figure out his way through Paris, where he has lost his wife to a conspiracy. The film is entirely shot in France, and the scenery, use of backgrounds is phenomenal. Polanski has a way with the camera that mimics Hitchcock in some sense, but it is entirely his own style. The film is wrought with the oddest of humor, almost slapstick at times, but at its core it is a solid action film surrounding a kidnapping, terrorist threats and formulaic Hollywood-esquire twists. It rises above the normal thriller that is plagued with senseless violence, characters we could care less about, and bald-faced innuendo. Frantic is the kind of movie that shouldn't be missed.An interesting thing about Frantic is that it combines European and American sensibilities and humor all at once &#150; this is certainly not an easy task, but Polanski pulls it off very effectively. RATING 9/10Man on Phone What number are you calling from? Richard Walker How should I know? I... I'm in a café, the Paris Midi. Man on Phone How do you spell that? Richard Walker How do you... with an S for shithead! "},{"Title":"How far would you go to save a loved one before you break?","Date":"11 June 2005","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I always thought of Roman Polanski as the second incarnation of Alfred Hitchcock. Like Hitchcock, he has the uncanny ability to project flawless and edge-of-your-seat suspense from absolutely nothing. He is a man however that bases much of his films on personal trauma. He was born into the Holocaust in which his mother died. And later with his film career established, was a victim of his Wife's murder by the notorious 1970s cult criminal Charles Manson and his band of supporters. It is following his wife's bloody and traumatizing death that he turned to sadistic, paranoid and frantic style film making. Dark, gloomy, alienated and violent worlds compose his films which have their own recognizable look and feel Polanski is famous for. 'Frantic', I believe was Polanski's heart and soul and definitive film. The whole atmosphere the film ejects feels so personal in contrast with Polanski's real life experience.It begins with a sad European score composed by the great Ennio Morricone, in a time when it's supposed to be a happy business trip for Dr. Richard Walker and his wife Sondra who have also come to relax and explore Paris, the city they both shared on their honeymoon. They check into an expensive hotel in the early hours of the morning, eager to refresh and rest following a long, difficult flight. Everything seems at ease and subtle until Richard finds that the luggage they picked up at the airport isn't theirs. Proceeding a phone call to the airport regarding the error, Richard decides a shower is most appropriate to loosen him up. What follows is the most devastating experience he'll ever fall victim to. A phone call. Sondra picks up. Sondra says something, but is unheard due the thudding shower. Sondra leaves. A bell rings. Sondra, can you get that honey? Richard repeatedly yells. Coming out of the shower and opening the door, he is presented with breakfast and no sign of Sondra. Richard is then awoken a few hours after this in his bed and breakfast again with no sign of his wife. He is informed by a bellhop that his wife sent up a few different things from the lobby. Richard gets dressed and heads down to the lobby, informing staff Sondra has gone and it's unknown of her whereabouts. No messages. No letters. No phone calls. No sign of life. He then frantically heads outside. What follows is the most mentally exhausting search for his wife as he questions ordinary people, contacts bureaucratic French heads of security and police, clashes with American Embassy officials and finally finds the owner of the Luggage he picked up at the airport - a beautiful Parisian girl named Michelle who's involved with drugs and the underground with half the answers - leading him to uncover an international conspiracy. They both must elude stalkers, detectives, the police and the intelligence agencies in order to come closer to the truth behind his wife's disappearance.The suspense this film manages to emulate is so natural, because the situations are so real. Harrison Ford's portrayal of Richard Walker is a 'tour-de-force' and perhaps one the most realistic performances you'll ever see. The emotion and frustration he encompasses involves the audience to such a level, the audience themselves become as 'Frantic' as the name of the film implies. You empathize with him all the way through. You understand everything he is going through. The feeling of being in a foreign country, of being completely helpless, where absolutely nobody can help you - alienated. Harrison Ford's delivery is what makes him such a unique actor. In my opinion, he is one of few actors in the world we can relate to when watching his films. Seeing this film for the first time, I noticed parallels between Ford's character Richard and Roman Polanski. They have suffered very similar trauma. The longing for the loved one. The loss of his wife. The lengths at which he would go to save her life had he the chance. Clearly Polanski's real life experiences inspired him to make this masterpiece. His brilliant direction suggests he put his heart and soul into its creation. Emmanuelle Seigner, Polanski's late wife, portrays her Parisian girl role to perfection. She is so beautiful, and her presence adds a European authenticity to the film.The film's music is the most important in creating a sense of place. Ennio Morricone's suspenseful soundtrack accompanies the film with many poignant moments. However, it is Grace Jones' famous song 'Strange' that gives the film its indisputable authenticity in creating a genuine Parisian feel to the gloomy and frustrating atmosphere Polanski so vividly brings to the screen.'Frantic' is unfortunately one of the most forgotten works in Polanski's long film making career. Upon its release in theaters, the box-office wasn't kind and people quickly forgot about it. However it did find life on Video and Television. I hope more people will discover this true masterpiece which I personally believe to be Polanski's definitive work. No director in the world can so masterfully portray lonely, alienating worlds in which our complete sense of hope is erased. Unfortunately, his unique style and direction are influenced by personal trauma, but he has delivered some of the most influential psychological thrillers in the history of the art - even Alfred Hitchcock would have agreed. "},{"Title":"Masterful kidnap thriller.","Date":"8 May 2003","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Harrison Ford will always be associated with Star Wars and Indiana Jones, and may be most fondly remembered by critics for his Oscar-nominated role in Witness. However, for his career best performance, see Frantic. This nightmarish ride through a Paris of dark streets, seedy characters and international intrigue is the ultimate kidnap thriller.Dr. Walker (Ford) arrives in Paris for a medical conference with his wife Sondra (Buckley). She is kidnapped while he is taking a shower, and after various attempts to involve the police and the local US Embassy officials, Ford realises that no-one in Paris really gives a damn about his predicament. He enlists the aid of a young, freewheeling Parisian woman, and tracks down the kidnappers himself.The mood is captured perfectly. From the moment they arrive in Paris, Ford and his wife see things go dramatically wrong, from the relatively minor problem of a flat tyre in their taxi, to the eventual acknowledgement that she has been kidnapped, and ultimately to the discovery that the kidnappers are Middle Eastern terrorists. The jigsaw pieces fall into places slowly and intricately. This film is in no great rush to go where it's going, but it never appears tiresome or boring because every event, no matter how small or insignificant, contributes to the overall impression of gripping excitement. Ford's performance is shaded in many subtle tones, ranging from happy (at the beginning), to mildly baffled (when she first goes astray), to downright terrified (when he realises she has been snatched).Polanski is a great film-maker and, in my opinion, this is one of his best works. "},{"Title":"Dark and dangerous goings on in the City of Lights","Date":"28 July 2006","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" (Some Spoilers) The movie Frantic slowly gets you to like it. It takes it's audience from a simple case of suitcases being innocently switched at the airport to an nail-biting off camera kidnapping. Then to a tour through the Paris underworld and nightlife to finally a confrontation with this mysterious Mid-East terrorist organization. The terror group is dealing with the smuggling of top-secret US government nuclear trigger mechanisms that, if in the wrong hands, can vaporise entire cities.American Doctor Richard Walker, Harrison Ford, and his wife Sondra, Betty Buckley, arrive from San Francisco at the Grand Hotel in Paris for a doctors convention where Dr. Walker is to be the featured speaker. Finding that his luggage had been switched at the airport Walker calls TWA Airline giving them all the information including the switched luggage ticket number. With her husband taking a shower Sondra is seen answering the door and then disappears out of sight and out of the movie.It takes a while for Walker, who thought that his wife went out shopping, to realize that something is terribly wrong when Sandra doesn't show up and goes to the hotel lobby to find out what happened to her. Walker is later told by the desk clerk that Sandra left the hotel together with a Arabic-looking man. Walker frantic that his wife was kidnapped goes to the local police only to be told that she may be cheating on him, it's something that seems to be very common among married couples in the city. Even the US embassy doesn't seem at all too concerned or caring about his wife's disappearance. That has a desperate and determined Walker go out on his own to track down where she is, alive or dead, and who's responsible for her disappearance.Opening up the switched luggage Walker finds a pack of matches from the Blue Parrot nightclub and the name and telephone number of a person named Dede on it. Walker also inadvertently finds the hidden nuclear trigger that he at first thinks is a ***SPOILER*** toy model of the Statue of Liberty. Finding out at the Blue Parrort that Dede is a drug dealer Walker goes to his apartment in the seedy side of the city only to find Dede, Doll Boyer, brutally murdered. Waiting in the hallway Walker sees this young woman Michelle, Emmanuell Seigner, enter Dede's pad and grabs her trying to find out what Dede and herself had to do with his wife's Sandra's disappearance. To Walker's surprise he finds that Michelle, after a bit of convincing on his part, was the person who's luggage she mistakenly has and that she's also some kind of illegal courier for a local Paris drug gang.You and both Walker and Michelle at first think that there's illegal drugs involved with,or in, the luggage that Walker mistakenly received at the Paris Airport. As the real truth slowly and shockingly comes out with the Arab terrorists gang Israeli Mossad and now even the US embassy getting into the mix it becomes more and more evident that there's something far more serious and explosive in that misplaced suitcase. there's also the fact that if the suitcase is ever gotten into the wrong hands it can lead to a nuclear holocaust.It takes a while for Frantic to unravel it's storyline, like most good thrillers do, but it's actor Harrison Ford who makes it come alive with his frantic and almost hysterical search for his missing and kidnapped wife Sondra. As he goes together with, an at first very reluctant, Michelle through the length and breath of the city to finally get his wife's kidnappers to release her. This only after a deadly shootout between the kidnappers and the perusing Mossad agents. Which lead to the precious and deadly triggering device to plant itself at the bottom of Paris' Seine River, where it could do no harm to anyone, courtesy of Dr. Richard Walker. "},{"Title":"Frantic is a vibrant thriller of Polanski.","Date":"1 August 2010","Score":"10 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The assistance to a conference in Paris gives you the doctor Richard Walken and his wife, relive their honeymoon. In the hotel room when Richard sale bath after a shower, discovers that his wife has disappeared. Now, in a city that unknown, without speaking not a word of French and agonizingly alone, Walken undertake the search. As the only track he has a number of phone pointed in a box of matches, and from there the fabric will be complicating becoming for the protagonist in a nightmare.The pace of the film is very high and the hyphen meets its goal, which is a story that works and entertains. The film is supported by the thriller, mixing the style of Hitckcock with his own Polanski.Harrison Ford makes an excellent interpretation in this movie, perhaps one of its best interpretations. Harrison Ford makes one of his best characters and credible in his role as doctor who launches to rescue his wife,The film has a good number of memorable scenes  as the principle of the movie, the scene of the roof, and the unforgettable dance plays Emmanuelle Seigner. It has a beautiful photography; with those wet streets and very focused that are the stamp of Polanski. The music of Morricone is magnificent.Frantic is a vibrant thriller from beginning to end where Polanski meets across one of the basic guidelines of the genre create thriller from characters of the daily life, "},{"Title":"Decent thriller","Date":"1 April 2000","Score":"11 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  It's not Polanski's best, but he's been off his game for 20 years, so we should be happy he delivered as decent a film as this one. Eschewing large doses of violence, Polanski manages to weave a fairly taut and interesting story of mixed up suitcases. Until the films Hollywood ending it's most enjoyable, the major problem being the presence of Roman's gal pal Seigner in the role of the beautiful smuggler who will steal your heart away....oops, must have been quoting from the Hollywood pressbook there. Anyway, Frantic is worth seeing if you like tales of intrigue, or Harrison Ford, who is really quite good.  "},{"Title":"Thoughtful Suspense with Great Locales","Date":"17 February 2009","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I like Harrison Ford, and this movie directed by Roman Polanski is a good outing for him. It's an 80s movie filmed in Europe with a great French/American mixed cast. Ford seems a bit subdued in his role and this helps supporting characters stand out - most especially Emanuelle Seigner who gives the best performance in the movie. She plays a savvy French street girl in the Paris Underworld drug scene. We've seen Ford in better movies of this type before and after but never-mind. Frantic's Paris setting, although dated, is stunning completely supporting a foreign environment especially important in the first 3rd of the movie which may be the strongest part of the movie which is evident in the thought and preparation into clues circumstance. The movie is more of a suspense and mystery rather than action, and it does a solid job of this. A few of the scenes/dialog are not too well thought out or believable but they're not enough to detract. Music is period specific 80s but interesting. Recommended 80s and Ford flick. "},{"Title":"Frantic","Date":"10 September 2005","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Frantic, is about an American doctor named Richard Walker, who travels to Paris, France along with his wife Sondra. Once they get settled into the hotel Richard, takes a shower and soon leaves the bathroom to find that Sondra is gone. He asks around the hotel and nobody has seen her and nobody has. Not knowing much of the French language Richard, finally finds a young woman named Michelle, who seems to know more than she lets on and may help him to get back to Sondra. Frantic, has good direction, a good script, good performances by everyone involved, good original music, good cinematography and good film editing. Frantic, is a well made film and has some good acting and a good script that is smart and well paced which really makes this film a lot better than other thrillers. It relies more on style than violence and special effects and things blowing up and it is very well put together and constructed. There is enough here for a thinking movie fan and enough action near the end of the film for action film fans as well. It is also well made and works well as a psychological thriller and also as a drama and even a mystery. This is a well put together film which is helped by a good script, direction and performances. "},{"Title":"An amazing throwback...   fantastic...","Date":"24 January 2011","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This is my second favorite Polanski film behind 'The Pianist', but it's a tight race between two superlative films.Frantic stars Harrison Ford as a Doctor who just arrived in Paris for a Medical conference. He and his wife check into a hotel hoping to balance the time between work and play.I'm not going to go into plot any further, and really there isn't much of a plot to 'Frantic'.This movie is about style, music, and some seriously amazing cinematography. Tension is built with the strength in those categories, and it doesn't let up for the duration. I said the plot isn't very deep, and it isn't, but you just don't know what's around every corner. Polanski paints a varying, dizzying, yet beautiful picture of Paris. There are some scenes in this movie which are cinematic genius - the likes we haven't seen in a long, long time. Hitchcock would truly be proud.The opening credits set the tone. Scenes like the dancing scene and the rooftop scene are etched into my mind forever. The depth of the plot is probably way underneath there somewhere, but this is one man's journey and nothing more. Ennio Morricone's music makes this great movie even better.Harrison Ford is the ultimate normal guy hero. His character here is very similar to his character in the Fugitive, Richard Kimball.This is the most criminally underrated film on this site. 6.8 is a terrible gauge. I'd like to think it's more like 9.5 - which is exactly where I'm rating it.... 95/100 Honestly folks... if quality like this doesn't deserve at least a 7... I don't know what does.There are a lot of moments when you feel like you don't know what's going on; plot that doesn't get explained. That's the whole purpose though. That doesn't mean the plots not there - only that we(much like Harrison)will have to figure it out as we go. Almost as if we're supposed to fill the holes. I think it's a strength and not a weakness. It's not about the reasons - it's about the journey.Proof that, yes, they still can make them like they use to.. at least they did in the late 80's.You'll like it if you like The American, North By Northwest, Vertigo, Subway. "},{"Title":"This movie isn't frantic, but you'll stay glued to the screen!","Date":"13 July 2010","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Since Roman Polanski was released, I figured it was high time I finally get around to watching my DVD of Frantic. Thus I commemorated the day by watching this mostly great movie on the atrocious pan-and-scan DVD I bought ages ago from Half Price Books. Within the first ten minutes I was hooked. Perhaps because of the sheer volume of cheesy exploitation movies I watch, it's not often that I'm overwhelmed by the sheer confidence and mastery evident in a film's technique. For some reason this movie accomplished that.Though it gets off to a shaky start with a surprisingly cheesy theme from Ennio Morricone (thankfully it gets much better as it goes on), Polanski soon dazzles the viewer with his careful set-ups. In this film it seemed that every movement of the camera had a specific purpose, which is perhaps why I was so impressed. Mostly these serve to heighten the suspense (indeed the techniques Polanski uses are very Hitchcockian), and also to maintain the audience's curiosity. As much as I love the crazy camera-work of guys like Sam Raimi, I've got to respect Polanski for using the camera solely in service of the story. This is especially interesting, as the film altogether is more polished and assured than this earlier works, but much more effective than his later stuff. In a way this marks the zenith of his career. While the technique is wonderful, the story itself isn't nearly as interesting as stuff like Chinatown or The Tenant. Perhaps we could see this as the Polanski version of a Hollywood thriller - perhaps not brimming with substance, but still very entertaining.Polanski actually uses the opportunity to poke fun at Hollywood clichés. Most obvious is the casting of action star Harrison Ford. While in many movies he would be the unstoppable hero, in this film he gets owned by the bad guys and loses his breath scaling a roof. The ironic casting makes for plenty of laughs, but there's plenty of other humorous aspects (which I will not spoil here). As the heroine of sorts Emmanuelle Seigner is a little out of her depth next to the dependable Ford, but meets the basic requirements for the role (i.e. be sexy and weird); unfortunately she suffers in the more dramatic scenes. The rest of the cast isn't as memorable except for an amusing character credited only as Rastafarian.To sum it all up, I'd say this is an excellent thriller that's worthy of Hitchcock at his best. Sadly the ending is somewhat anticlimactic. Despite that, I'd highly recommend to both the casual film-goer and the seasoned film nerd. "}{"Title":"Hitchcockian Thriller","Date":"9 July 2010","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" While visiting Paris for a conference, an American doctor's wife disappears from their hotel room. Polanski is in top form in this atmospheric, Hitchcockian thriller in the mold of such classics as North by Northwest. The film sets up an intriguing mystery. While the resolution is not as satisfying as it could have been, the journey is still engrossing. Ford is fine as the doctor who finds himself unwittingly involved with unsavory characters in a foreign land, where the local authorities do not buy his theory that his wife has been kidnapped. Seigner (Mrs. Polanski) is alluring as a young woman that helps Ford in his quest. "},{"Title":"An almost excellent film","Date":"11 February 2000","Score":"16 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  For this film to qualify as excellent, not much is needed. Maybe a little more...I don't know...temper? Anyway, Ford is brilliant as Richard Walker whose wife is kidnapped in Paris. It's his acting that makes up for a somewhat simple plot. Just look at the scene where he talks to some policeman over the phone. With an S for 's***head'!That's priceless. "},{"Title":"Polanski's masterpiece and a film that out-Hitchcocks Hitchcock","Date":"4 September 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I've been a fan of Roman Polanski purely on the strength of THE TRAGEDY OF MACBETH, which I think is an outstanding horror that brings a Shakespeare play to life in a way that few others can. Since then, other films I've seen of his have either impressed me (ROSEMARY'S BABY, THE NINTH GATE), left me indifferent (THE FEARLESS VAMPIRE KILLERS) or feel overrated (REPULSION). None of them have equalled MACBETH, at least not until now FRANTIC has become my favourite Polanski film as one of my favourite films of all time.I read the one-line synopsis guy loses his wife in Paris, struggles to find out what happened to her. I had no idea of what kind of film Polanski would make from the story. Would it be an action-focused narrative, like TAKEN? Would it be a taut psychological drama or a suspenseful conspiracy flick? The answer is all of those and more besides Frantic turns out to be a Hitchcockian thriller, with Harrison Ford giving his career-best turn as the wronged man, out of his depth and on his own, fighting back against a hostile world.With Hitchcock, there always had to be a blonde, and Polanski doesn't disappoint in this respect he casts Emmanuelle Seigner as Michelle, the streetwise young girl who finds herself caught up in the search for the missing spouse. If Ford is the straight man, then Seigner is the mystery woman; she's part of an alien society and supplies plenty of allure along the way. Really, it's a phenomenal performance that feels distinctly artistic and European in an otherwise Hollywood-influenced movie.The suspense and mystery deepen as the film progresses, all building to a climax that never disappoints. Along the way, there's plenty of mileage from the fish-out-of-water premise and also a surprising amount of humour, given the film's storyline. The rooftop sequence, in which an unlucky Ford finds himself at the mercy of both gravity and shoes without treads, is a real highlight and laugh-out-loud moment. Tremendously achieve, as is the rest of the movie a real winner, this. "},{"Title":"Espionage thriller set in Paris with nice performance by Harrison Ford","Date":"18 November 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" ¨Frantic is a vibrant and exciting thriller of Polish director Roman Polanski . The story deals with the assistance to a conference in Paris of doctor Richard Walken (Harrison Ford) and his wife (Betty Buckley), and reliving their honeymoon. In the hotel room when Richard goes out the bathroom after a shower , he discovers his spouse has disappeared on the first day of their journey . Now , at an unknown metropolis , without speaking a word of French language and agonizingly alone , Walken undertakes the search throughout wet streets and under rainy sky . As the only track he has results to be a number of telephone written on a matchbox, and from there the issue will be complicate , becoming for the American doctor in a nightmare . He's only helped by the US Embassy assistant (John Mahoney) and a strange French young Emmanuelle Seigner (Polanski's wife). The pace of the film is well made and carefully controlled ; as the plot finds its aim , for that reason is a story that entertains and works . The picture is packed with thrills, intrigue, tension , suspense and blending the Hitchcock style with the Polanski's particular narrative . Harrison Ford gives a magnificent interpretation in this picture , perhaps one of his best acting . Harrison Ford makes one of his best roles and believable in his character as doctor drawn into espionage and who launches to rescue his lovely wife , though never really cuts loose . The film has a large number of memorable scenes that are the Polanski's stamp  as the start of the movie, the thrilling scenes on the roof , and the unforgettable dancing that Ford dances Emmanuelle Seigner , among others . In addition , there appears ample support cast as American as French actors in very secondary intervention as David Huddleston , Alexandra Stewart , Yorgo Voyagis ,Gerard Klein , Dominigue Pinon , among them . It has an acceptable photography by Sobozinsky , though is urgent a remastering. Rare and sad musical score by the maestro Ennio Morricone .Frantic is a moving thriller from the beginning to the final in which Polanski carries out one of the basic guidelines of the genre  as he creates thriller from roles of the daily life and well written by the same Polanski and his usual screenwriter Gerard Brach . Furthermore , Polanski maintains its grip thanks to Harrison Ford 's outstanding and credible acting . Rating  6, passable and well worth watching . "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"16 November 2006","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" As I am not an avid movie nut,although I'd like to be,my views are of a complete rookie.I have just watched Frantic for the first time,never heard of it.Of course Harrison Ford was top notch as always and the other character actors were impressive and realistic.But I have never heard of,let alone seen Emmanuel Steigner before.Wow!! I know, drastic understatement! Her part and acting really made this movie interesting.Not only was she great but it seems to me she should actually be doing that smuggling business for a living!Quite a smooth operator she is!I suppose to some I'm overrating her,but she's right up there with any other actress.I know that movie is 18 years old,but so what! What a beautiful and talented woman!! "},{"Title":"Francetastic (tv)","Date":"6 April 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Well, i have always liked international production that happens in Paris (except those of Allen and now this is definitive !). Here, you got a giant American actor, Harrison, a pleasant french newcomer, Emmanuelle Seigner, a polish director, one of the best Italian composer, Morricone. This movie was done a quarter of century ago but Paris is really this old movie that stays the same. Here,you have the total package as you go from a famous hotel to normal Parisians accommodations as Dede or Michelle's studio look like mine. Nothing is modern, it's small. If the future « Taken » has plundered « Frantic », it has forgotten the best, the psychological disorientation. If Indiana Jones has the same stature as Qui Kong, Harrisson doesn't really uses the whip but rather the shoes of Dr. Jones. In other words, Harrisson is impressive playing a shy, goofy, lost but really determined husband ! His search is all the more thrilling as it's seems authentic  it's not a compilation of kung fu, gunfights but a trail of clues in the city of (dark) lights! Finally, it prefigures Da Vinci Code in which religion would have been changed for spy. "},{"Title":"One of the stars is Paris","Date":"22 December 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" A great suspense movie of Roman Polanski in a Hitchcockian style. One of the beloved theme of great master is already here looking for a vanished person. I think Frantic is one of the movies more successful through the films with the plot located in Paris. Polanski tells us the story with great suspense involving the city of Paris like a character of the film. All movie spends on the Parisian places and rooftops. The music of Ennio Morricone also is a great element of the film success that gives us a great mood. The characters as Harrison Ford and Emmanuel Seigne are superb in their roles too. I think a must see movie if you love great oeuvres of Hitchcock and you love Paris. "},{"Title":"Tense Polanski Film!","Date":"29 December 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Frantic is a vastly underrated film directed by the talented Roman Polanksi. I think this film is underrated because most people expect this film to be a thriller or an action film. This movie in a way is a thriller film but it has the aura of a Hitchcock film. I think anyone who watches this movie with a clear mind will see genius filmmaking.This film is about a husband and a wife who are both doctors. After they arrive in Paris and suffer through a mix-up of luggage, the wife gets kidnapped. It's up to the husband to do what he can to get her back safe in his hands.The only mainstream actor here that everyone knows is Harrison Ford. Ford is really good and his demeanor is perfect for this movie. The other actors were okay but nothing really special.Overall, this is a tense thriller with some very good filmmaking put into it. This film is not Roman Polanski's best, but it's still quite good. There are a few slow moments, but nothing a ordinary moviegoer won't handle. I rate this film 8/10. "},{"Title":"It's Frantic","Date":"25 July 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" One of the best thriller-intrigues of Roman Polanski. It stars Harrison Ford (playing Dr. Walker) as the bereft husband whose wife disappears from their hotel room shortly after their arrival in Paris. Thus begins a labyrinthine search. About an hour into the movie he encounters part of the solution - a possible femme fatale played with verve and sultriness by Emmanuelle Seigner. Harrison Ford has always been an actor that exudes excellent chemistry with an accomplice (or buddy as exemplified in Star Wars) and this movie is no exception. He is even outdone by Emmanuelle in an amazing dance sequence in a nightclub &#x96; watch his middle-class angst pour out! Seeing these two together is well worth the watch (or maybe it's just my middle age hormones acting up!)The film has plenty of confrontations from Parisian detectives to American consular officials &#x96; all of these keep adding to the mystery that eventually unravels at the very end. Polanski keeps the story moving at a good, well frantic), pace as he pulls us along on the journey to re-unite Dr. Walker and his spouse. Plus there's humour through-out, even on top of Parisian roof-tops. "},{"Title":"Very good thriller about a regular person in a tense situation","Date":"25 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Frantic is a very good film that pretty much perfectly handles the plot.The plot is overall good. It has a great premise and start and a very good ending, but despite other good points, at times it is a little flat and mundane in the middle.The real strength of this film is its execution. Roman Polanski's usually excellent, artistic directing is great at creating the tension, the atmosphere, and the frenzy of Ford's frantic character. The casting and acting are also superb all round. Harrison Ford, in particular, is outstanding as the educated, normal person who's trying to deal with a tense, frenzied situation even though he doesn't really know how to. Ironically, despite his fame for action-oriented Han Solo/Indiana Jones types, this is the type of role for which Harrison Ford really seems to be perfect and at which he is almost unbeatable. He is totally convincing, real, and sympathetic here, giving real strength to the movie, which would have been a lot less compelling without such a convincing performance. "}{"Title":"Polanski meets Hitchcock= Frantic","Date":"10 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" A Doctor's wife disappears on a business trip to Paris, in the search to find her it becomes apparent that he may not get her back unless he finds what her abductors want. Although Frantic never gets 'frantic',the title refers to the psychological aspect of the narrative, it's an edgy and suspenseful story. The pace of the movie is very slow but worth the wait as Dr.Richard Walker (Harrison Ford) is caught up in a web of Parisian nightclubs, drugs, seedy characters and terrorist games in order to find his kidnapped wife. This is a tight little thriller which Roman Polanski has tackled in a personal down to earth manner without big guns and explosions. The characters are believable and you get caught up in Richard Walker's (an ordinary man in an unordinary situation) journey to find his wife.Ford and Emmanuelle Seigner's performances are top-notch, the chemistry between the unlikely pairing is the making of the more interesting, tense and memorable scenes. Ford's Doctor Walker changes from a desperate fish out of water, to a driven survivor, while striking Seigner (Michelle) goes from self-centred drug trafficker, to heroine. The supporting cast are fantastic, an array of crazy characters including- french tramps and desk Clerks, to bumbling American officials and dodgy French cops. Polanski's direction is excellent and the movie is worth a watch just for a nostalgic look at 80's back street Paris. This is a fine production accompanied by an excellent memorable score from Ennio Morricone. Throw in Paris as your backdrop and you get one of the best thrillers of the 80's in the vein of Dial M for Murder mixed with a dash of Chinatown.Frantic is sorely underrated. "},{"Title":"This movie should be renamed Paris &#150; I spent a week there one night","Date":"9 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I've seen this movie about 4 or 5 times, and I like it every time I see it. I wish there were more movies like it. It's probably at its best the first time you see it, since you don't really know where all the twists and turns are going to lead. But even after the plot is revealed to you, heck, go see it again. It's still an enjoyable, stylish romp through the seamier side of Paris &#150; it vicariously allows you to take a vacation trip to Paris that you hope and pray you never WILL have to take.Although I'm always charmed and impressed by Harrison Ford's strong performance in this film, I sometimes wonder, is it perhaps not entirely believable? I mean, after all, how would most guys *really* react if their wife disappeared on them, shortly after arriving in Paris? Well, this being Paris... whoopee! They'd probably go out on the town for about three nights of wild debauchery. Then, in a state of drunken stupor, but slowly coming to their senses, they'd find the nearest police station, and would announce to the gendarme (with a stupid grin and a champagne/cognac scented belch) Like, dude, I lost my wife! Oh but wait a minute... I've got this all wrong. As Harrison Ford's character, Dr. Walker, says in the movie, in responding to just this sort of mentality I'm talking about my wife here. YOU are obviously thinking about your OWN wife. I love that line, and it's a line that, I think more than anything, sets the character of this film. It's what makes this a very passionate story about a man who's lost his wife in a big, foreign city, and who finds himself extremely agitated about how everybody he meets is so indifferent to his plight. (And it's not just the French. The American Embassy staffers here aren't exactly shining beacons of official solicitude either.)The only thing in the movie that majorly doesn't work for me is the rooftop scene. Dr. Walker proceeds for about 2 or 3 minutes to create a hellacious clatter on the roof (nearly snapping off one of those big old TV aerials in the process), while down below, the two goons who are grilling Michelle don't even seem to notice or hear a thing. And yet a few minutes later, with Dr. Walker successfully having slipped into the apartment &#150; well, just the slightest little noise from him in the other room, and it's enough to bring the goons running to investigate. Anyway, nice use of a teddy bear. Most original!Only one thing that kinda doesn't work for me is the English diction and syntax of Michelle. Her English is too good, in the sense that it doesn't match her thick French accent. She should have had more clumsy lines written for her, i.e. more of a Pidgin English. But anyway, I sure like Michelle. Nice looking girl. Long legs, nice shoes. And no hairy armpits. You can teach me French ANY day, honey.Finally, I like the song Strange by Grace Jones. (Plus, just watching Harrison Ford's character clumsily trying to dance to this music with the too-cool-for-words Michelle is worth the rental price - it's a memorable scene!) Even after multiple viewings the song still gives me goose bumps. The music has a certain haunting emotive force to it. It invokes a wonderful European ambience; more to the point, I think it ideally captures a Parisian feel that only certain music can express. It very much reminds me of the song Puro Teatro by La Lupe, which plays at the tail end of Women on the Verge of a Nervous Breakdown while the credits are rolling. Wonderful stuff! Man I love it in movies when they play the right music at the right time. And I'm sure most of you would agree that in many films this isn't always the case.  "},{"Title":"Paris As It Is!","Date":"11 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I watched this film with two others at a midweek matinee. I'm glad because this accentuated this accurate depiction of being alone in Paris.I know it's about the kidnapping of Harrison Ford's wife but somehow Frantic tends to emphasise the vast coldness which is Paris more profoundly than the plot itself. This film will not be welcomed by the French Tourist Board because it shows Paris as it actually is. Unfriendly!However, this makes Frantic a fascinating tour de paris which heightens the suspense of this very taught thriller. Polansky has lost none of his touch in bringing everyday life to frightening reality.Whenever I am in Paris I think of this film and feel much as Ford would have done looking for his wife. Alone with thousands of unfeeling zombies.It's a pacey film with superb acting, photography and soundtrack. Emmanuele Seigner is superb and sexy. She gives a great portrayal of young Parisien women as you would encounter them. Cold and detached! I think Polansky wants us to know Paris as he pictures it and succeeds. Harrison Ford has you right behind him as the victimised American as his protestations go unheard and thus forced to find his wife alone. Get into this film and you will be rewarded with an atmospheric, accurate, exciting tango in Paris.  "},{"Title":"Great Movie, Polanski's done it again","Date":"15 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"   I saw Frantic at my local theatre 12 years ago. I bought the DVD version and I still enjoy it. As a great Roman Polanski admirer, I like Frantic because of its tremendous suspense and rising action characteristic of a Polanski thriller. This is definitely film noir territory at its best. Harrison Ford and Emmanuelle Seigner at their best. "},{"Title":"THE BEST MOVIE I have EVER seen","Date":"11 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Polanski is one of the best movie directors in all the world. Harrison Ford deserved an Oscar for this brilliant performance. Really something amazing. When I have watched it for the first time, I was delighted. If you watch a little more carefully, you can notice that Ford is appearing in every scene, and today it is very hard to do it. If you have never watched it, you should immediately. Polanski is making jokes with Hitchcock's movies, he is copying him, and it is obvious, and Polanski wants that we see this. In one word, this film is master-piece. "},{"Title":"Excellent - a realistic thriller","Date":"10 August 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The story is very realistic and very exciting. Polanski is excellent. The attention to detail is typical of him. It bears watching a couple of times to savor the perfection. Goes to show you don't need too many special effects or violence - just a good story.Harrison is good here. One of his best drama roles before he got too old looking. Totally believable. Even Betty Buckley is memorable in her short role. Great on location atmosphere in Paris.Emanuelle Seigner is very captivating with her amoral charm. Her dancing at the club to tango music is memorable.One of the best thrillers since Hitchcock. "},{"Title":"a near great thriller, sophisticated in its style with unnerving moments","Date":"20 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I don't think Roman Polanski's 1988 film Frantic is one of his great works, and it does (and after reading the cuts the studio imposed it makes a little more sense) lack some of the great, horrific bits that underly his films from the 60's and 70's. But the good news for those thinking that it's just another Harrison Ford-saves-the-world vehicle may be pleasantly surprised. The studio aside, it is a Polanski film, and it does go against what would typically be a Hollywood film of this story. For one thing Polanski at the time was persona non Grata in America, filming in Paris, and there is a much more European feel to the film than any given American director would've given it. Here and there with some of the shots, the depth used as well as the length, reminded me slightly of Antonioni. But one of the things that Polanski does here, which he has done in films like Knife in the Water and Repulsion, is to make the atmosphere totally suiting the subject matter. We know things may work out alright for its hero, however the way to get there is really sordid and constraining on its lead character- it's tense by keeping patience, not by quick cutting. Ford and wife Betty Buckley arrive in Paris as he is attending some doctor's lecture. While in the shower she answers the phone for something, leaves, and never returns- kidnapped by (later found out) Arabs. This then sets into motion almost more of a general unfolding-of-a-situation than a real story. But Polanski, taking some cues here and there from Hitchcock and other film-noir pictures, does make this situation tense enough as its lead works his way through the dark underbelly of Paris. Individual scenes mark close to being some of the better ones Polanski's done. So, Ford's doctor character meets the woman (Emmanuel Siegner) whom suitcases got switched when he and his wife arrived at the airport, and (which was pretty fascinating to me) for her getting the money she's owed from the same kidnappers of his wife is just as important and a matter of principle. Their search leads them through crooked gangsters, dangerous, terrorist Arabs, and a certain device hidden in a statue (one almost wishes this wasn't revealed, but as a Maguffin it only matters as a point of wanting for the enemy). Through this Polanski uses his star to get a taut performance, where the only heroism comes in being provoked to the edge as the everyman Ford occasionally plays. If you're looking for Indiana Jones, this ain't it. Taking part in an Ennio Morricone score- albeit with a couple of meh songs- and great usage of Parisian settings, Polanski's film is competently directed, with some scenes that lose steam while others remain charged as hell. And it's got a very interesting first half. "},{"Title":"one of the very best","Date":"5 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" i'm surprised by how low the vote is for this movie.roman polanski is one of my favorite directors and this is one of his top three movies. it could also be harrison ford's greatest moment. i would really like to see this movie's vote rise. the work polanski does is very important and original and it's a shame he's not allowed in his home country despite a supposed crime that his victim doesn't even care about out.but that's another story.frantic is well worth renting if you haven't seen it. it's not his top film, but it's very close. "},{"Title":"Absolutely Brilliant Mystery/Thriller, That's Filled With Tension, And Fascinating To Watch, With An Incredible Performance from Harrison Ford!","Date":"27 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This is an absolutely brilliant mystery/thriller, that's tension filled, and fascinating to watch, with an incredible performance from Harrison Ford!. All the characters are fantastic, And Roman Polanksi does a masterful job here, plus Harrison Ford is simply incredible in this!. The opening, is extremely tense, and the finale was simply awesome, plus Harrison Ford had fantastic chemistry with Emmanuelle Seigner and Betty Buckley!. The movie has a very unique premise, and i found the plot to be extremely engrossing, and fascinating to watch, plus it also helps when you have a brilliant actor as in Harrison Ford to play the lead. I loved how creative it was, and i personally loved the ending, plus the dialog was simply fantastic!. The setting was awesome, and the film is filled with creepy atmosphere, plus some of the scenes were very shocking as well. It's a very clever film, that's very unique, refreshing and old fashioned!. This is an absolutely brilliant thriller, that's tension filled and fascinating to watch, with an incredible performance from Harrison Ford and i say Go see it right this instant!., The Direction is masterful!. Roman Polanski does a masterful job here, with incredible camera work, fantastic angles, constantly adding creepy atmosphere,kept the film constantly unpredictable and extremely engrossing and just did an incredible job!, i love this guy!. The Acting is amazing!. Harrison Ford is AMAZING as always, and is incredible here, he is extremely intense, very likable, amazing in the acting department, had fantastic chemistry with both,Emmanuelle Seigner and Betty Buckley,he was especially fantastic when he was frantic, or vulnerable, in my opinion an Oscar Worthy performance! (Ford Rules!!!). Emmanuelle Seigner is stunningly gorgeous, and is fantastic here, she is very likable, had fantastic chemistry with Ford, had a very cool character, and just did a fantastic job overall!. Betty Buckley is very good as the wife in her screen time, i liked her lots. Rest of the cast do awesome. Overall Go see this immediately it's another Ford Masterpiece!. ***** out of 5 "},{"Title":"Superb Polanski-esque thriller.","Date":"27 April 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  (spoilers)For me, Polanski-esque is defined by what i saw in Frantic a strange, electric world where bad things happen for no good reason to ordinary folks, sexuality bubbles everywhere and everyone in a minor position of authority tries to take advantage of you.Frantic is a superb thriller. Plenty of location shooting makes what we're seeing so real, and helps us get into the story. Ford is terrific, and, as always, incredible to watch. About the impossibility of getting things done legally, through the bureaucracy, when you just want to find a missing loved one. Music by legendary spaghetti western composer Ennio Morricone is good intrigue music, well-fitted to the chic-trash world of Paris' club scene, where certain key scenes (though certainly not most of the picture) are set.Best scene the scene in the club the strangeness of these two characters from different countries, different stratas of society and different generations failing frantically to dance with each other while this strange, yet sensual and electric music plays - wow! "}{"Title":"Underrated on IMDb","Date":"1 December 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The film is seriously underrated on IMDb. A great film it might not be, still it wonderfully encapsulates the atmosphere in Europe of late 1980s.The dated tune by Grace Jones, someone said, spoils the movie?! A great song that, by the way, is perfectly in line with the film's atmosphere - why in the world would it matter whether it's three or four years old?As for the person that sees a 'hole in the plot' well it's actually quite simple to know who took your suitcase at the airport! Usually the person who's suitcase you happen to have instead of yours! And if it has the name and address on it, then it's not very difficult to figure out who took your suitcase. Secondly, you cannot just thump into somebody's room in expensive hotels! You first have to ring somebody up with an excuse (like I've found your suitcase, for example). Well that's it if the movie's plot line has to be spelt out. I actually thought, as one of the IMDb reviewers here, that the plot was quite simple and straightforward, and most of all, believable.Ford was good as always, perhaps even a bit better than that, Seigner is a joy to the eyes, and the soundtrack is great as would expected from Ennio Morricone. Fun to watch, a good movie, 9/10. "},{"Title":"One of the best thrillers ever","Date":"24 November 2011","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" If you want a realistic, well-directed, atmospheric thriller that maintains its momentum the whole way, look no further than this film.The plot is threadbare initially, with Harrison Ford playing a doctor whose wife disappears from their hotel room. What follows is his journey through Paris' streets, nightclubs and apartments in a quest to find her.Roman Polanski shows why he's a world-renowned director with his languid, slow, deliberate pace. The first hour follows Ford's investigation, and we are treated to many great little details such as his interaction with various storefront owners, concierges, police, and American embassy officials. These interactions not only further the plot but parallel the feelings of a tourist lost in a foreign city perfectly.The plot gets convoluted, but it is never hard to follow. Polanski also milks the beautiful backdrop of Paris as much as possible. This is one of the best 'Paris' films in terms of locales. Harrison Ford turns in a solid performance. Emmanuelle Seigner, whose work I am not necessarily a fan of, is also excellent here and really brings the combined youthful charm and doomed naivety of her character through.Watch this if you're in the market for the perfect thriller. "},{"Title":"Interesting and clever film with a disappointing finish","Date":"29 June 2008","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Frantic is an interesting culture-clash drama. The film goes to lengths to create the feeling of unease in the viewer with plot-threads of which one can't be completely sure until the story begins to flow. Harrison Ford plays the perfect role of a sympathetic protagonist with a simple and clear goal that he tries to achieve.What this film loses in its final act is the uncertainness that makes its beginning so appealing. The plot nuclear-device throws the film into the realm of the unreal and does it in a most unsatisfying way. After a very down to earth beginning the film attempts to rush to a hypered climax which eventually winds down into a sorry, sympathetic ending.Still, this movie has a strong and mystical vibe which carries it well through much of its first two-thirds. With a slightly unimpressive finish it is still interesting and clever film. "},{"Title":"Purely enjoyable","Date":"24 May 2008","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Director Roman Polanski (Chinatown,Rosemary's baby)roars back to life with this highly enjoyable thriller in which Harrison Ford plays a doctor who goes to France and while he's in the shower his wife is taken hostage, the rest obviously is not to mention because it's not worth for those who haven't seen this entertaining thriller that never takes a break,it's a TOUR DE FORCE movie with a believable performance from Harrison ford.It rivals any Hitchcock and De Palma thriller movies and it's one of the best Ford movies he ever starred in.This is purely one of the most underrated movies from the IMDb users,why?Because it contains one of the most important elements in movies FUN and Entertainment. "},{"Title":"Frantic","Date":"15 December 2000","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This could possibly be the greatest film ever made!!!It was criminally, barbarically received coolly by both critics and audiences when released - for no apparent reason!!Many reviews have said up to the half-way point, it is as good as any hitchcock thriller; but from there it goes downhill.Speaking on behalf of the male population, this is where it picks up from the greatest film hitchcock never made to a surreal masterpiece!The reason for this, of course is the introduction of Roman Polanski's real life wife - Emmanuelle Seigner. She is surely one of the most hypnotic, mysterious actresses ever to grace the screen.She has a raw, down to earth beauty, which fits in perfectly with the film's setting - The Paris underground airport hangers, parking lots, alleys and seedy nightclubs.Never has Paris been shown in this light.The film perfectly shows the disillusionment of a stranger in a foreign place.The film also has a few nice touches which might be missed by a casual viewer, such as Harrison Ford's characters increasingly pathetic returns to his hotel as he grows increasingly frantic. At the beginning of the film he is a respected doctor, but as Paris begins to take its toll on him he ends up a shoeless, crazed mess followed everywhere by a drug-crazed punkette.All in all, Polanski's definitive film and a mega-hit that never was. "},{"Title":"A first rate suspense-thriller bolstered by a terrific Harrison Ford performance.","Date":"27 November 2003","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  *** out of ****Frantic is a thriller that works because it dwells on all the little details, reminding both the protagonist and the viewer of the inexhaustible possibilities of the resolution to the mystery.  But no outcome could really live up to many of the established plot points.  Consquently, the ending is going to come as a bit of a disappointment, but the fun of this type of film is the trip and it's a very engaging and entertaining journey.Dr. Richard Walker and his wife Sondra (Harrison Ford and Betty Buckley, the latter of whom is actually five years younger than Ford but look ten years older) are on a trip in Paris for a medical conference.  They've just arrived at their hotel and discovered that Sondra picked up the wrong luggage at the airport.  Walker thinks its only a slight inconvenience but while taking a brief morning shower, his wife receives a phone call and heads downstairs...and never returns.  Thus is the terrific premise behind Frantic, a movie which consistently builds on its momentum through some smart direction from Roman Polanski and another winning and sympathetic everyman performance from Ford (awful hair cut, however)(with his grey hair these days, I actually prefer the crewcut style), who's perfect for these kind of roles.  Polanski frames each scene with an eye for building suspense, letting us make each little discovery alongside Walker.  He plays fair, the amount of knowledge of the situation Walker has is the same we have.   Along the way, we're introduced to several interesting individuals, including Patrick Melennec as the head of hotel security, John Mahoney as an overly polite embassy official, and Emmanuelle Signeur as a young woman who may or may not know more than she's letting on.  There's also some great lines; when an embassy security officer implies that Walker's wife might be having an affair, Walker replies, Mr. Shep, you're talking about my wife.  You must be thinking of yours.   I hesitate to say much further, but it is obvious the suitcase will play a role in the outcome of the film...or will it?  Red herrings are thrown in every few minutes, but surprisingly, they actually lead to further complications that play into important details of the story.  You don't see many thrillers do that nowadays, do you?  Once all is revealed, Frantic makes a couple of missteps in its climactic moments, which are somewhat action-oriented, an approach that takes away from the tense build-up and anticipation that permeated the preceding hour-and-forty-five minutes.  But getting there is a hell of a lot of fun. "},{"Title":"Frenzied","Date":"10 January 2002","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Spoilers herein.I appreciate good filmmakers, and Polanski is a good filmmaker. To my mind, that has little to do with entertainment and all to do with having a specific vision and the ability to make it happen -- to locate that vision in some place that transports us in either terms of the world revealed, or in some metaperspective. In `Ninth Gate,' Polanski was concerned with the latter. But here, he wants to create something on the screen, not in the mind.Like many before him (perhaps only de Palma matters), he is building on Hitchcock. Since we are so familiar with Hitch's visual grammar. it is an instant platform to build on. The funny thing is that Polanski is interested in the small visual tricks from Hitch, but we usually think of Hitchcock films in terms of specific story elements.So Polanski obliges by dragging up a plot with the right elements ordinary man thrust by chance into dangerous happenings beyond his control. He even gives us Ford, who is so dumb about the essence of filmmaking he himself is caught up in dangerous happenings beyond his control. This could only have been deliberate. But all that is to make it easy for us to place Hitch's vision under this film as a platform.At the end of Hitchcock's career, he was repeating himself, so he went (back) to London to give his picture a new feel. The result, `Frenzy,' had only limited success in deeply conveying the novel sense of place it was supposed to. It's hard, but Polanski takes the challenge here. This is not just a French film, it is what Hitchcock might have done if he were better about the notion of place. And it is not just French, but uniquely Parisian.It moves more slowly than the Hitch pattern by design things are ruminated over; they are visually delegated; they are `documented' (invested in artifacts, here objects). The greater dynamics are ascribed to Jewish conspiracies, or at least conspiracies involving Jews. The eye is often placed at groin level. There is lots of trash and misdirection (especially in the lighting). The American woman is homely, the Parisian enchanting. All this is carefully evocative of the place and Hugoesque.Spielberg would study and copy the mechanics of this film for similar tricks in the building of `Schindler's List.' That film used these devices to convey a sense of oily unction in Eastern European suaveness. See the first few scenes of that and then come back to this.I have a side study of filmmakers who involve their wives in their projects. It is a fascinating study. (Wells, Mamet, de Palma...) Polanski knows more what it means to project womanliness than nearly anyone in film that matters. For him to handle his wife so, shows a particularly challenging tenderness. "},{"Title":"Frantic!","Date":"11 August 2004","Score":"12 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Frantic is indeed a unique film. Harrison Ford stars in this picture. Its directed quite well by veteran director Roman Polanski. The two actresses that are in this movie Betty Buckley and Emmanuelle Seigner act very well. The film has other familiar faces as well. The music composed by veteran movie score composer Ennio Morricone is really good and matches this flick perfectly! Its a great score! The movie is filled with great dialog and acting from its actors in some very interesting scenes and the movie has a powerful first thirty minutes or so. The movie really takes a turn later on. This must be the most different type of film Harrison Ford has ever been in. If you love Harrison Ford then check out Frantic!  "},{"Title":"You may not love it but you won't forget it.","Date":"4 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Here is a film that pulls you in and doesn't let go. In a very low key, sometimes somber atmosphere that doesn't feel frantic all the time one can't ignore the interesting scenes and situations.Had the film been shot in American it would not have been as interesting as it is. It all takes place in Paris. We see how some of the people live and the lead character is taken to some interesting establishments by his young Parisian partner in search of his kidnapped wife.But we're not really interested in the wife. We are interested in the girl! And here is what keeps one interested. She lives a life on the fringes while the Dr. lives a very conventional life that he'll never be able to return to. He'll be thinking of these days for the rest of his life, never forgetting the girl and every place she's taken him to. What I love about the film is how original and unpretentious it all is. No cliché here. I dig this out at least once a year to watch. "},{"Title":"Very engaging thriller","Date":"12 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I'll be honest. There isn't much to hate about this film. It is a great little thriller from the masterful Roman Polanski. It's about Richard and Sondra Walker, a husband and wife on business in France. Everything is going fine until Richard gets out of the shower one morning to find his wife has disappeared completely. He goes on an obsessive quest to find her, and along the way he uncovers all sorts of dark secrets concerning espionage, gangster, and drugs. This is a thrilling film that delivers plentiful amounts of fun and excitement all the way through.Roman Polanski really shows that he knows how to tell a compelling story through Frantic. The story works its magic here in a very sincere and gripping way. The film is pretty slow paced, and it never really speeds up, allowing for more tension and suspense in the scenes where there needs to be a significant amount. The story is set up very well as we get to know Harrison Ford and Betty Buckley's characters and their relationship. During the opening of the film we are given just the right amount of setup, character development, and mystery to keep us wanting more. Then Betty Buckley's character goes missing and the tension builds from there. There's something very intriguing about the dialouge and acting here that makes you want to know more, and keeps you enthralled in the mystery that Harrison Ford is trying so desperately to solve.All the acting in Frantic is excellent and is one of the most entertaining elements of the film. Harrison Ford gives a performance that doesn't engage in itself too seriously, but is just serious enough to be be compelled by. Betty Buckley is also great, and doesn't fall into any kind of damsel in distress stereotype. Her and Ford have a lot of fun chemistry on screen and when she goes missing we get a sense that Harrison Ford truly wants to find her. Then there is also Emmanuelle Seigner in her first role. Her character has an aura of mystery surrounding it, and Seigner does a great job pulling it off. She has some great moments and her thick French accent makes her all the more fantastic to watch. There are numerous other roles that appear throughout the film, and I don't feel like there was one actor in the film that really hindered its success as a consistently great thriller.Frantic is really just a great movie. There isn't a whole lot to it in the grand scheme of things, and it might be somewhat forgettable alongside other Polanski films, but not judging it based off of those things, it is great. It is hard to tell a truly engaging mystery story, but Frantic pulls it off, leaving me constantly wanting to know more. It is simply just great filmmaking. "}{"Title":"Most enjoyable French thriller","Date":"7 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Once revered director Roman Polanski, now exiled from the U.S. and living in France, brought to the screen in 1988 a very entertaining thriller that Hitchcock himself would have been proud of.Harrison Ford is surgeon Dr. Richard Walker, a man who has travelled to Paris with his wife (Betty Buckley) for a medical convention and a second honeymoon of sorts. Things go terribly wrong when Mrs. Walker disappears from the hotel at which they are staying only a short time after they arrive. The doctor is soon plunged into a dark world of drugs, kidnapping, espionage and murder. An ordinary man in an extraordinary situation (typical of many Hitchcock plots).In one of his best ever performances, Harrison Ford portrays the desperate doctor very convincingly indeed, and support from the entire backup cast (including débutant Emmanuelle Seigner) is also admirable. Ennio Morricone's brooding and dramatic score is wonderful as are the realistic sets and fine camera work which presents the seedy side of Paris very sharply.Polanski directs with aplomb, and fills Frantic with plenty of Hitchcockian elements, including the McGuff- that being the small but significant item around which many of the master's movies revolved - in the shape of lady liberty.Splendid work from the editing team caps off what is a most enjoyable French thriller, and is testimony to the directorial talents of Roman Polanski and the versatility of one of Hollywood's most prodigious exports, Harrison Ford.Monday, June 13, 1994 - T.V. "},{"Title":"Understated Thriller (some spoilers)","Date":"5 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Underrated, understated, compelling Polanski thriller stars Harrison Ford as Dr. Richard Walker caught in fish-out-of water story.  Walker is forced to conduct a one-man search through Paris for his wife after she suddenly and mysteriously vanishes from their hotel room.  Classic noir elements abound  a switched suitcase, bad guys who will stop at nothing, a conspiracy, a mysterious and erotic female.Polanski, as always, directs with a sure hand, masterfully depicting Walker's frustrating search as a Kafka-esque hallucination.  There's a conspicuous and refreshing lack of pyrotechnics here; instead, Polanski concentrates the story on Walker's weird and often banal encounters.  Polanski has particular fun with Ford's bafflement and the disparity between his American man of action and the aloof, self-satisfied  Parisians.  Casting is inspired with John Mahoney (Frasier) as a glib Embassy official; Emmannuelle Seigner as the femme fatal, Michelle.  But it's Harrison Ford who's in the spotlight 100% of the time (he's in every scene) and we experience the excruciating and puzzling search entirely from his perspective.  Polanski has an amazing talent for stories told from the hero's point of view.  In this sense, Frantic is consistent with the Director's best work - Rosemary's Baby, Repulsion, Chinatown, The Tenant, The Pianist - stories all told in the first person narrative. Sadly, Frantic (weak and silly title by the way) is likely to be dismissed as a mere Hitchcock exercise.  And while the classic Hitchcock elements are certainly in evidence - complete with McGuffin! - Frantic is far less mannered than Hitchcock's works, Polanski playing his subtexts nearer the surface infusing his plots with a surreal, dreamlike quality.  Frantic is really more David Lynch than Hitchcock.  Sure, Frantic may not be Polanski's very best but it's a first rate thriller consumately realized by a Master.  Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Wonderful","Date":"10 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I had seen this film a number of times when i was younger but apon watching it again last night with a few more years behind me i enjoyed it a lot more. Harrison Ford is my favorite actor and i think he is great to watch. I think he could make any film good because he just has something about him. I can not believe that he has not won an oscar and only been nominated once. The only bad point about this film is that it is not totally believealbe. but hey its a movie it doesn't have to be. Hugely under-rated film!!! "},{"Title":"brilliant","Date":"18 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is simply brilliant.  I can't believe I haven't watched it before.  Harrison Ford is genius as usual, his female counterpart in the film, the girl who helps him find the people who have his wife, she's average, not spectacular, but what do you expect.  She's pretty good, and their chemistry works well.  Frantic is a great title for this film, because from Ford's performance, you can't help but feel frantic yourself the entire time.  The story is very well written, and it has a very mature look to it. You can tell the director knew what he was doing without even knowing who directed it.  This is definitely a classic.  9/10   "},{"Title":"A classic thriller. Well worth watching.","Date":"18 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I agree with all of the positive comments made by other users...go ahead and get the video, it is worth it. This was not a 10 out of 10 movie for me, but I could see Polanski as the master director/writer.  There are so few GOOD thrillers that rely on script, cinematography and acting - too many fall back on the cheap Hollywood ploys of car chases and gun slinging. So many details were significant.  The dialogue was believable and it stands above many box office hits in this capacity. Some of the suspense music was dated (1988 after all) but it did not detract much from the excellence of this film.   "},{"Title":"Suspension of Dramatic Tension","Date":"21 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" What was truly amazing about Frantic was Polanski's ability to turn ordinary situations (finding and opening a briefcase, climbing on the stairs, grabbing the timing device, even driving from the airport) into extended and memorable scenes where the level of dramatic tension was extended to the point beyond slight interest.Take the scene in the bedroom when Harrison Ford is originally searching for the briefcase and trying to open it up. Polanski does not end with the briefcase here. Later scenes involving it evoke a remembrance of the detail that went into crafting the first scene. Ford's trip onto the rooftop is treated the same way. The scene does not end with him neatly hiding on the roof. It is wracked with complications. The four sitting at the table about to grab the stolen timing device. Even the dance scene, surrounded with potential spies and unknowns, fills itself with Ford's eroticism and paranoia equally well.The movie is filled with other examples like these, which make it a slow and delayed series of expectant occurences. The movie flows well from a sequence of dramatic sources of tension. I cannot believe that I had seen it earlier. It is truly a shame that Polanski is effectively banished from this country. "},{"Title":"Homage to Hitchcock","Date":"16 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is the closest any director has ever come to attaining the genius of Hitchcock (including Van Sant's Psycho).  Polanski has made better movies (the classic Chinatown), but no other director has come as close to the master as this, try as they might.  Forget DePalma, his work is mostly trash by comparison. "},{"Title":"Polanski did it again!","Date":"22 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Frantic is one of the best thrillers I've ever seen. It is good that all the fights and shootings are only at the end. Usually you have action all over the film. This film goes on more slowly. We are given time to see Harrison Ford's feelings when his wife is disappeared. Well, it's very touching. He's a great actor.You really should see this film a) if you like Polanski's films b) if you like Harrison Ford c) if you like realistic thrillers ****/*****  "},{"Title":"terrific paranoid thriller","Date":"19 December 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Dr. Richard Walker (Harrison Ford) is in Paris with his wife Sondra (Betty Buckley) for a medical conference. The last time was their honeymoon 20 years ago. They check into the hotel and discover that they've got the wrong bag. While he's in the shower, his wife gets a call and disappears. It's a struggle to be taken seriously even after he finds her broken bracelet. It seems like she's run off with some guy. He finds a phone number written on a matchbook in the incorrect suitcase. He starts investigating on his own and encounters Michelle (Emmanuelle Seigner).This is a great Roman Polanski film. It has the Hitchcockian feel. It's an everyman played very well by Ford who is caught up in a world that he has no concept of. The start is Kafkaesque. It's filled with paranoia. Then Emmanuelle Seigner shows up. She's a classic femme fatale. The movie is a great thriller. "},{"Title":"A Stunning Thriller!","Date":"2 September 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Roman Polanski's 'Frantic' is A Stunning Thriller, that left me spell-bound. Gripping, Intriguing & Nail-Biting, this late 1980's flick holds tremendous appeal.'Frantic' Synopsis In a hotel room in Paris, a doctor comes out of the shower and finds that his wife has disappeared. He soon finds himself caught up in a world of intrigue, espionage, gangsters, drugs and murder.'Frantic' narrates a frightening story of a man's desperation, with flourish. The twists & turns are sharply written, while the suspense builds up beautifully. Also, the pacing, is pitch-perfect. Polanski & Gérard Brach's Screenplay is solid, offering a highly engaging story. Polanski's Direction is fantastic. He successfully creates a world of darkness. Cinematography is excellent. Editing is well-done.Performance-Wise Harrison Ford delivers the most challenging performance of his career. He's astonishing in here. Emmanuelle Seigner looks gorgeous & performs naturally. Betty Buckley is hugely effective. John Mahoney is subtle. David Huddleston is impressive.On the whole, 'Frantic' is a great watch! "}{"Title":"A Genre Film with Genre Conventions","Date":"2 February 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" One of Polanski's most Americanized efforts, Frantic, begins very well. Through a leisurely exposition between a happily married doctor and wife on a business trip in Paris, Polanski's camera at some stage begins to tell us things through ominous zoom-ins and steadicams. We see him thinking, wondering when he should start worrying. We are comfortably in the same perspective as Harrison Ford's protagonist. But this pace becomes an obstruction later on. This ironically low-key thriller's action is periodically interrupted by unnecessary scenes with no subtext, for example a dance sequence between the internally agitated Ford and Emmanuelle Seigner.It is a true paradox that pace is an issue for a film called Frantic. So much so that I wonder upon reflection if it was Polanski's intention to compress the briskness of the action to familiarize us with the protagonist's internalization of fear, worry and bewilderment. Whatever the answer is, it was not a conducive creative device.The first half is promising in large part because of Polanski's experience with the loss of his own wife to random circumstance with murderers. It made me feel as if I was going to see an intense, personal film that dealt with that eternally wounding part of his life, sadly one of the many. Alas, I didn't get that. Frantic is a formula suspense film easily pigeonholed with the rest of the 1980s Hollywood thrillers.The hero's essential obstacle being that he's a fish out of water, an American businessman in Paris who speaks no French and thus can hardly navigate his way through the city, much less a trail to his wife in which time is of the essence. The film would truly live up to a degree of tension if his interactions with Parisians were realistic. They all seem willing to help, none of them annoyed by an American archetype anxiously babbling English at them in their native country. I've heard many stories from friends and writers who've been to Paris. They do not bless Paris with a reputation for being nice and accommodating to English-speaking Americans. One friend told me that he was not allowed to have his passport back unless he asked for it in French. Another told me that when he tried to order a meal at a restaurant in English, the clerk slammed her hand on the table and ordered that he speak French. My own experience in Paris might be vastly different, and it is no doubt a beautiful and culturally rich city, but there would inevitably be at least a blemish of resistance against Ford's conventionally American character.There is, however, a great sense of the hero's naivété with danger or intrigue. The tone is never too tongue-in-cheek to diminish the tension of the narrative and never too pitiful to deprive him of his credibility as a serious dramatic character. There is a terrific scene in which he must enter a woman's apartment from the outside ledge through a diagonal window. He must carry a satchel with important contents. He is also a well-fed middle-aged American doctor who never thought by any stretch of the imagination that a simple business trip would require him to do this. There is a not-so-good scene that suggests the same thing, but leaves us with a major story gap, during a scene at an airport where he's scared that the contraband-sniffing dogs will discover the dope in the suitcase. The dogs don't, and yet not only does Ford appear to have forgotten about at least a gram of coke in his pocket, the police dogs don't notice either.Generally, Frantic is a genre film with genre conventions the dubious female companion, the inept American intelligence agents, American paranoia concerning terrorism and a predictable ending that was only unpredictable to me because I felt sure that Polanski would take bolder steps. It is nevertheless an entertaining movie, but not a riveting one and not particularly memorable. "},{"Title":"Frantic in Rome / Soundtrack","Date":"9 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Some years ago I was working in Rome and had agreed (?) with my wife to meet at Piazza Venezia after work. After waiting for her at the agreed point for some time and she did not turn up, a feeling of panic started creeping in and I started thinking what to do. Phone her up where we were staying (no cell phone), set Italian bureaucracy in motion by going to the police; both my wife and I are fluent in Italian and know our way about Rome but at the same time the panic and anxiety levels started creeping up being in a foreign city. Ultimately my wife showed up there being a misunderstanding about the time when we had to meet. How about Ennio Morricone's anxious sound track and Grace Jones' Fandango ( I have seen that face before) being a leit motif throughout the whole film. When I hear this song, I always remember the scene towards the end of the film with Harrison Ford at dawn on the bridge shivering with cold and Seigneur walking from the end of the bridge towards him.I have seen this film several times and yet each time Polanski manages to give me that feeling of seeing something never seen before. "},{"Title":"American tourist couple get entangled in deadly espionage affair","Date":"24 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Harrison Ford is in his element again While visiting Paris with his wife of some 20 years, Ford finds his wife kidnapped by ruthless crooks who are after a small object they had planted in the woman's luggage. Of course, there has been a switch, and the priceless object is now in the hands of a small time hustling, beautiful French girl. Eventually Ford figures out what's what, while desperate to get his wife back unharmed.This film has a predictable plot, but the music score featuring a bewitching Grace Jones song fits nicely into every scene. This movie is great entertainment, if not quite Oscar caliber. "},{"Title":"Fantastic and Underrated","Date":"14 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  It's amazing that people have just forgotten about this movie. Roman Polanski is an amazing director. I had only seen Rosemary's Baby and The Pianist prior to this, the latter being a hundred times better than the former. I was fairly disappointed with Rosemary's Baby. It was dubbed one of the best horror films of all time, and it never ever scared me. Frantic, labelled a thriller, delivers all that it promises to. I was on the edge of my seat for pretty much the whole movie. There was great ambience to all the scenes. Polanski definitely knows how to set a mood. Emannuelle Seigneur was fascinating as Ford's sexy opposite. I was very very impressed with her comic timing and cannot figure out why she hasn't been in anything else after Frantic. Terrific 9/10. "},{"Title":"Masterpiece","Date":"16 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  One of the greatest Polanski movies of all time. Harrison Ford is awesome and Emanuelle Seigner steals the show. Their chemistry is fantastic. The movie has plenty of suspense combined with some humor.The naive Seigner character and Ford's seriousness and panic makes  both characters truly funny at times. The movie is filmed in a really dark blueish light which makes it a bit creepy at times but it works perfectly. This movie is a masterpiece if given a chance. It is a movie with a real story and real characters. Those who can't stand a real movie such as this should perhaps go back and watch Hollywood movies where fictional heroes blow up cars and buildings for and hour and a half.Frantic **** (great movie) "},{"Title":"L'air du temps","Date":"27 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Like all 80's people from Europe I probably understand this movie a bit better then the young ones or those from over the ocean. It is very european and a very 80's movie..... and a perfect representative of both. And Ford, what about Ford? What? Well, he's an American.Indeed, I'd answer, but... James Stewart was too old for that purpose, and Alain Delon as well, ... and we all know Mr. Ford knows his job when he gets a decent one. O.K. No jokes. I think Mr. Ford was brilliant (he and polansky made this movie almost a documentary) and Melle Seigner a true paris-chick-stewardesse guiding poor good 'ol Fordy through this extraordinaire Hithc-hiking suspense en rose. And Grace Jones, my friends, he he he ..... that's what the 80's were about.... l'air du temps.    "},{"Title":"One of Those Films You Can't Take Your Eyes Off Of.","Date":"30 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Frantic is one of those strange over-achievers that ends up being an intensely entertaining experience. American doctor Harrison Ford is in France for a conference, but almost immediately his wife (Betty Buckley) disappears. The authorities are no help and it seems that the only that can help him is the highly erotic and mysterious Emmanuelle Seigner (in an appropriately hot performance). Together they go on a quest that involves some of the darkest underground forces in Paris. A really twisted film that works due to the chemistry generated by Ford and Seigner. Roman Polanski uses atmosphere to create a tone that is both electric and magnetic. 4 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"Before The Game and Breakdown there was...Frantic","Date":"18 April 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Before Breakdown and The Game there was Roman Polanski's paranoia thriller Frantic. Harrison Ford plays a doctor who, along with his wife, Sondra, takes a trip to Paris to go to a medical convention. They arrive there with everything, except for the fact that his wife has picked up the wrong bag at the airport. While he's in the shower at the hotel, his wife says something, and he can't hear her through the bathroom. And then she's gone, out the door. Ford goes looking for her. Soon he finds a drunk who says he saw his wife pushed into a van. Ford finds her necklace on the ground where the drunk says he saw them. Soon he realizes that it's something with the suitcases that made whoever-it-is-who-took-his-wife take his wife, and he embarks on a journey to get back his wife.The first thing about Frantic is how the characters and dialouge are both realistic. Ford fits the tourist-yuppie-gone-frantic quite well. The world around him seems to be quite at ease, but we can see that he is not.I can identify with Ford's character, because when I sometimes become frantic for some reason or another, it seems like the world around me has stopped and I have to find what I'm looking for. (Whether it be a lost wallet, whatever.) The world seems to be completely calm and the fact that no one really seems to care makes you even the more frantic. I like to think that's what Ford's character feels like after he finds out his wife is missing and realizes no one is doing anything about it but himself.There's a brief appearance by John Mahoney as a police officer who doesn't seem to believe Ford's story, passing him off as a crazy tourist. Ford tells them (the two police officers) he has witnesses who saw his wife being carried away by a guy with his arm around her shoulder. Maybe she was having a good time, Mahoney says. Ford turns to him and says, You're talking about my wife! He grabs Mahoney, and says, Maybe he was carrying her out like this. He could have a gun, and say, 'don't move! Shut up!'. That is realistic filmmaking right there, because that's exactly what we always see in films; the bad guy holding someone close to his chest with a concealed weapon. It almost seems like Frantic is parodying this.Frantic, like Breakdown, seems to lose steam sometimes, and is topped off by a ridiculous ending (though the one in Breakdown was ten times worse). But in the long run it's a pretty solid thriller that I personally enjoy more than The Game in the sense of realisticness (though The Game is more fun to watch as a whole, it has way too many plot holes for a serious thriller).In the end, Frantic is a good thriller that is a bit too long in certain areas, but overall is a good way to spend a rainy night.3.5/5 stars -John Ulmer "},{"Title":"Excellent Polanski film starring Harrison Ford","Date":"9 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Harrison Ford, Emmanuelle Seigner, and Betty Buckley star in Frantic, a 1988 film directed by Roman Polanski and filmed in Paris.Ford is Dr. Richard Walker, who travels to Paris with his wife Sondra (Buckley) -- they originally spent their honeymoon there, and he's due to deliver a paper at a medical convention. When they reach their hotel, they discover that Sondra picked up the wrong suitcase at the airport. While he's in the shower, the phone rings. Sondra, fresh from the shower herself, picks it up and attempts to get her husband's attention. When she can't, we see her get some clothing. When Richard emerges from the shower, she's gone. And he can't find her. Anywhere.Richard asks around and learns that she left with a man in a car. Then he finds her bracelet on the ground. Panicked, he goes to the Embassy and the police and gets nowhere. Digging through the suitcase, he finds a matchbook for the Blue Parrot nightclub. Inside there is a name and phone number written. This leads him ultimately to Michelle (Seigner), whose suitcase he has. She has left his wife's suitcase in a locker, and now whomever hired her wants what was inside the suitcase Sondra mistook for hers. In order to make sure they receive it, they've taken Sondra.I saw this film years ago. I only remembered there was a French woman in it (with Ford, whom I also remembered), and a scene in a parking garage. If you haven't seen the film, when you see the scene in the parking garage, you'll know why I remembered it.Really excellent, exciting, suspenseful film, with Ford in top form as a tough man fighting to keep control of his emotions as he deals with bureaucrats and frustration. He has two great telephone scenes one with his daughter, where he tries to keep from breaking down; and one with a man at the embassy (John Mahoney) where he struggles with his anger. When the concierge asks if he's been to Paris before, he says yes, they were there on their honeymoon. Could she know someone here she has been thinking about? he asks. Ford answers, SINCE JUNE 15, 1968?? Emmanuelle Seigner, who married Polanski after this film, is gorgeous and creates an interesting, quirky character. According to what I read, she says she was 19 when she did this film; actually she was 21.I had three small problems with this movie I found the ending a little strange (it's not the original one, it turns out); and I didn't understand throughout the whole film why Walker didn't ask the hotel to give him the phone number of the person who called their hotel room. Maybe they didn't have that information. My third problem was the casting of Betty Buckley as Ford's wife. She seemed a little miscast, but then, maybe I'm just not used to seeing leading men in films married to women within five years of their own age instead of 15 or 20 years.One thing that gave me a chuckle was the fact that Walker misses his speech and then runs into some drunk doctors attending the convention. I used to transcribe medical conferences -- there really aren't any more, thanks to the antics shown in this film.At any rate, Polanski's direction is masterful in this straightforward Hitchcock-type story. Great rental if you haven't seen it. "},{"Title":"Stress Stretched to the Limit in Taut and Tactile Polanski Film","Date":"26 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" It's All Mood and Tension from Director Roman Polanski, at a Lethargic Pace that Some Modern's Might Find Too Slow. But if One Can Go With the Flow of This Taut Tale of Hitchcockian Misdirection and Wrong Place and the Wrong Time Conceit, the Film Engages.Harrison Ford is the Driven Husband Out to Find His Wife Who Wandered Off, or So it Seems, After Their Arrival in Paris. Polanski's Film is Smart and Mature with a Sophistication Not Usually Found in Thrillers. Conversations are Drawn Out for Maximum Stress, both On the Phone and in Person, and Sometimes Things are Taken to the Breaking Point. In the First Half, it is the Uncertainty of the Situation that Causes Concern and in the Second Half Once Things Become Known it is Just More Cause for Concern.Things Reach a Fever Pitch in the End and the Thrill Ride Getting There Does Not End Quickly but Once Again the Tension is Stretched to the Limit. It's a Nerve Racking Film as was Intended and there Isn't Much Relief Throughout the Two Hour Running Time. Overall, the Film Comes Off as Something Very Different and is an Offbeat Entertainment for Those Seeking Artistic Filmmaking at its Best. Note...The eerie serpentine Score by Ennio Morricone effectively underlines the mood and some Reggae and Club Songs also add to the atmosphere "}{"Title":"Pleasing and capable thriller which, if anything, lives up to the director's name and does a fine job in demonstrating just how good these sorts of films can be.","Date":"1 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" When the Walker's first went to Paris as a couple very much in love and co-figuring on that same wavelength, it was in June of 1968 - a whole month or so after the May problems of that same year which beguiled said world renowned city and country and thus saw them avoid all the helter skelter nonsense and nuisance which would have no doubt blighted their stay there. That was then, this is now; and where a honeymoon was once the purpose for travelling to the French Capital wherein they managed to sidestep all the ugliness, this fresh visit in the latter half of the 80's will see them put through a wringer in which confronting incident; issue and a whole heap of bother must unfold. The film, one of those which can be 'pitched' in a sentence and is relatively uncomplicated to follow, might have gone one of two ways and it is to its director's great credit that Frantic is the devilish; involving and erstwhile drama that goes down the correct route that it does.There is a gnawing sensation at the back of some part of me saying that had something with the credentials which Frantic possesses been made in today's climate, it would not carry with it both the subtleties and nuances the director here applies to what is essentially a generic premise. The director is a certain Roman Polanski, a man whose films have often revolved around lone protagonists caught in webs of paranoia and disbelief as they uncover sordid truths not too far from their own abodes. We recall Jack Nicholson and Mia Farrow's characters in Chinatown and Rosemary's Baby, respectively, undergoing Hellish investigative procedures in trying to deduce what the bigger picture is as the terrible truth looms large and the protagonists just try to get on with life. For a more recent example, see 2010's The Ghost. Frantic slots nicely into the Polanski canon of films feeding off this overall framework of deception; dishonesty and a fair amount of seediness at play in what was initially a fairly pleasant set up.The film begins with a windshield set shot of cars on a motorway speeding past and away from us as the gloomy skyline of Paris very gradually approaches us such is the direction we're headed and the speed we're travelling at. That sense of an all-encompassing locale getting ever-closer twinned with things charging by and escaping us prominent. Therein what transpires to be a taxi sit the Walker's, Harrison Ford's Richard and Betty Buckley's Sondra; an American couple a long way from home in that they're San Franciscans on a holiday to the place they, as established, once spent their honeymoon decades ago. Her head on his shoulder, inferring close ties, and the establishment that they've been driving since dawn in tow, the taxi suffers a puncture and Richard is plunged into a troublesome situation requiring good communicative skills in French as well as a fair degree of calm as this out of the ordinary happening occurs. It is established Sondra is the French speaker amongst the pair of them, and Richard appears vulnerable without her expertise when attempting to communicate himself. Things on this basic level in this unfortunate situation don't go as swimmingly as they might have done, making for uncomfortable viewing later on when both of these things will be more greatly required once certain stakes are raised.Arriving at the more centralised Parisian hotel, the Walkers are tired and the arrival is a confusing; busy procession of dialogue Richard doesn't understand and phone-calls involving those back home which are ultimately unnecessary ingredients for worry. We note the iconographic Eiffel Tower peeking out from behind certain buildings from the ground level looking upwards as their car pulls up &#x96; the film eventually breaking out into a bit of a squalor-set trawl through streets; avenues and the urban undergrowth Richard discovers Paris exudes when Sondra disappears from the suite whilst Richard showers and she is nowhere that the relatively bemused hotel staff can see.Thus begins the body of the film in its depiction of Ford's descent out and into the Parisian jungle to find her, something which begins with the biggest question more broadly linked to how she was taken, although mutates once we're past that stage into something much more interesting to do with why she was. Thrown into the mix is Emmanuelle Seigner's Parisian local Michelle, a hearty and sprightly young woman who is often mixed up with the wrong people but is here dragged deeper into a mire of equally sordid business by Richard when he uncovers her whereabouts and figures she'll have a strong say in whether Sondra is at all found. As a combination, Michelle needs Richard more-so for the brief financial support he offers and he for her based on the fact she is the lone lead &#x96; they do not necessarily see eye to eye in as much Seigner's character is slender with he broader and gradually more hard bodied; her dress sense radiant and his limited to greyed coats and such. The film bounces each of them off one another as foils nicely, but its crowning glory is the film's resisting to fall into the trap of living up to its title like it would do nowadays; Frantic being its name but calm; collected and slow-burning its nature. True, there is international espionage and shoot outs but these things feel undercut; understated, arriving when they have to and never doing enough to drag the piece away from grounded foundations. At a time when EuropaCorp are producing what they're producing, it's pleasant to uncover films such as Frantic which are well made; well acted and unravelled in a tense, adult fashion. "},{"Title":"Good Old Fashioned Suspense and Comedy Mixture","Date":"22 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Polanski was compared to Hitchcock after Rosemary's Baby, but none of his later films really had much in common with Hitchcock except for this one. Put Cary Grant and Jimmy Stewart in the lead and you would swear it was a Hitchcock film.While not quite up to Grant and Stewart, I think this is one of Harrison Ford's top five movies Put Blade Runner, Mosquito Coast, Working Girl, Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade, ahead of it, but it beats out Witness, Presumed Innocent, Sabrina, and everything else he has done in the last 20 years.Emmanuelle Seigner, Polansky's wife keeps the movie ontrack with an excellent performance as a near femme fatale.The only misstep is the casting of Betty Buckley as Ford's wife. She is just too bland. It is hard to see why a brilliant and handsome doctor, like Ford would still be married to her after 20 years.I saw it when it first came out and liked it then. I have seen it three or four times since and have liked it more each time. While it doesn't rank with the best of Hitchcock or even Polansky (Rosemary's Baby, Tess, China Town, Bitter Moon Pianist are better,) it is still a nice mixture of suspense and comedy. It's not a masterpiece, but very good and satisfying. "},{"Title":"Frenzied thriller","Date":"29 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  7/10Roman Polanski's thriller worked extremely well and just about summed up the panic feeling when you are not in control of your surroundings. Here Harrison Ford plays a doctor who goes to Paris with his wife for a conference meeting. When his wife suspiciously disappears from the hotel room the movie begins to unravel the twists that have found the Walkers in this situation. It is the sense of frenzy and frustration that make it such a good film, and I firmly believe that Ford encapsulated the frustrations and anger very well. Emmanuelle Seigner also did a very good job of portraying the girl with attitude, but also showed a naive and child-like side on times. The screenplay was generally sound, with the camera work establishing the feel and frenetic nature of the movie. Perhaps the movie went on a little too long as there were some scenes that dragged a little, but all in all it was a good movie that managed to make myself care about the ending. "},{"Title":"Stylish, entertaining thriller","Date":"31 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" A witty modern take on the 'North by Northwest'-style caper. The simple premise probably would have been effective and fun even in the hands of a lesser director, but Polanski puts his thumbprints all over the film and turns it into something more. The sterile art direction and odd pacing, occasionally reminiscent of 'The Wicker Man,' help to crank up the sweat factor to the screaming point. (I sometimes think of Polanski's style as 'grim realism,' and I don't know that I've ever seen a movie where travel abroad looked so authentically tedious.) Harrison Ford, whose movie-star reputation tends to eclipse his acting ability, delivers a nice frowny-faced performance, and the script is dry and funny. Deliberate Hitchcock references (shower scene, McGuffin, etc.) add to the fun, and if the ending seems a slightly melodramatic copout, it's only because we don't REALLY want to have the mystery explained at all. 'Frantic' has dated slightly, but it remains a stylish and entertaining thriller. 7.5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Overlooked","Date":"16 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This Hitchcockiaen suspense thriller, is very overlooked, and far better than its reputation. Its start very good, with Ford (our times Jimmy Stewart) searching for his wife and i think the film failed a little, when Polanski introduce his muse (later wife) Emmauelle Seigner (which is not a sophisticated Hitchcock heroine). The story take some un-satisfild ways, but after all is a good thriller with celebration of Hitchcock and Kafka. But when you see Polanskis talent for suspense and horror in his young age (Repulsion, Rosemary, Chinamtown etc) its not a film, who live up to this talent. 8/10 "},{"Title":"It kept me 'Frantic' throughout the film!!!!  Brilliant!!!!! )","Date":"12 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  There is no better thriller than this movie and even Hitchcock would have agreed. From the very beginning, this movie keeps you also 'Frantic', as Harrison Ford (Dr. Richard Walker) looks for his wife in the beautiful and romantic city of, 'Paris', where she was believed to have been kidnapped.Other than the great plot, the film delivers great music that suits the film, which include a song from the one and only 'Grace Jones', called 'Stange', which when sung, gives you a wonderful French atmosphere in the movie. However the movie would not have been the same if their wasn't Harrison Ford in it. He is the greatest actor of all time and always delivers a wonderful performance, no matter what role. In this movie, he gave such an excellent performance, so realistic and powerful, which made this movie one of the best ever. I strongly recommend watching this masterpiece. I give this movie a score of 10/10.  "},{"Title":"Emmanuelle Seigner is a French Michelle Pfeiffer","Date":"27 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I just saw this film tonight and it was very entertaining. For some reason it doesn't seem like a Roman Polanski film. I love Ninth Gate and Chinatown, and this film was neat. Although I would have maybe done more with the plot. Emmanuelle Seigner, Polanski's striking wife, is impressive in her American debut here, and I enjoyed her even more in Ninth Gate as the Girl, who may or may not have been The Devil. Has anyone else noticed how much this beautiful woman looks like equally beautiful Michelle Pfeiffer?? I mean, ALOT! In this and especially in Ninth Gate. She is like a French-speaking Michelle Pfeiffer. Another interesting note on that is that Harrison stars with Emanuelle in this, and with Michelle Pfeiffer in the upcoming What Lies Beneath, which I will also be at opening night. Overall, this movie was good. But Polanski is at his best with Chinatown and Ninth Gate. I hope to see Emanuelle Seigner in more to come. "},{"Title":"France Tips","Date":"29 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  What will you do if you lost your wife in a strange-foreign place? And you caught up in a middle of international affairs? And you have no lead but a sexy young girl from nowhere?This smart story takes us towards Harrison Ford's adventure in Paris. With fair casts and interesting plots which make us think what should we do in this situation.The only weakness (which might not a weakness after all), is the international and political affair which leads to Harrison's wife kidnapping. It is too usual, but very common in the movie plot when this movie was made.A good adventure movie. Useful if you loose your wife there. (I hope not).  "},{"Title":"Harrison Ford","Date":"29 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is a great thriler , but the thing which surprises me is how much I like Ford's performance. As an actor he is very under appreciated , I have grown to like his films more & more with other like Witness & The Fugitive. Just watch the scenes in a Paris nightclub in which he plays off a drug pusher and when he has a dance with Michelle. 8/10. "},{"Title":"Polanski in his prime","Date":"3 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Alongside Hitchcook, Felini, Bergman, Kubrick, Kurosawa and Eisenstien, Polanski is considered as one of the true masters of cinema and Frantic shows that he sure does know how to make a dammed good movie.This isn't your ordinary American thriller, oh no. The plot is rather simple, and it makes you wonder how come nobody had thought of it before. Meet Dr Richard Walker a successful   surgeon (?), who's in Paris, with his wife, to attend at an doctors convention. The problems already begin at the airport when Dr Walkers wife, Sondra, takes the wrong suitcase. When they arrive at the hotel Dr Walker heads for the shower and his wife unpacks the suitcases. When Walker walks out of the shower he notices that his wife is gone but and after a nap he realizes that something's not right here. Later, he's struck by terror when, after some searching, a man tells him that he has seen some men forcing his wife into a car with violence, and he realizes that she has been kidnapped...and for what simple reason? A misunderstanding.From what i can tell, Polanski makes his movie's with passion. He doesn't do it because he has to. He doesn't do it just to keep in shape. He does it beacuse it's what he likes to do. And he does it good. REALLY GOOD. The musical score is intensifying and sets the right atmosphere. The actors do a great job (Harrison Ford in one of his best roles) and they act very realistic and satisfying (for example the French policemen, brushing it aside as a simple cheating-wife-history). The camera handling is very nice and soft, and you don't have to rub your eyes every five seconds (like in Arrmagedon). It's a great script with a great story and there are scenes that you'll certainly remember (the teddy bear scene just cracks me up every time, and the car chase scene proves that you don't need machineguns and techno music to make a car chase look good (which doesn't mean that machineguns and techno music suck in a car chase scene)).To sum up the whole experience it's another darn good movie, that proves, that Polanski knows what he's doing. "}{"Title":"Reasonable suspense movie","Date":"10 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I felt the first half of this movie could have been injected with some more pace, but this didn't stop me from enjoying the story. Harrison Ford brings his insight for facial and verbal expressions and is perfect as the American abroad role. The pace does pick up more towards the end, and the result is a perfectly reasonable movie. It's by no means a blockbuster, but I found it to be slightly above average. Perhaps if the supporting cast had been stronger, an excellent plot could have been brought to life on the screen more effectively. I'd probably watch this one again if it was on television. "},{"Title":"Starts great","Date":"18 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is about a woman who disappears from a hotel in Paris and how the husband (Harrison Ford) desperately tries to find her back. Directed by master Roman Polanski this movie starts great. It is really thrilling and the way you must feel when your wife suddenly disappears is perfectly shown. Harrison Ford does a great job here.Ford finds a woman who knows more because there has been a mix-up with the suitcases from his wife and her. From there on the movie develops more as a usual thriller. It is not bad, but not that great either. I recommend a Dutch movie, also about a disappearing of a woman, which develops a lot better than this one. That film is called Spoorloos (The Vanishing, but avoid the 1993 US-remake).Frantic starts of great, develops in a more simple but enjoyable way and ends a little off-track. In the end you will be pleased because of a great direction (most of the time), a nice Ford and an entertaining story. "},{"Title":"More style than substance...","Date":"24 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  But that is not necessarily a bad thing because the style goes a long way in holding interest.  Ford is at his best here as the concerned, frustrated, confused, and finally frantic husband.  The camera work is outstanding and the eerie yet irresistible score sets the moods perfectly.  The plot is slight and fragile but is so professionally handled, it not only survives but satisfies. "},{"Title":"Even without sound it's good!","Date":"28 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Any movie that shows Harrison Ford 98% naked gets my vote! Seriously, it's a good movie - lots of action, funny, and some pretty good acting on the part of Ford. And did I mention he's almost completely naked in one scene?? Well worth the $3.99 to rent the movie! "},{"Title":"above average","Date":"30 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  ********Spoiler Alert********The scene where Emmanuelle Seigner is getting roughed up by two men, and Ford, a mild mannered doctor, is forced to take action. Does he call the police - no. Perhaps he scares them off with an iron bar - no. What lengths would you go to to protect this young woman, so as she could lead you to your kidnapped wife? Ford makes an unusual decision - he takes off his clothes, and slips into bed - and pretends to be her lover. At first glance this seems quite clever, quite unexpected, a treat for the viewer. While walking with my wife tonight, and discussing the movie, I couldn't help but thinking that most men, when confronted with the threat of violence, would probably avoid disrobing.  A funny scene, but completely out of character. I enjoyed the slow pace of this film, how realistically the Ford's predicament was portrayed. All in all, above average entertainment. "},{"Title":"Really pleasant surprise","Date":"20 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I must say that I didn't have a chance to see this movie before (it is shame it was released 12 years ago!) but I was pleasantly surprised by it. People here acts like real people. Main hero (H. Ford) who lost his wife is surrounded by arrogancy of officers and must do his investigation by his own. Accompanied by cute Parisian girl he tries to find out her. If you are interested if he is successful go and see this movie! French people have French mentality, officers acts like officers and young people acts like young. I can recommend! Here it was released as 48 hodin v Parizi = 48 hours in Paris "},{"Title":"Simply one of the best thrillers I've seen","Date":"1 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I clearly remember thinking that Frantic was quite boring the first time I saw it (when I was about 12). However, in recent years I have seen this movie several times and it just blows me away! First of all it's nice to see Harrison Ford in a movie where he isn't typecast (also check out Presumed Innocent), and his performance is flawless. Secondly, the whole theme about being alone in a foreign country where you can't understand the language and nobody seems to take you seriously gives me the creeps every time I see the movie. And thirdly, the movie manages without much of the typical thriller-material (gunfights, car chases etc.) - yes, I know, there IS a carchase in Frantic, but it's a car chase with a twist. I can't recommend this movie enough, and I'm frankly somewhat surprised that it's overall rating is so low. Go see. Now. "},{"Title":"Polanski in his prime","Date":"3 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Alongside Hitchcook, Felini, Bergman, Kubrick, Kurosawa and Eisenstien, Polanski is considered as one of the true masters of cinema and Frantic shows that he sure does know how to make a dammed good movie.This isn't your ordinary American thriller, oh no. The plot is rather simple, and it makes you wonder how come nobody had thought of it before. Meet Dr Richard Walker a successful   surgeon (?), who's in Paris, with his wife, to attend at an doctors convention. The problems already begin at the airport when Dr Walkers wife, Sondra,(SPOILER SPOILER SPOILER. Jump to the next sentence to not spoil the movie for yourself) takes the wrong suitcase. When they arrive at the hotel Dr Walker heads for the shower and his wife unpacks the suitcases. When Walker walks out of the shower he notices that his wife is gone but and after a nap he realizes that something's not right here. Later, he's struck by terror when, after some searching,(SPOILER SPOILER SPOILER. Jump to the next sentence to not spoil the movie for yourself) a man tells him that he has seen some men forcing his wife into a car with violence, and he realizes that she has been kidnapped...and for what simple reason? (SPOILER SPOILER SPOILER. Jump to the next sentence to not spoil the movie for yourself) A misunderstanding .From what i can tell, Polanski makes his movie's with passion. He doesn't do it because he has to. He doesn't do it just to keep in shape. He does it beacuse it's what he likes to do. And he does it good. REALLY GOOD. The musical score is intensifying and sets the right atmosphere. The actors do a great job (Harrison Ford in one of his best roles) and they act very realistic and satisfying (for example the French policemen, brushing it aside as a simple cheating-wife-history). The camera handling is very nice and soft, and you don't have to rub your eyes every five seconds (like in Arrmagedon). It's a great script with a great story and there are scenes that you'll certainly remember (the teddy bear scene just cracks me up every time, and the car chase scene proves that you don't need machineguns and techno music to make a car chase look good (which doesn't mean that machineguns and techno music suck in a car chase scene)).To sum up the whole experience it's another darn good movie, that proves, that Polanski knows what he's doing. "},{"Title":"No corpse stinks that much after only 12 hours.","Date":"1 June 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Frantic is directed by Roman Polanski who also co-writes the screenplay with Gerard Brach. It stars Harrison Ford, Betty Buckley, Emmanuelle Seigner, John Mahoney, Jimmie Ray Weeks, Yorgo Voyagis and David Huddleston. Music is scored by Ennio Morricone and cinematography by Witold Sobocinski.Visiting Paris for a medical convention with his wife, Dr. Richard Walker's (Ford) life is turned upside down when his wife disappears, apparently the victim of a kidnapping. Exasperated by the lack of help from the authorities, Walker takes to the streets himself and chases down a clue left in a suitcase mistakenly picked up by the Walker's at the airport.For the most part Frantic is a tense and well scripted Hitchcockian thriller. The thrum of a neatly designed Paris puts a near surreal edge on the atmosphere, and Ford is terrific as the American abroad shifting often between paranoia, frustration and panic. The insertion of Seigner as a sexy side-kick works well in spite of the actress not being blessed with much talent, and the slow burn approach, as the duo trawl through the hazy maze of possibilities, is handled with great skill by Polanski. If only the ending wasn't such a damp squib! It lacks credibility or any kind of suspense and doesn't pay off on the good work played out previously. A shame because this is still an otherwise damn fine mystery thriller. 7/10 "},{"Title":"The nose knows","Date":"28 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Frantic. It's an odd name, because this late 80s European thriller is anything but. Since the days of Master of Suspense&#x99; Hitchcock, writers and directors have been looking at new ways of doing it. The approach of Roman Polanski and his co-writer Gerard Brach takes on a languid, brooding pace, as oppose to the breakneck action and suspenseful pacing typical to the genre.Brach and Polanski have always typically written movies that just about conform to usual narrative and genre conventions, but filled with a kind of bleak fatalism that seems counter even to darkness of film noir and its descendents. In his travels the hero of Frantic has encounters that are depressing in their familiarity. Unhelpful authorities are of course a staple of any kind of DIY crime-solving thriller, but what is so chilling here is not just the indifference of the authorities, but the believable nature of their indifference. And this is very typical of Frantic; it doesn't often step outside of plausibility for the sake of excitement. In your average thriller, when the Liberty figurine falls from the roof, it would have been picked up by a Mossad agent (or someone) before Harrison Ford and Emmanuelle Seigner could recover it, and a chase would have ensued. Here it is simply an annoying fumble that emphasises the amateurish nature of the lead characters.Given that then, how does Frantic manage to thrill and engross its audience? Quite simply, with the way it is shot. Polasnki unsettles his audiences with a camera that often shuffles around at a pace at-odds with what is happening on screen. When Ford runs into his old friends at the airport, they are full of bubbly bustle, but the camera creeps around, most unnervingly. The few action scenes tend to be played out with fewer cuts then would be expected, giving them an excruciating real-time feel. There's always a strong sense of helplessness in Polanski's images. The last glimpse we have of Ford's wife before she is kidnapped is from inside a shower, through a narrow doorway &#x96; and it is she who exits the shot, not the camera that leaves her. There are a lot of set-ups like this throughout the movie. They look so confining they give us a palpable urge to step out of the space, but the camera confounds us by staying put. The frustrating wrongness of Polanski's shots really helps to involve us in the emotions of the story.Frantic is not without its flaws. Harrison Ford is far from his best here, although he's not really given room to act well by the script in any case, except in the scene where he phones his children, in which he is adequate. The story is packed with a lot of rather obvious symbolism (the little Statue of Liberty is hardly a MacGuffin in this respect!). And yet, in the grander scheme of the movie, these are minor issues. There is ultimately a surprising amount of beauty and humanity in Frantic - the aching Ennio Morricone score, the sudden revelation of anti-war themes in the final act. It somehow makes all the bleakness and languor worthwhile. "}{"Title":"Polanski on Hitchcock","Date":"20 January 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" It seems a lot behind this film is used by Polanski to comment on other works, including his own. It starts with an American couple in Paris and a disappearance that comes out of a scene that seems to be shot from the point of view of De Palma, from behind the glass panel door of a shower, then Harrison Ford is approaching hotel personnel to ask about his missing wife, the otherworldly facade of the exotic backdrop is peeled to reveal from behind the mystique of Old Europe. Polanski's Paris, indeed the Paris of the Surrealists of the 1920's and earlier, is a Paris to lose yourself in. It's a place charming if you snap photos to show back home, mysterious if you wander it. I love the disorientation on Ford's face for the first half hour, partly because it seems to be reflected on the face of the actor as much as the face of the character, how much he's out of his depth in this city of lights that don't always sparkle. It's funny how he thinks money will buy his way out of this, and for that moment when this naive doctor is being sold cocaine in the toilet of a club, I was curious to see how deep he would get into that world.But then the wife's disappearance is not thrown to the side for Polanski to tell us more about someone trapped in a world of illusions like he did in The Tenant. Another plot is salvaged from the annals of film history to provide rudimentary thrills that don't thrill, now at the end of a Cold War we go back to the 50's to be reminded of things of importance hidden inside statuettes and agents of evil trying to get them. In North by Northwest it was a microfilm of important secrets, here it's a microdevice that detonates nuclear bombs. In a rooftop sequence of very easy suspense (will he fall down or won't he?) we are reminded again that Polanski is riffing on Hitchcock. Polanski does Hitchcockian conspiracy better than De Palma did in Blow-Out, but the problem for me is that Polanski interests me more as a director than either De Palma or Hitchcock. With Frantic I feel he's stooping down to something that is beneath his talents. To the extent that an actor of Harrison Ford's calibre is brought in to ensure it works for a broad audience, Polanski's delivery is almost mechanical. It doesn't have the spark of a personal movie, like The Tenant or Knife in the Water. "},{"Title":"A bit overlong, and some may find it funny rather than thrilling, but a nice Polanski film nonetheless","Date":"25 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I've been trying to see more of Roman Polanski's films, partly because I find him interesting, and partly because he always adds something unique to the film, small details which most mainstream directors skip. I found this and was interested, both of Polanski and Ford. It turned out to be different from what I expected; not necessarily in a bad way, but still. The beginning had me thinking of Steve Martin, for some reason... I think it was the humor and the likeness between him and Harrison Ford. Again, I wasn't disappointed, just surprised. When the plot took off, it became quite exciting, but I can see how some might find it funny(as another reviewer did). Cultural differences that Polanski has included for a more full picture may be mistaken for successful attempts at comic relief. Who knows, maybe he was going for a bit of both. The little nice touches he adds are what make the film memorable, raise it above the run-of-the-mill suspense-thrillers. A kidnapping that leads the kidnapped woman's husband to search for the kidnappers himself? Please. How many times have we heard that. Polanski doesn't really add anything new to the genre or the idea, but his eye for details help with making it far more entertaining. For the male audience, something that may(read will) also make it more easy to sit through is the fact that about half-way into the film, Ford meets a french girl who's quite easy on the eyes, and isn't afraid to show it. She runs around in a very short skirt for a good part of the last part of the movie, which is always good to see in a film that's arguably a bit too long for its own good. The plot is interesting, but loses momentum around the end. Too many scenes that could have been resolved enormously easy, but are made more complicated through very obvious and inelegant plot points. The film also seems to go on for a good half hour more than it needs to. The acting is pretty good, apart from the french girl who is less than convincing in a little too many of the scenes. The characters are interesting and well-written. The film as a whole is worth watching, but probably only once. I recommend this to fans of Harrison Ford, Roman Polanski, kidnapper flicks and mystery-thrillers. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Uneven","Date":"21 June 2009","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The DVD box compared Polanski's directing to Hitchcock's, so I thought, why not give it a try? And, indeed, the spirit of Alfred was tangible through much of the film, especially the first half or so. The setup was similar -- innocent travelers (Harrison Ford's Dr. Richard Walker and Betty Buckley's Sondra Walker) in a foreign city (Paris) get caught up in a murderous plot due to an accidental switching of suitcases. There is a McGuffin in the form of the item that Michelle (Emmanuelle Seigner) was transporting (the ultimate fate of the item, to me, identifies it conclusively as a McGuffin). And even some of the shots were reminiscent of Hitchcock (the shot of Sondra through the glass shower door as Richard is taking a shower seemed most obvious to me). However, despite some good scenes, I was ultimately disappointed with the overall movie.It began to fall apart for me as Richard starts searching for Sondra and stops in the florist across the street from the hotel. Now, one should not expect every shop owner in Paris to speak English. But a florist directly across from an international hotel? That made no sense to me, other than as a plot device to frustrate Richard.Things picked up for a while -- Richard's fight with the bureaucrats, both in the Parisian police station and the American consulate, were believable and frustrating (although Harrison Ford chose to play the part -- or Polanski and Gerard Brach chose to write the part -- more sarcastically than I thought would be helpful in such a situation). But at about 1 hour and 40 minutes (when Richard and Michelle were visiting and dancing in the nightclub), my wife and I both began to wonder if this story wasn't going on a bit too long, if not the scene itself. And when Richard tried phoning the American consulate from the café and the American officials came across as cartoonish idiots (How do you spell Paris-Midi??! Oh, come on!), the plot lost all believability for us.I did like the resolution of the mystery and the way the McGuffin was ultimately treated, but I wish the journey had been a little more engaging.The credits for this film announce Introducing Emmanuelle Seigner, although she actually appeared in three minor roles before this. Her performance, like the movie, was uneven. Generally, she was a memorable character, but there was one point in which she announced I'm scared, and I thought, Ah! So that's what you're trying to portray! Obviously she improved considerably over the years.All in all, I certainly don't begrudge the fifty cents I spent on the rental for this movie, but it's not going to be one I'll be looking to add to my own library. "},{"Title":"Danger. Desire. Desperation.","Date":"16 May 2009","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Every Alfred Hitchcock's admirer should see this film because Roman Polanski is only director who can build such an atmosphere and tension like Hitchcock. Frantic is slow paced thriller, but that doesn't mean that there isn't enough tension. Vice versa. The tension is up right from the beginning and as the story goes on the more details revealing. Like I said Mr. Polanski is only director who can create same atmosphere like Hitchcock.Harrison Ford makes another good performance. Actually his role is 100 percent Harrison Ford.Frantic isn't Roman Polanski's best work but still worth watching. "},{"Title":"A New Take on Chinatown","Date":"20 April 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" In a hotel room in Paris, a doctor (Harrison Ford) comes out of the shower and finds that his wife has disappeared. He soon finds himself caught up in a world of intrigue, espionage, gangsters, drugs and murder.Ennio Morricone does the music! Written and directed by Roman Polanski, this film is divergent from his previous work. It has the detective angle of Chinatown, but in a very different way.Starring Polanski's wife Emmanuelle Seigner (who would later appear in Polanski's The Ninth Gate) and Harrison Ford as close to naked as we will probably ever see him There is something inherently scary and tense about needing help in a foreign place. It seems even harder to those you cannot communicate with. This film, for good or bad, anticipates Eli Roth's Hostel and similar stories.The dreaded Marlboro cigarettes from The Tenant have returned... "},{"Title":"Ford, the more believeable movie hero","Date":"10 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Can you imagine guys like Schwarzenegger or Stallone being in aserious film like this? I can't. Only Harrison Ford (or maybeother actors like Bruce Willis, Nic Cage, and Mel Gibson) hasthe acting powers to pull off this smooth suspense flick in thestyle of The Fugitive (1993). Ford plays Walker, an Americandoctor whose wife is kidnapped while they are both vacationingin Paris. From there, a huge web of deceit and terror is wovenwhen Walker tries to find clues that will lead to his missingspouse. With a great performance by the always relieable Ford,who shows human weaknesses (like jetlag!) unlike other filmheroes, and a nice direction by Roman Polanski, Frantic is thefilm that can really climb up yo "},{"Title":"very good starting, good middle part, not good  end","Date":"31 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  First of all I must say, I like this movie and I have seen it several times on TV. I like watching Harrison Ford in his non-action films, so I always do it. He is good in this one, particularly at the beginning of the film. I love him in the part of the admired pedant surgeon who arrives in Paris with his wife so that he can take part in a conference and he and his wife want to spend another honeymoon  in the town where they spent their first honeymoon years ago. I like his gestures, his body language, the chemistry between he and his wife. It looks he is an average man for whom the family is come first.When he starts seeking his disappeared wife he shows a  self-confident but sensitive and touchy guy who becomes crazy because of surroundings. (The police and the embassy don't believe him and don't help him either.) Particularly, chemistry between the strange girl and him give us some entertaining moments. The doctor is a pedant a bit worried type man the girl is opposite to him, but the antipathy is becomes an affectionate sympathy towards each other.  but the climbing on the roof is very awkward, I don't like that scene.The film begins very well. Driving in a taxi in Paris, that good music, the scenes of arriving at the hotel, trying to open the suitcase and realizing it is mischanged  the showing  and disappearing of the wife promise that it will be a very very good movie. The movie also operates well, when the surgeon is seeking after his wife and meets the young girl with whose suitcase was changed with their one, and they find the small machine. It is a stater-witch to atombombs. The police also learn about this and want the machine but the physicist and the girl want to meet the robbers without policemen. But they find themselves in the middle of a gangster war ..........Until the moment mentioned above, I like this movie. But I think the director, Polanski,  run out of the patient by the end of the shooting and he quickly knock up the film. Because this ending features  B movies, but the beginning features A movies. And I feel, coming to the and the film is losing gradually that atmosphere which features it at the beginning.  "},{"Title":"A good film which could have been great.","Date":"10 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Well, how would you react if your spouse suddenly disappeared from your hotel room? Much like Harrison Ford's character I would suggest. A great piece of acting - mild annoyance followed by bafflement, confusion, fear, anger. Unable to speak the language, reduced to a number being ground in the bureaucratic machine, and forced to interact with not only an alien culture but the underside of that culture, Ford's actions and reactions are completely authentic. The title sums up the first half of the film perfectly. During the second half, however, the realism is gradually abandoned in favour of a standard thriller formula. Slick, competent, yes, but imagination is replaced by routine. It's as if the writers dreamed up the idea of a mysterious disappearance, had fun with it, but then struggled to come up with a rational explanation for it. The 'krytron' is a classic Hitchcock 'McGuffin', a single hook on which to hang the entire plot.But the viewer's belief in Ford's character never wavers; he holds the two halves of the film together and is supported admirably by the rest of the cast.A good film which could have been great; worth watching for the fine central performance. "},{"Title":"Gripping but flawed.","Date":"28 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This Polanski thriller is flawlessly acted, fairly gripping and it sustains your interest throughout. Still, it doesn't really meet our expectations in the plot department. As a reviewer on the Amazon.com page points out, you expect something deeper and darker than a more or less standard spy plot. "},{"Title":"some surprises, but not many","Date":"8 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This early (1988) Harrison Ford movie does well in some instances and not so well in others. An American Dr. in Paris for a conference (well we know all about boondoggles like this) takes a sharp turn when his wife disappears.Not believing that she has a friend in Paris - Harrison goes stumbling about from one (likely not connected) clue to another. And this is the charm of this film. We are used to seeing Harrison as the inimitable Jack Ryan in the Tom Clancy film adaptations of his books or as Indiana Jones (Super adventurer) who always has his head on straight, always acting decisively, or as the President in Air Force One. Ford's Dr. Richard Walker gropes around blindly - not knowing which way to turn - not getting any help from the Americans at the embassy - not getting any help from the French police (how surprising) - but stumbling onto one clue after another until he makes some progress in finding his wife. KInd of reminded me of Obama's first term.And on the way a lot of bad things happen to him - even getting maced by his French girlfriend Michelle.Some of the best parts in the film include his retort to the American Embassy guy who intimated that Dr. Walker's wife probably was off with a friend - Walker says - You are talking about my wife - you must be thinking of yours! as well as his bumbling search for his wife.The WORST part was when he and Michelle were in the square, boring nightclub (Michelle's evaluation) dancing while expecting to make contact with the bad guys who have kidnapped his wife - THE MUSIC was disgusting (Michelle complains and it looks as if she goes to see someone about it, but the music continues - so I guess she failed to get the French equivalent of Mariah Carey (UUGGHHH) off and someone better (Blondie or Shirley Manson) on the sound system.) And then the dancing she did with Harrison was absolutely bizarre. Reminded my of Calvaire - the most bizarre male on male dancing scene of all time (French Hill billies yet!!) The music of the dance scene reminded my of the music being played at Napoleon Dynamite's prom. Those dancing around them were also so lame and gaggy that I had trouble watching (Arabs doing the Bossa Nova - for goodness sake!!!)And one other bad part, when Dr. Walker and Michelle finally hook back up with his wife (after some very clumsy, awkward gun work ) and a death that looked like me falling off the ladder in my back yard, Mrs. Walker shows no signs of jealousy - but just concern for Michelle, Dr. walker's companion.EVERYONE thinks he is banging her, except his wife.Now that I have written the review - I have lowered my vote. All in all, a pretty poor excuse of a movie, although I have to admit, I'm glad I saw it again. DonB "}{"Title":"Sympathy for the Devil","Date":"4 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" After the critical and box office disappointment of Pirates, Roman Polanski retreats to familiar territory with Frantic, a Hitchcockian thriller (specifically Hitchcock's Cold War thrillers) which finds actor Harrison Ford searching frantically all across France for his missing wife.Polanski's films are often about Polanski the artist. In 1968, Polanski's wife Sharon Tate was tortured and murdered by cult members. Years later, Polanski himself was accused of sexually abusing Samantha Geimer, a 13 year old girl, before fleeing the American Legal System. Both events have directly influenced, or at least coloured, the director's subsequent output.Think Tess, in which an adult man abuses his power over a juvenile girl, Ghost, in which a man hides from international justice, Macbeth, in which Polanski's vents blood and tragedy on screen, Frantic, in which a banished man loses his wife and is cast into exile, Bitter Moon, in which a man and girl oscillate between dominance and submission, and Death and the Maiden, in which a molested woman (who becomes both Tate and Geimer) confronts and forgives her abuserFilms like Oliver Twist, The Pianist, and to a lesser extent The Ghost Writer, seem to be based on a different kind of pain. A different kind of artistic exorcism. In a sense, these films are all about the scars of the Holocaust, and the horrors witnessed by a young boy who came of age in war torn Europe. Here, young Oliver becomes a lost and wandering Polanski, while Dickens' London becomes the Nazi infested streets of Poland.But there is a far darker thread running throughout Polanski's filmography. That of the victim (Polanski) internalising both hate and his forced submissiveness (suffered at the hands of the Nazis, of his audience, of the American Legal system etc) and redirecting them against his own victims (Samantha Geimer, his heroines, US judges, his audience etc). Polanski forever casts himself as both victim and abuser, his filmography nothing less than a vicious cycle of abuse.So Frantic is most interesting in the way Polanski unconsciously paints himself as both aggressor and victim. The film opens on a husband and wife snuggling, both retreating to a France Polanski once turned his back on (Do you know where you are?/So much has changed.) but now readopts as his home in exile. A fade-in designed to coincide the face of Harrison Ford with the words Roman Polanski seals the point.From here on Ford becomes both Polanski the victim, a husband whose wife is taken, who is forced to flee to a foreign country, who is menaced by invisible devils, who is forced to navigate a nightmare not of his making, and Polanski the child abuser, the dominative movie director, forcing an American audience into his shoes, holding them by the neck and pinning them down in his own private (but carefully manufactured for maximum sympathy) hell.In terms of flaws, whilst the film's first act is brilliant, things become increasingly clichéd as we progress. The fault is not Polanski's direction, which is masterful, frightening and paranoid in its own low key way (he is a genius at finding the macabre in the ordinary), but the film's narrative structure, which Hitchcock himself pushed to a dead-end in the late 60s. By the time we reach the film's climax, in which evil Arabs, switched suitcases and pointless Maguffin's are check-listed, Polanski's auteurism has completely given way to Hollywood formula. 7.9/10 &#x96; Frantic is better than Topaz and Torn Curtain, the last pair of Hitchcock films to deal with this wrong man/conspiracy nonsense, but lacks the ambiguities and genre rejections of Polanski's best work. Like most of Polanski's films, it's an exercise in biographical revisionism. You become Samantha Geimer, and you like it.Worth two viewings. "},{"Title":"Not Very Frantic","Date":"8 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Harrison Ford plays a doctor who is caught-up in a got-the-wrong-bag scenario.The first he gets to glimpse that serious implications await the careless traveller is when his wife simply vanishes from his hotel room. Curiosity turns to perplexity and finally fear. The build-up to this stage is handled quite believably.Less believable is the way he goes to pieces in order to appease the 'Frantic' title. There are times when I am almost reminded of the preposterous 'Flightplan'.The French police are, inevitably, depicted as unhelpful and gormless. To be fair, so are the American authorities. Our good doctor is left to unravel the mystery for himself. He follows a series of clues that lead him to a dead fence. From there, he encounters the courier of the other bag. I should say suitcase. She's an amoral French slut who is more or less game for anything, played by Polanski's squeeze of the time, Emmanuelle Seigner. She makes a more than convincing effort. Together, they play a sort of Holmes & Watson, and crack the case together. He wants his wife back (can't think why); She hasn't been paid for her work. It's the anciliary players who actually give the most convincing turns. The plot has a number of convoluted twists, as a number of different interests are eager to lay hands on what she has smuggled. It's not drugs, but a small piece of nuclear-weapon hardware.Sometimes the turns become a bit silly. The doctor's indiscriminate rifling of the suspect suitcase and its contents, for instance. Once again, it answers to the title of the movie, but you just think an academic would be a little more level-headed. How would he deal with arterial bleeding? On another occasion he is struggling across pitched roofs beneath which is the girl's apartment. She is, unbeknown to him, being interrogated by a couple of unidentified thugs. Along the way he falls heavily, smashes a TV aerial, drops the case, which spills its contents, loses his shoes, scrambles into her bedroom through the skylight, strips and climbs into bed, and all the while the villains apparently hear nothing. Gimme a break! Then he spins a load of bunkum stories to both the hotel staff and the police that even a child wouldn't believe.In the denouement; he gets his wife, the baddies come a cropper, whilst the slut catches a cap and gets wasted. Serves her right, all things considered. There's a cheesy conclusion.There are some nice filming touches - Polanski always does those well. Back street Paris is shown to believably sleazy effect. There are some nice moments of ambiance, especially the chill light of dawn and deserted streets. Sound is par, with an adequate music score.It's the 'Frantic' inconsistencies that ultimately let the movie down. But if you can live with them it's not a bad watch. "},{"Title":"Genre-bending","Date":"6 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" When I see bin men in a film I immediately think of the opening of Wall Street, with its fluorescent ochre dawn background. The sense I have is of the melodramatisation of an episode that defines a certain era.Wall Street is about the Olympian shenanigans of brokers-as-gods on the little people of the Big Apple in the mid-80s; Frantic has a similar disposition but with a European outlook. Harrison Ford, as an American, puts the French insouciance (and global intrigue) in relief, as well as to couch the film in a familiar vernacular. But that's it. The Americanisation goes the same way as the genre, the thriller. That is to say, nowhere you'd really expect.It's a messy film you see. Seeing a Harrison Ford vehicle in which his character has to operate outside the law is familiar but Polanski tinkers with expectation. The action drifts, and when Polanski feels that the film really is becoming Frantic, he throws in one of a number of comedy of manners-type vignettes, as Walker bumps into compatriots around the city with whom he must play the gregarious colleague (it's often very funny). On top of the supporting cast that follow in the tradition of the second French Connection film (this film's surrogate) there's the firefly French naif in Emanuelle Seigner's splendid Michelle. Her haphazard character dictates the action - it's as if her whim is laying down the rules of engagement where the disparate, confused parties cannot.John Frankenheimer's Ronin handles this Frenchy melodrama-couched- in-macrodrama much better. What Polanski does though is handle France/French-through-Paris better. Seigner's Michelle drags Ford's Walker into situations and then out of them again but not with any clear idea of how her actions are intended to help his stock rescue-drama resolve itself. I double-took the screen once to check we weren't watching Breathless.It's imperfect - its clear that Ford and Polanski aren't entirely in the same page - but its still an absorbing thriller sui generis. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Roman Polanski mistreats Lady Liberty","Date":"21 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Roman Polanski's 1988 comeback (after the disastrous 'Pirates') isn't quite the Hitchcock rip-off its title and scenario might suggest, but it does include more than one obligatory nod to the Master of Suspense. Hitchcock's disciples can't resist salting their thrillers with familiar references, and in this instance the initial plot hook (an American doctor's wife disappears into thin air from their Paris hotel room) occurs, not coincidentally, while he's oblivious in the shower. What follows is every tourist's worst nightmare lost luggage; lazy policemen; a missing spouse; an insurmountable language barrier. There's a temptation to read too much into Polanski's caustic view of American diplomacy and his mistreatment of the Statue of Liberty (used here as a smuggler's prop), and the solution to the mystery disappearance is more or less incidental. The appeal of the film lies more in the smooth construction of the plot, not in its resolution; the film is often mechanical, but even a mechanical thriller can be exciting if the gears are well oiled and meshed. "},{"Title":"Solid suspense film from Polanski","Date":"3 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This is about as entertaining a film package as you could expect to see in the mid 80s, with superstar Harrison Ford mumbling his way through a complicated European production helmed by the expatriate director Roman Polanski. There's some good music by Ennio Morricone, when it isn't being drowned out by strange pseudo French pop music (who knows, maybe Morricone wrote that stuff too). Emmanuelle Seigner and Harrison Ford have an ambiguous sexual energy between them. What with him being the happily married man whose wife is kidnapped, there could be some displacement of emotions, but what Polanski does is show how those around them assume that a middle aged American and a young French girl are only together because of a business arrangement, and at one point this is embarrassing for him while at others it is convenient or even lifesaving. So there's a lot of that type of irony in the film which reminds one of Hitchcock in his 50s mode.Really the story and the material isn't hugely important, although it is fun to see Polanski in a world not completely unlike Chinatown, though largely unburdened by its amorality (in this film, for example, the American Federal agents are basically patriotic heroes, where Chinatown constantly questions the corruption of authority itself). Some of the ways the film tried to look hip or modern seem pretty ridiculous to me, such as Seigner doing a freaky dance in the club with Ford, but I suppose maybe for some people that kind of thing is nostalgic or romantic. For me it just reminds me of bad 80s club scenes, although Seigner does have an interesting way about her in general. Because the central story is about terrorists from the Middle East trying to obtain nuclear information, the central intrigue is certainly not one of the aspects of the film that's becoming dated in that way.The suspense scenes work, the romantic chemistry works, it's a beautiful movie in a lot of ways, but I just can't take it to heart. I can't make myself believe that the characters really matter all that much, the ending seems obvious to me instead of tragic, and Harrison Ford is too dry and detached to be believably desperate. Still, one of the better films of its type from the 80s. "},{"Title":"Paris as a shady lady of trafficking","Date":"5 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Discover Paris the way you would probably never see it. Garbage collecting trucks shown three times in the film. The French police that understands English and does not like nervous Americans, and they send their incognito agents behind the man they have more or less sent to hell. The US embassy obviously speaking with a forked tongue, being reassuring on one side and sending its secret agents behind the American citizen at once without telling him of course (S*** for S***head as Dr Walker says). Then a Statue of Liberty, the original mind you, seen and shown nearly too much. Underground parking lots that are crime avenues. Parisian zinc roofs. French taxis with black taxi drivers getting a flat on a highway. Then constant contradictions between tipping and not tipping in hotels. And all kinds of dealings and dealers along the river's embankments, in all kinds of underground structures, or airports, or night clubs, or bars, or whatever. A dangerous life for simple American tourists, but vacations remembered forever. Anyway in Paris only the French and the Arabs apparently die. Funny more than thrilling but well acted and that is a real pleasure.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University Paris Dauphine, University Paris 1 Pantheon Sorbonne & University Versailles Saint Quentin en Yvelines "},{"Title":"Polanski does Hitchcock","Date":"24 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" In Frantic, Harrison Ford plays a doctor who travels to Paris for a medical convention, but his plans change when, upon stepping out of his hotel shower, he finds his wife (Betty Buckley) gone. Receiving no help from the local police or American representatives, the good Dr. Walker goes on searching for her himself, and with the help of the beautiful and mysterious Michelle (Emmanuelle Signer) the search drags him into a world of crime, drugs, mistaken identities and international intrigue.Of course, in the hands of the master Roman Polanski, Frantic is fantastically made and brilliantly directed. Even Harrison Ford, by far not one of my favorite actors (to me, Ford's career begins and ends with three classic characters Han Solo, Indiana Jones and Rick Deckard. Everything he's done since 'Temple Of Doom' is just the same old character over and over again) turns in a respectable and believable performance. The trouble is Frantic lacks the depth we've come to expect from Polanski classics like Chinatown, Rosemary's Baby or Tess. It actually looks more like a Hitchcock than a Polanski - and that goes for more than just the plot, which is probably an intentional Hitchcock homage. The whole thing looks - unlike other Polanski films - not like an intricate and finely crafted piece of cinema which took two or three years to make, but like a simple story with simple schematic characters which is told in an intricate and clever way by a director who makes two or three movies a year, like Hitchcock. The only character in the movie that is structured and complete is Ford's; Michelle is quite intriguing (not to mention extremely attractive) but fails to make an impression and leaves as abruptly as she appears. As for Mrs. Walker, she serves more as a houseplant than as a human character. The rest of the characters are nothing more than aids or obstacles in Walker's frantic chase, though most of them are portrayed by talented actor who hand in satisfactory performances in their small parts.Aside from all that, Frantic is quite an entertaining movie, if your expectations aren't TOO high; don't expect this to be another Chinatown. It's a well made, well built schematic thriller that treads familiar grounds and does what it's meant to do, which is thrill, suspend and entertain. As such, it's a fantastic thriller with great acting and directing, good suspense and a good share of comic relief. Not essential for Polanski fans, but worth the watch. "},{"Title":"Not bad, a bit overlong though","Date":"22 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Harrison Ford plays a Doctor who has traveled to Paris with his wife for a work convention and to take in the sights, however, when the couple arrive at the hotel they realize they have mistakenly picked up the wrong bag at the airport. While the Doctor has a shower his wife mysteriously disappears from the hotel and while desperately searching for her he becomes drawn into a dangerous web.Not a great movie but not bad either, Ford puts in a strong performance alongside Polanski's wife Emanuelle Seiger, who does remarkably well in a large and complex part for someone so inexperienced. The film came out in the same year as the original version of 'The Vanishing', which despite having a similar issue, (a mans wife disappearing)are totally different. I am a big fan of Polanski but found this to be too Hollywood if compared to some of my favourites he has made such as 'Repulsion', 'Cul de sac', 'Fearless Vampire Killers' etc. Nevertheless it is worth a watch, with lots of twists and turns, however there are perhaps too many and it is a bit drawn out becoming more and more over the top towards the end. Worth seeing "},{"Title":"Not nearly as good the second time around","Date":"26 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The first time I saw this film, I thought it was superb, as my comment would indicate, but seeing it again recently showed me that it was not that great of a movie.  I noticed that Harrison Ford doesnt become Frantic until the last half hour of the film, and that was the part that made the movie seem so good the last time.  Most of the time the movie moves too slowly to enjoy.  I feel so bad now, because I used to think this movie was so great, but now I dont like it all that much anymore.  I still give it a solid *** out of **** though. "},{"Title":"Yep, it's a 7 movie, pretty good entertainment, but more funny than edgy.","Date":"23 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" It was 1986, at the height of Harrison Ford's popularity from Raiders, Star Wars, Witness, so Polanski calls up Ford and says, Harrison, baby, let's make a film together, we'll do it in Paris, you're a doctor who goes there for a convention, TWA swaps suitcases at the airport, the bad guys kidnap your wife, you get some help from the cutest 20-year-old French girl you ever saw, and you spend the whole movie frantically searching for your wife who is being held ransom by some Arab crooks trying to recover a smuggled nuclear weapon trigger? In fact, we might even call it Frantic, but you won't act too frantic, and it will turn out to be more of a comedy than high drama, and we can both make a pretty good paycheck with just a little bit of effort.We all know that must have been what that phone call was all about. They made the film, called it Frantic, and it is funny. Except for 2 or 3 killings here and there. I rate it 7 of 10, although it probably really is a 6. But I like Ford, and I really enjoyed the young French actress in the very short leather skirt. And it really does have a lot of funny scenes. Plus, since I borrowed the VHS tape from a neighbor, the price certainly was right!!Edit May 2015, I saw it again on BluRay from my public library. Same impression, pretty entertaining but very contrived. A very ordinary movie by today's standards. "}{"Title":"It almost works","Date":"4 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  In general it's a good film, but not something special. Harrison Ford starts a series of good-guy-who-gets-into-trouble films and also a series of films where he's married to ugly wives! Emmanuelle Seigner though is a salvation for the audience. Great legs! I also found the atmosphere and the unfolding of the plot rather artificial. Better than the average action flicks because it has some character development. "},{"Title":"Okay, hand over that MacGuffin or the wife gets it.","Date":"27 May 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" A doctor (Harrison Ford) and his wife register at a Paris hotel, later to attend a medical conference. When they check in, they find that TWA has sent the wrong suitcase to their room. Shortly, Ford's wife disappears from the hotel lobby where she went to see someone. She's plumb gone. No one knows why. Thinking it might have something to do with the wrong suitcase, he pops it open and pursues some leads he discovers therein. Ford searches for her, bumbling around in English, and his search gets him all mixed up with a slender, sensuous brunette (Seigner) who assist him, and a horde of smugglers and murderers. Some people die but Ford and his wife survive.If this sounds like Hitchcock territory, that's because it is. The first hour, for instance, is filled mostly with slow shots of Ford inquiring about his wife with hotel personnel, then trying to report her as having been kidnapped to the gendarmes and to the staff of the American embassy. Wow -- what an invitation to dullsville! But Polanski shoots the scenes deliberately and in detail, the way Hitchcock handles the missing child in The Man Who Knew Too Much. The details, the bureaucratic queries, the unimportant artifacts, become fascinating in themselves. It may be an imitation of Hitchcock but it's a good one. And Polanski does a better job of showing us a dead body than Hitchcock did in The Birds, with his step-cuts to the close up of a guy with missing eyeballs.It's a suspenseful movie too. One scene is particularly good, and it has no violence Ford must make his way across a slippery roof, carrying a suitcase, and everything seems to go wrong. The suitcase flops open and disgorges its contents, Ford is startled by flapping pigeons, and he loses his shoes and socks. There IS violence, but it's more Polanski than Hitchcock. Ford, naked, threatens to beat up two French hoods, calling himself a crazy American. When he shoves one of the goons into some furniture, the villain kicks Ford in the face and Ford simply collapses. It's like Nicholson getting his nostril slit. Polanski's protagonists are vulnerable. Hitchcock's never undergo much more humiliation than getting their suits dusty.One thing missing from this film that Hitchcock would have been almost certain to include is a comic interlude. Nobody expatiates on methods of execution while slicing up a roast fowl.Instead of comedy, Polanksi gives us a ludicrous musical number in which Ford, looking positively embarrassed, dances with the slinky, sexy Emanuelle Seigner who sinuates around the clumsy Ford. It's hard to imagine why this scene was included. Maybe Polanski was showing off his girl friend's sensuality. Not that I objected to the display.Overall, the film is a little confusing. One group of thugs who are after the smuggled MacGuffin are never properly identified. But, some weaknesses aside, it's easy to get caught up in the problems of an ordinary, rather stiff guy isolated in a country whose language he doesn't understand, searching for a solution to a mystery whose nature he cannot grasp. "},{"Title":"Average thriller, far from Polanski's best. Check out 'Repulsion' or 'The Tenant' instead.","Date":"21 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The first time I watched 'Frantic' was around '89/'90, and I recall I enjoyed it. I'm a sucker for these kind of paranoid Hitchcockian thrillers, and I thought this was a pretty good example of the genre.  Then it came on tv a couple of weeks ago and I thought I'd check it out again. Well this time I just couldn't get into it. The initial premise is a good one, but the movie becomes increasingly duller as it goes on. Of course I had seen it before so I already knew the plot twists. Now if a movie is well written this shouldn't matter. 'The Usual Suspects' is a movie I can watch over and over knowing the answer. 'Frantic' isn't exactly that kind of movie I know, but I immediately remembered the whys and wherefores and after that I got bored real quick. Polanski knows how to make a stylish movie, but 'Frantic' is a very empty one. I've never understood what he sees in Emmanuelle Seigner, and Harrison Ford ended up irritating me. In fact I have come to the conclusion that I hate Harrison Ford, and if you hate old grumpy guts then 'Frantic' is very hard going. I got so bored I switched off before the climax. A very average thriller, far from Polanski's best. Check out 'Repulsion' or 'The Tenant' instead. "},{"Title":"Half Incredible, Half Terrible","Date":"27 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The first half of this movie was fantastic.  My eyes were glued to the screen, as the story unfolds in such an  enticing manner.Then, right before my eyes the movie turns into in a Grade B action flick. The acting becomes bad, the story goes in a direction that isn't good for anybody, and the ending is extremely disappointing.First Half  5/5         Second Half 1/5 (the 1 is for Harrison Ford) "},{"Title":"Lesser-known (and just lesser) Polanski","Date":"27 November 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Roman Polanski is one of my favorite directors, yet Frantic feels like a strange stunt on his part--it creates a sense of unease early on, has a strong performance from Harrison Ford at his most popular, and finds an appealing femme fatale in Emmanuelle Seigner. Yet like so many low-budget visionaries who take on a big-budget project, Frantic often feels all dressed up with nowhere to go. The setup is ingeniously simple, and very Hitchcockian Ford plays a surgeon who arrives in Paris to give a lecture; accompanying him is his wife (Betty Buckley), who receives a phone call and disappears unnoticed from the hotel. The rest of the film follows the husband's descent into the seedy Parisian underworld as the plot unravels with an admirable amount of suspense. Ford gives a strong performance (we get the feeling that his driven desperation is very real), and shares a fine chemistry with Seigner, a street-smart dame who knows the cost of secrecy. Yet while there are some tense sequences (an altercation in a parking garage comes to mind), it feels like Polanski wants to make a small film with a big budget, and pads things out by making the locations and characters look as glossy and expensive as possible; even the punches and gunshots during one scene lack any enthusiasm. Frantic is an entertaining, and sometimes very satisfying thriller, but it also meanders more than most audiences (and Polanski fans) will be willing to tolerate.Side Note Frantic has been given a most unworthy DVD release by Warner Bros., who not only left out any supplemental material, but didn't even release the disc in widescreen (even subtitles--which would have been helpful in deciphering some thick French accents--are absent). "},{"Title":"Major Logic Flaws","Date":"25 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Maybe I missed something, but there strikes me as two major logic flaws in FRANTIC which undermine the entire film 1) If the bad guys are after the briefcase, why don't they just get it from the room instead of kidnapping Ford's wife? I'm sure they could easily find out from her that she is in possession of it, and facing their threats would easily hand it over.2) Even if the bad guys kidnap Ford's wife, why wouldn't they contact him with their demands instead of leaving him to figure out what's happened to her? Isn't that the point of kidnapping? He spends most of the film trying to learn where she's gone.The actions of the bad guys in this film do not make sense. If I missed something, please fill me in. "},{"Title":"A film that could have been a classic.","Date":"2 April 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  My expectations of this film were high. It's directed by Roman Polanski (an acclaimed director) and has been described as a Hitchcokian thriller. I expected a lot of tension and because of its foreign setting (Paris), a distinct emphasis of communication difficulty, a theme that can do wonders for a film if done correctly (Lost in Translation).The opening of the film was good, as my expectations came to rise. We see Richard and Sondra in a car together, the gradual build-up of tension and the characters strong connection with the plot is apparent in the still close-up shot. The failure to communicate is first expressed as Richard argues with the bewildered French taxi driver -neither can speak the same language. Also, a little later in the opening we see Richard in the shower, his wife is calling to him, but all we can hear, are here muttered utterances.I can't here ya', honey.When the central plot begins (the kidnapping of Richard's wife), Polanski changes an important theme (the theme of failure to communicate), to yet another chase, thriller film. Polanski seems to ignore the symbolic setting of Paris, and turn it into a film we've already seen before.There as still some strong visual metaphors. The climactic scene of the film is set near the Statue of Liberty in Paris (the one that the American's gave to the French as a present). During most of the shots that look upon Paris' beautiful scenery, we see the Stature of Liberty in the foreground and the ever famous Eiffel Tower in the background, as if the symbolise the two different cultures clashing in a dramatic finale.Frantic is a film the includes some tension, but Polanski should have experimented further, advancing on an important theme that was standing right infront of him.6/10 "},{"Title":"Don't buy the IMDb hype","Date":"19 March 2001","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  ****Spoiler Alert****Why is everyone on IMDb going so nuts for this film?  The plot lost me because none of the things Ford does make any sense.  It was like his character read the script before he decided what to do.  What else could explain his zero tolerance for the police and the embassy staff?  Or his single-minded pursuit of this Dede character?  His actions make even less sense when you consider that kidnapping Ford's wife was a stupid thing for the thugs to do.  If they had just busted into Harrison Ford's hotel room with guns a blazing in the beginning, there would be no movie (or Israel I guess).  From there, the movie degenerates into one of those movies where a common citizen out-cops the cops and out-thugs the thugs.  Whatever.The movie did have some amusing moments.  I always loved it when Harrison Ford's conference kept interfering with the search for his wife.  It was hilarious to see someone so distracted try to make conference small-talk, especially with everyone eyeing the sexy woman on his arm.  I also thought the final scene where Ford tells a dying Emmanuelle Seigner, You're going to be fine baby with his wife right there.  Let's face it, the wife had be wondering who this long legged twentysomething was.  I expected the wife to remark baby? out loud.  Ah, the 1980s.  Gotta love it. "},{"Title":"Dated, Mediocre","Date":"14 January 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I bought a DVD set of movies with Harrison Ford in it and I looked forward to Frantic, based on the reviews and ratings here. Unfortunately, it was only a mediocre movie and I was somewhat disappointed. For one thing, it was very dated. and by that I do not mean that you could feel the age from the 80s dress and technology, although you could. Those concerns fade into the background in a movie when the plot is compelling. What i mean is, the writing was so dated. The plot was so unsophisticated. For a simple mix-up, they sure dragged out the discovery and the trade-off. A few things were so unbelievable, like when the bad guys just give up at the end. Like, they've already shot someone. they aren't going to shoot someone else who throws away what they are after?? There were a few things that I liked. I liked the performances, and I like that the relationship between Ford's character and Michelle was not the same old stereotypical sexual tension side-kick role. "},{"Title":"Jon Monsarrat review  plain film made amazing by Ford","Date":"27 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I'm an action movie guy, so I'm totally into this genre. I loved The Fugitive, for example. But let's face it. There's not much to Frantic. It's a straightforward crime/thriller flick without a romance subplot. The protagonist isn't particularly clever and can't fight. We waste time in the film doing things like phoning a gymnasium and getting hung up on, so we have to go to the gym in person! So what?The so what is Harrison Ford. Throughout the film, his acting creates the tension by being so incredibly, well... Frantic! Such actions as rummaging through suitcases looking for clues becomes fantastic to watch. And, importantly, the film is realistic and visceral. The protagonist can't fight because he's a regular guy. The stuff that happens in the film might actually happen in real life. It's a wonderful feat of storytelling that proves that you don't need to wow the audience with eye candy (Jurassic Park). You can wow them with interesting characterization, great acting.Who should see this film-- action/thriller buffs looking for a prequel to The Fugitive-- Stephen Spielberg. This is how it's done, kiddo. Cut the CGI.I'll give Frantic a 7 out of 10 which is amazing considering that having a more clever plot and some actual action would have been nice. And the film flirts with a romance subplot it never achieves. Loose ends are not explained at the end of the film. "}{"Title":"This movie is unbelievably bad.","Date":"25 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I'm sure someone would try to argue with me, but this movie is phenomenally bad. Really, really bad. The thing that's nuts about it is, it looks really cool. Well at least some of it, until the director loses steam and we're watching an episode of Magnum P.I. This movie feels like it contains 4 to 5 full episodes of Magnum P.I. This movie should have been called All About the Bag and the Wife.For those of you who have seen this movie and know it well, I leave you with the following deleted scene.INT. FORD BEDROOM -- NIGHT HARRISON FORD AND HIS WIFE ARE READING IN BED.MRS. FORD Honey? H. FORD Yes dear. MRS Remember that time I was kidnapped in Paris? H. FORD Uh huh.(a beat)MRS Who was that french girl again? "},{"Title":"Major plot hole","Date":"16 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I recently saw this movie for the first time, and more or less enjoyed it except that there's an enormous hole in the plot.Betty Buckley gets kidnapped because she's picked up the wrong suitcase at the airport; the one she took has a detonating device that some terrorists want.If the terrorists know who took the suitcase with the device (and I can't figure out how they would), and they know where that person is, why the heck don't they just go to the person's hotel room and take it back? "},{"Title":"Ford is superb","Date":"1 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I really enjoyed this film, probably more the second time around then the first.  Harrison Ford gives an amazing performance, and though it's a little slow from the beginning, it really picks up and grabs the viewers attention. Ford is truly a talented actor, and the emotions he expresses in this film are well seen, and very realistic.  Frantic is very similar, in feeling, to those of Albert Hitchcock's works, which is never a bad thing.So in closing, it is an excellent thriller, which I give 8 1/2 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"Begins believably, but veers into unrealistic and uninteresting.","Date":"5 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie starts somewhat slowly, apparently in an (initially successful) effort to be more realistic. Unfortunately, it starts veering into less and less realistic situations and reactions - and grows correspondingly less interesting. Also, the ending contains a significant element which seems extremely contrived and unnecessary. "},{"Title":"Boring, unbelievable","Date":"5 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I created an account on IMDb just to rate this movie. Atmosphere? Yes. The rest was pretty lousy. I love a good thriller and can even forgive a hole or two in the plot, but this one was unforgivable. Here are just some of the holes (if you want to ignore my advice and watch the movie anyway, don't read what follows). First, why would the kidnapper take the wife instead of the suitcase? That makes no sense. How is kidnapping her going to get the thing back? Second, why didn't the husband take the first eyewitness (or his friends) to the police? Third, when he found Dede dead, why didn't he go to the police and say, hey, look a matchbook from the suitcase with a murdered guy's name on it--coincidence? Fourth, why didn't the husband ask Michelle what it was she brought back? That might be important! Fifth, when the police finally believed him, why didn't he let them handle it? Sixth, he's hiding in Michelle's apartment while she is being interrogated by the bad guys--so he takes off ALL his clothes and jumps into her bed to pretend to be her irate boyfriend--this is supposed to scare off these brutal criminals?!! Seventh, after the husband took off his shoes and socks to keep from slipping on the roof, why did he let the girl go out there in tights and high heels? Duh! Eighth, those French sniffer dogs should be fired for not finding the coke in his pocket--what was the whole purpose of him having the coke, anyway, just the white lady confusion? Lame. Ninth, so at the end, when the husband destroys the maguffin--the bad guys are just going to hang their heads? Really?!! They're not going to beat the living daylights out of him? Finally, why did the girl have to die? Are we supposed to feel sorry for the husband at that point? Did he fall in love with her? Puerile is the word for a director who thinks he would.I read a user review that said everything in this movie fits together. Puhleeeeaaaaase! I feel like this movie was a bunch of hacks trying to make a quick buck. Did Polanski even show up on the set or did he just delegate to others (make it look like Hitchcock) and put his name on it? It does have the feel of Hitchcock but not the intelligence. Don't waste your time like I did, unless you're a die-hard Hitchcock fan and want to see a failed homage. "},{"Title":"Good Thriller But Could Have Been Better","Date":"28 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Frantic (1988) *** (out of 4) An American doctor (Harrison Ford) and his wife travel to Paris for business but when the husband comes out of the shower he notices that his wife is gone. Pretty soon he's wrapped up in a mystery that no one seems to be able to help him with but he finally comes across a young woman (Emmanuelle Seigner) who might have been the intended kidnap victim. Coming after the disastrous PIRATES, this here was certainly seen as a comeback film for director Polanski and there's no question that there are bits and pieces of greatness but in the end you can't help but see this film as somewhat of a disappointment. Calling this a disappointment and yet giving it three stars might seem rather stupid but there's still quite a lot to enjoy in this movie even if the end result isn't as great as one would hope for. I think the biggest problem is the screenplay because the story itself just isn't strong enough to keep the viewer interested throughout the two-hour running time. The mystery of what's going on is revealed around the 80-minute mark and getting to it was a lot of fun but I think the screenplay runs out of ideas in the second half and we're left with a rather letdown of an ending. I guess you could say that I had a love/hate relationship with the screenplay. There were a few pieces that I really loved and these pieces is what Polanski got to work his magic with. One example happens at the very start of the film when we get long and rather drawn out sequence of the husband and wife talking and carrying on in the hotel room. This sequence lasts quite a while but Polanski works every inch of it to make the viewer feel comfortable with the characters and puts you at ease. We then get a wonderful camera shot of Ford in the shower and the wife leaving the room and this begins our mystery. I thought the opening twenty-minutes were perfectly done with Polanski winking at the viewer as he slowly builds everything up. The next hour was pretty good thanks in large part to Ford's performance. I thought the actor turned in a very strong and believable performance. Just watch how he slowly begins to lose control of what's going on and the way his nerves start to break down were perfectly done by the actor. The frantic nature that the title refers to is brought out extremely well by Ford who is matched perfectly by Seigner, the mystery woman who gets dragged into the plot. I thought the two worked wonderfully well together and certainly helped keep the movie going. The plot is a rather simple one and after the mystery of why the wife was taken is revealed it dawns on you that there's no too much story at all. The rest of the film seems to drag at too slow of a pace and when the ending finally does come you realize that not too much has happened. This is far from a perfect movie as there are many flaws but I think it's a good practice piece for the director who was clearly needing to show that he could still make a thriller. The good direction and performances make FRANTIC worth watching but both the star and Polanski have much better out there. "},{"Title":"this would have worked so much better with Polanski in the lead","Date":"22 February 2007","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This never really got going, for me. I didn't believe in the Harrison Ford / Betty Buckley relationship, maybe it should have been given longer to develop, but it left me feeling less than fully involved when Ford wanders from his hotel, vaguely in search of his missing wife. The languorous start with the almost helpful hotel staff and unhelpful police and embassy staff is OK but I'm not sure I believe him and his claims of a kidnap any more than they do, or care. The movie does step up a notch with the entry of Emmanuelle Seigner but it occurs to me that this would have worked so much better with Polanski in the lead role. Ford doesn't do diffident/pathetic/passionate as Polanski might have done and for all I know this might have been the original intention. Certainly there are a couple of decent action sequences, particularly the Hitchcockian roof sequences but whilst one's interest is maintained the lapses in tightness and elements of silliness spoil this outing. "},{"Title":"Well made yet, still silly","Date":"28 November 2001","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" First off, this is an extremely well made film.  Polanski is Polanski and in Frantic he breaks out all the bells and whistles.  Superb staging, great camera work, excellent attention to continuity and detail.  All and all a nice ode to master Hitchcock.  This is where it ends for me.  While Harrison Ford handles the character very well, his actions are as inexplicable as the entire premise of the film.  Emmanuelle Seigner's character borders on the absurd and does the constant thumping of what even in 1988, was a dated Grace Jones sound track.  I had to force myself see it to its inevitable conclusion.  I recommend it only if your interested in viewing all of Polanski's work for the sake of comparison. "},{"Title":"Another stinkbomb from one of the worst directors of all time","Date":"28 January 2015","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This movie was a drag from start to finish. A good director would have needed half an hour less. Like when Walker danced with Michelle in the club(btw in a very sexual manner). What? Your wife is missing and your dancing with a smoking hot 20 year who's got a red dress on and dances like a hooker? of course.......At the airport Walker Oh jeez, there are police dogs trained to find drugs Michelle Relax, There are no drugs in the suitcaseWait! what about the bag of cocaine that falls out of walker's pocket one minute later........Jesus, even a 5 year old would have recognized this.And Michelle, the girl who always wants money money money. She even busts an exchange because she wants her stupid money. Why didn't Walker knock her out for that? His wife's life is in danger and that bitch talks about money. And then, suddenly at the end Michelle says I don't need your money. You broke your promise really? I mean, really? This is the girl who stole the wallet of a dead guy. Don't act like you have found proud in that wallet.And the fight at the end? The arab guy gets knocked down by Walker and instead of grabbing the weapon he just lost, the stupid girl just crawls away and does nothing. Then the arab guy gets shot in the chest. Walker, instead of grabbing the weapon that lays right beside him, he just walks away and lets the arab guy shot the girl. Are you serious?? I don't care if you have to kill off a main character. But try to bring some reason to it. Make it believable. That shows how lazy Roman polanski is as a director. Stupid characters + more and more stupid characters. "},{"Title":"No corpse stinks that much after only 12 hours","Date":"16 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Roman Polanski (Bitter Moon, The Ninth Gate) gives us another suspense thriller set in Paris.Harrison Ford is in town with his wife on a second honeymoon and to give a speech at a medical conference. His wife disappears while he is in the shower.He starts a search and, despite the fact that he can't speak a word of Frence, makes good progress. He then runs into Emmanuelle Seigner, who was also in Bitter Moon and The Ninth Gate.They work together to solve the puzzle running all throughout Paris. Good story and good action, but it seems poor Harrison Ford has made a career out of saving his wives from terrorists. "}{"Title":"Ennui","Date":"27 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I rented a different movie recently, and out popped this instead. I recalled the title from the 80s as being one of the most tedious slogs I had ever sat though. But here in 2012, 25 yrs later, you can view it with the added clarity that Polanski squandered his entire career.Sure enough... I recalled it correctly. Frantic remains unadulterated boredom from start to finish. It isn't even redeemed by Polanski's technique as he offers none. It was clearly just a paycheck. He proceeds at a snail's pace, through an undisciplined, unstructured, unfocused morass; while Harrison Ford brings his deathly wooden acting along. It takes some effort to make a movie this long, that doesn't have a single memorable scene. Who would admire, rent or even buy this movie? It's a pointless, never-ending tease of hyper-obvious movie clichés. It has nowhere to go, and takes it's sweet time getting there. Long after I lost interest, there were still 17 DVD chapters left to endure! Excruciating. "},{"Title":"terribly dissapointing","Date":"18 April 2003","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  What was a good idea and what could have been an excellent thriller was turned into a 2 hour snooze fest. 1.) It was at least 30 mins to long.  2.) it had far too many pointless scenes which had nothing to do with the story (the girl and harrison dancing for 10 minutes brought tears of boredom to my eyes).  3.) Ford worried expression throughout was intolerable.  4.) it was made like a 50's B movie on a million dollar budget.   it was overlong, overrated, overblown and overacted. and by far polanski's and ford worst movie.it tries to be Hitchcockian but fails misreablyThe Fantastic reviews this film has had must have had the reviewers watching a totally different film.For Die hard Polanski fans ( which there can't be many of) FORD FANS don't believe the reviews and stay well away "},{"Title":"You'd Think A Polanski-Ford Combination Could Do Better","Date":"13 December 2007","Score":"7 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This is the kind of film in which one wonders if many people give it great reviews SIMPLY because Roman Polanski directed it. I've found this to be the case in many Alfred Hitchcock movies that were boring and overrated. The same things applies here, especially since Polanski seems to be trying to copy Hitchcock's ideas. The same holds true for actor Harrison Ford. He's usually in very good movies, but no one is perfect. It's hard to find a Harrison Ford movie that disappoints, at least during the last 20 years but, like any actor, he's had a few stinkers - like this is one. Actually, the story is interesting to a degree but the problem is that is goes on way too long without any sense being made. By then, the viewer is so frustrated it becomes difficult to get excited about the story. Chopping 20 minutes off this movie would have made it far better. It starts off so well but just plain peters out.Emmanuel Seigner, Polanski's wife, is interesting to watch and hear, but that's about it. The movie is simply too drawn out; it needs a tighter script. Normally I like stories with paranoid themes, as this does, but Polanski only imitates Hitchcock here in the sense that he bored people to death with this effort. Don't buy all the rave reviews for this and don't say you weren't warned by me and a few others here. "},{"Title":"Frantic","Date":"1 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I can see what the critics mean about being like a Hitchcock film, it seems similar to The Lady Vanishes. Basically Dr. Richard Walker (Harrison Ford) is in Paris for a medical conference, and while he is the shower of their hotel room, his wife, Sondra (Betty Buckley) disappears. The rest of the film is obviously all about him trying to find his wife in the country he cannot speak the language of. It becomes a desperate search as there are people saying that she was kidnapped, and there may be gangs or something involved. Along the way he is accompanied by the Michelle (French actress Emmanuelle Seigner) who has some contacts with the kidnapper (Yorgo Voyagis). Also starring John Mahoney as Williams and Jimmie Ray Weeks as Shaap. I did fall asleep or lose interest somewhere, but it wasn't exactly the greatest thriller I have seen from director Roman Polanski. Also, critics say that Seigner is a bit of a disappointment, I didn't think was that bad. Good! "},{"Title":"Hampered by uneven direction, but featuring two fine performances...","Date":"24 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" After his wife is kidnapped from their Paris hotel room, a confused and distraught American doctor is plunged into European espionage. Rather mild suspense-thriller from director/co-writer Roman Polanski, who sets up the pieces to this chess match quite awkwardly. The opening moments with Harrison Ford and spouse Betty Buckley have little believability (they seem like brother and sister), but the pacing does pick up from there, despite the fact that Ford's doctor is seldom charismatic or likable and is mainly just a plot device (the worried husband). Newcomer Emmanuelle Seigner (later Mrs. Polanksi) is tantalizing as a young woman who gets involved, and her scenes with Ford give the picture some much-needed energy. ** from **** "},{"Title":"Good idea; Polanski doesn't know what to do with it","Date":"2 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The premise has a lot of promise a man's wife is missing in a foreign country, and we see subjectively, through his own eyes, his efforts to recover her.Unfortunately, Polanski takes this premise and uses it as the basis for an ordinary, undistinguished, and boring Hitchcock ripoff.Too bad. "},{"Title":"What's the big deal?","Date":"16 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I don't understand all of the glowing reviews from the IMDb folks. Ford's performance is B movie all the way. I felt awkward watching him perform so poorly. I don't know the chronology off hand of Ford's movies but surely this looked like his first starring role. The movie's plot is fairly promising from the start but it goes on and on like a made-for-HBO movie. Perhaps there are elements in the movie that only the movie-going-elite can appreciate but for the average Joe this movie is so been there/done that/bought the tee-shirt. Watch the movie if you wish but please come back here and honestly express what redeeming qualities you see - I sure didn't find any. "},{"Title":"One really awful movie","Date":"14 June 2013","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I can only assume that the title of this movie refers to the situation of the script writers who, at the last hour, had no script, and so just threw this together before fleeing to some other country.The actions of the main character, played by Harrison Ford, make no sense, Even a very frantic man would not make so many foolish choices.Nor would he survive so many close calls with death.And then there is the implication that he will at some point have an affair, or at least one roll in the hay, with the young female punk. This is no doubt to titillate viewers who would not be titillated by the thought of Harrison Ford having sex with a woman his own age, like the actress who plays his wife. (Remember that it was directed by Roman Polanski.) Of course, Ford's character never does have sex with the young woman, so that's just another red herring.There are also no good shots of Paris here. It could just as well be set in Hoboken, for all we get in terms of good location shots.This movie truly has nothing to recommend it. "},{"Title":"Not frantic but drowning","Date":"26 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Drowning in mediocrity that is. I cannot believe I wasted a couple of hours on this, waiting for the plot interest, ingenuity, excitement, characterisation,or even a final twist to materialise. They never did.Quite the worst Harrison Ford film I ever saw its bland plot, cardboard characters and the clichéd but unfulfilling Paris travelogue failed to ignite for more than a few damp-squib seconds.Never referring to my wife as anything but that throughout, one simply could not believe he cared that much about finding her,except as an excuse for heroics.There is a strange disconnection between Ford and the female lead Emmanuelle Seigner, who is obviously performing sexy for the camera but does not connect with the on-screen world, and has zero chemistry (sexual or otherwise) with Ford.None of this made any sense until I just found out she is married to the director Polanski. Prestige director (and one assumes, prestige fee) also might explain Ford's willingness to take up with this hackneyed script and uninspired direction.Oh, and that corny ending...what?!  "},{"Title":"Routine and Solid are Fatal Flaws Here, Top to Bottom","Date":"29 May 2009","Score":"5 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Frantic (1988)A weak, contrived, and actually routine film, despite Harrison Ford's best attempts to make it have punch. There are so many problems, from dull filming to overused plot devices, it's hardly worth the trouble to write in detail, or write at all, except that it's Roman Polanski in charge, and as someone said about Stravinsky, it's always valuable to see an artist's minor works to understand the greater ones.In particular are some low-budget conventions that point to cutting corners, not to greater invention. (The advantage that many low-budget movies have is they resort to new ideas to survive their lack of resources. This doesn't happen here.) I have no idea what the budget was, but it feels like an exercise in function over form, in survival over expression.Watch with low expectations and some patience. "}{"Title":"Completely unbelievable","Date":"6 March 2002","Score":"5 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I simply can't accept the premise of this movie. A doctor (who is presumably very intelligent) does things nobody with an IQ higher than 50 would do, desperate or not. Without giving anything away, let's just say that he reacts in ways which are not only counter-intuitive, but would also most likely land him in jail for a few years, were this real life and not Hollywood (even under these extreme circumstances).It ticks me off that I have to take Harrison Ford out of my actors that have never made a bad movie list. "},{"Title":"why did I watch this movie?","Date":"3 June 2000","Score":"3 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I'm not sure I've ever seen another Roman Polanski movie, but I've sure heard his name plenty, so when I see that Frantic is coming up on cable, I get mildly interested.  Harrison Ford in the lead?  Hey, should be pretty good, right?  Well, 2 hours later... all I can think is, Why was this movie made?  It's like a filler movie.  Through the entire thing, I kept waiting for a reason for its production to present itself.  I'm still waiting. "},{"Title":"Pedestrian","Date":"23 February 2007","Score":"4 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Roman Polanski has made many interesting films, some (but not all) of which are technically good; but 'Frantic' falls into neither category. Partly this is due to the genre. It's uses a well established hook for a thriller what would you do if a sequence of events happened to you so unlikely that all rational responses were rendered impossible? The problem is that this premise is never of interest for more than a few minutes, even when the plot is artfully constructed, precisely because it's like asking, what would you do if the sky fell in? And as the plot is this case is especially clunky (and the answer necessarily involves spurning the help of the police but accepting that of a beautiful young girl), the interest level drops with especial rapidity. But the basic concept is not the film's only limitation. The acting is bad, especially from Emmanuelle Seigner (who, to be fair, is not exactly helped by the script) one moment she is being shot at, the next she is engaging in sexy dancing in a nightclub, her character and her motivations make no sense and her final scene, which (presumably) aims at poignancy, is instead risible. Indeed, the action scenes are also put together with a surprising amateurishness, the choreography is very poor and at times it almost feels that Polanski is sending his own movie up. Far from 'Frantic', this is merely pedestrian; and it's hard to believe that it's made by the same man who made classic movies like 'The Pianist' or 'Chinatown'. "},{"Title":"Boring to the extreme","Date":"8 November 2005","Score":"5 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" One of the worst movies I've ever sat through, almost as bad as a Streisand movie and certainly worse than Battlefield Earth. I was the only person in the theater to actually remain awake for the whole thing - most people started snoring about half way through the movie. Quite remarkable to see over two dozen people sleeping in a movie theater.Horribly acted with awful locations, worthless script, and a distinct lack of lighting, the movie is an entirely unbelievable batch of bad clichés, starting with the French police blowing off a missing person report as she's just out getting boned, you know how Paris affects slutty, middle-aged housewives. Ford's character basically just stumbles through the entire movie as a clueless moron, partially aided by a stereotypically hip and cool Parisian goth waif that somebody decided must be sexy.A movie best left for bouts of insomnia when there isn't enough booze around to get stinking drunk with. "},{"Title":"They took his wife. She was the lucky one.","Date":"24 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" A nonsensical soufflé of countless twists with zero plot adds up to nothing but smoke and mirrors with a French accent. Lots of angst with a paucity of action. A prime example that a screenplay cannot substitute confusion for content. Why anybody chose to have anything to do with making this movie is a greater mystery than anything in the script. Harrison Ford turns in a performance that towers over every other aspect of this disaster. For THIS should director and co-writer Roman Polanski have been facing legal charges!!!! In the same genre, Presumed Innocent is infinitely better!!!!! Plenty of sharp plot twists and overlapping motives keep you guessing until the very end. "}]