[{"Title":"Yes, 'tis true! Michael is back! And he wants revenge for his death! Huh?","Date":"21 October 2004","Score":"55 out of 67 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" After the failure that was the 3rd Halloween sequel, the writers knew that was mainly due to the absence of Michael Myers. So what did they do? They invited Michael back in for the 4th sequel and back into the story of Halloween. Even though I did enjoy the 3rd sequel, I do agree that I missed Michael. He's my favorite boogeyman, so it'd be cool to see him return and do what he does best, slice and dice and scare the heck out of me. Well is this really scary? Not too much, but still it's a fun sequel to get into and watch in the dark. I like the story and how they are continuing into the Myer's past and how far Michael will go to destroy this blood line. Although I was disappointed to not have Laurie Strode in this one, it was interesting to see how her legacy lives on with her daughter and now she will have the struggle with Michael Myers.Michael Myers has been in a coma for ten years, when his massacre was stopped by Dr. Samuel J. Loomis and Laurie Strode. Myers is being transferred from Ridgemont Federal Sanitarium to Smith's Grove Sanitarium. He awakens when he hears that Laurie Strode, his sister, is deceased, but her daughter, Jamie Lloyd is alive and well in Haddonfield. He kills the ambulance crew and escapes. Dr. Loomis races to Haddonfield in an attempt to bring Myers' killing spree to an end once and for all. In Haddonfield, his niece Jamie Lloyd, has been adopted by the Carruthers family. She has frequent nightmares about Michael, though she does not know who he is. On Halloween night, Jamie goes out trick-or-treating dressed as a clown with her teenage foster sister Rachel. Her uncle, Michael, follows them. Meanwhile, Loomis arrives in Haddonfield after an exhausting journey, and contacts the police department to inform them of Myers' escape. He and Haddonfield's new Sheriff Ben Meeker begin to search the town for Michael and Jamie. Myers has also blacked out the town's electricity by throwing a technician onto a electrical box and singlehandedly annihilated the entire police force. The girls barricade themselves in the Sheriff's house, while awaiting the arrival of the state police where Michael follows them and you'll have to see the movie to see the exciting conclusion.So over all Halloween 4 is a good sequel, it's not the strongest in the series, but it's one of the better stories of the franchise. I do like Jamie Lloyd, she was an interesting addition to the story and the writers are making these movies very interesting. I'm glad they brought Dr. Loomis back in, it brings us back into the original Halloween and he'll never give up until Michael Myers is gone for good, which we know is not going to happen since we still have 4 more sequels after this one. But the 4th installment into the Halloween franchise is a good one so I do recommend that you see it if you get the chance.6/10 "},{"Title":"what a return it is","Date":"29 June 2001","Score":"38 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  After a seven year absence from the screen, Michael Myers returns. Set ten years after the first two films (#2 was filmed in 1981, but set immediately after #1 in 1978), THE RETURN OF MICHAEL MYERS opens with the infamous killer being transfered between psyhiciatric hospitals. Naturally, he escapes, and, tipped off that he has a niece (daugther of the now-deceased Jamie Lee Curtis character) living in Haddonfield, sets out to find her. Hot on his trail, as always, is Dr. Loomis (Donald Pleasence). After some were turned off by the more-gruesome deaths in HALLOWEEN 2, this film is more in-line with the original, relying more heavily on suspense and honest scares than blood and gore. For a nine-year-old, Harris delivers a good performance, and Donald Pleasence (as usual) is also good, with a performance that lets you know this is a been-there-don't-want-to-go-through-that-again character. Director Dwight H. Little brings a sense of atmosphere to the film and creates a number of suspenseful scenes. Thankfully, the make-shirt mob of gun-toting beer-guzzlers isn't as bad as it could have been. HALLOWEEN 4 is one of the best of the series. "},{"Title":"Not bad . . .","Date":"2 December 2003","Score":"25 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" . . . considering Halloween 4 came some eight years after the previous Myers-inclusive Halloween, considering Carpenter had even less influence, considering the plot took a slightly different direction, considering most other franchises really suck before they even get to 3 sequels.The problem I have with most horror sequels is the fact it switches over to new characters every film, and none of the characters really get much sympathy.  I dunno if I ever cared about anyone in Friday the 13th.  But in the Halloweens (1,2,4,and 5), they've always taken the time to get to know the main characters first and stick with them for at least one sequel.  Also in Halloween, we had a staple character besides Myers - Donald Pleasence - who returned to battle Myers every time until his untimely death. I really liked the Jamie Lloyd character (I mean, getting decent actors in horror is difficult enough, but getting a good child actor in horror?  Look at Child's Play!  We struck gold with Danielle), her storyline, and the rest of the new characters for Michael to stalk.  Oh yes, and of course, Donald Pleasence.      Alan Howarth parts with Carpenter, and takes the score solo, playing some fun twists to the main Halloween and the stalking theme, giving Jamie a theme appropriately derivative of Laurie's theme and intermingling all the themes in various places for an original sound with music that's been with us for 2 movies now.Hopefully the viewer won't remember the end of Halloween 2 well enough to recall Laurie shooting Michael's eyes out, and him stumbling around slicing blindly as blood ran down his mask--wait, this is horror, everyone's accustomed to inconsistency with horror.  Nevermind.  Besides, compared to the plot holes of Curse of Michael Myers and then H20 neglecting Halloween 4 & 5, who cares about that minor detail.  Despite the new look, new characters, new tweaks, Halloween 4 can't escape the fact that it is a sequel slasher and so despite everything that's new (that works) . . . it's all the same.  That's where my problem with the film lay, and that's why I can't rank this up there with some of my favorite horror films of all time.  It's a good Halloween sequel, but there are better, more original films, within this series and especially in other series.  Oh well. "},{"Title":"A solid slasher.","Date":"17 November 1999","Score":"27 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  It is ten years after Michael Myers escaped from the psychiatric clinic and went on the rampage and he has been in a coma ever since being burnt at the end of Halloween 2.  But one of the ambulance drivers transporting him somewhere lets slip that he has a niece in Haddonfield and before you know it he's making his way back there.Myers has become seemingly indestructable by now.  He was seen emerging from a hospital as a human fireball at the end of art 2 and yet he seems to have escaped more or less unscathed.  And howcome he can see anything when he was blinded in Part 2 just before being roasted alive?However, if you overlook these points you'll find this is an entertaining and well-made film.  Dr Loomis returns to Haddonfield after his ex-patient, played by Donald Pleasance at his best, and there are plenty of interesting characters and situations.One of the better of the Halloween series, certainly much more worthwhile than the dismal Halloween 5 or most of the repetative Friday the 13th films. "},{"Title":"Scary, and full of suspense","Date":"15 October 2002","Score":"19 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Scary, Scary, Scary! And FAR superior to part 5 The Revenge Of Michael Myers. I love the scene where Kelly Meeker brings the coffee to who she *thinks* is the deputy sitting in the rocking chair. SCARY stuff. That scene ALWAYS scares the crap out of me. This movie is loaded with suspense, and it has an absolutely SHOCKING, although unexplained ending. Just hearing Dr. Loomis saying no, no, nooo... then crying can spook you out! The truck scene towards the end is very scary and suspenseful as well. The scene where he bashes his head through the windshield still makes me jump.Also, the heroines in this movie are almost as good as Laurie and her girlfriends in the first movie. Ellie Cornell is superb as Rachel (I was very sorry to see her get killed off in the next movie), and the relationship between her and her stepsister Jamie is wonderful.For a Halloween movie, I'd definitely give it a 9 out of a 10!(I always wondered and hoped that there really was a Haddonfield here in Illinois!) "},{"Title":"Great performances by all, excellent sequel","Date":"23 August 1999","Score":"20 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The first time I saw this film, I was bored. I thought it was uneventful. But then, I watched it a second time and loved it. This movie is very suspenseful, has very little blood/gore, and the acting by Danielle Harris is just incredible. I also love Ellis Cornell, she is such a doll! Brady was an idiot to let go of such a cute girl.Rent this! It's better than II and V. "},{"Title":"Guess who's back!","Date":"20 December 2004","Score":"15 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" So, it transpires that Michael Myers survived being blown up on Halloween night 1978, and ten years later HE wakes from a decade of comatose to kill again.OK, the premise is laughable but the decision to resurrect deranged serial killer Michael Myers is vindicated through a fine movie with several memorable moments and a shocking finale.Donald Pleasence is on fine form as Myer's increasingly crazed doctor, Sam Loomis, who also survived being blown up in Halloween II. Loomis now walks with the aid of a stick and has burns to his face and hands but is otherwise fine. Blimey! He's almost as indestructible as Myers himself! Halloween 4 racks up the jumps and gore but loses none of the thrills and excitement form the original movies. Ellie Cornell and Danielle Harris are excellent support for Pleasence in one of the best in the Halloween franchise. "},{"Title":"I Can say It Scared Me...and it was good","Date":"18 June 2005","Score":"22 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Well after that disgusting piece of filth called Halloween 3...we go back to the original story of Michael Myers and Haddonfield. Halloween 4 really took a step forward....and it scared me. the acting with Most actors was good, Donald Pleasence as Dr Loomis was perfect as usual and Danielle Harris as Michael's Niece Jamie was very good and Ellie Cornell as Rachael Corruthers was also very good.They Original score was good but i believe i think they re-did it...Michael also did some good stylish murders in this one the only thing that disappointed me was the mask probably my least favorite mask in the series. Halloween 4 is worth watching so either buy it or rent it....now! Halloween 4 Is my fourth Favourite Halloween Film "},{"Title":"Finally, the shape IS back!!!","Date":"29 January 2001","Score":"20 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The fourth movie of the Halloween series sees the return of Michael Myers and Dr. Loomis. Surprisingly, considering what happened to both of the them at the end of Halloween 2. But, it seems that they brought back Michael Myers for three reasons. First, it is 1980's and it's all about the horror sequels baby!!! Just like Friday the 13th, Amityville, Psycho, Howling, and Nightmare, Halloween couldn't resist the fun. Second, it was the 10 year anniversary of Halloween, so they had to honor Myers by bringing him back again, just like the 20th anniversary for H20. I guess will also see the 25th and 30th anniversary of Halloween with Myers escaping the nursing home on Halloween for these sequels. Finally, they brought him back because of the utter disappointment of Halloween 3, which shouldn't have ever been made. But after these reasons, it isn't that bad a sequel. Good for a late 80's horror movie. ** out of **** "},{"Title":"Best since the original","Date":"7 November 1999","Score":"17 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I love this movie. It's so much better than part two and way better than the shape-less 3rd installment. everything in this movie works and i was suprissed by the acting in this filmHalloween 4 picks up 10 years after the original and michael has awaken from the coma he suffered when he was burned in the hospital explosion in part two. Instead of stalking laurie, who suposedly died in a car accident, he tracks down her daughter, his niece. this saga  is one of the best in the series.The acting is great in this film. Danielle Harris is very good in this film and her acting is superb for her age. Ellie cornell is also good as rachel and i wish she was in more films today becasue she is really good.Great movie with a twist at the end you won't believe. **** out of **** "}{"Title":"Michael's Back. Take a Wild Guess Where He's Heading...","Date":"24 February 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" As such, Halloween 4 The Return of Michael Myers (1988) isn't a bad film. However, it suffers from the major problem that it has pretty much exactly the same story as parts 1 and 2, only that there's no Jamie Lee Curtis and a lot less suspense. After the third part, Season of the Witch, had no Michael Myers in it and flopped, the producers decided to bring Michael back in. So this film is simply more of the exact same, which, kindly stated, becomes slightly unoriginal after some time.After ten years in a high security prison for dangerous mental screwups, Michael gets transferred to another prison and - Surprise! - he escapes, killing all his guards on the way. He wastes no time and hurries to Haddonfield, where the little daughter of his sister Laurie Strode is waiting to be terrorized by uncle Mike... Luckily, good old Dr. Sam Loomis has seen it all coming, and is also on his way to Haddonfield...As mentioned above, The Return of Michael Myers has little new to offer. The majority of late 80s slashers were blatant imitations of Halloween and Friday the 13th, but they usually made up in gore for what they lacked in originality. Since this film was intended for wider mainstream audiences, however, it isn't even really gory. Heck, a large part of the murders in this one are not even seen, as they take part off-screen, and those that are seen are scandalously un-bloody. The film does have some positive aspects though, the most welcome being the return of the great Donald Pleasence in the role of Dr. Sam Loomis. Pleasence is great as always, but that doesn't change that he does exactly the same things as in parts 1 and 2. Michael is still a menacing villain, but then, he does nothing that he didn't already do in a scarier manner in parts 1 and 2. Ellie Connel, who plays the teenage victim protagonist isn't bad, but she hardly is a replacement for Jamie Lee Curtis. One very welcome new face is then 10-year old Danielle Harris, who is very likable and cute in the role of little Jamie Lloyd, a character it is easy to be scared for. Furthermore, John Carpenter's brilliant original theme tune simply never gets old.The Return of Michael Myers isn't a terrible failure; it isn't even really a bad film, but it suffers from being nothing but a duller, less suspenseful copy of its predecessors. John Carpenters original Halloween of 1978 is a classic and absolute must-see, of course, and Halloween II of 1981 is incredibly suspenseful and doubtlessly also a must-see for every Horror fan. All other sequels may be seen or skipped, in my opinion. Halloween 4 The Return of Michael Myers maybe could have been more entertaining with more gore and brutality, but sadly it is overall pretty dull. "},{"Title":"THE best sequel to the blockbuster hit.","Date":"25 May 2004","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  You heard it right. I think this is much better than the others.Why? Because of alot of things. First, let's go with the story. One of the reasons why this movie gets no good reviews is because of the story where Michael and Dr. Sam Loomis was burned. To put a rest to all of that, I'll give you the scoop. Originally, the beginning of this movie would have the burning hospital with Loomis coming out. The Fire department tries to put the fire out but Loomis would of said No! Let him burn!. Unfortunatlly, it cost too much money to re-do that scene so it was dropped, thus hopefully ending all of the confusion.Now what was I saying? Oh yes, now, Michael is back. And as usual, he isn't taking any prisoners. Now, Laurie died in a car accident, so her daughter Jaimie (Probably an inside joke to Jaimie Lee Curtis) has to be taken care of by another family. Meanwhile, the mental instituion is about to take Michael away (With an EXCELLENT cameo by Raymond O' Connor, who makes alot of great quotes. Including one where you hear a mental guy screaming with the person picking Michael up saying Jesus! to which Raymond says Jesus ain't got nothing to do with this place.). In the ambulance, Michael murders both the people picking him up, and the driver. Nice death in which he drives his thumb through a guys mouth and rams it again the wall repeatedly.Now, Dr. Loomis and Michael both meet up, and alot of deaths later, Micheal is once again gone, for now...I don't see why this movie doesen't get good reviews, the person in the Michael mask did an exceptional job here. As did the actors, with another great performance by Donald Pleasence. Honestly, I found this MUCH better than my original favorite sequel Halloween 2. While 5, 6, 7, and 8 were mediocore films, this one comes out on top as the best of the sequels.Thumbs up, recommended,RATING ***1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"Welcome back, Michael Myers!","Date":"15 September 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" HALLOWEEN 4 THE RETURN OF MICHAEL MYERS is the fourth film in the series and it follows a new character, Jamie Lloyd, the daughter of Laurie Strode from the first two films, with Michael Myers once again returning back to Haddonfield to kill his own niece with Dr. Loomis once more pursuing him.As the title suggests, this film marks the return of Michael Myers. Myers was not in HALLOWEEN III SEASON OF THE WITCH and I will not review Season of the Witch, because I don't want to and it does not have Michael Myers in the third film at all and that is just sad.Initially, John Carpenter and Debra Hill retired the Michael Myers character storyline after the second film in the series, intending to feature a new Halloween-season related story every sequel of which HALLOWEEN III - would be the first - HALLOWEEN IV was originally a ghost story, but due to the disappointing financial box office performance and bad criticism of the third film, this film returned Michael Myers to the big screen.The script was written by Alan B. McElroy and directed by Dwight H. Little while the story was written by McElroy, Dhani Lipisus, Larry Rattner and Benjamin Ruffner. The story is not Oscar-winning, but I've seen worse in the third Michael Myers picture. The violent killings in this film are a lot more bloody and intense as hell and the ending left me to think that Jamie would be the killer in the fifth film, but no.The acting is just dreadful in this film, but the credit will be given when it's due to Donald Pleasence as Dr. Loomis, George P. Wilbur as Michael Myers and the introduction of Danielle Harris as Jamie Lloyd and they pull off great performance. The rest of the cast is just out there and makes very little effort to put on great performances. The only performance kind- of worth mentioning is Ellie Cornell as Rachel, but even then, it is incredibly over the top.Overall, HALLOWEEN 4 is not good as the first two, but it could have been worse. 10/10. "},{"Title":"Michael Returns for More Victims.","Date":"3 September 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Michael Myers has taken some time off from stalking new victims, but he's ready to return to his evil ways. He once again escapes from a hospital, and is out for more blood. This time his target is a little girl, Jamie. Jamie (played brilliantly by Danielle Harris) is a little girl who is trying to fit in with her foster parents and foster sister (played by Ellie Cornell). This movie makes you sympathize with the little girl, whose parents are presumed to be dead. It may surprise you when you realize who the mother of this child is. This movie is a great addition to the series, and Danielle Harris and Ellie Cornell give great performances as the two main characters. Donald Pleasence returns as Dr. Sam Loomis, and he is hoping to stop this madman once and for all and save little Jamie.Overall, this is a top notch horror film worthy of a viewing. "},{"Title":"Could have been worse","Date":"5 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" HALLOWEEN 4 THE RETURN OF MICHAEL MYERS is the fourth film in the series and it follows a new character, Jamie Lloyd, the daughter of Laurie Strode from the first two films, with Michael Myers once again returning back to Haddonfield to kill his own niece with Dr. Loomis once more pursuing him.As the title suggests, this film marks the return of Michael Myers. Myers was not in HALLOWEEN III SEASON OF THE WITCH and I will not review Season of the Witch, because I don't want to and it does not have Michael Myers in the third film at all and that is just sad.Initially, John Carpenter and Debra Hill retired the Michael Myers character storyline after the second film in the series, intending to feature a new Halloween-season related story every sequel of which HALLOWEEN III - would be the first - HALLOWEEN IV was originally a ghost story, but due to the disappointing financial box office performance and bad criticism of the third film, this film returned Michael Myers to the big screen.The script was written by Alan B. McElroy and directed by Dwight H. Little while the story was written by McElroy, Dhani Lipisus, Larry Rattner and Benjamin Ruffner. The story is not Oscar-winning, but I've seen worse in the third Michael Myers picture. The violent killings in this film are a lot more bloody and intense as hell and the ending left me to think that Jamie would be the killer in the fifth film, but no.The acting is just dreadful in this film, but the credit will be given when it's due to Donald Pleasence as Dr. Loomis, George P. Wilbur as Michael Myers and the introduction of Danielle Harris as Jamie Lloyd and they pull off great performance. The rest of the cast is just out there and makes very little effort to put on great performances. The only performance kind- of worth mentioning is Ellie Cornell as Rachel, but even then, it is incredibly over the top.Overall, HALLOWEEN 4 is not good as the first two, but it could have been worse. 6/10. "},{"Title":"While far from the series best, Halloween 4 The Return of Michael Myers is a mildly entertaining bit of dumb-fun, and a decent-enough slasher-sequel.","Date":"1 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" You know you aren't exactly in for high-art when a film begins with fairly messy piece of ret-con work to try and justify its own existence. In this case, a bit of contrived dialog aiming to explain how the infamous Michael Myers (and his psychologist Sam Loomis, played wonderfully by Donald Pleasence) was able to survive his seemingly obvious fiery demise at the end of his last outing.But then again, most audiences will likely know what they're in for, and won't be too bothered by this detail, nor by the myriad of other issues and inconsistencies present in the film. No, by this point we know the Halloween series, which began with the iconic (and quite excellent) John Carpenter original has pretty much degenerated into little more than admittedly above-average but still by-the-numbers slasher fare. Directed by Dwight Little (who also helmed the surprisingly entertaining '89 Phantom of the Opera and some genuinely good TV- work), the film does have some strength to it, mainly in the quieter, darker moments when the film isn't going full slasher mode.And in that respect Halloween 4 The Return of Michael Myers is a fairly entertaining and occasionally frightening bit of horror-fun, even though it obviously never is able to reach the great heights of other installments.This installment follows Jamie (Danielle Harris), Michael's young niece, as she and her foster sister (along with other canon-fodder characters) are terrorized by her sadistic uncle after he escapes from his confinement locked-up in a hospital. But they aren't alone, for the obsessive Dr. Sam Loomis is hot on his tail, with the aid of the local sheriff. (Beau Starr) We even get an amusing sub-plot thrown in revolving around a group of drunken, gun- toting red-necks who form their own sort-of lynch-mob, and are trying to track down and kill Michael themselves. (Leading to some genuinely disturbing-yet-darkly-hilarious moments where their shoot first and ask questions later attitude causes some... mistakes.)The film actually does have quite a bit going for it. At least when it isn't going full-blown slasher film, which it unfortunately does much of the time. In the quieter moments, director Little is able to deliver some genuinely creepy moments with good-ole Michael, courtesy some expert visual storytelling and good composition. The film is also briskly paced and has a good narrative flow, even when dialog and characterization borders on paper-thin. And the film is even deliver some good quirky, funny moments, which is a nice change-up for the series. (Aforementioned red-necks being one example. Another being an amusing scene of Loomis interacting with a drunken priest.)And I will admit, that despite obviously being little more than standard slasher-film material, the film does have an admirable bit of restraint in not showing TOO much gore, in addition to a few clever beats of writing- particularly for the Loomis character.However, that being said, this film still does fall prey too often to the clichés of slasher-horror. There are just a few too many scenes of people stumbling onto corpses before suddenly being killed themselves. A few too many jump-scares. A few too many needlessly gross on-screen deaths. It does bring the film down a few points, because even at the time this film was released- it was played out and cheap. And it does make the film pale in comparison to the prior Michael-centric entries.That being said, I still think this is worth checking out for slasher fans and definitely worth a shot for fans of the original film. It's not great, but it's enough fun to hold your attention for 90 minutes.I give it an about-average 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"You can't kill damnation, mister. It don't die like a man dies.","Date":"5 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" After the disappointing box office results for Halloween III Season of the Witch, the producers realized what they had to do to bring in the bucks again bring back their unstoppable franchise psycho, Michael Myers, and time it to coincide with the 10th anniversary of John Carpenters' groundbreaking original film.The result is a pretty routine slasher. By this time, of course, we know damn well what to expect, and the makers of Halloween 4 aren't about to muck with a winning formula. As scripted by Alan B. McElroy and directed by Dwight H. Little, this isn't without its moments (the rooftop chase scene is one that people remember) even if it's not exactly inspired.After the hospital explosion that concluded Halloween II, 10 years go by, and the comatose Michael Myers revives while being transported by ambulance. He learns that he's got a niece, sired by his now apparently deceased sister Laurie Strode. So he heads back to his old stamping ground of Haddonfield for the usual murder and mayhem, all in the name of killing this young relative of his.Fortunately, the movie benefits a lot from the presence of the late Donald Pleasence, who truly was the heart and soul of this franchise for 17 years. Once again he lends tons of gravitas to the proceedings, and we root for him to exorcise this demon from his life. It's also easy enough to root for our young characters; Ellie Cornell as teenager Rachel Carruthers is cute and appealing in a wholesome, non-flashy way, and film-debuting Danielle Harris is adorable as the niece Jamie. This time Michael Myers is played by stuntman George P. Wilbur, who fails to make Myers particularly creepy. (The horrible mask is another debit.) Character actors Beau Starr and Michael Pataki lend solid support, and the delectable Kathleen Kinmont adds a great deal of sex appeal as the self-serving Kelly. There is an extremely memorable supporting character in the form of Carmen Filpi's wandering reverend, Jack Sayer. It's a nice sequence where Loomis meets Sayer and realizes that he's found a kindred spirit.There is some genuine suspense and atmosphere to enjoy here (those opening credits are brilliant), although there's not very much gore. The climactic action is exciting and ridiculous in about equal measure. The ending is very striking and effective. Longtime Carpenter associate Alan Howarth does the music, using the classic themes as well as composing some of his own.Basically, Halloween 4 The Return of Michael Myers is good of its type, with enough filmmaking competence to counteract the familiar scenario.Seven out of 10. "},{"Title":"Halloween 4 The Sequel That Didn't Disappoint","Date":"6 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Now with a 5 out of 10 vote, you'd think the review title would almost be a joke, but it isn't. Halloween 4 welcomes the return of Donald Pleasence, who lives up to his last name; with a performance that rivals the original's and Halloween II. Danielle Harris' acting debut is a fantastic one. For a little kid, she knows how to convey that childlike innocence of someone her own age, without coming off ham-fisted or unnatural. And Michael Myers, dare I say, might be at his most intense here? But let's talk about The Return in pieces. First off, the acting is a lot better this time around than in Halloween II or III. No obnoxious characters. No performance that's a waste of celluloid. Now this isn't The Godfather type of acting, but for a horror movie, especially a horror sequel on its 4th movie, it's pretty good. The script also helps this movie. We don't have too many Gotcha! moments, there are no cut-aways to the film, and the pacing is a bit brisker this time around. There is definitely some great moments of suspense here, but director Dwight H. Little knows how to get the ball rolling.So then what's the problem? Unfortunately, this movie lacks the charm of the original or its two sequels that followed. Now I didn't watch this movie constantly comparing it to its predecessors, but watching it, you almost get a feel of this was done better before. Now don't get me wrong, Michael is very intimidating here, the acting is a little better than usual, but for one, it's missing that atmosphere. See, the film is set in Haddonfield which helps matters, and this feels like Halloween (we have some trick-or-treaters, houses decorated, etc.), but at times the film gets too dark so you can't see anything. There's times where it feels like there's just a dead body here and there for the sake of amplifying the scariness level. And I thought all the knacks against Danielle Harris' character was a bit over-bearing. I mean some of those insults? I don't think it gets as bad as that for the playground kids.These are minor quibbles, but Halloween 4 really isn't anything substantial, but you almost can't really do anything about that considering we're already on our fourth movie, we know what's going to happen, and we need to leave the door open for more Michael mayhem. Halloween 4 is a little perplexing to review. You will no doubt enjoy it (I mean isn't that the reason why we watch these movies?), and it won't completely kill your brain cells (I liked the second Halloween but at times my brain was shutting down), but there's just something missing. But I don't really blame the director or scriptwriters for it. I mean they did the best with what they could, but unfortunately the score has to be lowered for this one. Still, I am still sticking by my title Halloween 4 The Sequel That Didn't Disappoint. "},{"Title":"The Scare Factor is Still High","Date":"3 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Dr. Loomis is back trying to find Michael before he kills more people in Haddonfield. What is more frightening is the fact he's after his seven-year-old niece Jamie Lloyd. The movie does have many thrills and scary parts. The scare factor is still high and the story still good.Halloween 4 The Return of Michael Myers (1988) is a good third part to the Michael Myers' story (minus Season of the Witch). It's worth watching if you are a fan of horror, thrillers, slashers and, of course, a fan of Michael and Dr. Loomis.The creep-out factor makes this movie worth watching on a dark and stormy night with all the lights off! Just don't look out the window after viewing this thrilling horror film - the shadows in the dark may play tricks on your mind.Note Just think about the sound of Uncle Michael Myers - that alone can give you the shivers! 9/10 "},{"Title":"Michael Myers returns to Haddonfield yet again","Date":"27 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Michae Myers is back! And this time, well, to be honest he's just doing what he usually does &#x96; which is running around Haddonfield killing people while Donald Pleasance runs around in a circle. This time he's out looking for his niece, a young girl living with her step parents. Can Donald finally put Michael down for good? Judging by the films that came out after this one, probably not.Michael's niece is generally looked after by her step sister, some teenage girl with a boyfriend who's also caught the eye of the local sheriff's daughter. Michael this time escapes from an ambulance, killing at least six people by the time he comes home. He's on the hunt for his niece (she's out trick or treating with her stepsister) which leads to a showdown at the sheriff's house, with loads of locals out on the warpath for Michael's head. What's a poor misunderstood serial killer to do? Expect more of the same from the first two films, with a bit more involvement from Donald Pleasance, and more indestructible killing machine action from Michael. Not much more to say about this one &#x96; I was all burned out on Myers by the end and decided to watch Part 5 at a later date. It's a fairly decent slasher film. No more. No less. "}{"Title":"Time to go home again Michael","Date":"11 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Halloween 4 welcomes back Michael Myers to the proceedings having been incarcerated in a top security mental hospital for ten years. Unfortunately someone at head office decides he should be transferred to a normal prison and the transfer process doesn't exactly end well, especially for the nurses on duty.Thereafter he heads back to his hometown for the usual mayhem and this time he has further connections to Haddonfield via his niece who has to share Halloween night with her deranged uncle and Donald Pleasance's returning Dr Loomis.Halloween 4 is a great horror film; it has the requisite amount of suspense and gore and also satisfies its teenage audience with attractive leads. What makes it great though is that it has a well written script, a real family you root for (the Carruthers family) and in Ellie Cornell's portrayal of Rachel, a heroine with real depth and character. Director Dwight Little does a cracking job to preserve the series traditions (the music, the title cards, mood and suspense rather than gore) and Alan McElroy's ten day written script (due to writer's strike) manages to deliver genuine heartfelt family moments as well as the carnage.Clearly the Halloween team realised that for the series to have a future that Michael Myers had to return as its central core. Luckily for us they proceeded to deliver a film which brought our unhappy anti-hero back in a way that respected the needs of the heritage, the fans and the money men all at once. "},{"Title":"Arguably the best entry of the series!","Date":"30 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I liked the first three Halloween films. The original wasn't as scary as I thought it was when I watched it a few times, but it was still a horror classic. The first sequel was flawed, but was pretty decent in my opinion while Halloween III Season of the Witch, despite the story's plot holes and the main villain's confusing death, was underrated due to it's creative premise and it's spooky and atmospheric soundtrack. So, when the producers wanted to bring Michael Myers back at Halloween II, they released their fourth entry The Return of Michael Myers, released in 1988, seven years after the second installment. After I saw Halloween V, which was the first installment I've watched in television a few years ago, but I'll get to that film sometime later, Halloween IV was the second installment I've also watched and to my surprise, it's arguably the best in the series it even surpasses the original Halloween.Sure, some of the characters are underdeveloped and would've given a lot more depth to them, but that flaw is completely wiped out by it's praises. The story captures the tone and spirit of the original Halloween and makes it both engaging and terrifying. The direction from Dwight H. Little is excellent and did a very good at creating a mood of suspense and atmosphere. It's also well-paced and the music from Alan Horvath, once again teaming up with John Carpenter, is excellent and gives out what they have with some of the most atmospheric moments which fits really well in the film like the previous entries. The death scenes are also gruesome and creative, but the strongest aspect goes too the ensemble cast who gave out their amazing performances they had used especially the ever loyal Donald Pleasance and Danille Harris who did a fantastic job as Jamie Lloyd.Overall, Halloween IV The Return of Michael Myers is by no means the best of the series and is always worth-watching for fans of the original classic. Go watch it if you have the chance to. It's that good. "},{"Title":"An uneven but overall solid chapter of the Michael Myers legacy","Date":"24 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Let's get this right out in the open John Carpenter's Halloween is probably the best horror film ever made. Keeping that in mind, any sequel is bound to elicit a measure of disappointment simply because matching or exceeding the peerless kickoff to this series is an impossible feat. But despite an extremely spotty track record, the (admittedly over-)extended Halloween franchise has its share of strong efforts, and this fourth installment certainly deserves to be mentioned in that capacity.The most effective aspect of The Return Of Michael Myers is how closely it adheres to the atmosphere and spirit of the original, and though there is a clear effort made to incorporate some overt bloodshed to please fans of the '80s splatter cycle, Halloween 4 has even more in common with the first Night HE Came Home than the hastily made but suitably enjoyable part II. This offering faithfully duplicates the deceptively ominous leaf-strewn streets of Haddonfield, the manic fervor of the returning Dr. Loomis, and, most importantly, the deadly disposition of The Shape him(it?)self. At this point in the series, we're still a couple of sequels away from quasi-mystical ramblings about ancient Pagan symbols and hip and edgy self-aware contemporary updates, and, thankfully, we're a world removed from Rob Zombie's obtusely trippy white stallion hallucinations. So, the Michael Myers we get here is the same remorseless and unyielding killing machine we were introduced to ten years before, and his purpose is equally singular and inexplicable. That's precisely what makes him the perfect Boogeyman, and Return wisely maintains the air of menace and mystery that later entries watered down by neutering our series figurehead via ridiculous plot elements that were closer to parody than they were to anything resembling horror. Halloween 4 isn't about rappers doing battle with a pop culture serial slayer, it's about a malevolent force stalking and killing anyone who gets in its way, and at least in that sense, the film remains true to its aim.The impetus for the titular Return is Michael's eight year-old niece Jamie Lloyd, the orphaned daughter of the, we're informed, deceased Laurie Strode (H2O et al. decided differently, but this development works for our purposes here). If you can accept the apparent psychic bond that allows Jamie to have nightmares about the uncle she's never seen before he re-appears in Haddonfield and Michael's myopic fixation on murdering a relative he really shouldn't know even exists, this cat-and-mouse aspect of the plot falls into place rather nicely.Jamie is played by the debuting Danielle Harris, who delivers an absolutely fantastic performance, especially given her age and lack of experience. Harris was a great find, and even during the film's most harrowing sequences, her acting chops easily rival those of any of her more seasoned cast-mates. Her youth ends up being a major asset because of its direct deviation from the archetypes of the strict slasher formula, and the fact that a relatively defenseless child is at the nucleus of Michael's murderous rampage heightens the tension immeasurably.Of course, Return does feature its share of goofiness. While the presence of Donald Pleasence is certainly welcome and integral to the story, his occasional dalliances with overblown histrionics create unfortunately cheesy moments out of a few scenes that should be bubbling with intensity. Also, though The Shape is as formidable and sadistic here as fans would hope for, his ability to teleport from an industrial power plant to a suburban neighborhood in the span of one scene, and to apparently hide beneath the chassis of a moving pick-up truck for several miles before climbing into the bed and catching the passengers unaware, strikes a serious blow against the hyper-realism that grounds the most potent terror elements in the series.But despite the sillier aspects here, the film as a whole hits more often than it misses. Several references to Carpenter's benchmark such as an homage to the POV murder which launched the saga and Jamie's donning of a clown costume identical to the one worn by her uncle when he was her age keep part 4 closely tied to its source. Even better, the utilization of a few subtle shots of the iconic ghostly mask hidden deep in the background while the future victims go about their business completely unaware of their peril re-establish the lurking Shape persona which provided the original Halloween with its most indelible images. There's also a mirthful scene between the hitchhiking Dr. Loomis and a drunken fire-and-brimstone religious zealot that allows Pleasence to crack a smile for a change, which will remind savvy viewers of his endearingly coy grin after the Lonnie, get your ass away from there moment from 1978.You'll have to decide for yourself whether the dicey twist ending really works, but it certainly does finish off the film on a tremendously dark and shocking note, which is in keeping with the fairly serious tone Return maintains throughout. Chalk that at as yet another touch which sets this entry apart from some of the unbearably ridiculous drek that followed it.I'm not sure if I can definitively state that this is the best of the Halloween sequels, but it is most assuredly nowhere near the worst. I realize that's not a huge endorsement once you've seen how low this franchise proved itself capable of sinking later on, but you can consider it an endorsement nonetheless. "},{"Title":"Halloween 4 The Return of Michael Myers brings the mask-wearing maniac home for the holiday","Date":"24 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" John Carpenter didn't know what he was unleashing in 1978 when his independent slasher Halloween hit theaters. It was a runaway sensation which spawned hundreds of imitators and continues to even now. Whenever a movie is financially successful, you can bet on it studios are going to demand a sequel. Halloween II followed the original in 1981 without Carpenter's direction. It picked up exactly where the first one left off. An attempt to take the Halloween franchise into a different direction without the help of serial killer Michael Myers chopping away at victims failed in a third movie. The decision was made to re-instate the successful formula of the first two films with the next installment, Halloween 4 The Return of Michael Myers. Anchor Bay released a new Blu-ray version of the 1988 movie and it looks marvelous. It's the 10th anniversary of the Halloween night massacre in Haddonfield, Illinois. Michael Myers escapes from an ambulance while being transferred to another mental facility. He makes his way to the small town obsessed with finding and killing his nine-year-old niece. Dr. Loomis is hot on his bloody trail and must protect the girl and her new family from the knife-wielding maniac. Halloween IV The Return of Michael Myers is a competent follow-up to the second film. It contains everything fans of the original could want with the exception of Jamie Lee Curtis. The movie takes viewers back to the familiar location of Haddonfield 10 years later. It shows us how the town has dealt with the many deaths of their family members a decade before. There's also a direct tie to the first two films because the character of Jamie is the daughter of Laurie Strode. We see the return of Dr. Loomis and gain some insight into what happened to him after the hospital fire in Halloween II. It's interesting to note that there are very few actual scenes of stabbing or hacking. Director Dwight H. Little chose to go for a less- is-more approach and cuts away from direct scenes of penetrating carnage. It gives the film a bit of a Hitchcockian atmosphere. You can tell Little wanted to focus more on the suspense and less on the graphic violence. However, there's still plenty of blood and gore to thrill horror enthusiasts. Actor Danielle Harris is perfect as the character of Michael Myers' nine-year-old niece, Jamie. She moves back and forth through emotions quite effectively and is convincing in the role. Donald Pleasance pours his heart and soul into his portrayal of Dr. Loomis for a third time. It's excellent to see a veteran actor of his caliber take a part in what most would call a simple slasher film and treat it with such a high level of sincerity. The high-definition transfer looks and sounds excellent. The picture maintains its original feel but is clear and precise at the same time. The audio delivers all the slashing, screams, and pulsating music your nerves can take thanks to a 5.1 surround mix. Special features for this edition include two separate audio commentaries with actors Ellie Cornell and Danielle Harris and director Dwight H. Little and author Justin Beahm. The 'Halloween 4 / 5' Discussion Panel from the 25th Anniversary celebration is also here. It contains a theatrical trailer as well. Fans of the franchise who are always looking for the latest and greatest versions of these films will want to run out and buy the new Halloween 4 The Return of Michael Myers Blu-ray from Anchor Bay. Consumers will also be happy with its slightly altered but new packaging. Some interesting bonus material sweetens the deal and adds value to the product. http//contributor.yahoo.com/user/849014/eric_shirey.html "},{"Title":"Deserves a better rating","Date":"28 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Personally, I think this is one of the best sequels in the series. It has a great plot, and some pretty good acting. This movie starts out with 2 paramedics getting killed by Myers while in an ambulance. He escapes and Dr.Loomis hears about it. He works his way to haddonfield. This is where you meet the 2 main characters Rachael Corruthers and Jamie Lloyd. Soon enough Dr.Loomis finds Myers and this is where the killings begin. Once again, I will say that this is a great plot and great acting. It has some pretty good action scenes, great and realistic kills, and everything you want from a horror movie. So overall, I give this a 7/10. "},{"Title":"Not nearly as bad as you'd think","Date":"28 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I saw this for the first time today and agree with many of the posts that it's actually quite good. I had been put off anything to do with Halloween having recently wasted nearly 2 hours of my time and about £10.00 watching the remake which is as bad as anyone could have presumed. This though was quite suspenseful and did have enough anxious moments that you could say it works somewhat as a scary movie. Personally child actors are always a bit nauseating so I'd rather have a teenage heroine who can try and fight back than some screaming kid. As with Jason, Michael Myers now takes on a walking dead persona and somehow this makes them less interesting than when they are pure psychologically disturbed human beings. Also, his mask seemed too clean for my liking - as if it was an advert for Persil but his look still scares me more than Freddy and Jason. Despite these petty quibbles of mine, you still get the gloriously hammy Donald Pleasance and to this day, just that appearance of Myers at the edge of the screen prior to an attack still gives me shivers. "},{"Title":"Michael's Back, for better or for worse....","Date":"25 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" After a seven year layoff from movie screens (and one ill fated Halloween sequel unrelated to the Myers saga) everyone's favorite pale faced serial killer returned to the multiplexes in 1988's HALLOWEEN 4 THE RETURN OF MICHAEL MYERS, which may not be the best of the Halloween sequels (that honor would go to Halloween II in my opinion) but thankfully it's far from the worst (that would be a toss up between 5 and 6 in my book). As far as everyone knew, both Michael Myers and Dr. Loomis (the iconic Donald Pleasance) were killed in the fiery finale of Halloween II, but over the intervening years I assume that the Halloween producers must have noticed how much money the Friday the 13th people were raking in throughout the 80s by bringing THEIR guy back from the dead over and over again, and decided Hey, we can do that too! Thus, Pleasance reprises his role as the gun-toting psychiatrist, looking slightly the worse for wear and carrying a bigger gun than he did in the 70s, which is a good thing because in the opening moments of H4 a catatonic Michael reawakens during an ambulance ride to a new facility, kills off the paramedics attending to him, and heads off to his hometown of Haddonfield to carve more than just Jack-O-Lanterns. Due to the law of diminishing sequel returns, Jamie Lee Curtis (whose career was at its peak in the late 80s) did not return to the series as Laurie Strode so the makers of 4 introduced a new character for Michael to stalk... Jamie Lloyd (played by Danielle Harris), Laurie's 8 year old daughter. In this continuity, Laurie has been killed in a car crash and Jamie is finding it hard to adjust to living with her new adopted family, particularly when her Uncle Mike arrives for a family reunion carrying a big ol' carving knife. Once he blacks out the town by tossing an unfortunate power company worker into the heart of the transformer, chaos reigns as Loomis attempts to get Jamie and her stepsister Rachel (Ellie Cornell) to safety while a posse of shotgun-toting rednecks roam the streets trying to hunt down the serial killer (and provide some comedy relief in the bargain). Director Dwight H. Little (known mostly for genre TV and a few action films) keeps things rolling along at a fast pace and fans of the earlier films will appreciate his little nods to the original Halloween, such as Jamie's character being named for Jamie Lee Curtis and the fact that she wears the same clown costume that young Michael Myers wore as a child in the opening scene of the original Halloween. Sadly, as viewers of Halloween 5 and 6 know, the series took a swift downturn from here on. Halloween 4 may not be a perfect sequel (I never liked the look of Michael's mask in this film, it looks too clean and freshly pressed), but it does an admirable job of trying to recreate the vibe of the 1978 classic and it is certainly better than most of the films that followed it. The Halloween ship was briefly righted in the late 90s when Jamie Lee Curtis returned for H20, which ignored the continuity begun in this movie (thus confusing a legion of fans for over a decade now) but despite that, Halloween 4 is still a mostly worthy addition to the ongoing saga of The Shape. "},{"Title":"Good flick","Date":"21 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Well it was a good movie as far as slasher flicks go. I don't think it had the same vibe as Halloween 1 and 2 . but it was far better then the Halloweens that would come later .I would watch it at least a couple times a year just to have a little fun. but if you are a serious fan of the Halloween series you know that 1 and 2 were the best films .Saying all of that if you want to have a good night of just sitting around in the dark and watching horror movies all night this film would not be a bad one to put on and enjoy.and you might even get a jumb out of your girlfriend or wife. My girlfriend always jumps during this film. "},{"Title":"Great Movie That Resurrected the Series Only to Be Followed by Lame Sequels","Date":"28 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Halloween 4 The Return of Michael Myers (1988) Starring Donald Pleasance, Ellie Cornell, and Danielle Harris Directed by Dwight H. LittleIn 1978 the world was introduced to psychopath Michael Myers, who stalked the screens in the extremely successful Halloween, which has come to be possibly the most influential horror movie of all time and the most successful independent film of all time. It was later followed by the decent Halloween II that didn't live up to the original but gave it a nice try. Michael Myers was put to rest for a little to allow the series to try for a new storyline in Halloween III Season of the Witch, but that flopped at the box office and Hollywood decided to put the Halloween name to rest for a little. Then, six years later, Michael Myers was brought back to the screen in the awesome thriller Halloween 4 The Return of Michael Myers in which new characters were introduced, old ones returned, and tons of thrills awaited.The story isn't bad in Halloween 4; Michael awakes from a coma on October 30th, 1988, nearly ten years to the day since he was put in it. He escapes from a hospital truck and heads back to Haddonfield, looking for his sister Lori (who does not appear in this but was played by Jamie Lee Curtis in the first and second Halloween films). Rather than finding Lori, Michael finds her daughter Jamie (played by the magnificent and amazing Danielle Harris) who is living under the foster care of the Carruthers. Her older foster sister Rachel (Ellie Cornell, who almost does as good a job as Jamie Lee Curtis did in the original as the heroine) is Jamie's real friend here. And once Michael returns home looking for Jamie, he'll kill anyone who gets in his way, including Rachel and some of Rachel's friends.Donald Pleasance returns as Dr. Sam Loomis, and his performance of the character has not let up yet. He is equally as captivating and heroic as he was in the original Halloween, only this time he is more determined to kill Michael. As Loomis tries to find his way to Haddonfield, Michael's home town where Jamie is, he is side tracked by explosions, cruel kids, the loss of a car, and even a man who is searching to kill his own 'devil.' The true question becomes whether or not Loomis will be able to save Jamie and Rachel and survive Michael again. There are other characters here, including a new Sheriff, Rachel's cheating boyfriend, the Sheriff's bad natured daughter, and a whole bunch of town resident Red Necks that want revenge on Michael for what he did years ago.Sadly, this great sequel would be a little let down by the story line of Halloween 5 The Revenge of Michael Myers and then even more destroyed in Halloween The Curse of Michael Myers. Then, when Halloween H20 rolls around, Halloween 4, Halloween 5, and Halloween The Curse of Michael Myers would be forgotten and acted as if they never happened. This is a wonderful entry to the Halloween series that isn't too gory and involves all the right elements that the original Halloween defined to be in a horror movie, but this film is original about it. Not many horror films can say they almost lived up to the original Halloween but Halloween 4 The Return of Michael Myers can.8/10- Recommended for people looking for a thrill or a scare "},{"Title":"Quick Reviews!!","Date":"7 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" POSSIBLE SPOILERS!!Michael Myers hears he has a niece and decides it is time for him to rise from his coma and begin his hunt again, having been burnt to a crisp 10 years earlier. He escapes from hospital and heads for Haddonfield, and for his niece Jamie, a pre teen girl. Unlike the previous 2 sequels, Halloween 4 has some effective scares and a decent plot. While it is still a cash in on the original, 4, and 5 are the only other films in the series which can stand respectably with the original. Not as good, but not as terrible as you might expect. This is largely because of Danielle Harris' performance, she outshines every other cast member, who admittedly are playing stupid teens ready to be slaughtered, but the range of emotions she shows at such a young age proves that she is the best actress of her generation. However, she can't get a decent role, and is content to do voices for The Wild Thornberries etc. As with most slasher sequels, the kill count is very high and the death scenes more elaborate and ridiculous, with most of the central characters being wiped out. Unlike most slasher sequels though, the script is good, and the twist at the end is very effective, if a little strange, considering the events in number 5. The director does well, creating a fair amount of tension, and we do not simply sigh as we wait for the inevitable next kill and final showdown. Pleasance returns and is as good as ever, but he now is beginning to show signs of insanity, as Myers is taking over his life. Overall this does have a few of the expected flaws of a sequel, but it will surprise you by being better than you would think. 8 out of 10 "}{"Title":"Possibly the best Halloween sequel there is","Date":"29 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The trouble with this film, is that a lot of people had it in their mind they were going to hate it before they even saw it. This is probably, in large part, thanks to the 3rd installment and possibly even the 2nd.But if you actually sit down and watch it without thinking about whether or not you will hate it, I can almost guarantee you, you will think that is is one of the best slasher sequels there are.Obviously not as good as the original, Halloween 4 is more of a tribute to it. Something which was long overdue in my opinion, what with the awful Halloween III.I don't get scared by horror films as a rule, so when one comes along which keeps me on the edge of my seat, I know it must be good. This film did exactly that. The film had some flaws, but overall kept within the shadow of the original, rather than falling completely out of it like the third film.I think it is probably the best Halloween sequel there is. Some may argue H20 was better, but I am not so sure. "},{"Title":"the only halloween sequel worth seeing","Date":"10 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The original Halloween is amongst the greatest horror films of all time. That being said, it may best to seperate horror films into two categories the originals and the sequels.  The horror sequel is often so removed from the original work on which it was based that these films deserve to be considered a seperate genre altogether.  The examples are endless, but in all cases there is a marked difference from the first film in a series and the ones that follow it, both in quality and structure.  Think Jaws vs. Jaws 2-4 (or is it 5?)  But every once in a while a sequel comes along that may not necessarily be as good as the original but which is a good horror film none the less.  Halloween 4 is perhaps the best film ever to be produced by a horror franchise.  The movie is evenly paced, structured well, and Danielle Harris and Donald Pleasance both turn in very impressive performances.  Particularly Harris who manages to be a very engaging victim, while never loosing the slightly creepy air of her charecter.  The film relies on all the things that made the original so intreaguing.  There is no real effort made to explain Michael's motivation as a murderer, he is simply evil on two legs.  (though I do find it interesting that he seems to express remorse when confronted with a picture of Jamie Lee Curtis).  The charecters around the main cast are adequately developed though stereotypical (I am a particular fan of the drunken mob who accidently kill Ted Hollister.) And though the film often succumbs to the stereotypes of 80's slasher movies (the big breasted blonde slut, promiscuous teens, chaecters who break there legs but hobble and fight on, etc.) just like the original there is a genuine sense of morbid horror atmosphere in much of the film, and it manages to avoid all the major pitfalls of the horror sequel, plus it has a great ending.  As I said earlier horror sequels are a unique animal, generaly they rely on what worked in the original and try to make it bigger and better just like any sequel, but often they screw things up by adding gimicks or rediculous plot twists, Halloween 4 succeds in keeping this to a minimum, and builds a solid movie on the same foundation as Carpenter did in the original- there is a killer lose in a neighborhood that looks just like yours killing people who look like you and your neighbors. Why and who isn't as important as keeping suspense high and showing how. Halloween 4 is the best horror sequel ever made, one of the top three horror films made in the eighties, and a must see for any fan of this genre of film.        "},{"Title":"You can't kill damnation, Mister.","Date":"6 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Halloween 4 (or H10 as some call it) marks Michael Myers' triumphant return to the series after a less than lackluster part III.  It may not be the best of all the sequels, but I think it's my favorite.  I'll admit it's flawed, but, for being written in a mere 11 days, it's damn entertaining.  This film remains scary and true to its roots.  Unlike the Friday the 13th and Nightmare on Elm Street franchises, Halloween never became comical or repetitive (well, at least the first 6).  I feel that Myers was never anything to laugh at and was genuinely creeped out by his presence.  Donald Pleasence succeeds in giving me the creeps sometimes as well.  His portrayal of Dr. Loomis, burned and crippled now, adds up to a fantastic, eccentric performance.  He really isn't in the film that much, but the flick doesn't suffer for it.  His parts are interesting and the composition between him and the old preacher pretty much sums up everything.  Loomis seems to be replaced by beer-bellied rednecks running around in the dark with shotguns, which is a great plot element because it would really happen.  I also have to comment on the girls, Danielle Harris and Ellie Cornell; very believable acting on both their parts.  My favorite scene in the film is the ending, a very unexpected and a fitting tribute to the original.  If you weren't happy with part III, don't let that be the reason for missing this one. "},{"Title":"michael returns!","Date":"17 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  michael myers and dr.loomis (donald pleasence) are back in halloween 4 the return of michael myers. michael goes back to haddonfeild to hunt down his two foster niece's rachell cruthers (ellie cornell) and jamie loyd (daniell harris) and with an all new sherrif, sherrif meeker (beu starr),loomis and meeker try to track down michael who gets involved with the whole town including meeker's daughter kellie meeker (kathleen kinmont) and everybody's x-boyfriend brady (sasha jenson). dr.hoffman (michael pataki)also stars in this horror classic.out of all the halloween's, this one is the most intense!! "},{"Title":"Good sequel, one of the better","Date":"18 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  With the addition of Laurie Strode's daughter, Jamie Strode, and the addition of other families, this film really surprised me. I actually liked it, despite the cheesy 80's music.The only thing I don't like is how they have NOT incorporated Jamie with the rest of the Halloween sequels. It leaves an open field of what happened with her and the baby from part 6.8/10 "},{"Title":"Loads Of Horrifying Fun!","Date":"30 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Halloween 4 The Return Of Michael Myers was a very entertaining and fun movie. I love the Halloween movies, and this one is one of the better ones. Surprised to see her in this, Danielle Harris made a great performance for having one of the main roles, and being only ten or eleven. Ellie Cornell was also great, and the unforgettable performances of Donald Pleasence in the Halloween films are always spectacular. This is a must see for Halloween fans. I give Halloween 4 The Return Of Michael Myers a 10 out of 10! "},{"Title":"Apocalypse, End of the World, Armageddon. It's always got a face and a name.","Date":"21 October 2015","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" After Halloween III veered in a new direction without Michael Myers, the indestructible killing machine of the franchise, the rights to the series changed hands and so it came to pass that part 4 (though part 3 in essence) brought Myers back. After being in a coma for ten years Myers is up for a transfer to a sanitarium, but wouldn't you know it, he wakes up and upon hearing he has a niece back in Haddonfield, he sets off on a murderous rampage back to where it all began.It's one of the Halloween sequels that causes much debate among the series' fans, there are those who decry its lack of blood and its ordinary screenplay (both viable complaints), and those such as myself who like that it reverts back to what made the series start so brilliantly. Including a superbly devilish nod to the start of the 78 film.Haddonfield becomes a town under siege, this the work of one monster, or as Donald Pleasence's scar faced doctor says - evil on two legs. Myers once again is just glimpsed here and there, adding that unearthly suspense factor, until he hones in on his niece and her foster sister and the pursuit begins. Some of the interim characterisations are padding out the run time, the usual teen angst romantic flannel, but Pleasence's determined Dr. Loomis is never far away to remind us that everyone is doomed! Then of course there's the ending, which is an absolute beaut.There's no brains on offer here, but it's a worthy sequel and a good tracer line for its iconic bogeyman. The story has moved on to another level and leaves the fans hankering for more. 7/10 "},{"Title":"The Best one out of all 8 films","Date":"20 October 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Halloween 4 the Return of Michael myers takes place 10 years after the original and marks the return of Myers to the screen after 7 years of absence since the failed Halloween 3. Halloween 4 starts out showing Myers surviving the fiery explosion thought to have killed him in part 2 but rather being in a coma for the last decade. Now awake he goes after his young Nice Jaime Llyod the orphaned daughter of heroine Laurie Strode. Dr. Loomis, who also survived the explosion, now scarred and crippled races to stop him.Halloween 4 is the best of all 8 films in my opinion, cause the atmosphere and plot are the most original along with a superior script penned by Alan McElroy. Danielle Harris is amazing as Jaime and Ellie Cornell does a great job as Rachel. The real star of the film is Donald Pleascene, reprising his role as Loomis. he is an amazing hero and a great character, especially in the scene at the gas station where he confronts Myers he shows absolutely no fear whatsoever. Best film out of all 8 of them better than 5 6 h20 resurrection the remake and H2. "},{"Title":"THE best in the series outside of the original and the remake.","Date":"14 May 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Halloween 4 was a revolution for this extremely successful franchise about the masked madman Michael Myers who has a taste for his own family's blood.Years after the first incident in the original movie, Michael Myers has escaped the clutches of Dr. Loomis again and is now on the move back to Haddonfield to kill his niece Jamie Lloyd (Laurie Strode's daughter). Jamie (Danielle Harris's debut role) is a shy little girl, adopted by the Caruthers, including Rachel, her new sister (Ellie Cornell).When Michael shows up on Halloween a whole mess of blood soaked fun begins and Jamie and Rachel must try to stay alive until Dr. Loomis (Donald Pleasance just as good as ever) can come to the rescue.Danielle Harris and Ellie Cornell have a great chemistry and the story, although unbelievable, works well with those two in the lead. You feel genuinely scared for poor little Jamie. Michael is as frightening as ever and this is one of the best in the Halloween series to reach the silver screen. It was followed by the not as successful Halloween 5, but this stands as a landmark and a favorite for millions of fans in the franchise. "},{"Title":"A good attempt.","Date":"20 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Halloween 4 The Return of Michael Myers is the fourth installment in the Halloween franchise, but it's the actual third film in the series featuring the psychotic zombie Michael Myers going back to Haddonfield in stalk of more victims. After the events of Halloween II when Laurie Strode (Jamie Lee Curtis) survives the grizzly attacks, she hides far away where not even a ghost could catch her. Return of Michael Myers finds a way for the killer Michael Myers to come back to life in which after being burned like a steak, he wakes up from the dead after realizing that he has a niece. Donald Pleasence makes his return as Dr. Samuel Loomis, Michael's doctor and nemesis, for which he can't believe that the murders are taking place again.It's not much of a masterpiece like the first film, but it joins Halloween II as a good sequel not to be miss. "}{"Title":"Pretty good, but not solid.","Date":"29 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" When I saw this movie was being released, I had to see it. One of my fondest memories as a child was sneaking in to see the first one when I was only 11-years-old. It scared me to death. While Halloween IV did not reach the same peak, it does deliver a few punches. We learn quickly that Laurie Strode (Jamie Lee Curtis) had a little girl named Jamie (Danielle Harris). However, since Laurie died in a car crash, Jamie is now in adoptive care. She has strange nightmares about the Boogeyman, Michael Meyers. Meanwhile, Michael Meyers has been resting in a mental hospital for the last ten years, waiting for the right time to leave. Close to Halloween, he comes out of his coma to stalk again. He's after his young niece, who happens to find the perfect Halloween Costume&#151;the same one Michael Meyers wore the first night he struck in 1963. The movie has some strength. First, Director Dwight Little tries a few new things with the horror genre and slasher approach&#151;especially towards the beginning. He is able to build suspense and not just go for the cheap thrill&#151;as the Friday the 13th Series did. He also goes back to the original idea which does not rely heavily on bloody special affects, but rather story, pacing, and character development. The second is Dr. Sam Loomis&#151;who is just as indestructible as Michael Meyers. Donald Pleasance reprises his role (although Jamie Lee Curtis does not make any appearances) with the same melodrama of the first two movies. He continually pleas with Michael to stop his vendetta, and begs the police to listen to his nonsensical rants. Third, Michael Meyers has a personality he never betrays. Michael always uses brute strength to attack his victims. He also splits them up before taking them out. Also, he usually kills only to set-up a trap or escape.Also, unlike Jason Voorhes, there is someone in there, trying to get out. Michael's identity almost surfaces twice as Dr. Loomis pleas with him to leave Haddonfield alone. Almost like a dual personality, Michael listens, before the monster takes over again. Finally, there is some pretty good acting going on&#151;especially in newcomer Danielle Harris who plays Jamie. She plays the character with complexity, fear, determination, and desperation so well. She struggles with being a child&#151;one who is related to the Boogeyman. This psychological milieu, is where she really shines.A few questions will raise some red flags, though. Those who remember the mediocre Halloween II might recall that Michael had his eyes shot out at point blank range ... so how can he see? Secondly, after being in a coma for ten years, he gets up and walks away. It seems very unlikely since his muscles would have atrophied. The first half of the movie works well, pulling off some good scares along with good pacing and character development. However, the second half of this movie falls apart. The screenplay and direction becomes aimless, uneven and shoddy&#151;almost as if screenwriters confused Little with countless rewrites.The serious abrupt change comes in the third act when all the audience has is a generic slasher flick taken from the Friday the 13th School of Horror. If you're a fan of the original Halloween, you will like Halloween IV to a certain degree. But just like many sequels, it cannot live up to the original. "},{"Title":"Loved it!","Date":"26 November 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I have to say that i loved this film, i really enjoyed watching it and totally didn't expect the ending to be so good. I was so shocked at the ending, it was fantastic, well done to the writers, what a twist. The story for Halloween 4 was very good, it has to be one of the best Halloween films and thats including the horrific remake, what a pile of crap that film was. I thought the little girl who played Jamie was very good. If you're looking for a film with scary moments and ones that will make you jump then this is the film for you, you will not be disappointed. I loved it and i cant wait to watch it again. Lovers of the original Halloween film will definitely enjoy it. "},{"Title":"The best Halloween sequel until H20","Date":"28 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Halloween 4 The Return of Michael Myers is arguably the best sequel to Halloween until Halloween H20. The script was written by a fan of the series itself, the characters are very genuine and they do the smart thing. Instead of running up to the figure she sees while frantically searching for Jamie on the streets, Rachel very wisely runs away from the menacing silhouette of what apparently is Michael Myers. There are many nods to the original the clown costume that Jamie wears, Jamie herself, Dr. Loomis, the music, some lines the script...the list goes on. The characters are very genuine; they aren't supermodels like in so many other horror films. Until Halloween H20 came out this film was definitely the best Halloween sequel bottom line. "},{"Title":"Partially my favorite of the 8 movie series","Date":"5 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Halloween 4 outdoes most of the rest. Halloween will remain the greatest, but Halloween 4 takes the cake, because of the well thought out plot. It goes from one part of the movie to the next making you say, Oh No, what will they do now since so-and-so are here running towards there with him/her/they. Or maybe your sleeping, whichever.6 out of 10, I was disappointed that Moustapha Ahkid (what?) didn't direct this movie, but I'm assuming that this new guy did fine. The movie was a success, and not many are complaining. This is the movie that started a chain reaction of crappy ones. Five is pretty good also, I personally haven't seen 6, but 7 and 8 is too much, even though I love them all.That reminds me, I have to go rent Halloween 6 sometime soon. I think it has something to do with a curse, Halloween 4 he returns though, remember that! "},{"Title":"Best of the sequels","Date":"30 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Halloween 4 is the only sequel that lives up to the original film in its atmosphere. Danielle Harris is excellent as the young niece of Michael Myers. With her parents dead, she is now the target of the unkillable monster. Helping her is the reliable Donald Pleasance as Dr. Loomis. I think this is the movie where Loomis's obsession with Myers starts showing through(it was only hinted at in the first two). It's too bad the future sequels did not follow in the direction as this movie. This could have moved the movies in a different direction. Halloween 5 was rather dull, Halloween 6 was overly gory, and the others are just forgettable. Still, I love this movie a lot and will watch it every year on Halloween. I give this movie a 9/10. "},{"Title":"A better sequel than it's perhaps given credit.","Date":"2 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Ok, the idea to create a franchise of these films was misguided; the second was awful, slow, turgid and numbing, diminishing the scare of MM by taking it out of the little microcosm of the first, linking the narrative of the second to the first by creating a sequel of events which unfolded on the same night as the original was shamefully lazy and painfully executed. The third, perhaps a very haphazard attempt at remedying the first sequel and dear god how they failed! Halloween 4 is the best of the expanding catalogue of sequels and maintains the claustrophobic unease of Carpenter's 1978 pic'. It sure isn't groundbreaking but it is far superior to the new wave of 'knowing' horror films, which included H20 and its follow, or cling ons. H4 is so obviously uncool, it isn't sexy and that is partly why it maintains the fear, the presence of an LL Cool J character or a Busta Rhymes in this film's further sequels eases the tension by rousing racial stereotypes; these guys play themselves and within that there is no fear of death, they provide comedy value. Perhaps i'm rambling but Michael's presence is certainly diminished by the presence of an African American who jovially conveys how he has probably experienced far worse in the ghetto or the hood citing no particular examples. Stick to white, teenage female babysitters perhaps? H4 is a lagging second to H1978 but it is an example of one of the last straight up genre horror films before Freddy's Dead which was probably the catalyst for the mid 90s trendy resurgance and deviation of an entire genre. "},{"Title":"Underrated","Date":"31 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is by far the best of the Halloween sequels.  Like the original, it has a likable heroine in Danielle Harris as Jaimie.  The movie is scary and keeps you at the edge of your seat right on up to the jaw dropping finale.  It also seems to have the right music chord like the first two movies.  It's too bad that future sequels did not live up to this movie.  "},{"Title":"Second best in the series!","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Often times its an unwritten rule that no sequel in a horror movie series can be better than the original. But that doesnt mean the sequels cant be great. This is one of the 4 good Halloween movies ( Halloween, H4, H5 and Resurrection)The storyline Myers has awoken from his coma ( Not suprising, he was only shot once or twice and burnt to a crisp in the last movie) and now hes after his 7 year old neice, Jamie. ( Played wonderfully by the very talented Danielle Harris) Sure, the storyline is nothing special but this is a slasher, be thankful there is a story.Violence and gore are well done too. Too bad Myers doesnt know how to work a shotgun though.Director Dwight Little did a great job with this movie.( Heh, coincidence, my grandfathers name was Dwight Small) Donald Pleasence as always did great as Loomis, and same goes for Ellie Cornell. And as stated earlier, Danielle Harris does a simply fantastic job, For once I actually felt bad for the kid rather than wishing they were killed.Tis a shame no other Halloween movie reached the level of perfection the original and part 4 achieved. "},{"Title":"Possibly the most enjoyable Michael Myers Film??","Date":"16 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  First things first, I don't need to tell you the relief I felt when I found out the 4th Halloween installment saw a return of Michael. So pretending the 3rd Halloween never took place this follows 10 years from the original.The start is brilliant, dark and very atmospheric because of the hospital, the weather and the creepy security guard behind the desk, who fills us in on the ending of the 2nd. The escape which although is a little expecting still scared me very bad! Its not long before we are introduced to Jamie, the likeable daughter of Laurie, who is brilliantly acted. The acting in this film is excellent the whole way through with other likeable characters in Rachel and the police chief. Dr. Loomis makes his return as a frail old man who although well played you cant help but feel his character is a little past it. Yet he comes back after Michael and their meeting in the petrol garage is frantic! So set up is the rest of the movie, a cat and mouse hunt for Jamie by 'the almost impossible to stop' Michael with Loomis hunting the killer.The best bit in the movie is in the police cheif's house. It seems a very realistic setting and the 'no way out' part is brilliant. I won't reveal anymore in-case you've never seen it but this movie is by far one of my favourite's in the series. I could have hoped for no more in the return of micheal myers and the stronger, more powerful Michael Myers was a brilliant way to stop the character getting boring. So with an excellent story and great acting I'd give this movie 9.5/10!  "},{"Title":"Surprisingly, one of the better Halloween films","Date":"11 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This one was pretty good. It's premise was original, and the movie was actually pretty scary. It was exciting and fun to watch. Of course it can't come close to the original, but it's one of the best #4 sequels I've ever seen. This movie deserves a 6.5/10. "}{"Title":"It was very good, the best since the first...","Date":"6 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I loved it, it was the best since the first. The rooftop scene terrified me, as did many other scenes, but toward the middle of the movie, I began to get a little bored. I was waiting 20 minutes for Michael to finally pop out, and it annoyed me. But overall, I loved it! D "},{"Title":"Pretty Good For #4","Date":"21 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Hey after part 3 this movie was a dream come true. Not that 3 was a bad movie, but Michael was back for another round of slashing and stalking. Another good point about this movie is that it is scary, which alot of movies lose that quality when making sequels but not Halloween. "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"29 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is my 3rd favorite behind the first and H2O. I loved how Jaime's daughter's  life paralleled Michael Myer's life when he was that age. The last scene when she goes after the mother with the knife, like Michael, and then Loomis almost shooting her gave me chills. Great sequel!!!!My order from best to worst I,H2O,IV,II,V,VI (anybody care about III -)  "},{"Title":"Truly one of the best","Date":"10 November 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" After the failure of 'Halloween III Season of the Witch' it appeared that the series was dead and buried...or was it? Had the film been a hit we would more than likely have seen more standalone sequels follow, which personally I would have liked since I adore III and feel it's one of the most underrated horror films ever. But instead what happened was that executive producer Moustapha Akkad got the rights in the late 80s from Debra Hill and John Carpenter, both of which had lost interest in the series, and we got a return of everyone's favorite Boogey Man. Smart move? You bet it was! Pros A spooky opening credits sequence that really captures the spirit of the season. Great performances from everyone, especially the always reliable Donald Pleasence. The idea of Myers stalking a young girl may offend some, but it really pumps up the tension. Excellent direction by Dwight Little who is really good at creating mood and suspense. For the first time Alan Howarth does a 'Halloween' score without John Carpenter and does a bang up job. Some really chilling moments. A few powerful set pieces. Some inventive, brutal kills. Moves at a breakneck pace. A jaw-dropping cliffhanger.Cons You really gotta suspend your disbelief when it comes to some of the kills and things like how Michael got off the roof so fast and more.Final thoughts In a decade filled up with 100s of slasher flicks and sequels, 'Halloween 4' easily could have been just another entertaining, but forgettable stalk-n-slash flick. Fortunately for us it, like the first film, was a labor of love and as a result it's a cut above the rest. Too bad 5 didn't build on what happens at the end of this film because that would have been quite exciting and fresh. Oh well, doesn't tarnish this film a bit in my book.My rating 5/5 "},{"Title":"10 out of 10","Date":"23 June 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" You heard it right. I think this is much better than the others.Why? Because of a lot of things. First, let's go with the story. One of the reasons why this movie gets no good reviews is because of the story where Michael and Dr. Sam Loomis was burned. To put a rest to all of that, I'll give you the scoop. Originally, the beginning of this movie would have the burning hospital with Loomis coming out. The Fire department tries to put the fire out but Loomis would of said No! Let him burn!. Unfortunatlly, it cost too much money to re-do that scene so it was dropped, thus hopefully ending all of the confusion.Now what was I saying? Oh yes, now, Michael is back. And as usual, he isn't taking any prisoners. Now, Laurie died in a car accident, so her daughter Jaimie (Probably an inside joke to Jaimie Lee Curtis) has to be taken care of by another family. Meanwhile, the mental institution is about to take Michael away (With an EXCELLENT cameo by Raymond O' Connor, who makes a lot of great quotes. Including one where you hear a mental guy screaming with the person picking Michael up saying Jesus! to which Raymond says Jesus ain't got nothing to do with this place.). In the ambulance, Michael murders both the people picking him up, and the driver. Nice death in which he drives his thumb through a guys mouth and rams it again the wall repeatedly.Now, Dr. Loomis and Michael both meet up, and a lot of deaths later, Micheal is once again gone, for now...I don't see why this movie doesn't get good reviews, the person in the Michael mask did an exceptional job here. As did the actors, with another great performance by Donald Pleasence. Honestly, I found this MUCH better than my original favorite sequel Halloween 2. While 5, 6, 7, and 8 were mediocre films, this one comes out on top as the best of the sequels.Thumbs up, recommended.Rated R for Profanity, Nudity, Sexual Situations and Extreme Graphic Violence. "},{"Title":"Awsomely Scary!","Date":"1 September 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" this was the first Halloween movie I ever saw, and I must say it was the scariest thing I ever lade eyes on. from start to finish my heart was pounding, I'd never seem anything like it before ever. this film was excellent, the first victim dying by getting a thumb through his skull was a little much, but the rest was fine. the nightmare scene is my favorite moment of the film. one of the best scenes in the whole series. if only the film wasn't about to kill the series with films after it(H5,H6). if Akkad wasn't making the sequels, maybe that ten years of crap he made with the curse might have been better. the only thing that made me think what the? with this film is when Micheal throws Loomis through the elementary school window. you can see that the shape has on an unaltered mask. everything else is great.10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Triumphant Rebirth!","Date":"21 June 2007","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This film marked the new beginning of Michael Myers, and set the series back into business, most definitely, and I know that all Halloween fans will agree with me here. It has a wonderful plot, well-done acting, some major jolts and suspense, and even a little bit of emotional drama within.My favorite part of this whole movie is the very last scene. I'm not spoiling it, but it just involves Jamie Lloyd, the niece of Michael Myers. The very, VERY last shot of the whole movie, to me, is the most terrifying of all. It's the scariest thing that you could ever see in a horror movie, and it's not a death.You'll just have to see it, I guess. ;) "},{"Title":"Alright....Move Him!","Date":"24 June 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I was very impressed with this sequel after the poor attempt of Halloween 3 with no relevance to the first 2 films.The music is funkier in this film and i really enjoyed it.When i watched it on VHS The 1 scene where Micheal is on the car and grabbing rachael the theme music kicks in all the way till she runs him over after she stops the car and he's standing in front of it.On the DVD The same scene the theme music kicks in but is cut after he gets his first grab of her. The scene after when jamies mom is running her a bath and puts the clown mask on and stabs her mom, is great, just like the original. "},{"Title":"The GREATEST Return Yet!","Date":"22 January 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"      After the very unsuccessful HALLOWEEN IIISEASON OF THE WITCH,fans were craving for Michael's return.So writer Alan McElory,who whould later write Wrong Turn,wrote HALLOWEEN 4THE RETURN OF MICHAEL MYERS in 2 weeks.For a film this good,that's impervise.And director Dwight H. Little join in to make one of the greatest returns in film history.    Well it turned out that Michael didn't die on part 2,just burned very bad.And the mental hospital kept it a secret.So just when it was time to move him,he escapse.And goes right back to the happy little town of Haddonfield,were his niece,Jaime Lloyd(Danielle Harris),is adopted at after the death of her mother,Laurie Strode(Jamie Lee Curtis,although not shown in film).Jamie is somehow connected to Michael's evil and has psychic visions of him.But now that Michael's back,Dr.Loomis is back and is he's ready to Michael's madness before he takes over Jamie.    This is just as good as or better than the first.You think Michael's killings where bad on 2,then you got to see this one.I gusse he was happy to be back in business and gave us the best death scenes in the whole series.The director did a great job in bringing back that mood that HALLOWEEN had.And Michael's mask is way more creepy than on the original.Danielle Harris also did a good job in her first role.The ending was just as shocking as the original.It would have been better if they left it with this one. "},{"Title":"Michael Myers is back!!!!","Date":"31 October 2005","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Halloween 4 The Return of Michael Myers is an awesome horror sequel, I was so happy back in 1988 when this movie came out and to see them do this sequel. Donald Pleasence is back as Dr. Sam Loomis. The movie has a great cast in it, Ellie Cornell as Rachel Carruthers, Danielle Harris as Jamie Lloyd, Sasha Jensen as Brady, Beau Starr as the new sheriff of Haddonfield, Ben Meeker, and Kathleen Kinmont as Ben Meeker's daughter, Kelly.It is 10 years later from the events of Halloween and Halloween II, Michael Myers is in a prison for the criminally insane and in a coma.he is about to be transferred to another facility. He is in an ambulance, and hears the attendants talk about a niece he has. Michael awakes and kills the people in the ambulance.Dr. Sam Loomis finds out that Michael is being transferred, but wasn't told by his boss. Then hears that Michael has escaped and goes to Haddonfield, but runs into Michael at a gas station and sees that he killed the people at the station. Michael gets away in a tow truck and causes the gas station to blow up. Dr. Loomis's car catches on fire and blows up too. He has to hitchhike to get to Haddonfield.Dr. Loomis gets to Haddonfield and meets the new sheriff, Ben Meeker. He tells Sheriff Meeker that Michael Myers is in Haddonfield and is after his niece, Jamie Lloyd.Michael is on his homicidal rampage and will kill anyone who gets in his way. Can he be stopped? This movie really did a great job at bringing back the most notorious killer of Halloween.The supporting cast are great, character actor Raymond O'Connor as the Security Guard at the asylum, the late Carmen Filpi as the Reverend Jackson P. Sayer, who picks up Dr. Loomis who was hitchhiking.I give this movie 2 thumbs up and 4 for gore,,lol "}{"Title":"Michael Meyers going through the motions again&#133;","Date":"14 December 2004","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Halloween IV was marketed as the ten year anniversary of Meyers' first killing spree at least as much as it is marketed as the return of Michael Meyers to the Halloween series, or the Halloween series' return to itself, you might say. Halloween III was not so bad, but a lot of people were understandably put off because it had nothing to do with its predecessors. In this installment, almost everyone is back except for Jamie Lee Curtis, who is replaced as an intended victim surprisingly well by Meyers' niece, Jamie Lloyd, played by ten-year-old Danielle Harris.The movie starts off years after where part II left off (except that Meyers and Dr. Loomis have been brought back to life, having clearly died at the end of part II), and Meyers is finally being transferred out of the guarded hospital where he has been kept catatonic all these years. All of the employees at the hospital are relieved to see him go, because he gives the all the creeps. The situation gives the feeling that Meyers is being kept like some kind of alien that they can't figure out how to kill. Some explanation for why he was ever kept alive in the first place would have been in order, I should think.During the transfer, as is to be expected, Meyers comes alive and kills everyone in the ambulance transferring him. Accident investigators on the scene later, immediately assume everyone is dead despite not being able to find all of the bodies, and illustrate their investigative competence by more than once referring to the ambulance as a bus. What follows is a Halloween installment that is sufficiently dark and gloomy, but that is really not much more than a series of death scenes. The electrocution scene, for example, is so obviously contrived that it could just as easily have been installed just about anywhere in any of the other Halloween films.The film concerns Laurie Strode's niece, Jamie, and Strode's foster sister Rachel, who is, of course, having boy trouble. Her troubles may be a little difficult to understand, however, because not only is the object of her affection amazingly goofy looking, but he is also a complete idiot and a total jerk. In only one example of his lack of cognitive function, he doesn't know who Michael Meyers is. That's like someone in Waco, Texas having no idea why their town is famous. The difficulty I had in mourning or caring about his death was matched only by the ease with which the fate of his relationship with Rachel could be predicted.One of the only people involved in the original Halloween and the first sequel is Donald Pleasance, who always performs wonderfully but here is given nothing more than a lot of lines where he talks about pure evil and he's not human and you don't know how to stop him and he's right here in this town you have to believe me, etc. etc. etc. Given that such an important part of the series agreed to come back, after Jamie Lee Curtis and John Carpenter declined to join, it would seem that they would put a little more effort into his part.In one scene, the movie threatens to go in a bad direction, when Loomis gets out of a police car and prepares to shoot down Michael Meyers, only to discover that he is surrounded by Meyerses. The horror at the thought of Michael having multiplied is clear on his face, but as he and the shocked officer with him prepare to fire, the kids pull off their masks and run off into the night, hooting and hollering about how funny they are and how great that was. These kids are so monumentally stupid that I wish at least one of them had been shot.Later in the film, after most of the police force has been killed off in their own police station by Michael Meyers, the local rednecks decide to take matters in their own hands. Meyers has been here before, killed too many kids, and now the police station is in ruins because of a single lurching man who doesn't even use guns (at one point in this movie he is even holding a shotgun pointed at a girl, and he stabs her with it rather than shoot her, a classic Meyers move). I'd get my shotgun, too. Not that I have one. But if I did, I'd be a little more discriminating as to when I'd take a shot. In a scene soon thereafter, the men see some movement in the bushes and they all unload on it, killing one of their friends. Nice. I love their strategy - everyone get their shotguns, and let's all pile into Earl's pickup truck and blow the hell out of anything that moves! Or Steve's truck, or Bill's, or whoever's it was. The best part was that when they got within shooting distance of Meyers, they all gave up and decided to leave it to the authorities.However, it should be noted that the tripe with which Halloween IV is filled is followed by a VERY impressive ending, which is the best ending that this movie could possibly have had and is also a tremendous homage to the original Halloween. It is very difficult for horror movies, especially when they are already getting up there in sequel numbers themselves, to have an ending that leaves the story open for yet another sequel. Most of the time a high-numbered sequel with an open ending makes me think something like Oh god, they're gonna do another one. Halloween IV, for all its flaws, not only doesn't do that, but it has such a good ending that it almost makes up for the rest of the garbage in the film. Were the rest of the movie as good as the ending, this would have been another classic. "},{"Title":"The best in the franchise.","Date":"30 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Now this movie in my opinion stands out as the best and it the best possible return for an icon like Micheal Myers we also have a new story introduced with Micheal hunting his niece Jamie. Now since the idea of an anthology series didn't work they immediately made Micheal have an iconic return to the big screen 6 years after the last. Now in my opinion Donald Pleasence had the best gave Dr Loomis best performance in the entire franchise and it's probably because he plays a bigger role in this film and you get to see his relationship with Micheal evolve. Danielle Harris gave a excellent performance and in my opinion gave the best child performance I have seen.So the movie starts 10 years after the last and Micheal has been in a coma since the end of Halloween 2. However when he was transferred to Smith's Grove he awakens when he hears about his Niece in Haddonfield. So then we are introduced to Jamie who is having nightmares about Micheal but doesn't know who he is she then goes trick or treating to find out her uncle is not far they then get the help of Dr Loomis who then search the town for Micheal. The film ends in a crazy way which I won't spoil because its crazy.I would say this is the best in the franchise and would recommend watching this one. "},{"Title":"Ten years ago he tried to kill Laurie Strode. Now he wants her daughter.","Date":"31 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Ten years after the events of the first two movies, Michael Myers is in hospital lying in a coma and Laurie Strode has been killed off screen in a car accident leaving behind her daughter, and Michael's niece, Jamie Lloyd.The night before Halloween, as he is being transferred between hospitals, Michael (who is noticeably bulky for someone who has spent a decade in a coma, but the less said about his appearance in this movie, the better) overhears the doctors talking about Jamie and this snaps him out his coma. He brutally attacks the ambulance staff and makes his way to Haddonfield to find his niece.From here, the story is essentially a re-tread of the first movie as Jamie is babysat by reluctant foster sister, Rachel where an innocent night of trick or treating gradually descends into chaos as Michael continues to circle both girls and their friends, eventually closing in on them.Donald Pleasance reprises his role as Dr. Loomis and does a great job as always.The film fails to capture the chilling atmosphere of the first movie, however one thing it does have in it's favour is the notably more Autumnal surroundings (Halloween was shot in California and there were times where it showed), shown beautifully in the movies opening credit sequence. I like the fact that Michael's main target is a little girl as it gives the movie a darker, more unique twist.Danielle Harris is excellent as Jamie and handles the subject matter of the movie well, without acting unrealistically mature or being annoying, as child characters have a tendency to do in horror movies. She is definitely one of the best child actors I have seen. "},{"Title":"The return of Michael","Date":"21 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" After the unwelcome weirdness that was Halloween III, the restless fans screamed for Michael's return. Nearly a decade since he last showed his face, we are presented a different sort of Haddonfield, one living with the stigma of the Myers legacy. Now elderly Dr. Loomis (Donald Pleasence) is nervously overseeing the transport of a comatose Michael Myers, when of course he wakes up, kills everyone in the van, somehow gets a mask that looks annoyingly not quite like his mask should (more on that later) and heads straight back to home sweet home, this time hunting the young daughter (an excellent Danielle Harris, carrying the film uncannily well for so young a girl) of Laurie Strode, named Jamie Lloyd. High schoolers Rachel Carruthers (Ellie Cornell) and Sasha Jenson from Dazed Confused get in Michael's way and are put in the splatter zone. Now about Michael's mask For some reason the filmmakers couldn't remember, or didn't put the effort in to get the original mask, so we get this lopsided pasty thing that makes poor Mikey look like he has down syndrome or something. It doesn't hurt the movie too much though, we've come to see a halloween flick, which is what we ultimately get and no silly mask is gonna spoil that...but man it looks hurtin. This one has a nicely menacing opening credit sequence that really sets a festive tone in the halloween spirit. Like I said before, young star Danielle Harris (who appears later in Rob Zombie's awesome remakes) really holds the film together with her genuinely believable persona. Not a terrific entry, but a solid Myers romp after a large absence. "},{"Title":"Part 4 is a lot  better then part 3","Date":"9 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This is a great movie. It is very scary. It is not was scary as Halloween (1978). Halloween II (1981) is also scarier. It is a lot better then Halloween III season of the witch. That was not a fellow up to Halloween II (1981). This real is a fellow up to Halloween II (1981). Unlike Halloween III season of witch is has a plot that does have something to do with the first two Halloween movies. The sixth Halloween movie Halloween the cure of Micheal Myers is scarier. But still this is a great movie. The seventh Halloween movie Halloween H2O is also scarier. Halloween (2007) is also scarier. Halloween II (2009) is also scarier. But still this is a great movie. It has great story line. It also has great acting. It also has great special effects. This is a very intense movie. See it. "},{"Title":"Best Halloween of the series so far","Date":"21 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I haven't seen Halloween 5 yet so I can't say for certain this is THE best of the entire series, but I think it is the best one so far. I don't scare easily from watching horror movies but this movie did have me quite worked up. I'm afraid of heights and this movie had a rooftop scene that got my heart pumping. It isn't particularly gory not unless you consider the sight of blood gore.I also felt it was a lot more exciting compared to the other Halloween movies I've seen so far.Another review mentioned an inconsistency where Michael got his eyeballs shot out in Halloween 2. Maybe they healed because he isn't human, like we are reminded all the time, sort of in a zombie style. I think anyone who can take countless bullets and still walk can take a stabbing in the eyes and heal. "},{"Title":"Micheal Myers is Back!","Date":"21 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Seriously, One of the best movies in the series! After What happened to Myers and Dr. Loomis in Halloween 2, and after watching Halloween 3, I thought that Micheal was definitely Dead. So I was surprised by his comeback After 10 years of his death (and 7 years from the screen) And the Most Surprising was Dr. Loomis comeback!! I really was shocked on how he survived that explosion back in 1978. And Even More shocking was the end! Seriously! I thought That Micheal wasn't dead after the Police shooting, And I thought it was him in the house at the end. But when I saw Jamie holding the knife, I began screaming like Dr. Loomis and was like wtf just happened.All in All, Great Movie! Amazing comeback! Happy that Dr. Loomis is back and alive (I thought that he'll die in this part). Great Job to the Director and writers! 10/10 "},{"Title":"High quality action horror","Date":"25 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Well as far as I can see, I am not a huge Halloween fan. Yes the quality is there and I often enjoy the movie and its sequels. But for some reason, the whole indestructible Michael thing never pleased me so much. In the first movie it is not exactly a problem (you see it only in the end), but after the fact is known, then it becomes somewhat of a problem. He becomes too powerful maybe. But as far as entertainment value is concerned, you get plenty of that. And the sequels increase the violence quite a bit. The body count is unlimited as pretty much the whole town is involved. That means police stations being destroyed, gas station explosions, cutting off electricity to the whole town and other such actions. He is more powerful than all super-villains combined all because of the fact there is no superhero to counter him. And in this movie, there is only the little kid Jamie who is supposedly his target. My question though is, even if Jamie was his only target, why does he pretty much murder everyone in the town? In fact this question can be asked of all the Halloween sequels I guess. In any case, it is a lot of fun as the quiet atmosphere of the original is nowhere to be found and instead it is a Terminator style action film. When it does slow down, it is able to create a creepy atmosphere and it has some impressive scenes especially the ones inside the house. There is the unnecessary nudity which has no relation to the plot. What I did like was that the movie is more theatrical and over the top than earlier Halloween films. It has its own charm, you could say in terms of the fun factor. I have watched the movie before but I had some difficulty watching the movie again because of the kid character. I think I felt a little sad with all the victimization that was going on. I know it is just a cheesy horror sequel, still they could have had an adult in the role or something. I think it is very depressing to see the kid being chased. Her performance is flawless and it is the highlight of the movie.The soundtrack is interesting but I thought that was maybe a weak point since the earlier Halloween soundtracks were of high quality (Halloween 3 especially). The ending is quite stylish, depressing though. I liked it and I rate it the same as the first 2 Halloweens. Because honestly I enjoyed this movie a lot. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Michael is back!!!","Date":"24 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" After the let down of Halloween 3, fans wanted Michael Myers back. And boy he was brought back in a huge way. Halloween 4 takes place 10 years after the events of the first 2. We find out Laurie had a daughter called Jamie Lloyd, played by Danielle Harris. She has visions and bad dreams of Michael every now and again, even though she doesn't know who he is. Jamie is living with a foster family with her sister Rachel, played by Ellie Cornell. Rachel knows of the events that happened a decade before, as does Jamie. We then find out Michael had escaped from an ambulance and then goes on a killing spree heading for Haddonfield after killing a mechanic and stealing a big red truck. Dr. Loomis is of course back and is once again chasing after Michael. Once Michael finally gets to Haddonfield, he cuts the towns power, which I find was a very smart move for the film. And so Michael goes on his usual killing spree to get to Jamie. Of course, the suspense, character setting and well written plot is still there. Halloween 4 is filled with fun, and is an all out roller coaster ride, right up to the end. All in all, Halloween 4 was a brilliant comeback for Michael. They did really well with the cast, the acting was top notch, Michael was creepy as usual and the film was just a perfect sequel. 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"They should have just made it a ghost story like planned","Date":"28 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The Halloween franchise made a good move after the second film. The makers wanted to make it an anthology series but unfortunately the fandom had their say and Michael Myers, despite having been blown up and blinded in the better than expected Halloween II, is resurrected in this far from awful but lame sequel. Jamie Lee Curtis isn't around in this one, and her young daughter who is living with foster parents is being stalked by Michael, who wakes from a coma after 10 years and returns to Haddonfield. In my opinion, the first Halloween in a masterpiece and while imitated often, has never been equalled. The second one isn't bad, but this is presumably when the series went into stupidity. It isn't unwatchable. Technically, it's moderately efficient and a couple of chilling nightmares and a very clever scene involving multiple Michaels gave me the shivers, while Donald Pleasance is still excellent as Sam Loomis. The best scene of the film is when Loomis confronts Michael at a gas station, but sadly after that Loomis is underused, although Myers is still the boogyman and still a brilliant villain. The new main characters are good as well.What lets this down is its stupidity. It has multiple plot holes and one of the stupidest third acts of a horror film ever. Michael Myers disappears in front of Loomis in a split second. Michael's niece wanders off from her foster sister. Michael Myers turns up inside a house despite the fact that all the doors and windows are locked. A man tries to fight Michael by punching him in the face. Michael teleports from the roof of a house to the ground, then to a school and then onto a moving truck. Michael Myers turns into Kenny from South Park as he continuously survives everything. You get the idea. The film stops being scary after a while, and it just becomes monotonous and predictable. It's a shame because the film does start out well, but it then just descends into numbing stupidity and gaping plot holes. It's not a terrible film and it is a watchable one, but the film feels almost desperate to get its scares and there is a sense that the film is just a money grabber. Fans of the franchise will enjoy it as it is a good cinematic universe and delivers on the horror thrills, but I personally feel maybe it's time for Michael just to stay dead. Unfortunately, we've still got another 4 films to go before that might happen.4/10 "}{"Title":"Nearly as good as the original...","Date":"6 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Halloween 4 is a pretty damn good movie. I rated it at 9 stars out of 10. This movie could only have been better if Jamie Lee Curtis had reprised her role Laurie Strode, or as it is suggested Laurie Lloyd. As it is having Michael Myers (George P. Wilbur) and Dr. Loomis (Donald Pleascence) back in the script made this a hundred times better than Halloween III.First of all, I have to say that the script and acting were pretty damn good. Bringing the next generation into the storyline was a great idea. The fact that Michael Myers ends up going after his seven year old niece, Jamie Lloyd (Danielle Harris), was a nice twist. Also, writing in that Laurie Strode had died in a car accident with her unnamed, but assumed to be Jimmy Lloyd, husband; Laurie and Jimmy are Jamie Lloyd's parents.Now for my favorite scenes.My first favorite scene is when Dr. Loomis is heading to Haddonfield tracking Michael Myers. Loomis stops at a roadside gas station for gas, but finds only death. Loomis goes into the service bay area where he finds the mechanic dead. He then goes into the restaurant and finds a waiter behind the counter, also dead. Loomis looks around and sees Michael standing in an adjacent doorway, he tries to talk to Michael, but is unsuccessful. And so Loomis shoots at Michael. Michael escapes but not before destroying the gas station and Loomis's car, and taking out the telephone lines.The second of my favorite scenes is when Jamie Lloyd goes out trick-or- treating with her foster sister Rachel Carruthers (Ellie Cornell). They go to several houses and end up at Sheriff Ben Meeker's (Beau Starr) house. When Sheriff Meeker's daughter, Kelly (Kathleen Kinmont), opens the door Rachel sees her boyfriend, Brady (Sasha Jenson), inside. Rachel notices that Kelly is half dressed and so is Brady, at which she walks off and Brady chases after her. Jamie wants to continue trick-or- treating so she and Rachel end up getting separated.The third scene I liked was when Michael Myers gets into Sheriff Meeker's house. Michael first kills Deputy Logan (George Sullivan) and sits in the chair that Logan was sitting in holding the shotgun. Kelly Meeker comes out of the kitchen with a tray of coffee and discovers that Logan is dead. She tries to leave but Michael stabs her with the shotgun. Thought that stabbing her with the shotgun was an interesting choice.I really love this movie, but it is still not as good as the original. What do you think? "},{"Title":"A spectacular sequel with great performances!","Date":"4 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Ten years ago, Dr. Sam Loomis (Donald Pleasence) finally stopped the insatiable murderer Michael Myers (George P. Wilbur) by causing a huge explosion which engulfed them both in flames. They survived, however, with Michael in a coma and Dr. Loomis having some bad burn scars and having to walk with a cane. It is revealed that Michael's sister Laurie Strode, who he was trying to kill, died in a car accident a few years after he was burned to a crisp. Her nine year old daughter Jamie Lloyd (Danielle Harris), who is Michael's niece, has been living in a foster home where she is very close to her adoptive sister Rachel Carruthers (Ellie Cornell). Michael awakens from his coma, still covered in bandages, and escapes while being transported to another hospital. He kills several people and quickly finds a pasty white mask similar to the one he wore during his previous killing spree from a decade ago, along with his familiar gray coveralls. It becomes apparent that he is after his young niece and will stop at nothing to finish her off. Dr. Loomis must now stop his evil enemy once again before poor Jamie is killed! I can't decide whether I prefer this film or part 2 as the best Halloween sequel. Neither can compare to the original, but both are good in their own right. I like how Michael is now targeting a little girl as it gives the film a darker and meaner edge. This film also represents the actual Halloween spirit better than any other film in the series (with the possible exception of part 6). When I first watched this, I was thrilled to see Donald Pleasence as Dr. Loomis return as he is one of my favorite horror protagonists of all time. It may not be very realistic that he and Michael survived their fiery fate at the end of the second film, but that's okay because a suspension of disbelief is pretty much required to enjoy films like these anyway. Danielle Harris and Ellie Cornell are both great in their respective roles. Props mainly go to Harris for being able to pull off such a believable and emotional performance at such a young age. George P. Wilbur is an excellent Michael Myers, giving a very scary and intimidating portrayal which kind of reminded me of The Terminator. Anyway, those are some of the reasons why fans of the first two movies will love this entry, which shares no continuity with the unrelated but still good part 3. I would rate this magnificent sequel with a whopping 9 out of 10! "},{"Title":"Halloween 4 The Return of Michael Myers","Date":"29 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" 'Halloween 4' see's the triumphant return of the main man of the Halloween series (Michael Myers) ten years after attacking babysitters and nurses on October 31st, 1978. Laurie Strode is nowhere to be found in this one. Michael instead sets his sights on murdering his 9-year old niece, Laurie's daughter Jamie. Back story to this one tells us that Laurie died in a car accident a while back, therefore her daughter was adopted by the Lloyd family. Michael Myers meanwhile has been locked away in a state facility, recovering from his burns following the hospital explosion in 'Halloween II'. It's the night before Halloween 1988 when a practically comatose Michael is being transferred to another clinic. He of course escapes and that's when his reign of terror begins yet again. Michael makes his way to Haddonfield, and Dr. Loomis is hot on his trail. He knows that Michael will be targeting his niece Jamie, so most of 'Halloween 4' is spent with Michael stalking Jamie and her adoptive big sister Rachel as the two are out trick-or-treating. Michael slashes his way through many people in order to get to innocent little Jamie, all leading up to a pretty shocking conclusion.I like 'Halloween 4' a lot. Not only does it bring Michael Myers back into the series, but it does well at creating the creepy atmosphere that was accomplished in the first two films. Haddonfield is still a dark little town on Halloween, it has a good resemblance of the streets in the 1978 film. The acting was done VERY well in this fourth instalment, especially from child actor Danielle Harris. She puts in a very believable performance as the tormented and terrified Jamie Lloyd. Ellie Cornell, as protective big sister Rachel, did a great job as well. The two had a great chemistry as the adoptive siblings.A flaw with 'Halloween 4' is that having a little child as Michael's target is not nearly as effective as it was having teenage Laurie Strode in the first two films. It just works better with an older person in the lead, and that's not a knock on Danielle Harris. It was just more engaging for me to see Michael go after someone a little older, instead of an innocent little child. Overall, 'Halloween 4' is a great sequel and addition to the series. Highly recommended.7/10 "},{"Title":"In aftermath...","Date":"24 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" ''Halloween 4 The Return of Michael Myers'' is actually the best sequel in the Halloween franchise. Both Halloween (1978) and Halloween 2 (1981) are predictable, but somehow this installment is more nerve-wracking and more exciting than the previous films.It is the first film in the franchise (apart from ''The Season of the Witch'') that doesn't feature the character Laurie Strode (portrayed by Jamie Lee Curtis), but it introduces Jamie Lloyd (Danielle Harris), the daughter of Strode and Jimmy Lloyd. Donald Pleasence has returned for the third time as Dr. Samuel Loomis and George P. Wilbur has been chosen to be the third actor to play the shape, Michael Myers. Ellie Cornell, Sasha Jenson, Michael Pataki and Beau Starr play other pivotal roles.The film doesn't show anything new. It has the same story line as the first and the second one, but what that makes this installment special from the previous films is that Michael Myers is more cruel and more dangerous than he has ever been. A cold-hearted psychopath has returned back to Haddonfield on the hunt for his niece, the last generation of the Myers's family. As a personal feeling, the Halloween films are not scary at all, but they are exciting and keep your nerves and mind busy. If you're looking for a Saturday night horror, watch Halloween 4 The Return of Michael Myers. It's definitely thrilling.Mr. Sandman, you were missed in this film! "},{"Title":"The Halloween Saga Halloween 4 The Return of Michael Myers","Date":"12 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Halloween III was poorly received by critics and audiences alike and had no impact on the box office. Audiences were disappointed by the film, thinking they were ripped off because Season of the Witch was not a 'Halloween' movie. John Carpenter and Debra Hill left the series and went on to do other things and effectively the Halloween series was dead.Over the next few years the slasher film was officially cemented into the annals of cinema history. And so it was that in 1988, ten years after Halloween created this subgenre of film, Moustapha Akkad secured the rights to the franchise and decided to cash in on the genre that he helped create. On October 21st, 1988, Halloween 4 was released. The first Halloween was original, scary, and well made, the second was well made and fun and the third was original and different. Halloween 4 pales in comparison, not only to the three films that came before it but to many of the imitators that followed in the original Halloween's wake.Right from the beginning of this film things just seemed off. The credit sequence done so effectively in the first three is gone. Instead we get shots of barns, and painted skulls and windmills with the sun setting behind it. Sure it sets the mood of the halloween season, but it isn't very Halloween.Once the story kicks in, we find that Michael Myers and Dr, Loomis didn't die at the end of part II, they were just horribly burned, and Myers has been lying in a coma for ten years. Laurie is dead, and her daughter is living with family. And so Myers awakens to go after her while Loomis chases after him.The acting in Halloween 4 is by far the worst of all the four films. Ellie Cornell, the female lead, is rather stiff and stilted and Danielle Harris, who plays Laurie's daughter Jamie, is a great screamer and can show fear rather well, but when it comes to crying and other emotions she just falls apart.Donald Pleasance is the only returning actor and as usual his performance is rather good but as a viewer one can't help but feel sad for him every time he appears. He puts so much into his role and loves the character but everything else around him is so badly done that it becomes depressing watching him. Take Michael Myers for example. While a terrible force of evil in the first film and a gruesome killing machine in the second, here he is rather lame. Not only does he move differently (no awkward and eerie head movements) but he just doesn't seem that imposing. He is seen mostly in full frame shots with lots of light and thus he just isn't that scary. What made Myers so scary to begin with was his ability to become one with the shadows.And the deaths in this film are pretty lame. They take place off screen for the most part, which seems to be a deliberate attempt at recreating the feel of the original. But in the original, Myers only murdered three people and although there was not much blood and gore, all three deaths were seen on screen in glorious terrifying detail. Here you don't see the deaths, instead the film-makers either cut away from them or a character stumbles upon them long after they were killed.The direction by Little is terrible in this movie. The editing is poor and the cinematography is weak. Gone are the glorious widescreen shots of Dean Cundey, only to be replaced by unintentionally shaky and bland shots with generic lighting and poor framing. The editing is choppy and doesn't flow well and the film, although only 88 minutes and the shortest in the series, ends up feeling a lot longer than it's predecessors.And although Halloween III had a lot of plot holes, part 4 makes it seem like an Oscar winner. Sure Myers can do some incredible things; find people when he should have no idea where they are; drive a car with out learning how to; but in this movie Myers has become something more. Now Myers can appear in one part of town in one scene and in the next he can be in a completely different part of that town. He appears anywhere where the story needs him to be with no regard for logic. And when Loomis is looking for the schoolhouse, in Haddonfield of all places, he needs help, even though he has been there before.After 7 years of waiting for Michael Myers to return to the big screen, he finally does and boy oh boy does he disappoint. There are very few good things to say about this movie. The best thing about it is the Halloween theme by John Carpenter, and even that isn't heard enough. Donald Pleasance puts his all into the role but is let down by everything around him and the gore and nudity (now an almost requirement in the slasher films) is virtually non existent. Even when the opportunities arise to deliver the goods, they never happen. From the opening frame to just shy of the last minute, Halloween 4 disappoints. Then in the last minute, a twist arrives. It's rather interesting, it's cool, it's original and it opens up room for a rather original sequel. Other than that, Halloween 4 is a disaster, a mess and a complete waste of time. Film Rating 40%Breakdown (How Halloween 4 scored 40%)Production Design 5 out of 10 Cinematography 2 out of 10 Re-playability 4 out of 10 Originality 3 out of 10 Costumes 5 out of 10 Directing 3 out of 10 Editing 3 out of 10 Acting 5 out of 10 Music 7 out of 10 Script 3 out of 10Check out my other reviews www.fullmetalreviews.blogspot.com "},{"Title":"Good Halloween Sequel!","Date":"27 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Donald Pleasence, Danielle Harris and Ellie Cornell star in this 1988 horror sequel. This installment picks up 10 years after the events of the first 2 films with killer, Michael Myers (George Wilbur) awakening from a coma badly burned and killing a group of medics transferring him. Dr. Sam Loomis (Pleasence) now slightly disfigured on one side of his face, learns that Michael has escaped and returned to Haddonfield, Illinois for his niece, Jamie Lloyd (Harris). Jamie is adopted by the Carruthers family after her mother, Laurie Strode (Jamie Lee Curtis) died in a car accident. Loomis tries to get to her before Michael does and Cornell plays her foster sister, Rachel who also becomes hunted by Michael. This is a good sequel that definitely has that autumn tone, Pleasence, Harris & Cornell are great in it and who can forget the ending. I recommend this. "},{"Title":"Halloween IV The Return of Michael Myers","Date":"31 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This is personally my favorite sequel of the Halloween movies which introduces some great characters in Jamie Lloyd, Sheriff Meeker and Rachcel. With the return of Michael Myers its clear that he is truly unstoppable and Loomis was right when he says Maybe no one knows how to stop him. The pacing for the most part is fast, the mask, music, and atmosphere is all great. Some of the kills however, do get a little laughable but some of them are done well (Meekers daughter). The ending is a small bit of a let down but Halloween 5 is a good hangover cure for the ending. I highly suggest to watch Halloween 4 especially on a fall day such as Halloween. "},{"Title":"Halloween 4 Review","Date":"1 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" To me, this is one of the best Halloween films. The acting in the film is great. Danielle Harris's acting ability is phenomenal as well as Ellie Cornell and the late Donald Pleasence. The synopsis of this film is great and the music is as well. I can't stop watching this movie! Danielle Harris's introduction to fame is very, very great. Her acting made this movie great! If it wasn't for Danielle Harris, it wouldn't be as good as it is! The best sequel besides Halloween II and H20. The music for this film is by Alan Howarth. I love the music to this film. I can actually go out and buy the soundtrack and listen to all of it in enjoyment. I could listen to this soundtrack, the first soundtrack, 2nd, and 5th with enjoyment. John Carpenter did the first and Alan Howarth did the others. I love this movie. I love the soundtrack! "},{"Title":"Halloween Retrospective 4- Halloween IV The Return of Michael Myers (1988)","Date":"18 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Hi, movie- geeks! Welcome to number 4 of my 'Retrospective' film reviews for John Carpenter's 'HALLOWEEN' series. This installment in the franchise brings back the iconic Myers storyline and introduces a new victim for Michael to hunt for... his Niece, Jamie Lloyd (Played by the NOW sexy, Danielle Harris). I don't want to waste any more of your time, so, without further a douche, let's begin with the Pros of the film.PROS Obviously, the biggest positive of the film is returning to the original storyline of Michael Myers going after a young girl to kill, only this time she is even younger. As she is the daughter of the former heroine, Laurie Strode. Danielle Harris is great in this role and she really depicts fear clearly and well, you actually see how terrified she is that this crazy man is after her. If I'm speaking about the cast in this review I can't leave out Donald Pleasance as Loomis; in this film, Loomis is very confident about confronting Michael and isn't afraid to go up to him and try to reason with him, even if he does have a walking stick. Pleasance and Harris have the best performances in the movie, but that doesn't mean that the other actors were bad. I just didn't think they were as good as Donald Pleasance. I really enjoyed the psychological aspect of the film, where it switches from as scene with Jamie and replaces her character with young Michael Myers, it really shows the similarities that the 2 characters have and that their connection is really important to the film and further sequels. The suspense, as always is cool and it made me scared, just like the previous films. That's what I like about these films, they NEVER fail to include that eery feel. The writers and directors of the Carpenter- less sequels are doing John Carpenter proud! Another thing that I REALLY love about this film is the climax, they make it as if it's a psychological horror/action thriller. They also manage to add in a tiny bit of drama, as we see Dr. Loomis break down and cry.CONS I don't remember much of the film, but I guess the bad stuff about the film is the little stuff, like Michael having shoulder pads. With Michael looking like that, it's as if they got Mike Myers to play the part, you know, when he's doing his 'Austin Powers' moves. But, apart from that, it's a well executed sequel.See it! HALLOWEEN IV THE RETURN OF MICHAEL MYERSStarring Donald Pleasance, Ellie Cornell, Danielle Harris, Michael Pataki and Sasha JensonDirected by Dwight H. Little "},{"Title":"A good quality sequel.","Date":"28 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Halloween 3 was intended as an experiment to include different stories and concepts. The response was negative to say the least and John Carpenter had no involvement with the rest of the series, not even as producer. Moustapha Akkad (financer of the first three films) bought the rights to the series and after seven years, Michael Myers returned to screens.This movie was intended to as Akkad stated Go back to the basics. I personally feel that the series didn't go back to the basics until Halloween H20 ten years later after this movie. This movie was still a fun ride and has the most haunting opening title sequence in the entire series. The characters are well developed and performed by a strong cast. This movie was highly praised by fans of the series, more so then the other sequels. Donald Pleasence returned to play Dr. Loomis and he's still the heart of the series. I really like the character of Jamie, played by Danielle Harris who does a fine job. Director Dwight Little lifted the infamous shot in Vertigo by Alfred Hitchcock. You will see this in the gas station scene. Just like the other sequels, this is a pretty good entry in the series and good quality horror. "}{"Title":"A Terrific Sequel Directed By Dwight H. Little","Date":"23 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Finally Michael Myers Is Back In Another Sequel After The Disappointment Of Halloween 3 This Sequel Is Just As Great As The First Two Films Were And Again It Stars The Late Donald Pleasence As Dr. Sam Loomis Ellie Cornell As The Hot Attractive Rachel Carruthers Introducing Danielle Harris As Jamie Lloyd Who Later Became A Hot Attractive Adult Beau Starr As Sheriff Ben Meeker Kelly's Father Kathleen Kinmont As Kelly Meeker Sasha Jenson As Brady Rachel's Boyfriend Who Cheated On Her With Kelly And Of Course George P. Wilbur As Adult Michael Myers And Erik Preston As Child Michael Myers Love This Sequel Who Doesn't He Returns Once Again After Ten Years Great Sequel Love Ya From Brandon DeVore "},{"Title":"Ten Years Ago HE Changed The Face Of Halloween, Tonight HE'S BACK!","Date":"21 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Well I thought Michael Myers and Dr. Loomis died in the explosion at the end of Halloween II. I guess I was wrong. Halloween 4 brings us back to Haddonfield and I'm happy to be back.Michael Myers has been in a coma for ten years. Doctors are transferring Michael from a clinic to a different hospital. But Michael wakes up and goes back to Haddonfield. There he's going after his 9 year old niece Jamie Lloyd. But Dr. Loomis knows he's out there. So he tries to stop him (as usual) and save Jamie.First off the acting is great. I love Donald Pleasance and was happy to see him back. Newcomer Danielle Harris who is only 9 years old delivers the second best performance in the whole film. Usually it's hard to cast a kid but the crew struck gold with Harris. The rest of the cast had great chemistry. They are well acted. We actually get to know the character before they get killed. John Carpenter is completely missing, the only thing is the score, but the series is in good hands. The film has an eerie feel to it. Director Dwight H. Little brings a sense of atmosphere to the film and creates a number of suspenseful scenes. He is able to build suspense and not just go for the cheap thrill which the Friday the 13th Series did, which the second movie also did. But this one goes back to the suspense and isn't a gore fest. The deaths are bloody but they're different and not just the usual knife or hospital items. There are many intense scenes in the movie. First off a car chase with Michael on top of the car, and what I think is the best scene in the whole movie, Michael chases the stars on the roof of their house. It's very suspenseful and very intense. Also the ending is shocking and one of the best endings in a horror movie. I won't give it away but I was surprised. While it's flawed and not perfect I really enjoyed it. It was better than Halloween II and better than Halloween III. I liked seeing Donald Pleasence back and I liked going back to the Michael Myers story. 3 stars (out of 4 stars) "},{"Title":"What were they thinking?","Date":"28 October 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" After six years, or should I say seven years since the last Halloween movie has been made, these retards are ready to continue the series with, expectedly, another s****y sequel. Being the fourth in the series, nobody can expect much, except s**t. But hey, at least this one is consistent with the first two, unlike the last one. But, lets dig into this one step at a time.Ten years after the first, Michael Myers is taken by an ambulance from an institution. Where he awakens and breaks free. Donald Pleasence returns as doctor Samuel Loomis who hunts him down once again. (Yes, he actually survives from the second, just go with it). This time around though, since Michael can't find Laurie Strode, he decides to hunt down her young daughter, Jamie Strode.Without spoiling anything, Michael has some obsession for killing Laurie's family which you find out why in the second. I'll admit this movie sucks, but I don't really hate it that much. It didn't really try to act stupid, I understood what they were going for, and what they were trying to do. It just didn't work. The last one was just downright dumb as f**k. D****t, I wish I could cuss!Oh well, not much to say, other than, if you've seen the others, you might as well see this one. "},{"Title":"Halloween 4","Date":"17 September 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Halloween 4 shows that the Halloween movies doesn't tell the story of Laurie Strode ... its Michael Myers' story. The beginning of this movie was enough to know the story of Halloween. You could start with this movie and know everything. But I wouldn't do it, if it was me. The story of Laurie Strode's daughter( and Michael Myers Niece) is epic. Michael is trying to find his niece, to attempt to murder her. Dr.Loomis has like the best acting role in the movie. He's the most bad ass ever. If i had to tell you the best ending ever it is Halloween 4. I wont give away too much but it is real epic, i mean real epicness. Watch the first one and you will get the ending though. "},{"Title":"Michael Myers' escapes' the' hospital and returns' to Haddonfield to kill Jamie Lloyd","Date":"22 February 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" 'This' film was' good' not' better than' 'Halloween 1978. 'The' movie' had' a solid' performance' from Elie Cornell' who played' Rachel! And she' was 'really' 'awesome! 'in the' fifth film' she should have' stayed 'alive! 'In' the' aspect' of Halloween 4' it truly' lives on' to be' 'a great'Halloween sequel. 'It should' have' ended right' here! 'Not' go' on' forever! This' movie' just had bad' 'luck! In the end of the' film' 'Rachel' runs' Michael Myers' over' with the 'car! And Jamie ends up' walking over to Michael' after Rachel said no! 'And they end up' shooting Michael' as he minutes' later' falls down' a mineshaft! Which' leaves off' to the sequel' in 'Halloween 5! Overall' the film' was just good! "},{"Title":"the best Halloween sequel yet!","Date":"15 February 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" wow.. finally a Halloween movie worth watching, its intense, well acted, has a half-ways good storyline, has the elements of a slasher flick without being overkill, my question is why has it taken this long for a good Halloween sequel, i mean come on it couldn't have been that hard to come up with the idea of this movie, you know its no award winner but its better then past Halloween movies, i mean its still got great music, good acting from donald pleasence, danielle harris, and even ellie cornell, its got the best action and effects of the Halloween movies so far, and the storyline is just as good if not better, thats why i give Halloween 4 Return of Michael Myers 8 *'s "},{"Title":"Better then Halloween 2","Date":"1 February 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" It is October 30, 1988, and Michael Myers has been in a coma at the Ridgemont Federal Sanitarium since that night a decade ago when his doctor set him on fire in Haddonfield, IL. An ambulance makes its away along the road to Ridgemont in a thunderstorm, and Myers is soon on his way to another hospital in Smith's Grove, IL. During the ride, he overhears the crew mention his young niece in Haddonfield, and he comes to life, savagely killing the crew trapped inside. Dr. Loomis & Dr. Hoffman, head of Ridgemont, are alerted by the state troopers after the ambulance is found upside-down in a river with blood everywhere. Meanwhile, Myers has already started to make his way toward Haddonfield, where he acquires his traditional coveralls & nasty-looking knife, confronts his niece in a pharmacy, and then kills the town's phone & power lines, leaving his niece & her adopted sister trapped in their home...and he's coming to pay young Jamie a visit.Michael Myers is back and now he is after his niece, it was nice to see. Michael Myers without the Mask for his first few kills, the kills were not as nasty as Halloween 2 deaths but still good, Michael Myers is really scary with or without the mask.This movie action pack from to end and never gets boring but the movie could have been shorter.the acting is great from the whole cast The ending was great idea and could give shivers down your back, this could have been great end to the series.I give this the same as given Halloween 1 that 8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"A pretty good return to form......","Date":"27 January 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I have to admit, that when I first went to see this movie I had very low expectations. Usually sequels get worse with each one, and since more than 10 years had passed since the original film, I figured that this movie would be pretty bad, especially since Jamie Lee Curtis wasn't in it. Overall this is a pretty good movie that brings Michael Myers back and introduces some new characters that are for the most part decent. I don't want to ruin the ending if you haven't seen this, but it implies that this series would take another interesting turn, but the very bland and uninteresting Halloween 5 ruins this possibility. I would recommend this if you like the Halloween series, but make this the last one you watch. Everything after this gets pretty unwatchable...... "},{"Title":"It's that time of the year again. So guess who's back?","Date":"16 January 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" It had been a couple years since the last Halloween sequel (1982 Halloween III Season of the Witch) that didn't even feature the iconic Michael Myers. But the fourth entry in the series would see the return of Myers and 'the persistent Dr. Loomis, but Laurie Strode was no where to be seen&#x85; other than some photos. Here the target happens to be Laurie's daughter Jamie, who's being looked after by carers. So Michael didn't die in the oxygen tank explosion at end of Halloween 2, but was badly burned and Loomis has the scares to show it too. It has been ten years since Myers went on his brutal rampage through the quiet rural town of Haddonfield on Halloween eve / night. During a stormy / rainy night Myers in a comatose state is being transported from a maximum security institution for the criminally insane to another. However through the journey he awakes and escapes. Dr. Loomis appears on the scene when he hears about the news and quickly gets on Myers' trail to a place he knows well; Haddonfield.Halloween IV The Return of Michael Myers is a surprisingly good, if quick low-budget sequel (although definitely one of the better inclusions of the franchise), quite primitively textbook but effectively done stalk and slash item. What I find it has going for it is that it does drum some creepy atmospherics (like its forlorn opening credits), which is guided by Alan Howarth's excellently ominous, alienating music score filled with many uneasy cues and he captures Carpenter's unnerving trademark theme to the bone. They obviously showed a lot faith in Howarth and he always did an outstanding job, as he would compose Halloween 2 through to 6. Director Dwight H. Little's touch can get stuffy, but remains conventionally tight and efficient. Where he unexpectedly builds tension quite well in a fast-moving cat and mouse format, but where he shines here is in his composition and positional handling of some moodily striking imagery. The fuzzy lighting, shadowy locations of Haddonfield at night time is stylishly orchestrated with moon and mist filling the quiet streets, where Myers (aka The Shape) just seems to blend within the backdrop to suddenly appear. The simple layered story does that a lot, where Myers would just appear out of nowhere. Sometimes dubiously how can that be, but these illogical inclusions you take with a grain of salt since we're talking about Myers here. There's a real brutal and cold-blooded side to the murders, but they're not particularly explicit. The performances are very well brought across. Donald Pleasance chews up the scenery, but hasn't entirely broken into his hysterical mould (well that's until it's emotionally jarring conclusion) with a more collected turn with the infatuation slowly getting to him. A wonderful Danielle Harris gives a genuinely moving performance that only makes the film's lasting nasty final shock more gut-busting and a delectable Ellie Cornell is likable. Beau Starr and Michael Pataki offer solid support too. George P. Wilbur portrays Michael Myers with lethal precision and pure emotionless, as he creates such an uneasy vibe to how he gets around. "},{"Title":"Michael is back!","Date":"14 October 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Okay, ten years have passed since the fiery climax of Halloween 2, with Michael Myers ending up in a coma due to his injuries, and Dr. Loomis ( Once again played by Donald Pleasance) becoming a crippled wreck. The film opens on October 31st, 1988, with Michael awakening from his coma upon hearing he has a young niece, Jamie Lloyd (played fantastically by very young Danielle Harris). Michael returns to Haddonfield to search for his niece, mounting up an impressive body count. But, Loomis isn't far behind, determined to once again stop Michael. Teaming with the town's new sheriff, Ben Meeker ( Beau Starr) to bring the Shape to justice. Barricading themselves inside Meeker's home, Loomis, Jamie, her foster sister Rachel, the sheriff's daughter, and Rachel's ex boyfriend try to seek help from outside the town. But Michael has knocked out the power to the entire town and has snuck into the home. After some blood shed, Michael is taken out by a police force and shot into an abandoned mine shaft. But it doesn't stop there with the horrifying ending that is a great homage to the original 1978 film!This was the first Halloween film I saw, so this has a special place in my childhood. The atmosphere, the setting, it was all great. MIchael returns and is in good form, displaying a much more style then in his last two outings. The acting was great with Donald Pleasance returning as Dr. Sam Loomis with Ellie Cornell as Rachel and Sascha Jenson as Brady, the pretty boy two timing SOB, and of course George Wilbur as a very menacing Michael Myers. If your a fan of the series, this is a fantastic entry in the franchise that now reminds me of the original 1978 film. "}{"Title":"One of my favorite sequels.","Date":"2 July 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" 'Halloween 3 Season of the Witch' made me want to kill the director and myself.But now,things are much different.'Halloween 4' actually gets it right,just like the rest of the sequels that followed.This movie had jumps,violence,sex,and plenty of blood to spare.Fans like myself shouldn't be disappointed with this one.Besides 'Halloween H2O' and the remake,'Halloween 4' is one of my favorite sequels in the series.If there is anybody to thank,it would be Donald Pleasence and Danielle Harris.Donald did an excellent job at playing Dr. Loomis,and nobody will replace him,especially Malcom Mcdowell.It's a shame that he died,just after Halloween 6 was finished.Danielle also did a good job at acting,in this case,playing Jamie Lloyd.8.5/10 "},{"Title":"A miracle of a movie","Date":"5 February 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Trying to jump start a horror franchise after six years and three movies would not be easy, especially after the most recent film in the series had nothing at all to do with the first two. Coming up with a believable storyline for the fourth film despite the fact that the whole premise of this first two was that a psychotic maniac was trying to kill his last living family member, who didn't want to be in this movie, would also be quite difficult. Trying to find a decent child actor to put in a horror film would again be no easy task. And, even if you did all these things, could you find an audience for a character not seen on movie screens for the better part of a decade? Basically there were a lot of reasons why this movie was going to be an abysmal failure, and despite all of them, still worked a charm. Unlike the rather overdone fifth and sixth parts and the over rated scream clone H20, this one keeps a similar atmosphere to the first two movies, as Micheal awakes from a long coma to stalk his 10 year old niece Jamie Lloyd (played well by Danielle Harris).Donald Pleasance is again along for the ride as Sam Loomis, tracking Micheal back to Haddonfield and aiding Jamie and her foster sister, Rachel (Ellie Cornell) in evading Myers. There are some excellent chase scenes, including a very well filmed chase on a sloped rooftop.The kills in this are many and varied. THe movie steers clear of blood, concentrating instead on the sheer brute strength of Micheal. The victims aren't all idiots like in most horror films. They stay inside, board up the windows and get police protection, but still can't stop he evil Micheal Myers.The film ends on a cliff hanger, again channeling the original film as Lloyd, wearing the same suit as Myers in the original, puts on a mask, walks upstairs and stabs her foster mother.There is some sex scenes and nudity, but it's all mild. A good entry which revitalised the series. "},{"Title":"Very Suspenseful Flick","Date":"10 January 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I have seen every Halloween film there is. 1,2,3,4,5,6,7,and 8. They are all great accept for 8 which is okay, but stupid. This was my second favorite, I was gripping my couch at every scene. It stars the old original Donald Pleasance and although there is no talented Jamie Lee, there is Danielle Harris playing a girl named Jamie. It takes off 10 years after the events of Halloween 1978. The title can promise a good movie for a good Halloween franchise fan. Very little blood and gore (see the parental guide for more) and great A-B acting. The storyline is pretty dumb, but hey, it's still a good movie if you actually have an imagination. Good job Dwight H. Very Good Job. "},{"Title":"Long","Date":"5 January 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Michael Myers is placed on a institution, because that he caused a bloody massacre for 10 years ago. When they fetched him with a ambulance, they repent the last trip with ambulance. He approaches later the little city Haddonfield.A much exciting and not so terrifying horror - movie. It is a good directing and good actors. The end of the movie is unexpected.Dwight H. Little make a good directing.I can recommended this horror - movie if you like Halloween - series. You can have a pillow if you being scared of the movie.It will be a scary moment if you seen this horror - movie. "},{"Title":"The triumphant return of The Boogeyman","Date":"21 October 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Ten years ago, he tried to kill Laurie Strode. Now he wants her daughter. - Sam LoomisAfter an unsuccessful, Michael Myers-less third installment in the Halloween series, the powers that be decided that it was time for Mikey to make his return to film -- ten years after the release of the original Halloween -- in the aptly titled Halloween 4 The Return Of Michael Myers. Since Halloween is apparently a good time to transfer an inmate who is notorious for getting a little violent on the holiday, Michael escapes hospital care, returning home to find his niece, Jamie Lloyd (Danielle Harris). Jamie is the daughter of Laurie Strode -- who has incidentally passed away between films -- and is now under foster care. While Jamie goes trick or treating with her foster sister Rachel (Ellie Cornell), Dr. Loomis (surviving the explosion in Halloween II along with Myers) joins forces with a reluctant new police chief to stop Michael in his tracks before he trims another branch off his family tree. But, as you'll see by the end, history has a way of repeating itself.Director Dwight Little is no John Carpenter and that much is apparent from watching his incarnation of Michael Myers. Rather than try for suspense like the first two films, Halloween 4 goes the slasher route, ala Friday the 13th. It should come as no surprise, as the year was 1988 and the genre was either blossoming or bloating, depending on who you ask. Keeping that in mind and remembering that Little was lacking in the experience department, this fourth installment is actually one of the more respectable and substantial of the series. While conjuring up some fresh visuals -- such as in the opening credits -- Little's film has a tendency to look a bit pedestrian and doesn't quite carry the suspense that is so synonymous with the Halloween brand. What the film lacks in suspense, however, it makes up for in likable, believable characters and a swiftly moving plot. The character of Jamie Lloyd -- a traumatized and insecure seven year-old -- is sold perfectly by Danielle Harris, who would later reprise her role in Halloween 5 The Revenge Of Michael Myers and play another, altogether different role in Rob Zombie's recent remake. Harris rises above the typical child-actor stigma and delivers a performance that feels honest and real. Truth be told, if not for the character of Jamie and the portrayal by Harris, this would be a very different film. Her co-star, Ellie Cornell, is the ideal girl-next-door type, the perfect successor to Jamie Lee Curtis. Too bad we haven't seen much of her in modern films. Donald Pleasence is classic as Dr. Loomis, driving the character deeper into madness than he was in the second film. While the plot of the film is pretty basic and feels familiar, it works well because it moves so fluidly. Despite the movie looking unimpressive by today's standards, the solid story and strong characters are redeeming enough so that it can still be enjoyed today, even after multiple viewings. Overall, with few flaws to be found, Halloween 4 The Return Of Michael Myers is pretty much the most enjoyable of the series. It's got a distinct 80's feel and doesn't mind going for some cheap scares, but for the most part, it retains the class of the original movie, with a shocking ending full of potential, sadly deflated by the following installment. "},{"Title":"Underrated","Date":"26 September 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Halloween 4 is the most underrated sequel in the Halloween series. It is without a doubt the next sequel along with Halloween 4. What I loved about Halloween 4 is how it paid enough tribute to the original while still making the film new and different.Halloween 4 goes back to Haddonfeild continuing the storyline from Halloween 2. Halloween 4 introduces us to Jamie Loyd, who is the daughter of Laurie Strode. Laurie Strode died in a car accident, and now Jamie Loyd is living with a foster family. She begins to be haunted by the presence of her uncle. Is it all her imagination, or is Michael really back? Well, Michael is back. He awoke from a coma that he was but in back in 1978. Dr. Loomis also survived the terrible Hospital fire (go figure). Donald Pleasense is back in his role as Dr. Loomis, and lives up to his past reputation in the role he will always be remembered for.The cast is unbelievably good. The characters are ones we can somewhat relate to and enjoy seeing battle Myers. This is very rare for the slasher genre, which makes this movie VERY solid.The directing is also unbelievably amazing. I wasn't expecting the director to do such a good job recreating that atmosphere and suspense that the original introduced and delivered. The tension and build up of the Michael Myers character is back, which I felt like was lost in Halloween 2.Halloween 4 also has a list of plenty of fairly graphic, well done kills.Halloween 4 is a definite plus to the Halloween series. While Halloween 2 and 3 may have been good, Halloween 4 would be the last above average film in the series. As far as I'm concerned, the Halloween series ends on Part 4. Oh, and speaking of endings, Halloween 4 has one that you will never forget.Highly recommended "},{"Title":"Unnecessary movie Still entertaining however","Date":"15 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I personally think the Halloween series should have ended after Halloween II.Halloween III should have just been called Season of the Witch and not been part of the Halloween series. Halloween 4 should not have been made I think. Halloween II ended with Michael Myers being shot in both eyes and blown up, and Dr. Loomis being blown up along with him. I think that ending is good enough. But no, of course not. Michael must somehow survive that. And Loomis too. That knocks this movie's rating down 2 stars.Also, Michael is no longer a sneaky stalker. Now he is more like Jason Voorhees. I like Jason, there is no need for a Jason Knock-off(and people say Friday the 13th copied off Halloween? I think its vise versa, and this movie is proof), -2 more stars. However, despite the countless flaws, this movie was actually still entertaining. No one gave a great performance, but I was able to survive this movie just fine. I just think of this movie as a cheesy, not-serious Halloween movie and that works fine.6/10. "},{"Title":"Best of the Halloween sequels","Date":"14 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" In my opinion (being a die-hard Halloween fan, I think that ought to account for something, blast it) this is hands down the best sequel in the series. Michael recaptures the malice he had in the first one, and is in some ways meaner and more evil than he was in the first two since in this one he is after a little girl; his own niece no-less.Donald Pleasance gives an outstanding performance as Dr. Loomis, who's crazier and more determined in this one. Danielle Harris did a fantastic job as little Jamie, the girl deserved an award for her performance, just like Mr. Pleasance. Ellie Cornell did a decent job as the older, protective foster-sister. Dwight Little gets two thumps up from me for this excellent entry into the story of Michael Myers. "},{"Title":"One of the best Halloween's","Date":"13 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This is easily one of the better Halloween movies. Its nowhere near as good as the original but is a definite step up from parts two and three. As the title clearly states Michael Myers is back on the rampage despite being shot twice in the eyes and set on fire in Halloween 2, don't you just love how horror films can always find a way to bring the bad guys back. The film starts well building an eerie atmosphere but its not long before Michael is back to his killing ways. As usual Dr Loomis is not far behind played as ever by the slightly over the top but excellent Donald Pleasence. Michael is of course heading back to Haddonfield to kill Jamie the daughter of the now deceased Laurie Strode from the first two Halloween movies, luckily for us Danielle Harris who plays Jamie is a superior child actress and not annoying in any way like so many characters in slasher movies are, her step sister is trying to protect her and is played well by Ellie Cornell. I feel the makers of this movie managed to make the main characters likable enough for us to care about them as Michael Myers stalks them later in the film. There are some nice moments of suspense and some suitably gory kills but at no time did I feel this film got close to matching John Carpenters original, they did however create a valid and entertaining movie which is all I expect from the fourth part of a slasher series, check out some of the later Friday the 13th movies to see how bad these films can get or later parts of this very series. All in all Halloween fans will thoroughly enjoy this instalment of the long running franchise. "},{"Title":"The Shape is back","Date":"6 September 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Well firstly the plot, Michael Myers thought to be dead, burned alive after the events of part 2 is getting transferred to another hospital, but surprise surprise he comes back alive kills a few doctors and heads back to Haddonfield. Instead of trying to kill his sister Laurie, he's trying to kill his niece Jamie (Danielle Harris) because apparently Laurie died in a car accident a few years before and Dr Loomis (Donald Pleasence) is also back and also thought to be dead is hot on his tracks, but can Dr Loomis save the day again.It's nice to see Michael Myers back again after Halloween 3 nearly destroyed the Halloween franchise by having a completely different storyline that doesn't follow any of the Halloween films and having no Michael Myers what a travesty. So Halloween 4 is welcomed with open arms. Halloween 4 is a pretty decent sequel but sadly doesn't have the same style and tension as the first 2 had. Again Michael Myers goes on a killing spree like he did while trying to kill his sister but this time he's after his niece and well this time he takes it to the next level going on one major rampage after another. He blows up a petrol station wipes out an entire police station and kills the town's electricity just so he can kill his poor young sweet and innocent niece Jamie. Halloween 4 though is quite dull at times and doesn't have the same feel as the first Halloween film but again it haves an even bigger body count and intense stalk scenes like the famous rooftop stalk scene which is nail biting and definitely the best scene in the whole film, but the ending was a bit over the top and way to predictable other than that Halloween 4 is a decent entry.Donald Pleasence (Loomis) can do no wrong. Loomis is crazier, more obsessed and very determined. Mr. Pleasence is on top of it all. Ellie Cornell (Rachel) gives a grounded, pleasant performance a worthy final girl really likable and it's nice to see a normal final girl for a change that can actually act and not some big breasted bimbo, I really love the whole girl next door image. Danielle Harris (Jamie) is a big part of the whole Halloween saga a key player and considering her young age she holds up very well and gives an outstanding performance you really feel her fear, it's a pity she never became a bigger star and Kathleen Kinmont (Kelley) gives a decent show but her performance is overshadowed by how good she looks in a T-shirt. George Wilbur (Michael) walks the walk and is a bigger dude than the previous Michaels.All in all Halloween 4 is a decent entry in the Halloween franchise. "}{"Title":"The Evil Has Returned!","Date":"25 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Michael Myers the brutal killer who changed the face of Halloween forever, is back. Having escaped from a mental institution for the insane Myers has returned to Haddonfield to kill his niece and anyone who gets in his way. Dr. Sam Loomis has also returned to stop Michael's madness. This is the last good film featuring Michael. The cast was pretty good to, Dannelle Harris as Jamie, Ellie Cornell as Rachel and as always Donald Plesence gives a spectacular performance as Dr. Loomis. It's the basic story you'd expect from a Halloween movie, he escapes and goes after a family member, while his doctor tries to stop him. "},{"Title":"The return of 'Evil on 2 legs'.....and what a return it is","Date":"31 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I was only vaguely familiar with the storyline of 'Halloween' as I had never seen any of them when this one came out in October 1988. At age 17 I was hugely interested in it, and went to see it one day in the middle of the week at a downtown theater.It is October 30, 1988 - 10 years after the murder of 16 residents of Haddonfield, IL by an escaped psychopath. In the middle of the night, an ambulance makes its away along the road from Smith's Grove to the Ridgemont Federal Sanitarium where Michael Myers has been housed for the last 10 years. Soon, the monster of Halloween 1 & 2 is on his way to another institute, and comes to life inside the ambulance. He brutally murders the ambulance crew & heads towards Haddonfield - again.Young Jamie Lloyd, Myers' niece, has been adopted by the Carruthers family. She is tormented by a nightmare involving her evil uncle, in a terrifying sequence which the audience does not know is a dream (at first). It isn't long before Dr. Loomis & Dr. Hoffman, head of Ridgemont, are alerted by the state police after the ambulance is found upside-down in a river, destroyed and bloodied by Myers' homicidal violence. Loomis immediately heads for Haddonfield, and encounters Myers at a gas station where 2 other people have been murdered. After Myers blows up Loomis' car, the doctor is forced to hitchhike to Haddonfield as Myers races towards it in a stolen tow truck.Shortly after, Jamie & her adopted sister Rachel head for a store to buy a Halloween costume. Unknown to them, Myers is already there, and he acquires his coveralls & evil-looking knife. This is a well-filmed, frightening sequence in which Jamie holds up the costume on herself in a mirror, then the image changes to that of a 6-year-old boy who killed his sister 25 years before. Suddenly a dark figure appears behind Jamie, when she turns around she sees Myers pull the frightening pale mask down over his face. Myers moves towards her but quickly retreats from sight after Jamie screams, and he goes to stalk out Jamie's home.Loomis has reached the sheriff's office, and alerts Sheriff Ben Meeker to Myers' return. Meeker immediately puts the town into a state of curfew so the police can hunt Myers down, and then he & Loomis start looking for Myers themselves. A power failure caused by Myers forces Meeker to call the state troopers in following the savage murders of a group of officers by Myers, and a group of shotgun-toting truckers led by a man named Earl start going after Myers themselves. When the sheriff leaves to try to stop them, Myers goes after Jamie & Rachel in a deadly game of cat-and-mouse. It will end in a nail-biting confrontation between Myers & Earl's men - and the most frightening twist ending I have ever seen in a horror movie! The late Donald Pleasance, as usual, plays the role of Dr. Loomis brilliantly - as a man who has not only seen the evil incarnate that makes up Michael Myers but also dares to confront it. Ellie Cornell as Rachel & Danielle Harris as Jamie are also excellent as the 2 young ladies who find themselves the unwilling targets of Michael Myers' homicidal mission. George P. Wilbur is seen but not heard as the stomping, savage Michael Myers - a role he plays so well because of his slow-but-deliberate, lumbering presence.Director Dwight H. Little wanted to make this a huge return for Michael Myers following Halloween 3 (which did not feature the characters of 1 & 2), and he has succeeded! This is one of the best in the franchise. "},{"Title":"Deserves More Credit Than It Gets","Date":"24 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The Halloween saga continues in this very good installment. The film is very short, but the scares and the fun continue on even after the movie is over. While Halloween 2 was a very gory film, Halloween 4 is a tad gory, but the scares are fresh and new. Some people say that the Myers mask used in this film is bad, I actually like it. Dwight Little does a great job of refreshing the plot. A new sheriff, and a new damsel in distress (played wonderful by Danielle Harris), and of course everyone's favorite Donald Pleasence as the trench coat adversary Doctor Loomis. Micheal Myers is played by rookie George P. Wilbur who returned in Halloween 6. The gore in the film is a side note, but comes in at great times. The shotgun through the stomach is awesome. The beginning credits are very creepy, and the gas station scene is awesome. Loomis gets thrown through a door, looks like they forgot to dye Micheal's hair. LOL. Actually the truth behind that mask is it is actually the real William Shatner masked. It was put in the film for just s few seconds I guess is some tribute to Shatner. LOL. IDK. Pretty stupid. Just makes the editing look bad, but oh well. Great Film. Watch it by yourself. I did. The ending is the best part of the movie, but Dominic Orthin whatever is name is ruins it in Halloween 5. The last minute is thrilling and makes you wonder. 7 out of 10.Rated R for Strong Blood/Gore Violence, Language, and Partial Nudity. "},{"Title":"Return to form...","Date":"7 November 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" As it turns out Michael Myers didn't die in the hospital all those years ago, rather he was just badly injured and when the hospital transfers Mysers, he springs his assault and sharpens his butcher knife on the same town he terrorized ten years earlier. When Halloween III tanked (Even though I thought it wasn't half bad) I was skeptical of them bringing back Michael Myers as it seemed like a cheap gimmick to try and sell tickets after losing ground against Friday The 13th and Nightmare On Elm Street, however I was wrong, Halloween 4 is a surprisingly inventive and suspenseful slasher pic that is extremely well made and directed very well by Dwight H. Little. Little manages to have a good eye for detail and his buildup while not as good as the first manages to thoroughly engross the viewer. Also the characters on hand are likable and there is ample opportunity for Donald Pleasance to steal the show and ham it up. The gore level isn't very high but Halloween 4 is easily the best sequel of the bunch.*** out of 4-(Good) "},{"Title":"Great Comeback","Date":"24 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" SPOILERSHalloween Four is a great comeback for Michael Myers after his absence in Halloween Three Season Of The Witch. Michael comes out of his ten-year coma and goes after his niece, which is Laurie Strode's daughter, who died in a car crash. Dr. Sam Loomis finds out he's escaped and tries to find him. Michael's niece, Jamie Lloyd, keeps having frightening visions of Michael Myers. Her foster parents and sister tells her that it's all in her imagination. She doesn't think so. She buys a clown outfit for Halloween and clown mask. She goes Trick-or-Treating and Michael finds her and the chase begins! Her foster sister, Rachel, and Jamie are chased through the house and in the schoolhouse.They go in a car driven by hillbillies and Michael catches up to them and kills the hillbillies and Rachel drives the car. She gets Michael off the top of the car and runs him over, then the police come and shoot him down a mineshaft. When they're safely at home a blast from the past comes. Jamie kills her foster mother. The movie ends with Loomis shouting no and a shot of Jamie in her clown outfit with the bloody knife.Overall, this is a fantastic comeback for the killer.7/10 Recommended Films Halloween, Scream, and Friday the 13th. "},{"Title":"Halloween re-energized","Date":"5 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Of the Halloween sequels Halloween II, 4 and Resurrection are the most well done with a few flaws. 4 opens continuing where 2 left off. I like this movie because most of the murders aren't all blood and guts, being Subtle is this movies strength. This movie is simplistic like the original. The only problems I have are trivial but worth mentioning. For example the masks in 1 & 2 are scarier or maybe it doesn't fit the actor as well, you'll know it when you see it. The other problem is that Michael Myers pacing is faster. In the first 2 movies he walked very slow and still was able to catch up with who he was pursuing which was more chilling. "},{"Title":"Lower your expectations accordingly, and you might be pleasantly surprised","Date":"19 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Just like I was. After forgetting about this movie for quite some time, I finally picked up the new Divimax edition from Anchor Bay (they own the domestic video distribution rights to Halloween 1, 4, and 5. Unlike Dimension and Univerisal, which separately own these rights to Halloween 6,7, 8, and 2 respectively, Anchor Bay has a comparably smaller library of films, possibly one of the reasons the perennially bestselling Halloween movies keep being updated every few years tempting indulgent fans to double dip). I have to say, I'm glad I didn't purchase the previous 2000 DVD release of this film, but even if I did, I probably wouldn't be too upset at having to double dip for this new edition. The features are better than average for an 18 year old slasher sequel, including a panel discussion, a brief making of featurette, two separate commentaries (featuring actresses Daniel Harris and Ellie Cornell, as well as a writer and series fan Alan B. McElroy). Together with a brand new digital transfer of this respectful, and modestly successful horror film, the new DVD makes a Halloween treat for series fans.The movie itself doesn't exactly break new ground (though on the other hand, parts 5 and 6 did, with disastrous results), but its capably directed, decently acted (especially by a young, and very talented Danielle Harris as Michael Myers' tormented niece). The movie closely resembles the original in many respects, but with B action movie flourishes courtesy of director Dwight H. Little (witness the exploding gas station, which Loomis hilariously escapes by diving past some garbage cans in slow mo). Think of this of a pretty good cover version by another band, some of the new additions seem gratuitous, but it hits a lot of the right notes, nevertheless. Curiously, the town and police seem to have an unspoken recognition of the kind of supernatural menace posed by lone killer Myers, which makes sense, I guess. Also the twist ending is absolutely chilling, and wonderful (even if you can predict it, or have had it already spoiled for you), it dovetails neatly to the beginning of part 1, to ground zero for the Halloween series.While being merely a superior example of the slasher sub genre, comparison with the jokey, gimmicky Friday and Nightmare sequels that were being released concurrently with this fourth entry make it look like...well, the original Halloween. Together with parts 1, and 2, this movie comprises a worthwhile trilogy within the Halloween film series. The other movies are completely negligible, with the exception of H20 (although Stephen King said it sucked in his Entertainment Weekly column, which may overstate the case a bit). I'm a completist, so I'll probably end up buying parts 5, and 6 (if only I were made of stronger moral fiber...), but I have to draw the line at the Busta Rhymes vehicle-disguised-as-horror-movie called Halloween Ressurrection. It's bad enough they killed Jaime in part six, they made the cardinal sin of killing the series heroine, thus losing the yin-yang element so crucial to any horror franchise ( see also Alien, Aliens, Alien3, and A Nightmare on Elm Street, ANOES 3 Dream Warriors, and Wes Craven's New Nightmare). "},{"Title":"He is Back... again... Did'NT he die?","Date":"2 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" OK, The story is completely different. This time Michael escapes while being moved into a new hospital. He returns to Haddonfield in pursuit of his new target and niece. Jamie Lloyd, the daughter of Laurie Strode.The town is very eerie in this film. Instead of being like a haunted house movie, it's more of a haunted town movie. It's a new vision on the movie series all together.Danielle Harris does a WONDERFUL job for her age. Though I find it overly sadistic that Mike is trying to kill a little girl now, It makes for a much more enjoyable movie to know that this little girl knows how to carry out that fear we like. Not to mention good screamer!I was a little upset Jamie Lee wasn't in this movie. But the acting in this movie isn't terrible. It good, but not as good as I bet it could of been.My ranking in the series 3rd best sequel. Good addition. But the mask is almost laughable... "},{"Title":"Blame it on the Return.","Date":"10 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" You know...this film even now, sits on the shelves of movie stores, as a pathetic excuse of cinematic history. It was not too bad, but certainly not too good, and you wanna know my opinion? I blame this one for all the problems that we have with this everlasting nightmare called the Halloween series. I blame it very much, but I can also attest to the fact that no one really watches this film, except die-hard fans. I was a die hard fan myself once, but not so much anymore. The concept of the latter day family linked to Michael Meyers is interesting, and certainly a subject to be delved into, if the script be good enough. Saddly, it just revived the first one, and...well, what do you think came next? You know what? This one is more interesting to watch, for me. The first one is so overrated, and praised by such Nimrods and Rob Zombie, that it's not even worth a mention, except that it started the series. Alas, I digress. I have no real compassion for this series anymore, but I will keep tabs on it for many years to come, because at one point or another, it was part of my life too. "},{"Title":"Great Comeback From The Dreadful Part III.","Date":"30 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Halloween 4 The Return of Michael Myers is a huge improvement from the unrelated crapfest sequel Halloween III Season of the Witch. Halloween 4 starts off with Jamie Lloyd, who is incidentally Laurie Strode's daughter. With Laurie assumed dead, Jamie lives with her foster family, and her older foster-sister, Rachel. On Halloween, Jamie is ridiculed at school for her uncle being the boogeyman, and Jamie decides that she wants to go trick-or-treating this year... But little does she know, Michael is back, with Dr. Loomis hot on his tracks. As Rachel takes Jamie out for a simple night of Halloween fun, it quickly turns to a night of horror when Michael begins to kill off people one by one, with Jamie as his main target.This was a really great horror flick, and I was glad to see Michael back after the strangely misplaced Halloween 3. It had some truly great moments, and I enjoyed seeing good old Michael back with his trusty butcher knife. The story basically follows up later on after the events of the first and second films, and ties up loose ends well. Donald Pleasance is great as always as Dr. Loomis, and Danielle Harris played the part of the innocent Jamie really well, as did Ellie Cornell as her foster-sister Rachel. There were some great chase sequences (including the roof-chase), and the ending was shocking and completely unexpected.To sum it up, Halloween 4 is a probably the second best sequel in the series, and is much better than the sequel that came before it. Recommended to all Halloween fans, you definitely won't be disappointed with this one. 8/10. "}{"Title":"Michael's back but...He's different somehow.","Date":"18 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Six years after the terrible Halloween III, someone had the brilliant idea of making a 4th Halloween movie and actually including Michael in the story. Halloween 4 takes place 10 years after Halloween I and II. Michael Myers has been in a coma from his wounds. Dr. Loomis is severely scarred from the fire of Halloween II, but he's still alive. Laurie Strode has died in a car accident, but she left behind a daughter, Jamie. This news stirs Michael from his coma, and he makes his way back to Haddonfield with Loomis on his trail. Halloween 4 brings back our favourite slasher movie killer, and it brings back the eerie feel of the first two movies, but something is different this time.Unknown director Dwight H. Little took control of the director's chair for what many consider to be the best Halloween sequel. He didn't do a lot to improve upon what was already done. I mean, he's no John Carpenter. He kind of copies what the previous movies were like, but he doesn't really get what they were. The evidence behind this is the way Michael Myers has changed. In the first two movies, he was a thin but muscular silent killer. He spent his time watching and analyzing his prey. When he finally moved in for the kill, he was quick and efficient, barely making a sound. In this movie, he's become a large muscular brute that is as sloppy and disgusting as Jason Voorhees from the Friday the 13th series. For instance, Michael used to use a knife. In this movie he uses a shotgun to impale somebody, and he throws a guy into power lines. I think the reason behind this may have been that in the time between Halloween II and Halloween 4, there were six Friday the 13th films released, and everybody was in the monstrous killer phase. Another thing is his mask. In the first two movies, his mask looked to be a part of him, like his actual face. In this movie his mask looks bulky and uncomfortable, and you can tell it's a mask. Also, the style has changed immensely.Overall, this is an entertaining entry to the series, but this is where it started to go downhill, not counting Halloween III of course. I recommend it to slasher fans.6/10 "},{"Title":"Excellent, on par with the original!","Date":"1 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Halloween 4 definitely deserves a higher rating. It's an excellent horror movie, and on par with the original.Basically, the psychotic knife-wielding serial killer with a cheap dime store mask is back and terrorizing the town of Haddonfield, Illinois once again. This time he's after his adorable seven year old niece, Jamie (Danielle Harris), and anyone who gets in his way. Jamie's teenage foster sister Rachel (Ellie Cornell) eventually grows to care for her and tries desperately to protect her. As the entire town is placed under lockdown in the search for Michael, a group of drunken rednecks pile in their truck and try to take matters into their own hands by finding Michael themselves. There is also a subplot dealing with Rachel and her cheating boyfriend, Brady. The movie is very entertaining, and a little frightening at times, but at the same time it can be hilarious. At the end of the movie, we see Michael trying to possess little Jamie, and the story is continued in part 5 (which isn't as good but still pretty good).Overall, 4 is the best in the series after the original. "},{"Title":"Not bad","Date":"13 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I watched this expecting it to be terrible, but found that it actually wasn't too bad. Of course it doesn't come anywhere close to the original, or even the underrated Halloween 2, but it's better than a lot of slasher flicks out there. It starts off with Michael Myers again escaping from hospital, this time a charred shadow of his former self (remember the ending of Halloween 2?) He goes looking for his niece this time, back to Haddonfield. The story is basically a variation on the original, nothing new there. Halloween 4 fails because it doesn't deliver much suspense or gore. Most of the tense moments happen at the end, whereas in the original Halloween tension is built up throughout. I liked the rooftop scene and the car scenes, but the rest of the film is pretty dull and has teenage drama type sub-plots. Also worth noting is that the mask used in this film is terrible! It's nowhere near as creepy and menacing as the first two Halloween films. Oh well. "},{"Title":"Bronze medal - 3rd best in the series!","Date":"27 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I didn't care much for Halloween II, It was alright (certainly better than HalloweenResurrection), but was more an average slasher, and not as intelligent as the first. I didn't even bother to watch 3 I imagine it was a good film, but the way I see it, no Micheal no Halloween!The original is easily the best, and H20 is, while not nearly as good, a very faithful sequel. However, I hadn't yet seen H4, which I had heard was good. Last week I got the chance to see it, and believe it when they say it is one of the better sequels. The first thing you'll notice about the film is it is quite more violent than the original, like H2. Unlike H2 however, it still has the creepiness factor of the original, and does have a decent story and reasonably good acting (Donald Pleasance is on top form again, and hats off to Danielle Harris for a great performance) You can pick it up for really cheap now on DVD(I got it for £2.50), there are no extras to speak of, but both picture and sound quality are good, so its worth a rental at least, because I would advise Halloween fans to at least check it out! "},{"Title":"Eh, it's not great","Date":"11 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Halloween 4 is the fourth of eight movies in the Halloween series. It's about the return of Michael Myers. It has bad acting from pretty much everyone in the whole thing except Donald Pleasence or whatever his name is. So anyway, it starts off with Michael at the hospital with some people and he gets on an ambulance. He sticks his thumb in a guy's forehead, and that's the first death of this movie. So, it's like any other Halloween movie. Michael runs around and chases teenagers and kills them. It's a little boring, but the way they take out Michael Myers at the end of this movie is cool. It's an OK movie. It's not terrible, but it's no classic. 6/10 "},{"Title":"The Night He Came Home","Date":"11 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Halloween 4 fits somewhere between Halloween 1 and Halloween 2 with equal time given to both character development and equal parts terror and blood shed. Halloween 4 is a film firmly set in slasher mode which may disappoint fans of carpenters Halloween films as Michael displays many Jason-esquire tendencies that make and break the film in places. Like most slasher movies the actors smile and scream in the right and places and die like good piggies except for the brilliant Donald Pleasence who's Tortured Dr Loomis set the Halloween franchise apart from it's counterparts. Loomis steal every scence he is in and his tortured scream will leave you with chills. Halloween 4 is highly enjoyable and fun slasher movie that will appeal to fans of the genre rather than fans of the original films. "},{"Title":"Laughable","Date":"29 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Although it is creepy in a sense it is more or less because of the original Halloween score being used. Overall I found it mostly laughable and silly. They evidently had script writers but they didn't spend a great deal of time on it. The original is still the best hands down. The actors do an better than okay job but the script is just weak in so many places. Too many holes abound. It's okay for some cheap escapism but still I found myself laughing more than being scared. I was much more impressed with H20 which came later on and was glad to see Jaimie Lee Curtis back in the saddle. If you just want bloodshed and you don't care about plot then this one is okay. But if you are a hardcore stickler for things making sense then I would avoid this movie. "},{"Title":"HalloweeN 4 doesn't quite cut it... **1/2 out of *****","Date":"24 October 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" It obviously has it's fans, but I've never been a huge fan of HalloweeN 4. In fact I feel it's the worst in the series. Michael Myers just isn't captured in a scary light. The director seems to not know how to set up a genuine suspense scene.I'll give it kudos for portraying some sense of the Halloween season, especially over the opening credits (which happen to be my favorite part of the film). And Donald Pleasance is great as always.The film has it's moments where I think it shows it could be something really good, but then there are chunks of the movie that are just plain dismal. Especially when the gang of rednecks go out to get them some Myers. That was silly and Michael Myers also looks kind of silly.It isn't anywhere as good as the first two entries. There were times where I wanted to give it three stars but the film as a whole doesn't completely gel with me. It's passable entertainment, it's not terrible, but it's nothing to praise either.The series does get better though. "},{"Title":"Probably the best sequel","Date":"21 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" After Halloween 3, the Akkads decided to go back to the Myers storyline. This film saw a change in writer because Carpenter didn't really want anything to do with it after Halloween 2 - he didn't really want to be involved in that, either.Halloween 4 is one of my favourite movies. It's my favourite Halloween sequel, obviously it's not as good as the original, but no-one expects that. It was a brave decision to make this film as with no Carpenter or no Jamie Lee Curtis I imagine this would have had a mixed reception.Halloween 4 succeeds where many of the other sequels failed with one basic move - most of the characters are characters you grow to like, and anyone who's seen Resurrection and to some extent H20 knows what I mean.Danielle Harris plays the role of Jamie Lloyd, daughter of Laurie Strode. Her role as the terrified niece of a deranged serial killer is quite magnificent.Donald Pleasance is back as the slightly maniacal Dr Loomis. In my opinion it is the presence of Pleasance that made these films possible and on the whole watchable. He plays the role as brilliantly as ever, managing to deliver some of those classic, almost camp, lines - Maybe nobody knows how to stop him, one of my favourites.Without wanting to give too much away, this film follows a very simple formula that is similar to the original, complete with a mysterious ending that will leave you wanting to watch Halloween 5.One of the most important films to watch if you're a fan of Halloween. In the event you haven't seen Halloween, then I wouldn't recommend this film as a starting point as you would probably find some of it confusing. Having said that, it's not that hard to follow and it is a very good horror as a stand alone film once you understand the history. "},{"Title":"One of the better Halloween sequels.","Date":"30 October 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Halloween 4 The Return of Micheal Myers was nothing really special, and that is both it's weakest point and it's strongest point. While it may not try hard enough to reach the scare level of the original Halloween, it also doesn't try too hard to stand out, like 5 and 6 tried to do (and failed). This is what makes it my favorite out of the Jamie Halloween movies. It does have some clichéd and pretty silly scenes, and some scenes were so predictable, me and my friends even made bets on what was going to happen next. Still, this is a good sequel in a series that really should have stopped after the first movie.**+/**** "}{"Title":"Eighties spin on the original ","Date":"14 July 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Awwww the Halloween sequel I remember best from the eighties, only because I was a fan of Freddy and Jason back then, this sequel came out right at the height of those two's fame. Plot wise, it's pretty much the same thing from H1 and H2, (Micheal returning to kill his niece after ten years) but the film makers try there best to make Micheal catch up on his late arrival. The direction is really cool, with shades of blue and orange constantly shading everything, the opening credits are really cool, but not as stylin as 5's. For the life of me though, Donald Pleasance seemed to hammy, and I thought his delivery was really cool in the beginning but eventually I felt like muting my TV every time he started jabbering about anything related to Micheal. The film's strongest aspect is the Rachel and Jaime relationship. It was sweet and I cared about them all the way (despite Harris's performance is kinda weak). Some weak plot devices hurt the film though. BRADY and KELLY were beyond underdeveloped and didn't really need to be there except for one sex scene and more to the bodycount (allthough Kinmont who plays kelly is pretty sexy), sure getting trapped in the house lead to the cool rooftop scene, but really, were the characters scared of breaking some windows? on the main floor? all that was blocking them was shitty little wood, and the redneck hicks were pretty stupid, and Micheals mask reaches my 2nd worst mask to ever grace a Halloween screen, (H20 deserves #1), It looked to laughable and weird.So all in all, Halloween 4 delivers what you'd except with a little more style. The movie has a nice look and some scenes are a little creepy, and of course who could forget the in your face dark ending. NOOO NOOO NOOOOOOO Dr.loomis  "},{"Title":"Another successful installment","Date":"14 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The film takes place 10 years after the end of the second film. (Note Halloween 3) has no affiliation with Michael Myers. During the first and second film Myers' focus is circulated around stalking his sister, Laurie Strode.It's now been 10 years since Myers has been locked up in Richmond Mental Institute and once he escapes, his focus now is on on Laurie Strodes' niece, who is identified as Jamie. Jamie, is played by young actress Danielle Harris. Harris does an outstanding job portraying the young niece. Harris has a huge contribution in keeping the films momentum. This little thing can act!!Donald Pleasence reprises his role, as Dr. Loomis. As you'd assume, Pleasence gives another strong performance as the obsessed doctor on the hunt for his twisted patient.Once again, the films setting is based in Haddonfield, IL. If you happen to be a fan of the earlier series, then you should check this out. The sequel films that proceed after this tend to fall short of expectations and may grow tiresome.My personal favorite of the series would be the original, (considered by many as the best slasher flick of all time). However, this along with the second installment, are all worthy sequels.10 out of 10 for the last great sequel of the franchise. "},{"Title":"There's not much I can say about this movie...","Date":"26 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Except... oh yeah! It SUCKS. It's absolute crap compared to either of the first two. You know, the GOOD ones with Jamie Lee Curtis. I think this is basically the same problem the Karate Kid series had when the Next Karate Kid was made. For the first movies, you have a character that everyone can get behind, who learns to take care of him or herself. Then they try to make a sequel, just to keep it going. But of course, the original actor/actress is either too old, busy doing other projects, or is smart enough to realize that you should just leave the series be. But no. They dropped in that really annoying little girl. I was actually hoping that Michael would kill her. Oh, and am I the only one who thought the ending was the stupidest thing in the world? "},{"Title":"Good return to a long friend","Date":"18 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  SpoilersSo Michael is back, and ready for action it seems. After being blowup, nearly to death, Michael gets ready to make his return to Haddonfield, and possibly go after his sister he just couldn't get his hands on in the second one. Attempting to take his body for a hospital transfer, Michael finds out about his loving niece, who is Lauries daughter (she is killed in a car accident supposedly), he kills everybody in his path to get to the little girl. I really thought it was a good comeback for Michael, but I think they should have used the same old house they used inside the rest of the Halloween movies instead of moving the location of the set to another town rather than southern california. I mean come on, like a TRUE Michael Myers fan isn't going to notice that that is not the Myers house? Who were they really going to kid?7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"My mommy died in a plane crash.","Date":"10 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Possibly due to the fact that Part 3 was so horrid, it obviously seemed necessary to bring Michael back to give the name of the film some class.  So after Michael was burnt up, he didn't actually die, he went into a coma, and Loomis, who was stabbed as well as blown up, is back with only a few burn marks on his face and hand.  Pretty thin, true, but a thin Michael is better than no Michael at all.  And in part 4, he returns to Haddonfield to stalk his niece (played by Harris, better known for her role in the U.S. sitcom Roseanne and The Last Boyscout), the daughter of Curtis.  It's all pretty much the same, but there are some good scenes in it, the violence is played down and mostly suspense takes its place.  Worth a look.I love the poster art for this film. "},{"Title":"Storyless, crappy sequel which feels overlong at only 88 minutes of screentime!","Date":"18 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" THE GOOD--I liked the first half of the film, which mixes nicely the strong characterisations of Jamie and Dr. Loomis and the of course essential murder scenes. Unlike in the later part of the movie, these aspects are very well balanced out.--I loved the final twist in the film. A big surprise, but one that was shocking and enthralling. I hope it isn't ignored in later schools like the final shot of Friday the 13th Part 5 - A New Beginning was.--This may sound like a stupid comment, but I loved how the last name of the family featured in this film was Carruthers. That's my last name! Big grins all round for me.--There were some good jump moments and some OK gore, but not nearly enough.THE BAD--The lighting, or lack thereof, in this film was AWFUL. During a lot of the second half it was hard to tell what was going on, who I was looking at and where I was. It upset my viewing of the film A LOT.--Michael disappears halfway into the movie only to reappear a lot later. He didn't really feel like a big part of the film thanks to that, it belonged more to the lame hunter characters.--The hunter characters are annoying and useless to the plot. What purpose do they serve in the story of Halloween? They seem like an unnecessary time filler and all of their scenes were boring.--I'm sorry, but what exactly was the story behind this movie? It had no real plot unlike the previous Halloween movies (even 3 had a plot, though it was a terrible and ludicrous one) and even at only 88 minutes it didn't have enough material or story to fill that running time. It was also a slow movie, and when a movie is slow at 88 minutes, you've got serious problems going on.RATING4/10 - Crappy sequel. It started out with great potential and then quickly spiralling into badness.IF YOU LIKED THIS MOVIE I RECOMMENDHalloween (7/10) Halloween 2 (8/10) Halloween Resurrection (3/10) Scream (9/10) Scream 2 (8/10) Urban Legend (5/10) "},{"Title":"Mere So So","Date":"2 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  SPOILERSIn this ludicrous sequel to Halloween I and II, the evil Michael Myers escapes while being transferred to the Richmond Mental Institute and returns to Haddonfield and goes on yet another murder spree while searching for his little niece. Donald Pleasance reprises his role as Dr. Sam Loomis. Sadly,Jamie Lee Curtis does not appear in this one. ** out of ***** meaning watchable. "},{"Title":"If you Judge a book by its cover Dont see this movie.","Date":"5 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I wanted to watch this movie for a long time. I was expecting something good from the begginning. 2 Tell the truth, I don't know why but the begginning credits freaked me out. I think it was because the original theme was playing. Eek.Anyways the movie rolled on. We find out Michael is back so we decide to celebrate by killing a garage guy and a cooking guy. Oh Fiddle Dee Dee! The terror begins. Pffft Yeah Right.This is where it gets boring. There is this big 50 minute gap where there is all talk talk talk and no kill kill kill. I was sitting through the movie bored out of my mind waiting for something to happen. No. Nothing.So its yappety yappety for our cast that totally is doopid. The only sane ones in this movie were Jamie and that Loomis guy.So I was about to turn the DVD player off and throw the DVD in the trash (Uh huh right) then the killing begins. Muhahahaha. Probably the most scariest part was from the part where the Blonde Girl (Rachels Friend) dies to the ending.OH MY GOD THE ENDING.Totally freaked me out. I was just gasping for air. My mouth was opened. I must have swallowed like 20 flies! I couldn't believe what had happened. I went nuts. I ran to my neighbors house because she has Halloween 5 and I borrowed it. Unfortunately, It was a recording and it was VCR so it sucked.Ill tell you what i think of H5 in the H5 page.Now ReviewOut of 10 stars I would have given it 7. I would have given it n 8 but because of that huge gap where there is just talking it got boring. Even the scenes with the little girl trick or treating and the scene where shes at the costume buying place where kind of boring.Overall. The Title of this review says it. If you are impatient and easily bored, this movie isn't for you. Buh- Bye "},{"Title":"the urge to kill","Date":"3 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  after seeing part of this dreadful movie, i can fully sympathize with michael myer's desire to kill everyone in the cast.  totally annoying cast, implausible situations, badly written, badly acted.....the most realistic part of the movie is that william shatner mask.....now if michael could only find his way to the studio maybe we can end this series. "},{"Title":"My favorite movie","Date":"26 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"                            Possible SpoilersDon't ask me why, there is just something about this movie.  It is probably just above an average horror film.  Not scary at all, but it is just kick a--.  I think what is so mean about Michael Myers this time is that we find out that he will go after anyone, even if it is a seven year old kid.  This storyline adds some confusion when H2O and Resurrection were released, but this is still the best Halloween.  Donald Pleasance, one of the greatest actors who ever lived, returns and is spectacular and fantastic as always and never fails to deliver.  Ellie Cornell is also excellent as Rachel, and newcomer, at the time, Danielle Harris was just unbelievable as Jamie.  Jamie Lloyd, besides Loomis is my favorite character.  This was an excellent storyline that follows right over into the next one, just as the first two did.  If you haven't seen this, I do recommend you see it now.  You might not like it as much as I do, but like I already stated, there is just something about this movie that attracts me. One more thing, the ending will send chills down your spine. I give this movie a 20/10  LOL "}{"Title":"EVIL ON TWO LEGS","Date":"29 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  THIS COMMENT MIGHT HAVE SPOILER SO READ ON OR LOOK AWAYMichael Myers is back in Halloween 4 The Return Of Michael Myers thank god been missing him alot after he was not in halloween 3 but i suppose that film was alright. Michael is now after Jamie Lloyd and anyone who stands in his way to wipe out his family and its also nice to see Dr Loomis back trying to stop evil on two legs hehehe. Also WOW look at that woman with big breast she is sexy and the killings are also good in the film. 7/10 "},{"Title":"The last GREAT Halloween installment. *Spoilers*","Date":"27 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Alright, first things first, before you misinterpret the title, I am a fan of the Halloween series as a whole. Although the series' quality dissipated as time went on, I still enjoy all the flicks on a certain level. However, following the magnificent original and it's sequel (and even the enjoyable part 3), 'Halloween 4' does a good job. The movie opens up with Michael Myers safely locked up in a hospital, resting and healing from the events that took place tens years prior in part 2. On his way to be transferred to a new facility, one of the paramedics lets it slip that Michael has a niece and Michael wakes up, puts his finger through some guy's forehead and escapes. In this film it is revealed that Laurie Strode (Jamie Lee Curtis -- survivor of previous films) had died in a car accident and left behind a daughter, Jamie (played by the underrated Danielle Harris) who has been taken in by the Lloyd family in her hometown of Haddonfield. It's Halloween night, and that crazy nut Sam Loomis (the late, great Donald Pleasance) tries to warn the little town of impending doom. But since this is an 80's slasher flick, no one believes him, and Michael cleans house, literally. The film is pretty tense. Director Dwight Little is a fair successor to Carpenter. He manages to capture a lot of mood and delivers an extremely creepy opening sequence. The actors are all good in their places (you'll recognize the actor who plays Brady from 'Dazed & Confused') and considering it's a sequel, it comes across very well. The ending is stellar (too bad they wimped out on part 5) and any Halloween fan will simply LOVE this movie. "},{"Title":"Great but they didn't know when to stop","Date":"7 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This film came out on the 10th anniversary of the original Halloween and was a surprise hit at the box office. I saw it in the theatre and thought it was one sequel that was almost (read almost) as good as the original. Surprisingly, it wasn't all that violent compared to a lot of slasher films. A lot of the violence was off screen and they relied on suspense rather that what did happen. Donald Pleasance returns as the determined Doctor Loomis and gives a wonderful hammy performance (evil on two legs walked out of here) with his limp and scarred face, a critic compared him to a mad Captain Ahab chasing Moby Dick. This man was one of our greatest character actors. Young Ellie Cornell and Danielle Harris also give great performances. Ellie was probably the most likable Halloween heroine since Jamie Lee Curtis. She is certainly an actress that you do not see enough of. Danielle Harris is terrific and you just want to take this little child in your arms. My only real complaint is that they should HAVE JUST STOPPED THE WHOLE DAMN HALLOWEEN SERIES RIGHT HERE AND NOW. LET IT REST AND MOVE ON TO SOMETHING ELSE PEOPLE! They shot Michael about fifty times and dumped him down the river DUH!!! Let it be over BUT NOOO!!! Instead comes the only complaint that I have about this whole film POSSIBLE SPOILER HERE!!! The way that it ended. I do not know about you, but the way this film ended is so disturbing to me. It just gave me chills. Couldn't they have thought up something else. That little girl holding that knife in her hand after stabbing her mother is just too much for me. I am so sorry. "},{"Title":"Scary and well thought out","Date":"4 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Halloween IV The Return of Michael Myers was a scary and unique movie (even for halloween), though some people think Jason or Freddy r the most powerful, both have died and taken a beating, Michael has not for either of those, he always survives or plays a mind trick, getting back to the movie, well casted, Loomis wuz awesome as Myers arch nemisis(like Jamie Lee Curtis), this movie shows him at his more powerful side for the time 10/10 stars "},{"Title":"Good flick","Date":"5 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this when it first came out. It was a welcome return. But one thing just bugs and p***es me off. Myers escapes from the hospital in the first movie, by driving off in a station wagon, which is has an automatic transmission. Automatics are easy to drive. But then in the 4th one, he escapes the garage in a big old tow truck, which is manual transmission. HOW THE HELL CAN HE DRIVE A STICK SHIFT. SOMEONE PLEASE TELL ME. Myers never learned how to drive let alone, work a stick. I cant even work a stick and I wasnt in the nut house for 15 years, and in some hospital burned, shot and broken for another 10. But of course, thats just my opinion, I could be wrong. "},{"Title":"the Best sequel - Contains Spoilers - Don't read unless seen","Date":"2 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The reason that Halloween 4 in my oppioin worked so well was for many reasons, but the main one of these was that the Director really did pay attention to not only the rules of the horror genre but also the things that make a horror film scary. Okay, it may have been a few scares that could be described as 'a bump in the night', but they work, when Jamie Loyd is in the Drug Store and Myres appears before her, we know he isn't really there but it is a hellova shock. The Director also uses darkness, shade and the moon to the full. I can think of one example of this.When the DP is in the house watching the door in a vain attempt to stop myres and as the Female Charecter (I forget her name) with rather large breasts (hmm, funny how there is always one!) is making coffee and out of the corner of the screen we see Myres face, and then just as quickly it is gone.I think the main reason we could feel sorry and really feel touched by the lead female in this film was becasue she was so young, okay her acting may not have been amasing but we will look past that, in Halloween 5 we see 4 teens getting killed but who cares? Thats what we go to see it for.The death scenes could be seen as sick, personally, I love them. My peticular favourite is when the DP gets pinned agains't the wall with his own shotgun, ummm, squishy brains.Rating 8.5/10ginock "},{"Title":"The Shape is back...","Date":"26 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Ten Years ago on the night of October 31, a small midwestern town fell victim to an escaped killer. Under the cover of darkness he carried out the most horrifying mass murder on record. Sixteen people in cold blood. Ever since that night, noone has forgotten his name, and Halloween will never be the same.Michael Myers returns to his hometown of Haddenfield after a hiatus of sorts from Halloween 3 The season of witch (personally i hated Halloween 3). This time the assumed dead Michael Myers who actually was in a hospital at a undisclosed location recovers from a ten year coma to go after his niece, Jamie Lloyd (the daughter of Jamie Lee Curtis' character in the first Halloween, Laurie Strote) when he discovers that she's living in his hometown. Also on Myers' trail is the also assumed dead Dr. Loomis (played great by the late Donald Pleasence).Can Dr. Loomis Stop Michael Myers before he can go back to his hometown and begin what he stated ten years earlier? Find out in Halloween 4 The RETURN of Michael Myers. "},{"Title":"It was okay","Date":"24 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Halloween 4 The Return of Michael Myers is an okay sequel but nothing special. Michael Myers sister has died and now he's after Jamie played great by Dainelle Harris. Dwight H. Little has crafted a film with good camera work but the scares are little & few and the ending is choppy.  "},{"Title":"Technically well-made sequel, but has flaws","Date":"13 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Our masked friend (George P. Wilbur) is back in his third go-round.  Ten years after the first two Halloween films, he awakens from a coma and goes after his nine-year-old niece (Danielle Harris).  Once again, it's up to Dr. Loomis (Donald Pleasence) to stop him.Director Dwight H. Little tries to add the same amount of atmosphere and suspense as John Carpenter did in the original Halloween, but can't prevent flawed acting and writing from taking over.  Harris, in her film debut, spends a majority of her screen time either whining or screaming and can get really annoying.  On a good note, technically well-made and an improvement over the mediocre Halloween III Season of the Witch.  My evaluation ** out of ****. "},{"Title":"Good movie brilliant ending","Date":"11 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I just finished watching it on AMC (Hey if Nightmare on Elm Street can be on the mystery channel this can be on AMC!).  Waiting for 5 to come on in an hour.  Good movie.  Ending was brilliant imo.  Won't spoil it but unlike Resurrection you didn't see it coming.8/10 "}{"Title":"Guess who's back, back again, Mikey's back, tell a friend...","Date":"8 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Halloween 4 came along exactly 10 years after the original one completely blew people's minds and changed the way they looked at suspense and horror. It also followed up the dismal box-office run that a Myers-less Halloween III had. The original intentions were for each Halloween movie to have a different storyline, sort of like the Twilight Zone, hence, you have what Halloween III became. But no, the public did not like that at all, and here we go again, playing it safe with Mr. White Face Man once again, in what we like to call THE RETURN OF MICHAEL MYERSAh yes, doesn't that sound good and refreshing? I'll admit, I was in the minority who enjoyed Halloween III, but it makes me feel all warm inside to see our little Mikey all grown up into adulthood, still slicin' and dicin'. It brings a tear to my eye. This movie is definetly one of the best in the series. Although not as thrilling as the original, it still musters up more than enough suspense and it is a lot creepier than any of the other sequels, and guess what else? It actually LOOKS like Halloween. **SPOILERS** In this movie, Myers, who is very badly burned from the events of Halloween 2, manages to escape once again from the mental hospital, all bandaged up, and once again, makes his way home to Haddonfield. In this movie we discover that Laurie Strode has died in a car accident (They couldn't afford Jamie Lee Curtis' fee, since she's a big star and all) and the only blood relative Mikey has left now is his 9 year old niece, Jamie (played by the outstanding Danielle Harris). Jamie lives with a foster family and other kids pick on her about her being an orphan and about how her mom died (Now come on, kids are cruel, but not THAT cruel -- Your mommy's a mummy!). Add to that some severe boogeyman nightmares, and Jamie is just overwhelmed when (give it to) Mikey (he'll eat anything) makes his homecoming. So naturally, (hey) Mikey (likes it) kills off a lot of people during his downtime, and eventually the core cast is locked inside of a house with Myers. No doubt, this movie is fun. It's not the most intelligent or creative horror, but it is just plain, pure slasher fun. This thing REEKS of the 80's. Fans of the original movie will love it. Somehow they manage to recreate a lot of the suspense and mystery that was in the first one. I suggest you definetly check it out if you liked the other ones in the series. "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"    Some people maybe not agreee but i loved this movie it had a great plot and a great storyine it has been 10 years since anyone has seen micheal myers but noe hes back and back to kill now he is after Laurie strodes child Jamie and will do everything to get her,  i really liked the end of this movie it rules i give this film a 8 out 10 "},{"Title":"Allright sequel","Date":"13 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Halloween 4 The Return of Michael Myers is a decent sequel to the horror series. After the dreadful third one the producers brought back the oringial bad boy to the horror franchise. Dwight H.Little's direction is on par with Carpenter's from the first film and the acting by Danille Harris is very good. If you've never seen the flim then check it out. "},{"Title":"Good Story Line","Date":"10 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie has a good story line,  it is original and very entertaining. The music is the same although the piano had changed, but it sounds better. Colorful new characters are introduced.  It is a must see for any original Halloween fan. "},{"Title":"Brilliant sequel.","Date":"6 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Halloween 4 is the third best in the series if you want my opinion.This time the story involves Micheals niece Jamie and her older step sister.Jamie is a girl who is convinced her mother (Laurie Strode) is dead and her uncle (Micheal) is out after her. It soon becomes clear that he is in Haddonfield and Dr Loomis is the only one who is convinced (and Jamie).Micheal escapes from an ambulance and goes to Haddonfield,and Jamie is his target.Halloween 4 must be one of the best sequels in the saga (apart from H20),it uses every element of suspense from the original and totally lives up to it.There are more jumps and surprises and it will shock you. I rate 4/5. "},{"Title":"On A Par With Halloween 1 And 2","Date":"22 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Halloween 3 was a brilliant film but like most people I was pleased to see the return of Michael Myers in part four.About the only drawback of this film was the absence of Jamie Lee Curtis but I suppose you can't keep having the same characters throughout without it becoming repetitive and Ellie Cornell and Danielle Harris did a fine job with this film. Furthermore, the beautiful Jamie Lee Curtis would return in Halloween H20.Michael Myers carved out a nice little niche for himself over the years and he was back doing what he normally did-killing people.I suppose if you really look at it a film series like this has more or less the same story throughout but personally, I can never get enough of watching the likes of Michael Myers killing people...and then getting killed.This is a great entry in a great series. "},{"Title":"A decent movie.","Date":"20 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is no masterpiece but far superior to most movies that have a 4 in the title. Then again, in terms of Michael Myers, this film is the 3rd entry. Seems that after Halloween 3 bombed so bad with fans of the franchise, the studio saw it necessary to bring back what they did like about the series Michael Myers. Apparently they needed to bring him back at all costs, which means that you can expect, in the tradition of Friday the 13th and Nightmare on Elm Street, a very lame excuse for his return. Last seen burning in Halloween 2 for SEVERAL minutes AFTER being blown up, he's now resting in a hospital, waiting to be transferred on a dark and stormy night. Seems that no one found it miraculous that he survived. The same goes even more so for Dr. Loomis, who was in the room with Michael when it exploded and is now walking around looking quite well with the exception of a cane to aid his limp. Please. This just goes to show you that studios will go to the extreme to bring a franchise back to its feet, totally throwing logic out the window. Now that Laurie is gone, Michael continues his bloody legacy of chasing after family members by pursuing his young niece Jamie. Yep, that means his transfer didn't go over so well. And what a coincidence, Michael decides to awaken from his coma in an ambulance a few days before Halloween! What are the chances? A sort of road-trip movie then ensues, as Michael and Loomis both race to Haddonfield as fast as they can, except Michael leaves a trail of bodies in his wake. Soon, both men arrive in Haddonfield, one determined to save little Jamie from Michael's wraith, and one determined to stick her on the end of his butcher's knife. Once again, the sheriff is called to arms, although it's not Sheriff Brackett from the first two films. As the word spreads of Michael's return to Haddonfield, hence the title, the citizens prepare for the worst and lock themselves inside their homes, fearing a repeat episode of what happened ten years ago. Of course it helps if you don't already have Myers inside your house before you board it up. Horror fans, you won't be disappointed much. There's plenty of cat and mouse chases here, some creepy sequences, bodies to spare, and another great soundtrack, the one thing this franchise always gets right. While nowhere near the quality of the first movie, as a fourth entry to a series it's surprising how good it looks. But if there's a fourth, there has to be a fifth, so don't expect a closed ending. This film delivers the goods at the sake of logic and reason. This attempt to revive the series is not lost. "},{"Title":"Guess who's back? Back a-gain... (Spoilers)","Date":"15 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Takes a different course to Parts I and II as Laurie Strode is dead and Michael Myers is pursuing her daughter, who is living, in foster care, in Haddonfield.Director Dwight H. Little seems to like messing with peoples heads. Literally. What is up with the kills in this movie?!  Thumb through the forehead, crushed skulls, jugulars torn with bare hands and a mechanic with a grappling hook through his mouth. A little weird, but not criminal. It's more like Jason's M.O.Loomis really begins to lose his marbles in this one and his reaction to the shock at the end (which is not explained or dealt with well in the further entries) is quite amusing.Really good final confrontation w/ Myers in this one. They should've shown the cops torching the grave, but whatever.My only problem with the film is the end. It's absolutely terrific, but never followed up. Slightly annoying.GOOD STUFF Danielle Harris & Ellie Cornell. Played their characters well.The suspense at the beginning of the film as the female paramedic is checking on Myers. Loomis- he just keeps getting quirkier with every film.Both ends. There are two, sort of. And they're both good.BAD STUFFBrady and the sheriff's daughter. Not played badly, but was glad to see them killed off. Brady was a dumbass, anyway. Who tries to load a shotgun in front of a vicious killer? Idiot.Not much else. It's a pretty good film and superior to ITS sequel Halloween 5.  "},{"Title":"Great addition to the HALLOWEEN series","Date":"14 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  HALLOWEEN 4 has an incredibly creepy atmosphere, a great cast, and an interesting plot.  10 years have passed since Haddonfield celebrated a HALLOWEEN night that ended in tragedy. That October 31 1978, Michael A. Myers escaped from a mental institution, then murdered 3 teens, and managed to escape after being shot 6 times by Dr. Sam Loomis. Later that night, Michael followed his sister Lauire Strode to Haddonfield's hospital, and chaos started again that night. Myers was responsible for the death of more or less 10 people, and caused a big explotion inside the hospital. Well, he survived the explosion, and 10 years later he is still in a coma.But you can't forget it's HALLOWEEN night in Haddonfield! that means party time for Mike. Halloween , 1998  While being transferred to a Maximum Security Prison, Myers awakened from the coma and murdered the paramedics and the driver inside the ambulance where he was... he didn't make his way to his new home. Michael is back this time with the purpose of killing his young niece, Jayme Lloyd, daughter of the late Laurie Strode. By this point, you can imagine the plot. Michael will frighten once again Haddonfield, murdering everyone on his way. You can expect a good horror film, not in tye style of the original HALLOWEEN, instead in the style of Friday the 13th. Good suspense, good acting, and Michael is very p***ed!. Dr. Loomis is back as well, and he is wiser. Be prepared for the shocking ending.  HALLOWEEN style.!! "},{"Title":"Michael's back. What more need I say?","Date":"30 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This was the first ever Halloween movie that I saw. The inadequate and laughable Horror section at my local video store had only Parts 4, 5 and 6, and I was later forced to purchase the remaining titles in the series in order to fill in the gaps. Still, seeing as this turned out to be a sort of non-sequel sequel, with only Michael Myers returning to the scene of the crime, it was a pretty good starting place for my Halloween viewing.The first time I saw Halloween 4 was a few years ago when I was first being introduced to the genre, and I can honestly say that I had never seen anything like it before in my life. To say that I was scared witless would be an understatement - the box cover alone with Michael's mask creeped me out, and so seeing a living, breathing version of the image had me on the edge of my seat the entire film through! Of course, since then I have become something of a Horror Buff, and rewatches of the film don't effect me in the same way, but it's fun to reminisce and remember how completely creeped out I was the night I crawled into bed and popped this classic horror into the machine.One of the reasons that this movie effected me the way it did when I watched it was Danielle Harris, who I had only ever seen in TV guest spots, and hardly knew anything about then. Her heartfelt and completely mesmerising portrayal of Jamie Lloyd worked a charm, and at the time she was most probably the best child actress to have graced our screens. The audience immediately relates and sympathises for Jamie and her situation, and Danielle Harris showed that her range of emotions goes way beyond that of most adult actors, let alone children. Teamed up with the equally-beautiful Ellie Cornell, they made a great on-screen duo, and the chemistry between them seemed genuine. They were both involved in some great suspense-filled scenes - particularly a scene in which they are chased over the roof of a house with almost no escape.One of the things that comes across in Halloween 4 is how inventive it is. Instead of taking the same formula as the first Halloween, we are given new reasons to fear Michael. Dwight H. Little's direction gives the film a gritty darkness that is claustrophobic to the fullest, and a feeling of imposing doom is evident. The opening scene, with an accompanying revamped and brilliantly-realised new version of the 'Halloween Theme', is one of the more memorable scenes, but the final scene is by far the most chilling, and is something of a statement on violence in society and how it effects those too young to take it.THE VERDICT Chock-full of jumps and scares, this is a worthy sequel to its 1979 predecessor. The movie has a great sense of style and originality, and the atmosphere in the halloween night scenes is overpowering and unnerving. Danielle Harris and Ellie Cornell are flawless in their roles, as are the other cast members (including a be-scarred and raving Donald Pleasence!) Add to this an ending that chills the blood, and you've got a great night's entertainment. "}{"Title":"The best sequel.","Date":"29 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Halloween 4 is without a doubt the best sequel in the Halloween movies so far. Part 2 was ok, and what the hell was part 3? it really had nothing to do with Michael Myers at all it had the most aggravating jingle I've ever heard in my life...(8 more days till halloween silver shamrock etc.)Parts 5,6, and H20 were pretty good as well. Although H20 sorely missed Dr. Loomis it just didn't seem like a Halloween movie without him he added a huge part of the movies. Part 4 takes place 10 years after the first movie (here's a thought in part 4 they say that Jamie's mother, Laurie was killed in a car accident in the beginning of the movie that's why she's living with Rachael and her family. So how could Laurie possibly be alive for H20?)Now, on to the plot Michael finds out he has a niece, and now stalks her killing anyone who gets in his way. As usual it's up to Dr. Loomis to stop him yet again. Enough trying to explain the plot, if you like the first Halloween you'll like this one as well.  "},{"Title":"Decent enough but very dated","Date":"20 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I just rewatched Halloween 4 after previously seeing it on its original release at the cinema a few years back. I was quite looking forward to it, remembering it to be a good sequel, and head and shoulders above Myers' previous outing in the dreadful Halloween 2. Sadly, what I found was a lacklustre, slow and rather by-the-numbers sequel which, while while having some nice plot points (and still way better than Halloween 2), was a pretty lame affair. Myers isn't threatening, his menacing gait having slowed to a snailspace, though his slashing has got more frenzied. And his new mask makes him look like Data off Star Trek!The film is showing its age quite badly, and feels very low budget, and I can't say I would recommend it to anyone. But it's better than Halloweens 2, 5 and 6!  "},{"Title":"One of the best!","Date":"30 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  **SPOILERS**Halloween 4 is one of scariest movies in horror history. My favorite part is when the bunch is trapped in the sheriff's house and they can't get out. I got so scared when Michael was sitting on the rocking chair when you thought it was the sheriff.Another part that was scary that many of you don't talk about is when Jamie looks into the mirror at the store and sees young Michael in the clown outfit, then Jamie turns around and we see Michael in his first movie appearance with the mask. That scared the crap out of me. Forget part three and rent, no buy, no steal this one away and add to your video library. Here are my rants 8/10 Worst Actor No one Best Actor Michael Myers, Kathleen Kinmont ofcourse and the religious guy that picks up Loomis on his way to Hadoonfield. That guy was both funny and scary. "},{"Title":"The best of the HALLOWEEN sequels","Date":"19 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  (contains spoilers) A fairly decent fourth entry in the long-running slasher series. Michael Myers wakes up from the coma he's been in ever since supposedly burning to death at the end of HALLOWEEN II. After killing four nurses, blowing up a roadside garage and slaughtering the Haddonfield police station Michael heads over to the sheriff's house to kill his young niece Jamie (Danielle Harris) and her teenage foster sister Rachel (Ellie Cornell). There he also finds Rachel's boyfriend Brady, a deputy and the sheriff's daughter, Kelly. Chock up three more for the bodycount! Rachel and Jamie manage to (narrowly) escape and hitch a ride with a busload of redneck vigilantes, but ol' Mikey comes a' knocking! This mildly scary third sequel has stylish direction, good acting and a suspenseful rooftop showdown (the film's best scene) but suffers from an annoying twist ending stolen almost directly from FRIDAY THE 13th THE FINAL CHAPTER. Still, the best of the HALLOWEEN sequels. B  "},{"Title":"One of the best movie","Date":"15 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Halloween 4 is one of the best movie I ever saw. One reason is that, I love horrormovies and the other big reason is that Danielle Harris played in the movie. She played so perfect. I'm a big halloween fan. The best Halloween movies are Halloween 4 and 5 "},{"Title":"The Best sequel.","Date":"22 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I really enjoyed this sequel to the Michael Myers slasher flicks.10 yrs. later Michael's back home........again.This one had more blood than the others.I also liked the action when Jamie and Rachel R in the Truck fighting Mike off.I give this movie 3 stars(***). "},{"Title":"RUN MAN RUN","Date":"30 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I've never seen the 2nd installment (but I saw the worthless third one), so this one at the moment is my 2nd favourite sequel. One thing bothers me. How many siblings did Michael have? Where did Jamie spring from? Anyway, in this one Myers is in pursuit of his niece (Jamie) after escaping from an ambulance on the way back to another mental institute.But God, how useless his he? How much difficulty he has trying to kill a little kid. His problem is he walks too slow at very crucial moments eg when his prey is 2 feet ahead of him. RUN MAN RUN. Lots of slaying and a wicked ending makes it worthy of watching more than once. There is even a very tender moment between MICHAEL and his niece somewhere in the middle. He takes his mask off for her and everything. Awww, I had tears welling up in my eyes. DO watch this I recommend it highly. **** out of *****PS The sequel to this one Halloween 5 naturally, which although should never have been made, was filmed practically back to back with this one and released within months of each other.  "},{"Title":"Michael Myers is back with a vengeance!","Date":"30 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  After spending ten years in a coma, the notorious movie slasher Michael Myers is back! And I'm sure he's not happy that some writers and producers had dared to do a Halloween film without him. Of course, I'm talking about H3 Season of the Witch, a worthless sequel that had no connection to the other Halloween films. Well, this fourth Halloween film (albeit flawed) does plenty of justice, effectively helping many Halloween fans (including myself) put the sorry non-Myers installment behind them.Beware, everyone! Michael Myers is back, and not without retribution! "},{"Title":"The sickest sequel.","Date":"5 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Dr.Loomis is back and so is Michael Myers(George Wilbur this time).This is somewhat gross.With thumbs going through peoples foreheads,skulls being smashed(maybe),and much more.The Shape's niece Jamie and Rachel(Jamie's half-sister)are the victims this time,and the horror is still good.You gotta see it if you love Halloween and Halloween II. By the way,while you're watching it,note the Shape has a new mask "},{"Title":"A good Sequel","Date":"2 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  10 years after the events from the first movie, Michael Myers is back.  Seemingly not too badly effected by the fate he went through in part 2, Halloween 4 has him pursuing his neice.  The daughter of Laurie Strode, who we learn has been killed in a car accident.  This one keeps the suspense the first 2 created, but with a disappointing ending...which, of course leaves run for #5 to come into play.  The Michael depicted in this film, in my opinion, is the closest resemblence to the first film.  Danielle Harris does an excellent job as young Jamie, Michael's niece.  Donald Pleasence is of course perfect as Dr. Loomis.  Definetely a worthy sequel, much better than 5, and leaps and bounds better than the theaterical release of 6.8 ouf of 10 "}{"Title":"The Best Halloween sequel made","Date":"28 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Halloween 4 is the best film since the first. The acting is really good, the directed is good, it is well written, and there are some really creepy death scenes. ( SPOILERS ) This movie takes place 10 years after part 1 and 2, in the same town, Haddonfield. This movie trys to follow Halloween in some ways you could say. But anyways, what happens is, the police find out about Michael Myers returning to Haddonfield to look for his niece, Jamie Lloyd ( Laurie Strodes Daughter )So Dr. Loomis and the sherrif find Jamie and Rachel and bring them to the sherrifs house. .Jamie and Rachel ( Jamies foster sister ) are later brought to the sherrifs house to stay with his daughter, and Rachel's boyfriend. somehow, Michael gets into the house  and kills a policeman, Rachel's boyfriend, and her friend. So anyways Rachel and Jamie run around for a while, and finally the police find them and kill Michael Myers ( of course ) and then somehow, at the end back at Jamie and Rachels house, Michael somehow possesses Jamie into Killing her stepmother. So basically you get the idea of this movie. I definitely recommend this to you if you enjoyed the first, 8/10. "},{"Title":"Woo Woo","Date":"26 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I happen to think that the original HALLOWEEN...although it's a low budget affair...is one of the best horror films ever.Now, this second sequel is pretty good. They capture the town of Haddonfield, Illinois very well..... and the story moves along nicely.The best part of HALLOWEEN 4 is...KATHLEEN KINMONT.....What a BABE....... the scene by the fireplace where she peels off her night shirt....OHMIGAWD.......  "},{"Title":"Best Halloween movie ever seen","Date":"31 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I have seen all the Halloween sequels and i think this one is the best.Plot is perfect and acting is same.I hate Halloween 3.I like 2 but not so much.Halloween 1 is good but boring.This one is not boring.They make H2 very gory but this time there is no much gore.Ending is good at this movie.Dont be to curious about Halloween 5 That movie is not good like this.I'm giving 10 from 10 for this movie "},{"Title":"Not Bad for a Halloween film.","Date":"6 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"    ***SLIGHT SPOILERS*** Halloween 4 The Return Of Michael Myers, isn't that bad for a Halloween film. It isn't my favourite film, but it does good on entertaining viewers. I own the movie and have shown it to people who don't know anything about the Halloween movies, and yet they enjoyed it. The music score is preety good. You can tell it is not the same one from the original Halloween(1978). Halloween 4 does have some jumps and scares, but not any scares that will make you wet your pants. I only have one thing to complain about...wait two things. The first complaint is that when it is at the part when Jamie and Dr. Loomis are inside the school and Micheal Myers jumps out at them, how come he all of a sudden had Messy Blonde (that's right,BLONDE) hair, then his hair went back to brushed brown hair. The crew should have watched the movie more carefully. My last complaint is **POSSIBLE SPOILER AHEAD** at the end of the movie when little Jamie stabbed her mom with the scissors how come in Halloween 5, they don't explain why she did that? If they did I must have missed it! Anyways, the movie was really good and enjoyable, and I give it a ***1/2 out of ***** "},{"Title":"Ten years later....","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  After the terrible Halloween III, Michael Myers is back from the great beyond and ready to get down to some good ol' Halloween hacking. The problem here is that this movie doesn't measure up to the high standards set by the first two and absolutely fails at being the least bit scary.STORY I personally liked the script here and I feel it had the potential to be the best of the series if it were put into more capable hands. What pi***es me off is the lack of continuation here. Didn't Michael get his eyes shot out? He has 20/20 here. Didn't Michael and Loomis get roasted in that fire? I could see how they may have gotten out alive, but it's a bit of a stretch. This movie had many fun sequences such as Mikey climbing up on the roof and the awesome pick up truck finale. Another problem I have is some of the dialouge. I felt like I was watching the wonder years during the family sequences and the whole love triangle reeked of teen-age soap opera and was simply boring. It's nice to see that they kept the plot simple though because the complex s*** was what bogged down the next few entries. The lynch mob was my favorite aspect of the movie. The twist at the end was a classic.ACTING Donald Pleasance gives a great performance as our hero, Dr. Loomis. Everything he says or does is believeable. Danielle Harris is damn good in her first movie and as cute as hell. I felt sorry for her when she was being teased and she did a great job of being scared shitless when Uncle Mike came after her. Ellie Cornell does well with her role, but she isn't any Jamie Lee Curtis. The new sheriff is a great character and needed more screentime. Even the drunk hicks were convincing in their attempt to lynch Myers. The rest of the teen actors were pathetic stereotypes, but one gives us a nice ass shot and the other was in Buffy the Vampire Slayer so I guess they'd be bearable.DIRECTING Little does a rather sh***y job here. He does create some kool dark and grim surroundings, but the scares are simply crappy. Just a simple and fast close up of Michael doing nothing. Rather lame. This movie also has absolutely no suspense. No stalk scenes. Michael simply walks onscreen and kills someone and then walks off. All attempts to be scary fall flat. I can't help thinking that this movie may have been scary and more atmospheric if it had been in better hands. Little is a fine action director but he knows little about making a horror film. Thankfully his expertise in action helped save the movie from being a total loss.MUSIC It had a pretty cool version of the Halloween theme, but the rest of the score wasn't really up to par. It's okay but my least favorite of the series. We also have a few bad 80s pop songs here and there, but they're hardly noticeable.OTHER One of the worst things about this movie was Michael's mask. It was incredibly cheesy and made Michael look silly. The murders in this movie also kinda sucked. Michael doesn't go around crushing skulls and it just didn't look right. I like innovative murders, but most of the ones in this movie were simply ridiculous. Their over-the-top style clashed with the dark tone the movie was TRYING to make and that's part of the reason why it failed to be scary. The T&A in this movie is rather scant and it's a shame considering the girl who hid her top...oh well...no big deal.Overall this is a rather weak sequel to the 1978 classic and you shouldn't bother with it unless you liked the first two enough to want more. It's not a total loss and it's a good movie to watch with your buds. I'm probably being too nice but I'm giving it **.At least Loomis was great... "},{"Title":"Beyond dumb","Date":"23 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I thought this movie was so incredibly stupid. how come Jamie was never mentioned in H20? But, that's besides the point. That whole michael rubbing off thing was just..aah. I just thought it was so incredibly moronic. If you have a cheap 99 cent video store, sure, go rent it. if you don't, try not to bother with it. it's not worth it; you can seen 1, 2, and h20 without needing this installment. infact, it's better not to see this and see h20, as it contradicts what h20 is saying.  "},{"Title":"Michael's Back...But He's Too Late!","Date":"13 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  MORD39 RATING  **   out of  ****It was rather encouraging to anticipate the 1988 return of everyone's favorite William Shatner-masked stalker, but I'm afraid he was too late.By the time of this fourth installment, Michael's edge was considerably dulled. Ironically, it was the competition that the first HALLOWEEN itself inspired (like the FRIDAY THE 13th franchise for example) that made him look like he was too late for his own party by 1988!As for the film, it's just so-so. Sure, it's great to see Mike and Dr. Loomis back in action (even if their credibility was severely stretched considering their fates from their last encounter) but there isn't enough taking place to make it very worthwhile.Being a sucker for good continuity, I love the opening that explains what The Shape had been through since his last outing.  Unfortunately, once the story properly gets underway, it seemslike such a milking of a routine formula that it doesn't satisfy.The surprise ending is shocking and promising, but since the idea didn't carry over to the next chapter, it was a waste. "},{"Title":"C**p","Date":"20 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Why make new halloween films? answer for money. parts 3-6 are stupid michael myers and dr. loomis both died in second part and h20 is my opinion to part3 because laurie said michael was burned. i like parts 1-2 &h20 others are c**p expecially part3 is stupidest movie i´ve ever seen only thing scary in pt.3 is when you get bored to death  "},{"Title":"Not bad","Date":"27 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is the first Halloween movie i have seen not bad Michael Myers is quite good now and then a bit scary and Dr Loomis is back hunting down Michael Myers.The story is Michael Myers has escaped from the hospital that keeps crazy people and killers and now is after his young niece and kills who ever gets in his way. The gas station scene is cool and so is when his niece looks at herself in the mirror and sees Michael Myers as a boy.Halloween 4 is quite a good horror film so i give it 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"One of the better follow-ups","Date":"26 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I have considered Halloween (1978) one of the best horror films of its kind, and have seen every follow-up to it.  I must say Halloween 4 The Return of Michael Myers is certainly the best sequel.  This is sort of a continuation of Halloween 2, since 3 has nothing to do with the others, and is best forgotten.  There is something about this film that gives it a genuinely spooky atmosphere right from the opening credits, and holds your attention all the way through.  The acting is good, but not the best, and the script is fairly reasonable.  Out of 4 stars, I give Halloween 4 **1/2.  I strongly recommend that if it comes on TV in October, tape it or watch it on a late fall evening. "}{"Title":"My favorite Halloween film ever...","Date":"17 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I just love Halloween 4 The Return of Michael Myers. I have seen  it so many times now, I must have grown practically blind for its flaunts. And yes, consequently I DO think Michael would be able to stop someone's life with the press of one thumb. No, seriously. This film is a great watch. The opening credits, accompanied by Alan Howarth's sober score, set the right mood and the very first scenes are already highly atmospheric. I cannot but notice that the location scouts have done a wonderful job and Peter Lyons Collister's beautiful camera work only adds to the joy.The first 45 minutes contain the one stylish scene after the other, focusing on Loomis (Pleasence) trying to get to Haddonfield before nightfall and on Jamie (Harris), Michael's unfortunate and lonely young niece who is not only haunted by nasty images and nightmares but also has to deal with cruel classmates bullying her to tears (a comment on a society that despises individuals who aren't one of the crowd). It's done marvellous on suspense as well as drama level and highlights include the scenes where Pleasence stops at a secluded filling station and the ones where Harris is running from the school building, bawled by children in Halloween outfits, only to find a costume in the store that looks frightfully familiar. And who is that adorable little contemporary she sees in the mirror? Right. It is impossible not to notice the chemistry between actor, camera and music here. The story is constructed well and  has the right pace and there are some nice minor parts for Carmen Filpi and Michael Pataki.The second half is a lot less interesting, less stylish and more predictable. It seems as if they had to do all these night scenes in one night and were afraid the sun could come up any minute. The editing is sometimes really off and this takes the sting out of a lot of scenes. The story is not very consistent, for instance we see the Sheriff bravely doing his job while only half an hour ago he has suffered the traumatic loss of a close relative, which is something he must be aware of. There should have been at least one sign of grief. But, hey.there are enough thrills left and Harris's acting skills are praiseworthy especially in desperate situations she holds her ground. To go with that the very last -highly cynical and unexpected- scene makes up for a relatively lame second half. Bravo Dwight H. Little!  "},{"Title":"Return To Form","Date":"31 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" A sequel sporting the number four faces a lot of obstacles and maybe more so when it's the Halloween series we're talking about. At this movie's point in time, the series had developed a history of missteps both big and small. Coming off the heels of what I felt was a cash-in and inferior sequel in H2 and a Myers-less H3, H4 is noteworthy. It by no means breaks the mold, but when it is often championed as the best of the Halloween series next to the original that has to say something.John Carpenter had washed his hands of the series by now and for good reason and Jamie Lee Curtis seemed to be long gone, but H4 has a lot of things going right for it nevertheless. By no means a big budget movie, it still maintains the right look and feel due to decent production values. With a capable director at the helm, the story while simple in its execution, moves along at a good pace remaining engaging. It honestly shouldn't be this decent given this is the third sequel and the bumps in the road. The new characters introduced are rather memorable too. From the obvious choices of Danielle Harris and Ellie Cornell as Jamie Lloyd and Rachel Carruthers respectively to smaller but no less entertaining roles. Of course, Donald Pleasence, the backbone of the series in my book is the pinnacle cast member. Adding a much needed dose of respectability to the proceedings not to mention just being a lot of fun to watch as the tireless Dr. Loomis who's job never seems done.The rest they say is rather obvious. On a real basic level, H4 delivers enough scares and doses of atmosphere to stand up to repeat viewings. It isn't particularly gory or unnerving as far as horror movies go, but the Halloween formula has always been rather simple in its charm and H4 is faithful to this fact. This includes the always memorable Halloween theme that one can't forget. Series stable Alan Howarth delivers a great score that really compliments the movie. Not to say H4 is perfection. It's not. It's got a gaping plot hole (of sorts) and the usual horror movie clichés. You know the ones; the stupid characters (who you know will buy it before the end credits roll); Michael never is REALLY dead; and the obligatory wide open ending that points to some sort of possible sequel. Still all in all, I'm happy with H4's end result. This could have been a disaster (see Halloween VI) of a movie in different hands, but wasn't. Definitely the best Halloween next to the original. "},{"Title":"A good idea gone bad","Date":"23 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  After the crappy Halloween 3 the fans of the series thought that the Halloween series was really dead. But hey, they made this movie bringing back Michael, the great Donald Pleasence and an okay story line. However all these things can't make up for the bad acting and very bad ending. But if your a fan of the Halloween movies this one is better than The Curse Of Michael Myers right? "},{"Title":"One Of The Best Sequels By Far","Date":"1 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I enjoyed it,but it's hard to pick between Halloween 2 and 4,they are both about equal in my opinion. There is some nice lighting and some good atmospheric moments,I really think it is one of the best efforts next to 2 and 6. It didn't go over the top and remained somewhat believable as far as horror movies go. For the horror genre,I would rate it between 2 1/2 to 3 stars out of five. "},{"Title":"An exciting beginning turns into a midly entertaining Halloween","Date":"18 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The fourth in the Halloween series is often called the best of the sequels. But I differ in opinion. I think the best sequel in the series is Halloween II. This one starts off pretty enthusiastically, however it takes a turn into a midly entertaining Halloween. John Carpenter's feel is gone and also I never really liked Michael Myer's mask in the film. I like cheesy things. But Michael Myers' mask just looks a billion times better in, Halloween, Halloween II, Halloween  The Curse Of Michael Myers, Halloween H20 and while not a billion times better, Michael Myers' mask in Halloween 5 was a little improved. I heard the filmmakers wanted the original mask back for Halloween 5, they changed their minds, and that was unfortunate, but the mask looks better than in 4. To say some more positive things about the film, The Sheriff's daughter has some huge breasts! However, they torture us and they don't show them nude. I'll say about **1/2 out of ***** "},{"Title":"The Best Sequel","Date":"5 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  After the explosion on Halloween night,1978, we learn that Myers has been in a coma, and Loomis has also survived. This movie, is the best sequel. It has everything in it that a horror movie needs, good acting(Danille Harris did and excelent job as Jamie), good scares, and a good ending. Halloween 4 has all of that and more. This should have been Halloween 3. The supporting cast was wonderful(I liked Sheriff Meeker, and I loved those rednecks with those shotguns), and the ending gave me the creeps. A great sequel, and a great horror movie on it's own right.    3 1/2/4. "},{"Title":"disappointed","Date":"28 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  this movie is really not that good. I liked the first one alright, but this one is a really typical predictable horror film. They turned Michael into a superhuman, probably because of all the Friday-sequels. How could he see if he was shot in the eyes? How could he survive being burned to ashes, for that matter? If they brought back dr. Loomis, why didn't they bring back Laurie Strode? I really expected more from this one. A lot of people on this site said it was good. I was really disappointed with this movie. I was even insulted by some scenes, which were so stupid, like the thumb in the skull scene. This part should've been cut out. I advise you not to see this movie. If you liked the original Halloween, you might hate this.   "},{"Title":"Not bad","Date":"25 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I was expecting this movie to bomb. Since most horror flicks that have sequals to them always suckBut Halloween 4 proves it was nothing like thatThe fans got what they had hoped for. The fans got what should have happend in the 3rd one. The fans got to see Michael Myers come back.Now I was a little mad that they waited so long to bring him back.Also we see Donald Pleasence charcter come back. Now this was a little weird. When he got in that room with Michael in Part 2 and then the room blew up. He was right in front of the explosion. He should have been killed off.The acting was done really well. The story was good. "},{"Title":"2nd best","Date":"5 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Behind part 6, this is the 2nd best of the Myers flicks, and it puts the series back where it belongs. This time Michael wakes up from a 10 year coma(obviously caused by the explosion in part 2)and returns to his hometown to kill his neice,Laurie Strode's daughter. Exciting, suspenceful, great story, acting, and music score. ***** out of *****.  "},{"Title":"Yes! He's back!","Date":"5 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Great movie! The series has redeemed itself after the horrendous part 3.  It's good to see our buddy Mike back doin what he does best. The mask was kinda lame but other than that it was worthy of the name Halloween. Donald Pleasance was excellent as was Danielle Harris. Hopefully H2K will redeem the series once more.(If you haven't seen 5-7 then you dont know what I'm talking about). Overall 3rd best behind the first two. "}{"Title":"halloween series is back on track","Date":"10 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Halloween 4 is a very good slasher, much better then pt 3 wich does not count since it had nothing to do with the series. after being in a coma for ten years, Michael Myers aka the shape has come back this time he's after his niece and her step-sister, this movie has some pretty good scares, and a really good storyline to match, the only problem i have with the movie is Danielle Harris who plays Jamie, well she's not the problem she was great in the movie but it's just that it's not that suspenseful with the shape going after her cause you know she can't die since she's a little kid, but there were a few suspenseful scenes in it. and DR. Loomis was great once again in trying to stop the shape. all around a very good sequel for the most part when you reach part 4 that's when the series starts to get really bad but not in this case a very good slasher movie a must see for all horror fans. i give this movie a 7/10. "},{"Title":"pretty good. almost as good as all the other sequels!","Date":"27 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  i have seen this movie only about 2 times and i don't remember that much but it is still a good sequel. although michaels face has changed a bit doesn't make the movie worse so if you are a halloween-fan and you have seen all other sequels or even just one sequel you still must rent this movie!!! "},{"Title":"God help me I like it...","Date":"11 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This film sucks majorly. And I love it! It has some of the worst acting, the worst plot holes (being burnt to a crisp just put Myers in a coma, and as for Donald Pleasance...) and the worst script I have ever seen, but it's because of this I like it. It's so bad it's good, unlike part 3, which is so bad it's just bad.  "},{"Title":"The best one in the series","Date":"8 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This one is the best one in the series because it had alot of action, suspense, drama, romance, and so much more, it had basically everything and George Wilbur's performance as Michael Myers was certainly done in a genius manner.  It made me feel better about the Halloween movies after watching the third one. "},{"Title":"It's good to see Michael back...","Date":"6 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  It's great to see Michael back. He brought back the horror genre with him. Unfortunately, it was up to the Friday the 13th movies to keep it alive when he was gone. But then Halloween came back and brought the fun back with it.Halloween 4 picks up ten years after part II. This time Michael's after his niece and Dr. Loomis tries to stop him again.High Points in this movie were the great performances by Donald Pleasance and Ellie Cornell. Young Danielle Harris is a surprisingly good actress for her age. I liked how it only had the necessary amount of violence. Also the chemistry between the characters was good. One of the coolest scenes was when Loomis and Michael stood face to mask at the truck stop. It also had the coolest ending of all the movies.Low points in the movie were that some of the characters were unlikeable, like Brady and Kelly. I thought they were okay actors but I didn't like their attitudes really. Also some of the scenes were a little far-fetched, such as the thumb in the forehead and the shotgun through the stomach.I'd give this movie 9/10. Michael's the king of horror.   "},{"Title":"He's Back........","Date":"4 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The best thing they did was to bring back Michael Myers..... Halloween just isn't Halloween without Michael. So he is back and so is Loomis, but Laurie is dead, but she had a daughter, Jamie Strode. This movie is perfect, a great story line and best of all Michael is Back...... An 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Many unhappy Returns....","Date":"29 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I expected a lot of things when I saw Halloween 4. I expected them to continue with this series as they did Friday the 13th and Nightmare in Elm Street and such, I expected Pleasance to come back somehow (none the worse for wear, of course) and that Jamie Lee would have nothing to do with the whole thing (a few years later, maybe...). There are a few things, though, I don't understand1) How Michael Myers learned to drive a tow truck.2) How so many people in Haddonfield, knowing the legend, would be so slow to react with even the hint of Michael's return.3) How Dr. Loomis and Michael did, in fact, survive the explosion in Halloween II.And another thing I don't understand why is it that Kathleen Kinmont hasn't been in more movies?What talent!  What presence!  The actor's precision with which she slips off the straps of her bra, the methodical talent with which she wears thong panties, the intensity in how she whispers Oh, Brady, how she....I'm sorry, where were we?  Oh, yeah Michael.Harris is a good little actress, and deserved bigger and better things after Halloween 4.  Hopefully, not more slasher flicks.  Three and a half stars.  Half a star for the very idea of a sequel, one for Harris' acting and two more for Kathleen Kinmont's... donations.   "},{"Title":"VERY GOOD","Date":"19 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is the best of the Halloween movies. Michael returns to Haddonfield to kill his Niece who is a child. Jamie (Danielle Harris) is the niece and she begins seeing Michael Myers in her dreams and places like the costume store. Her mother was Laurie Strode (Michael's sister) who died in a car accident and now Jamie is living with the Curothers who adopted her. Her sister Rachael is supposed to take her trick-or-treating and babysit her on Halloween. While they are out trick-or-treating they get seperated and Michael finds Jamie. They meet up with Dr. Loomis and they go to the sheriff's house, they are locked in but they don't know they are locked in with Michael Myers and they are waiting for the state police to come.Micheal kills everyone. Rachael and Jamie's only way out of the house is on the roof, which is a very good scene. Jamie ends up on her own and she bumps into Dr. Loomis and they end up in the elementry school and Michael goes in with them. Jamie and Rachael meet up again and they get into this truck with the people who are hunting Michael Myers and Michael appears and he kills them. Rachael thinks she's killed Michael and the police shoot him. They bring Rachael and Jamie home. Jamie goes up stairs with her mother and the scene is like halloween 1 showing it through the eyes of a mask and the mother screams. The ending is surprising!! It's worth the time and money. "},{"Title":"thriller","Date":"12 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  i enjoyed this chapter almost as much as the first .danielle harris played jamie as how a real child would react some of the scenes she is so raw emotionally it is uncomforting .pay close attention to her facial expressions in the school house and you will realize what i mean .there is some great acting to find in this movie ellie cornell did a great job as rachel i think the fact of how normal her character seemed was a nice element to this chapter .it was like you could know a kid like jamie and a teen like rachel .it just adds to the element of you wanting them to survive. "},{"Title":"much improved","Date":"19 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  None of these sequels ever topped the original for me, but this came the closest, by returning Myers to the story.  The killings are lame (electrocuted, thumb into the skull(!), shotgun barrel through the chest(!)) but an energetic chase towards the end and a scene reminiscent of one from the first movie as a final shot make up for it.  And being a guy, i must mention the females, like Cornell whos a cute heroine, and my goodness Kathleen Kinmont, who puts Dolly Parton to shame with her two enormous talents.  Though there is no frontal shot of them, you still see enough to impress you.  Much improved in many aspects for this fourth installment, after a sleepy part 2 and an unrelated hokey part 3. "}{"Title":"At least it's not as bad as Halloween III. . .","Date":"8 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is a bad film, insulting the original and it's first sequel, but at least it's a few steps above Halloween III. This movie doesn't have Laurie Strode, which is bad. But the little niece makes it worse. The plot is useless, and most of the acting is bad. I give this movie ** out of *****. Only see it if you're desperate. "},{"Title":"good halloween movie!","Date":"23 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  halloween 4 is a good movie. it's the 4th  best in the series. behind the  first,second,and sixth. halloween 4 is  also better than the overrated H20. but  H20 was still pretty good. they just  overrated it a bit. by saying it's the best  since the first first. please! halloween 4  is very scary. it's also a bit scarier  than halloween the curse of michael myers  but not as entertaining. i give halloween 4  *** out of **** "},{"Title":"The mood and scenery set like the original","Date":"1 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This was the best since the first and I've only seen part 6,  part 1, and part 7 H20.  I was surprised about how many scenes resembled the others, for instance the car(at the end)resembling Michael's hand from the original nurse and Loomis scene,   the H20 ambulance awakening reflecting a scenes of Michael waking from the coma at the beginning,   the usual sex scene, and the ending shock of the girl in the same clown costume as the young Myers in the original opening act-with the same music.  I realized that the Halloween series is very derivative on each other except this one has plenty of suspense and surprisingly little gore--like the original.  The directors could have made more graphically bloody scenes,  but for some reason they thought the original technique would be better--I wouldn't be too sure about that.  Donald Pleasence acting in this film was the most over- the top emotional,   especially considering part 1 and 6 where he seemed much more cautionionary more more grandfather like.  The ending of this movie was the greatest shock of all because the character of the little girl(who was played very well) was always painted as so innocent.  Some clever,  out of the ordinary scenes involve the costume getter scene,    a dream sequence where Michael is all around,   and a cracking of the face moment. Pleasences warning about Michael evil are little bit repetitive.   The acting was really good,  I wish they would show more more of Brady since he was so attractive.  The characters that had died where characters that you would easily guess but seeing the actual deed still makes me feel bad.   Many suspenseful scenes in a film that was much better at capturing the original feel. Overall good movie,  certainly better than part 6.  "},{"Title":"Great Ending!","Date":"30 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  First, I must say, Racheal was not Jaime's step-sister. She was her foster sister. Well, I think all will laugh at Racheal's caveman boyf, Brady. My friends and I call him Monkey. Another funny element of this film are the drunken hillbillies who try to hunt down Michael. But when you get to the ending, you'll hit yourself and ask why you didn't realize that was going to happen before. The end is chilling and extremely surprising. I think all will like this movie. "},{"Title":"This movie genuinely surprised me.","Date":"24 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Halloween 4 is a big step ahead of the ever-so-wretched, Halloween 3. I was un-sure about this film because the story line has changed, since part 2. Instead of trying to kill Laurie Strode, HE goes after her daughter (his niece) played beautifully, by Danielle Harris. You would think that trying to stalk a nine year old girl would be outlandish, but, for some reason, it works here.Also, major kudos to Ellie Cornell, who played Rachel, for bringing great presence to this film. I give this movie 3 out of 4 stars. "},{"Title":"Not bad but they had me confused.","Date":"10 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  It was really good that they brought Michael Myers back and didn't pull another try something new stunt like they did with Halloween 3.It starts out as 2 people are going to pick up Michael at a hospital He has been in an acomia for 10 years.He awakens and tries to kill his neice Jamie. But the thing that confused me was1. How is it that Michael was able to see again. He was shot in both eyes in Halloween 2. 2. Jamie's foster mom is killed at the end but in Halloween 5 Rachel says Mom and Dad send their love.They need to explain more about these mistakes. Like I said they should have ended it at part 2. "},{"Title":"Halloween 4 comes in third!","Date":"30 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Until H20 came on the scene, Halloween 4 was my 2nd favourite halloween movie(the original being the best).The movie has plenty of suspense and scares and beats the crap out of Halloween 2,3,5 & 6.Most of the cast is pretty good ,except for the sheriff's daughter,a little wooden to say the least,and Donald Pleasance does tend to go a little over the top.But apart from that I see Halloween,H20 and this the best three of the series. "},{"Title":"After the Original and  H20 Part 4 comes in third place!","Date":"26 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  To be fair Halloween 4 is a pretty good movie. I am a fan of the series and until H20 came along This was my second favourite Halloween movie,(The original being my favourite)But it's ten times better than Halloween 2,5 and 6There are some nice scares to be had and the film works best when you watch it with a big group of people,at someone's house with the lights off. The cast is pretty good,except for the Sheriff's tarty daughter and as in parts 5 and 6 Donald Pleasance does tend to overact a bit. Apart from that the movie is entertaining,this H20 and the original are in my mind the best of the series. "},{"Title":"The best sequel albeit H20","Date":"9 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Michael Myers back to his best when i say this i am basically talking about the movies style, after the strange number 3 halloween 4 was good to see. Another thing is they made him more human again (i'm talking about the way Myers walks ) in 1 he walked like a normal person although in 2 he turned into Herman Munster which made him less realistic and of course he was not in 3 so when he returned in 4 walking normally i believe it brought back a lot of realism. It would have always been hard for the sequels to beat the originals and that is the case for Halloween 4 although it certainly wins best sequel alongside H2O anyway i really like this movie.Halloween gets a Face rating of 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"The best since the first.","Date":"24 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  In what is inarguably the best Halloween sequel, not to mention a great film by itself, Michael Myers returns to his grisly occupation.  This time he's after his niece and her step-sister.  Incredibly suspenseful, some good acting, and great dialogue make this a must see and a classic in the horror genre. "}{"Title":"My favorite Halloween sequel","Date":"15 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" After the disappointment of not seeing Michael Myers in Halloween 3, Michael is now back from the dead and what a comeback! The movie starts perfect, the chilling and atmospheric intro is amazing, it captures the Halloween feeling perfectly, it's probably one of the most impressive intros I've ever seen. You can tell that the filmmakers had a very good team behind this film, cinematography is great and in the same vain as the original, setting is great, good directing and great casting, at least for the main characters. Donald Pleasence is as usual good as Dr. Sam Loomis, but it's those two girls who steals the show, Ellie Cornell and Danielle Harris, they have really good chemistry and acts very good. All that being said, H4 The Return of Michael Myers isn't perfect, sub-story with Rachel's boyfriend feel unnecessary, and there are other parts that just feels stupid.Overall, The Return of Michael Myers is pretty much in the same vein as the first one, so it's a big chance for you liking this part if you loved the original, even if it isn't the masterpiece Halloween was, it's still very enjoyable and it is among Halloween 2 and H20 best best sequels in the Halloween franchise. "},{"Title":"Nothing New But Good of Its Type","Date":"3 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Halloween 4 was a return to the Michael Myers saga after the terrific but under-appreciated Halloween 3 tried something new. So they went back to the slasher basics. Halloween 4 offers nothing new really. Yes, they replace Laurie Strode with Jamie Lloyd but otherwise it's simply a movie about Michael coming after a girl while all these other people get in his way and are killed for it.It's a very basic formula and how much patience one has for it will probably depend on how worn out on slashers you feel at the time you watch it. In many ways it owes more to the Friday the 13th franchise than Carpenter's Halloween. When it first came out I thought it was crappy. Years later I have come to appreciate the few merits it does have and admit it's an entertaining film, despite its lack of freshness. It's also a movie that has developed a cult following over the years and is responsible, in large part I believe, for the cult status of limited but likable actress Danielle Harris.Donald Pleasence returns to the series as Dr. Loomis and, once again, is the highlight of the movie. As with Halloween 2, the direction is below John Carpenter's effort but there are some well-directed scenes. Kathleen Kinmont provides the eye candy and Ellie Cornell is the good girl. All in all, it's an enjoyable sequel though nothing special. Give it a shot if you're in the mood for a good slasher to kill time with. "},{"Title":"Decent","Date":"16 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Myers is on the loose again, returns to Haddonfield to look for his young niece. Dr. Loomis trails after him, what else, babbling about evil incarnate to anyone who will listen. It is not radically different to the original, in plot or tone. It is simply a mediocre sequel, not outright bad.Two observations. I love the original not because of any mask, or plot, or kills; I do because of its sense of fluid reality, it perfectly captures the impression that you can just walk out the door and in every direction there's going to be actual life to explore - the sleepy neighborhood with living-rooms dimly lit by TV, kids dashing by, dogs barking in the distance.Few films achieve this. Off-hand, I recall Bladerunner. Carpenter himself never managed a second time.Filmmakers are trying to recapture the tone here, but you can sense it slipping away - the focus shifts to a siege scenario, probably thinking they're keeping within Carpenter's legacy.And a second reason when it came to actual horror, was Carpenter orchestrating a superb choreography between camera and knife - something akin to a Bausch dance. This also deteriorates to much more typical slasher kills here.A move that seems smart to me is that Myers' mask has become so iconic, random people are wearing it on the street. There were so many directions to take this, if we judge by the Scream franchise, that it actually works in the film's favor that this is not pursued any further. It simply happens - evil is spilling out, because deep down we crave being part of a Halloween scenario.Which makes the supernatural aspects of an ubiquitous -indestructible- evil more or less redundant. I hear in later Halloween entries this is brought much more to the fore. "},{"Title":"As a Halloween slasher, it delivers the goods...","Date":"25 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The Michael Meyers figure in the mask is more sinister than ever in this better than average remake of the original HALLOWEEN movie. It's a slasher that has enough real thrills for anyone who wants to see the gore and many plot twists and turns.DONALD PLEASANCE is still Dr. Loomis, alerting the police that Meyers has escaped and is back in Haddonfield looking to murder his niece, DANIELLE HARRIS. Harris is a wonderful child actress who looks genuinely frightened throughout the story and convincingly goes through the paces, as do all the other members of an excellent cast. ELLIE CORNELL and SASHA JENSON do well as the conventional teen-aged leads.If slasher films of this genre are your thing, this is a better script than you might expect from this franchise.On the other hand, if you've seen the original film with Jamie Lee Curtis, there's an awful lot of familiarity in the plot line. But as a Halloween slasher, it delivers the goods. Summing up Probably one of the best sequels in this series. "},{"Title":"Halloween 4 The Return of Michael Myers (1988) **1/2","Date":"6 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This will become confusing as I go on, but this film actually occurs after HALLOWEEN II. You have to consider this entry in the HALLOWEEN franchise as a crossroads; when watching all of the original Michael Myers Halloween movies in proper sequence, a decision as to what road you're going to take is in order at this stage because two different story lines begin. First we had HALLOWEEN and HALLOWEEN II (part III doesn't count because it didn't feature Myers), and here with HALLOWEEN 4 we get back on track with our white-masked maniac, only it's like hitting a fork in a road where, if you bear to the left, the series can continue differently with HALLOWEEN H20 TWENTY YEARS LATER (aka Part 7) and HALLOWEEN RESURRECTION (aka Part 8)... but if you venture to the right, then you might resume right here with parts 4, 5, and 6 - which is another story arc entirely! So when we last left Michael and his psychiatrist Dr. Loomis in PART II, both were blown to smithereens. This chapter starts off 10 years later where the charred but comatose Myers is getting transferred to another hospital again (and right before Halloween Night, no less!) but he manages to escape and heads back to his usual stomping grounds in Haddonfield, Illinois. Jamie Lee Curtis' character of Laurie Strode has been written out as having died, but she leaves behind a little girl named Jamie (played by 10-year-old Danielle Harris) who is living with a foster family, and suffering from nightmares featuring her infamous uncle, the boogeyman. Her foster sister Rachel (Ellie Cornell) has to give up a special date with her boyfriend to babysit for Jamie on Halloween, but it will be more rough than she thought because the stalking Michael Myers has set his sights on killing his niece that evening. Suffering a slight burn on his right cheek and now hobbling about with a cane since the fiery explosion, Dr. Loomis (Donald Pleasence) rants and raves as he gets back on Myers' trail to try and once more save the day.The physical return of Michael Myers is welcome, and enough time and miserable sequels have now passed since this film was first released in 1988 to consider it pretty good, if not anything exceptional. Director Dwight D. Little succeeds at capturing some atmosphere in his dark and misty night shots, and Pleasence has reached the point where he has completely gotten into his character of Loomis and he's a lot of fun to watch. The action starts right away and things move along pretty briskly until around the midway point, at which time we get bogged down with some padding in the scenes inside the local sheriff's house. There are also massive plot holes and contrivances to be sure, but young newcomer Danielle Harris (who turned 11 during shooting) is quite good in her film debut (she would return for next year's Part 5) as is Cornell, playing her big sister. These two make a good team. I don't know what happened to Michael's classic mask from the first two films; the new one he wears this time is strictly of the dime store variety. HALLOWEEN 4 closes with a pretty chilling final shot (which I won't reveal) that sets the stage to lure prospective ticket buyers into the next of Michael's never-ending adventures. **1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"Maybe there's a cord on his back or something","Date":"19 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" After Michael Myers killed everyone he wasn't supposed to kill ten years ago, he now returns to kill the rest of his family (Laurie herself died in a car accident, la-di-da), namely his niece. The niece is in big danger, because Dr.Loomis is on his way and he still has a lot of beloney to tell. Get a job, doctor. I know he's a character that really can't be missed but could he be any more annoying?In this sequel, people all seem pretty cool about Michael. Oh look, it's Michael. Let's get a beer. Or maybe we should shoot him. Ooh, we forgot the bullets, never mind. Maybe next time. In fact, to protect Jamie, all they appear to need is a horny guy with a rifle from pottery class and the great amount of one deputy. Eventually, Michael gets through this fortress and goes after Jamie. Very slowly. But it's still entertaining.I thoroughly enjoyed this movie, but I was a little disappointed by how they eventually tried to kill Michael. Seriously,I got more hurt last time I flossed. I couldn't believe Loomis fell for that, after he witnessed Michael surviving all the stuff he survived in the previous installments. I love what they did with Jamie though, such a shame the follow-up ruined because it was just perfect. A rock-solid sequel. "},{"Title":"Halloween 4 The night that RUINED everything","Date":"4 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" After the shocker(but not a good one) that was HalloweeN III, Moustapha Akkad knew he had to resurrect Myers. Throw in a couple that has sex, a crap teen cast and an average killer in a mask along with a b.s. plot and you have HalloweeN 4.After being burnt to a smoking pile of bones at the end of Halloween II, Myers and Loomis ended the series there for 7 years. When Myers was madly asked for from fans, the Akkads decided to make Myers come back in style. So why didn't he? Well folks, here's where the spoilers start. You have been warned...Myers didn't die (? His fiery skull was seen at the end of part II), he just fell into a coma for 10 years. He is about to be transferred from the sanitarium he has been housed in when, surprise surprise, he breaks out. He tails his 7 year old niece Jamie and plots to kill her. Lee Curtis intelligibly jumped ship after II, so they had to bump her off in a car crash with her husband. That is all that is mentioned. No bloody explanation or anything. Jamie is Lauries daughter, and so Myers uses the 'kill-all-family-members theory' to make her a target. Danielle Harris and Donald Pleasence are the gems in the acting crown here, which says a lot. Yes, you read that right. Pleasence makes a return as Loomis, which is impossible as he was in the middle of the explosion at the end of II. The only blemish on his face is a not-so-severe burn mark. But the thing that ruined 4 for me was Myers. The mask is a poorly customised Will Shatner mask which isn't scary at all, and Myers is an average killer. Yea, no leaping out of shadows and scares here, just him walking about and turning menacingly. Jesus, even that jerk Ghostface from Scream woulda done a better job. After seeing Myers get shot down an old abandoned mineshaft, the film ends with Jamie butchering her mother wearing a clown costume scarily similar to that of childhood Myers' getup. The whole thing echoes the opening scene of the original perfectly, as Jamie stands atop the stairs, grasping bloody scissors in her hand...I give this film a 3. 1 mark for Harris' acting 1 mark for Pleasences acting and 1 mark for having the balls to bring Myers backOnly watch this if you are bored on Halloween night and you want a cheesy film to get on with. "},{"Title":"GOOD FILM, FULL OF WEIRD INBREEDS... I mean the local people, then there's Micheal MYERS","Date":"1 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" OK I'll admit it. So far the only Halloween films I've seen are HALLOWEEN H20 20 YEARS LATER which didn't really impress me, and this one. Though I'll probably be seeing the others soon.THE GOOD BITZ ABOUT HALLOWEEN 4Lotz of suspenseThe action was intenseVery Cool endingFairly Good plotTHE BAD BITZ ABOUT HALLOWEEN 4The moments before the kills. Myer's would be about to top some1 then he'd disappear half-way down the road. Then go back up to them 2 kill them. WHATS THE POINT!?!?!?!!?Too many inbreed localsNear the ending. Micheal Myers absorbed loads of for a while. And the stubborn muthafucker still comes back in Halloween 5..... and 6..... and 7.......Acting Except for D. Loomis, 10 year old Jamie was played by the best actor out of 'em all! "},{"Title":"Ho-Hum sequel to the first two but much better than the third.","Date":"25 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I know people who watch horror movies because of the characters involved. The audience roots for Jason, Freddy, Leatherface, and for some reason even Chucky. People will watch those endless streams of sequels because they like the bad guy. For me it is the Halloween franchise and I will watch of the movies no matter how bad they may be. This particular movie is not as bad as the next one, a little more entertaining than the 2nd movie, but no where near as good as the original.In this installment, Michael Myers some how survived the fiery blast in the hospital at the end of Halloween 2. He was in a coma at the maximum security hospital for 11 years and is getting transferred to a minimum security hospital, again, on the day before Halloween, again, and of course in middle of his transfer, he kills all of the ambulance drivers, brutally, and heads back to Haddonfield. Meanwhile, his sister Laurie Strode, was killed in a car accident, but still had time to have a daughter, Jamie, played by Danielle Harris (The Last Boy Scout) who had since been adopted by another family and now has a sister named Rachel, played by Ellie Cornell (House of the Dead,) who is upset that she has to baby sit her sister during Halloween while everyone is out partying. As Michael Myers heads towards town, Dr. Loomis, played once again by Donald Pleasance (You Only Live Twice,) is hot on his heels trying to warn everyone that Myers is on his way.The movie is very clichéd by this point, mostly because by the time this installment of Halloween had been released in 1988 and the last installment of 1981, there had been six Friday the 13th's, four Nightmare on Elm Streets, and one Child's Play. Because of this, there are not a whole of original scares. One of my dislikes in this movie is that, in the first Halloween, you could knock him down, but he would get right back up and come for some more, in the second one I don't think anything happened to him until the end, by this time he was not only getting shot, but hit with rifles in the face, and getting run over by a truck. He went from being a vulnerable but unstoppable psycho to Jason Vorhees, you could nuke him and he would still come after you. Ho-Hum.The movie also borrowed a lot from the original movie in the death scenes, lots of running objects through people. The final scene with Jamie turning on her step-mother and wearing the clown mask that Michael had when he killed his sister, was very predictable, and some what entertaining.I did like both actresses, the young and the old, in the movie. Ellie did a very Jamie Lee Curtis like job as being the vulnerable yet tough girl who is trying to keep Michael away from her sister. Danielle did a good job as the screaming without being annoying victim. For example of annoying see the young girl in the movie Aliens. Donald Pleasance was also entertaining again as the Doctor, however, he was starting to show his age by this point and should have called it a career by the end of this movie. Surprisingly he survived for two more bad Halloween sequels and about another 10 movies, but he still did them, but he was done.As always my biggest problem with the movie was the actor who was Michael Myers i.e. The Shape. He was not as menacing as the first movie and this time the mask was not as intimidating as the original mask. The difference between the two would be that in the first movie, the mask was of something else, and now, the mask is an actual Michael Myers mask trying to be the original mask. Not the same. Oh and lets not forget that at the end of the 2nd movie, Laurie had shot both of his eyes out, yet he can see, so in order for this movie to be at all enjoyable you have to forget that fact.Anyway, this movie is very OK. If you can't get the original than I would rent this instead of the 2nd movie because it is more enjoyable than that one. I will say that I probably like it better than I should but I have already told you why.**To see more reviews like this go to www.bbmc.dockratent.com** "},{"Title":"Best Horror movie ever","Date":"17 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This great sequel, in my opinion, is an improvement on its legendary original. It involves former characters, great new characters, good Midwest Halloween feel, good suspense, great action, superb acting, amazing writing, and the wild card which is the involvement of the citizens of Haddonfield. After 10 years in the hospital, recovering from the injuries he suffered in Halloween 2, Michael escapes while being transfered between hospitals and quickly starts off on the same foot he left off on. After trying to kill his sister, Laurie Strode, in Halloween 4, he goes after her daughter and his niece, Jamie Lloyd. Rachel Corruthers (played by Ellie Cornell) is her step sister who protects her from Michael. Cornell gives one of the best acting performances I've ever seen. But, the highlight of this great film is the performance gave my Donald Pleasance who reprises his role as Dr. Loomis, Michael's former doctor. Loomis, who is burnt and has a bad leg, tracks Michael from the beginning of the film, after hearing of how Michael's ambulance crashed.PLEASE buy this movie. If you don't like it, you can personally complain to me at pacman_000@hotmail.com enjoy "}{"Title":"The deadly return of Mikhail myers","Date":"14 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" After being locked up in a special Hospital Micheal Myers is interrupted b a few Hospital officials after he is brought back to life he stalks what is now left of Haddonfield ten years forward his Past victim Jamie lee Kurtis aka Laurie Strode has faked her death after the horrific trauma of Halloween 1978 and has disappeared leaving her adopted seven year old daughter Jamie Loyd behind after Micheal returns he intends to kill what remains of his sister Laurie her adopted daughter and trays to kill her on Halloween after her and her steppe sister Rachel Elle Cornell are trigger treating on Halloween Night they are hunted by the creepy Micheal Myers the he has returned and it is allover the local news and people are forced to stay in doors of there Houses until he is found so everybody is hidden away except for Jamie and her Step sister Rachel who got separated after Rachels fight with her boyfriend Brady Rachel is walking around in the dark looking for her sister repeatedly shouting Jamie when she stops silent for a moment and sees a black tall figure in the distant path and runs for her life and jumps over a fence near by after she is nearly encountered by Micheal Myers she finds Jamie and the police arrive to bring them to safety and they drive back to the sheriffs house to remain there until Micheal is found Micheal finds a way to break in the house and kill people and finds Rachel and Jamie and chases after them up to the to of the house and on the roof after trying to kill both of his victims Rachel ties Jamie to a Power Line that is Harnest to a pole so she can escape from him and Rachel is nearly killed by Micheal and is dropped from the roof of the house and Jamie is helplessly crying and shouting some body help me please help me until doctor Loomis from the First to Halloween films finds her and suggests that they go hide and they do and Micheal finds her and Dr loom-is in a local school and chases after Jamie until she trips down a set a stairs and is continually chased by Micheal Myers Her badly injured older step sister Rachel Carruthers gets Jamie and they drive away intending to leave Haddonfield but is interrupted by the evil satanic killer on the roof of there truck he tries to kill Rachel who is driving and after trying to force Micheal off of the top she crashes the truck in a near by graveyard and is hoping that he is dead on the road where she was driving but he is not and they are helplessly victim again until the sheriff and a few cops find Micheal standing in the graveyard and blast bullets into him with machine guns when he fall underground of a hole in the ground Rachel and Jamie are once again free of being victims of Micheal so after a few moments Jamie is upstairs walking around while her step mother is cleaning and is stabbed by Jamie with scissors repeatedly Rachel and Dr. Loomis and the sheriff run to the stairs to see what happened and they find Jamie and what they see is a Possessed evil child that has been cursed by Micheal Myers.... "},{"Title":"Good sequel","Date":"5 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" HALLOWEEN 4 THE RETURN OF MICHAEL MYERS (1988)starring Donald Pleasance, Ellie Cornell, Danielle Harris, Beau Starr, Sasha Jenson, Kathleen Kinmont, Michael Pataki.plot Ten years after Michael Myers slashed up a storm on Halloween night, 1978, as he is in a coma being transferred to a new asylum and wakes up just in time to hear that he has a surviving family member, an 8-year-old niece. As our favorite emotionless serial killer stalks young Jamie Lloyd (Danielle Harris) and her teenage foster-sister Rachel (Ellie Cornell) as a determined and now kick-ass Dr. Loomis (Donald Pleasance) teams with another Sheriff (Beau Starr) to find and stop Myers.the good A very nice sequel with real characters. The highlight of this film was the amazing performances by Donald Pleasance, Ellie Cornell and Danielle Harris. Donald Pleasance is now 10 times more determined and tough trying to capture his arch-nemesis and stop him once and for all. Ellie Cornell is very real as the sympathetic teenager, and Danielle Harris has amazing emotional scenes, especially for an actress her age.Michael is also still kick-ass, bringing us a body-count we can barely count.The directing is great as well. The director has lots of creepy blue-colored scenes. The score is well done by John Carpenter, more upbeat but it fits the more action-feel of this one.the bad The mask. It's just not creepy enough, not like the ones in 1, 2, 6, 7 and 8. Thats basically it.RIP Donald Pleasance "},{"Title":"Great return...","Date":"27 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" After the fire explosion that occurred in Halloween II, Michael Myers has been in a deep coma over the last ten years...and apparently over these ten years Laurie Strode(heroine from one and two)has died in a car crash, leaving daughter Jamie behind in the care of the Carruthers family. Unfortunately for her, Michael is about to wake up from his very long nap... During a routine transfer from the Richmond Mental Institute on a rainy Halloween Eve, Michael awakens in the back of an ambulance and proceeds to kill everyone on it(even using his thumb)... and thanks to the discussion that the personnel were having about his young niece living in Haddonfield, Michael once again sets his sights on the quiet little community that he terrorized ten years earlier.Upset by the fact that the doctors let it be taken out of the hospital, Doctor Loomis(Pleasance)makes his way to Haddonfield to warn Jamie and her foster family. Along the way, however, he runs into Myers at a gas station and ultimately loses his ride in a fiery explosion (caused by Myers). Now Loomis has to hitchhike, giving our favorite psycho a head start towards Haddonfield. Suspense and thrills galore as Michael arrives during trick-or-treating time and proceeds to terrorize/stalk Jamie and her sister Rachel. To quickly sum up the rest Loomis eventually arrives in Haddonfield, convinces the new Sheriff Meeker(Beau Starr)to help him out, they find Jamie and Rachel and take them to Meeker's home(where Meeker's daughter Kelly and Rachel's supposed boyfriend Brady are hanging out), and they all end up barricading themselves inside the house in hopes of keeping Michael out. Well, if you ask me, this 'barricading' idea is a pretty nice way to get the audience anxious because by now most people are going to figure out that Myers is probably already inside. So that's the rundown of the plot. Seems a little long, huh? That's a good thing...Anyhow, what Halloween 4 lacks in originality it makes up for with some very well directed scare scenes. There are several, and I'll start with my favorite which is the scene with the Sheriff's daughter and Deputy Logan. This is easily one of the most subtle scenes that I remember from these eighties slasher flicks. It kind of comes out of nowhere, and I say 'kind of' because I always assumed that he was in the house already, but I was never really sure. Then there is the scene on the roof. VERY suspenseful, especially if you are afraid of heights, like I am. It always bugs me when Rachel is reaching towards the highest point of the roof and her fingernails are scratching on the shingles...and then, of course, it breaks!! And finally there is the climax involving the truck, which I won't spoil.Now on to the gore/death scenes. The gore in this installment is pretty high(a jaw gets ripped off, a head gets crushed, there's a thumb in the forehead, a shotgun through the midriff). Most of the death scenes are fairly inventive, like the scene where Michael shoves a shotgun all the way through Kelly and it comes out on the other side of the door, pinning her to it. The brief fight between Michael and Brady was pretty rough, and definitely ended nicely since he was such a jerk to Rachel.Basically, I like Halloween 4. I read somewhere on IMDb that it is sort of an homage to the original, and I couldn't agree with that more. It is an homage, and a good one, too. Another good thing is that it opens up a lot more plot for the sequels to come. I definitely recommend it for a Halloween night marathon.8/10. Deducted a point for the bad directing/editing in the schoolhouse scene where Michael has seemingly gotten a dye job within the last two minutes that we last saw him. But don't let that mislead you. The film is still good. Trust me. Followed by Halloween 5The Revenge of Michael Myers, which is just as good, in my opinion. But I recommend watching 'The Return' first. "},{"Title":"Pretty Good!","Date":"15 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This film was a HUGE improvement over the terrible film that they call HALLOWEEN 3. The people who made HALLOWEEN 4 THE RETURN OF MICHAEL MYERS did an excellent job at bringing back Michael Myers. WARNING DON'T READ ANY FURTHER UNLESS YOU HAVE SEEN HALLOWEEN AND HALLOWEEN IIWe all saw the hospital blow up, we all saw it burst into flames, but none of us saw the death of Michael Myers and Doctor Loomis. Why? Because they didn't die! Dr. Loomis is living fine, and Michael Myers is in the mental hospital. Now, ten years later, he has escaped and is ready to kill again. But who can he kill? His sister is already dead. But her daughter isn't! Now, Dr. Loomis must try to kill Michael before Michael kills this little girl.Danielle Harris does a wonderful job at playing Jamie, Laurie Strodes daughter, and Ellie Cornell is a very talented actress. This is a must see for all the fans of the first two films. "},{"Title":"should of completed a trilogy","Date":"26 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  We can all agree that the original Halloween was a minor horror masterpiece. Halloween 2 suffered from a poor story but all things considered was a decent enough follow up. Halloween 3, well it was Michaeless so we wont go into it. I feel if under another title Halloween 3 would have stood up nicely on its on as a quite different little film. We do have Halloween 4, replace 3 with 4 and disregard parts 5 through the worst of them all 8 and the Halloween franchise becomes a tidy and taught trilogy. 4 has what it needs, Donald Pleasance first and foremost, this guy was the Halloween films. It also great continuity from part 2, Michaels been comatose after the after the explosion and Laurie Strode has died and left behind a niece to continue the Myers bloodline and provide a target for the soon revived and on the loose Shape. Halloween 4 does the job well and is for my money a better film then part 2. The story itself comes full circle with Michaels demise and his neice, in the same clown costume, murdering her mother to Dr. Loomis's shock and dismay. This ending should have been thee ending and the Halloween movies would be held in higher regard than then they are. Needless sequals have pretty much tarnished the Halloween mystique.  Sad since the original was pretty much a perfect movie. Halloween could also be a trilogy made up of parts 1,2 and 7 H20. H20 sees the return of  Jamie Lee as Laurie which is nice but with Pleasance gone and only present in the voice of a poorly done voice over, it just lacks the punch of 4. H20 in its own right is still a much better sequel then parts 5,6 or 8 and its up to you how youd like to view the Halloween trilogy. 1,2 and 7? or 1,2 and 4? Either way it makes for much better viewing than the rest of the horrid installments. "},{"Title":"Michael VS Jamie Strode","Date":"31 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Halloween 4 The Return of Michael Myers Michael Myers has returned and this time he is hunting his niece Jamie Strode. The daughter of Laurie Strode, who Michael tried to kill ten years again in 1978. Dr Loomis has to protect Jamie from been killed by her Uncle Michael Myers. This movie was made in 1988, i give this movie 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A Good Sequel....","Date":"20 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I had heard that this was arguably the best sequel in the Halloween series, so I was pretty eager to rent it.  After watching it just now, I was very pleased with it.  Reading reviews for Pt. 3, I learned very quickly to STAY AWAY from it.  It's safe to say that Halloween 4 is the REAL sequel to Pt. 2.  All of the major players are involved...except now Myers is after Laurie Strode's daughter, Jaimie.  The child actress was good, and Myers had some pretty inventive and gruesome killings, which is always good.  I liked the story, they used all of the original elements from the original Halloween, same town & characters....it could and has been seen as a tribute to the original.  The ending is pretty shocking and tragic...which helps the film hit home even more once it's finished.  I was very pleased, and agree with the opinion that it is indeed the best Halloween sequel.  Pt. 2 failed because all of the events took place in one place (the hospital).  Michael Myers makes a very good return here.*** out of **** stars. "},{"Title":"The Return of Dr. Loomis","Date":"16 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  It's 10 years later and Michael Myers is back to wreak havoc on Haddonfeild. This time he's after Laurie Strode's daughter, Jamie.  Michael escapes on Halloween eve as he is being transferred.  He goes on a killing spree en route to Jamie, living with foster parents.  Our old favorite Dr. Loomis isnt far behind warning to local police department that Michael's motives are very clear.  Loomis lines are as cheesy as they get we're talking about evil on two legs and baby he means it. This is a decent sequel with plenty of holes, like when the good guys are trapped in the house, I guess they couldnt break open a window or break down the front door. Then theres the scene where Michael is after Jamie and Loomis in the schoolhouse. He throws Loomis through a window and the shot clearly shows Michael with a different mask then he wears through the whole movie, I guess they lost the first mask.  The movie is long on holes and silliness but is still pretty entertaining, so I would recommend it overall. Afterall, it is a Part 4. "},{"Title":"Greatest Halloween must have been in 1988","Date":"5 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is definitely my favorite Halloween movie, and horror/slasher movie ever.  The reason this movie was great is because, there was a high amount of suspense through the movie, and they managed to pull this off in a sequel.  One thing that I truley loved about this movie, is they made some new killing scenes, and didn't go out of control with it like the Friday the Thirteenth series.  It was unique, but stuck to the original, if that makes any sense.  Honestly I find it to be just as enjoyable, good , exciting, and scary as the original as the first one, but what gives it that extra edge is Danielle Harris.  So in all I would say this is my favorite horror of all time, even better than the original.  If you like the Halloween series rent this movie for sure. I give this movie two very inthuesiastic thumbs up, good clean holiday fun 10/10. "},{"Title":"Awesome ending!","Date":"1 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie had an awesome ending! I predicted it, although I was talking out of my a$$ when I did so. Great movie, and much better than the pitiful Halloween II. Danielle Harris did a great job as Jamie, and the movie followed the basic formula from halloween. That's why it was good. "}{"Title":"2nd or 3rd best Halloween movie","Date":"1 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I liked H20 better, so I'd probably put that at #2, however, Halloween 4 was perfectly made (followed the formula of the 1st movie). It's definitely suspenseful and I thought Danielle Harris was great as Jamie. I came into this movie thinking it would be godawful. However, I was pleasantly surprised. Not only did it blow the pitiful Halloween II out of the water, but it provided for some good entertainment. "},{"Title":"Michael Makes A Good Return","Date":"30 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Well after the fans spoke out that they wanted Michael back, he returned 10 years after the first murders, this time in search of his niece, Jamie Lloyd.  This movie had some really good scenes but I had to take away a few points due to the cheesy rednecks that are running around town looking for Michael. The story did have a nice plot and had some interesting turn outs. "},{"Title":"The best of the series","Date":"22 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I liked this one alot. It had very good and creative kills. I've never seen three, but I hear that Michael being back was a blessing for the series. Wilbur was bigger than some of the other Michaels. That was ok with me. One thing I could not understand is that...SPOILERS When Michael burned in the second, how in the hell did he come back in this one with only a few bandages? No one could have lived through that! Same goes for Loomis being only a little hurt. I guess that's the miracle of movies. END SPOILERSThis was a very good movie with some neat kills. The acting from Danielle Harris was great to be a kid too. "},{"Title":"The Last Great Halloween Movie","Date":"23 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  In a long line of sequel that never lived up to the original, this one truly stands out. The scares are great, the plot actually makes sense, and the cast is at the top of its game. If you see only one sequel to Halloween, see this one. I can guarantee you won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Easily the best of the Halloween sequels.","Date":"4 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  It disappoints me when I see reviews from major critics citing this film as just another slasher film when it's anything but.  Halloween 4 gave horror films a much needed boost when it came out back in 1988.  The slasher films of the eighties had all become carbon copies of one another and were growing more and more stale.  The makers of Halloween 4 obviously saw this and tried to inject some moments of genuine creepiness into it and for the most part, they succeeded.  While still coming nowhere close to the original, Halloween 4 makes up for the blandness of the second one and the total absence of Michael Myers in the third one.  Focusing on the dark, supernatural elements of the first one, the film turns into a violent roller coaster ride with plenty of suspense and a lot of carnage (but surprisingly little gore).  This one really needs to be re-examined in the wake of '80's style slasher movies, as it definitely rises above the rest. "},{"Title":"Not bad","Date":"18 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie acctually very good. The whole niece thing with Michael was interesting. Even when she turns bad at the end of it. Michael had a few new ways to kill and it was neat. I highly recommend it.  "},{"Title":"Gives you something to turn to after Halloween 3","Date":"17 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  What makes this movie a worthy sequel is the fact that it apologizes for Halloween 3.  While Laurie is sorely missed, Jamie is a fine replacement.  Great to see Loomis is back and ready for action.  Another plus is the return of the original version of the theme which sounded odd in Halloween 2.  This film is the third best in the series, and a fun watch. "},{"Title":"Good sequel","Date":"8 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  10 years after his first brutal attack on Haddonfield, Ill, Michael Myers awakens from a coma to kill his 8 year old niece, Jamie. Dr. Loomis, scarred from the fire in Halloween II, is once again on his trail.Good direction and atmosphere makes this a top notch sequel.***/**** "},{"Title":"Boring, pointless, clichéd... yep, your standard slasher flick","Date":"28 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Let's just forget for a moment that both Michael Myers and Dr. Loomis were blown to smithereens at the conclusion of HALLOWEEN II and give this movie the suspension of our disbelief. Even with that in mind, HALLOWEEN 4 is as lame, predictable and clichéd as any other slasher pic you can think of. While being transported from one hospital to another, Michael escapes, acquires his signature mechanic's jumper and Shape mask in a local hardware store and sets out to find and kill his previously unmentioned little niece (Danielle Harris). Lots of monotonous stalking, plenty of ranting from a haggard looking Donald Pleasanse (who appears to have suffered only a burned cheek and bad knee as a result of being blown up), but little suspense and less logic. Harris turns in an impressively strong performance for a ten year old, but it's far from enough to breathe any life into this boring, pointless series entry. Some critics actually enjoyed this one, but, other than the fact that it isn't quite as bad as parts 5 or 6, I have no idea why. For die-hard completists only. "},{"Title":"the best sequel","Date":"9 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  this  sequel to halloween franchise is definately the best far superoir to the adequate ressurection and the overated h20. the story starts off in ridgemont mental ward where micheal pataki (he played drago's trainer in rocky 4) preps micheal myers for the journey to smith grove micheal escapes and teror ensures. the acting is rather good considering 3rd sequel to a slasher film. the ending is superbly crafeted by dwight h little and it is genuinely scary. well done 94 percent "}{"Title":"Better than 2, 3, 5, and 6","Date":"5 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Better than 2, 3, 5, and 6 I thought it was scary! It was loaded with saspents. I think that George Weber played a Michael Myers! I think that Donald Pleacence, Ellie Cornel, and Danielle Harison did good in this movie!  "},{"Title":"Best Halloween sequel!","Date":"2 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  After an unrelated third entry, this was a great return to form for the franchise.  As we'd already seen Michael Myers die several times already in the first two intstallments and get right back up again for more, it was no surprise that he could survive being set alight in Halloween II.  That Dr Loomis could survive his expected demise was more of a surprise, but he was a much loved character for the series and I'm glad he was in this sequel.  Donald Pleasance gives a wonderful performance and Dr Loomis is as reliable as ever (can see why people would think he's a bit loony though, what with all his ramblings).  The scene with the reverend in the antiquated automobile talking about apocalypse is amusing without ruining the tone of the movie. The vigilante squad roaming in absence of the police is a neat touch to the movie.  The whole locking the main characters in a house, unwittingly with Michael Myers is a contrived situation of course, but so's the premise of the whole series.  And it still manages some nice tension. My only main quibble here is that the reprise of John Carpenter's original theme has been needlessly tinkered with, robbing it of some of it's power. Pretty Ellie Cornell does a great job in this movie and acquits herself well in the role of Jamie's protector and a heroine in peril. She's the most likable teen of the series and her wholesomeness seems a lot more natural than the forced chastity and sainthood of Jamie Leigh Curtis's original character. Danielle Harris does a great job in the role of the young girl, Jamie.  When has a child actor ever been this un-annoying before?  She does a good job of evoking sympathy and being believable and she and Ellie Cornell do a great double act (you could almost believe they really are sisters). We all know what's going to happen in the film, Michael Myers is going to kill a few people and noone's going to be able to stop him completely but the film is well crafted of it's kind, fun to watch, well acted and does create some tension and gets us to care for the characters.  It's certainly a few notches above the average slasher sequel.  The last scene, refreshingly actually comes as a real shock and Donald Pleasance's performance really sells it that this is Dr Loomis driven to the point of dementia and beyond, by the revelation that it's all about to start all over again.  A great entertaining continuation of the Halloween series and definetly for me the best of the sequels.   "},{"Title":"A very good return to Myers.","Date":"27 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Ok, now i know alot of you may not have liked the film because there was no Laurie but this film was very good for a comeback to Michael Myers. I have no problems what so ever with this film. I Highly enjoyed it. Harris was good and so was everyone else. It even comes close to having the best ending in the entire series. Very spooky and very unexpected. Recommended to you all to buy. Out of 10 I'd say 8.  "},{"Title":" Why don't you just die, you son of a bitch!","Date":"10 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Danielle Harris is stupendous as Jamesa in this amazing horror farce. The following cast is electrifying. The costumes are gorgeous. One of the good films in the genre, Halloween 4 The Return Of Michael Myers will dice the viewer's hands off. 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A Good Sequel","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I am the king of Halloween.  I loved the original and the 2nd one almost equally.Everybody knows the 3rd installment sucks cause it didn't even deal with the best villain in movie history.I've watched Halloween 4  The Return of Michael Myers about 100 times cause I own 2 copies.  The Original VHS & the Special Edition VHS.  I'd like to start by saying this movie is a very good sequel to Halloween II.  I like the one-liners Dr. Loomis has in this movie, I loved Jamie Lloyd in this movie, I loved the way Michael Myers looked freaky in this movie, I even didn't mind the plot too much.The only flaw i'd say in this movie is some bad writing & the scene where Dr. Loomis & Jamie are hiding the schoolhouse and Michael pops up and he's got like a totally different mask on with white hair.  What the hell is that?  Such an obvious mistake, what were they thinking?One thing that sticks out with this movie is the ending.  I think Halloween movies have the weirdest endings in horror movie history.  I think all the endings to all the Halloween movies are original in some shape or form.  In Halloween 4 however, the ending is twisted.  We see Jamie kill her stepmom after being brought home by the police.  Now I never got this quite well. I don't know whether it was because she touched Michael and maybe his powers were absorbed into her or was it because she is part of Michaels family and the curse was brought down to her.  If you all don't know what i'm talking about, then you should read the Halloween novel by Curtis Richards.  This Thorn theory started way before Halloween 6 for all you whiners who think it's a stupid subject.  I think it's great and disturbing.I would give this film a 7.5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Best sequel by far...","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Only sequel that recaptures the spirit of the original. Dr Loomis is OUTSTANDING in this movie! Ellie Cornell's Rachel is a perfect replacement for Laurie Strode. See this and avoid H8! h4 has great deaths, great acting, and its really SCARY and isn't that the POINT?! "},{"Title":"solid sequel","Date":"6 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Halloween 4 the return of Michael Myers takes place 10 years after the events of Halloween 1 and 2. Myers has been in a coma for the past 10 years. we find out that Laurie(Jamie Lee) died in a car accident, and that she has a daughter named Jamie Lloyd. Jamie has been adopted by the Carruthers family. on Halloween eve Michael is being taken from the hospital he is in, to another one. but he wakes from his coma, and escapes. hearing the news Dr. Loomis heads back to Haddonfield for he knows Michael will once again return home. Myers learns of his niece and he sets off to find her. Loomis tries to warn Sheriff Ben Meeker of coming danger, but he doesn't take Loomis serious at first. Myers stalks Jamie and her step-sister Rachel at every turn. i enjoyed Halloween 4 very much i thought the directing by Dwight H. Little was very well done. the scene in which Jamie and Rachel and a few others are trapped in the house with Myers was very suspenseful.i give Halloween 4 the return of Michael Myers 8/10 "},{"Title":"OK Halloween movie","Date":"3 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Okay, I used to really like Halloween 4.  In fact, I put it up there with the original and the first sequel, but now that I go back and look at it... it just doesn't cut it. 1)  A serial killer is being transferred in an ambulance from one max. security hospital to another with absolutely no security.  There are 2 drivers and 2 paramedics.  Sorry, that's just not how it's done.  Chalk it up to bad writing...2)  Michael, all burnt up, is just wandering around the general store, freaks out the little girl, and no one notices him standing around--entering or exiting with a mask on?  Walking across the street back to his tow truck?  Hm.3)  There is no all out search for this oh-so dangerous serial killer. Dr. Loomis is the only one who seems to care and he just kind wanders around the whole time.  It's obvious that Michael would go back to Haddonfield, yet there is no security or manhunt whatsoever.  Again, bad writing.4)  The geniuses lock themselves in a house when the power is out, expecting the serial killer not to get in.  Oh my... they did have cars, they could have driven to the next police station.  Haddonfield wasn't an isolated little town in the middle of a freakin valley somewhere.  It was a pretty big place and there had to have been a town nearby.5)  Michael takes out everyone at the police station.  What, did they just stand around as he attacked each one of them individually?  Sure, the all had guns and police training, but Michael had a butcher knife.  He flayed them, no contest.  Riiight...6)  They're actually trying to nurse Michael back to health?7)  Okay, when the power goes out in a town... someone is immediately called to fix the problem.  Oh, I know.. because the writing is so mediocre the power outage really adds to the suspense... *cough*  But really, 5 minutes from the time it went out someone knew would have been out there, pulled the corpse off the power conduits, thereby letting the juice flow. 8)  So Michael, just hearing about his neice in the ambulance, hearing only her name... suddenly has the ability to track down where she and her foster parents live so he can drive his badass ambulance there and park it outside in very scary fashion.  Michael must be omniscient.Skip it and rent H2O. "},{"Title":"The only good Sequel of the 4-6 set","Date":"29 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The Halloween series has always been a mixed bag in my opinion. We have the pure greatness that is the original, then we get the decent, yet slow, second installment, and the dreadful stand alone third installment of the series. After the mistake that was the third feature of the series the filmmakers knew the only thing they could do to give the series some justice would be to bring Michael Myers back. I'm happy to say that in Halloween 4 The Return of Michael Myers he comes back with a vengeance.The 4th installment, and some may disagree with me, is way better than Halloween 2. If any of the sequels comes close to matching the pace of the original it's this installment. The film follows the firs film's pace by adding more suspense than a high body count, unlike the second film, and manages to make Michael Myers scary again.The aspect that works best about the film are its characters. Donald Pleasance returns as Dr. Loomis, adding a slightly more deranged/mad scientist vibe to his role. In this film he is consumed with stopping Micahel. A trend that would continue, with less success, in the 5th and 6th installment. Danielle Harris is added to the series as Michael's niece, Jamie. Danielle gives a truly amazing performance for someone of such a young age at the time. It's not an annoying child performance, but a captivating one. Ellie Cornell plays one of the few not so annoying teenagers in the Halloween series. Her portrayal of Rachel starts out like this however but soon transforms into a strong character who is determined to protect her sister. There are other spporting characters but they mostly are just there to add to a relatively low body count. Even Michael Myers is given some life as portrayed by George P. Wilbur. Some say he moved at a snailspace but i thought he was truly menancing and almost as effective as the Michael in the original film.The stalk scens are also another highlight. A chase through a house and eventually onto a roof is a huge highlight of the film. The climatic battle on the truck is also worth mentioning.Halloween 4 works better than most horror sequels. i just wish the trend couldn't last throughout the entire series. 5-6 most definitely killed the series when they were released. My advice jsut watch 1,2,4, and H20 to find out what the Halloween craze is all about.  "},{"Title":"So-so","Date":"25 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Well, it was inevitable. Michael Myers awakens from his coma after a ten-year (film time) absence, descending upon his hometown to wreak more murderous havoc. The fans angrily demanded his return after the disastrous Halloween III, and lo and behold, there he is again, slaughtering more horny teens for your viewing pleasure. Not that's there's anything wrong with it in principle, but Halloween 4 is a thoroughly uninspired outing for the most part. Myers and Dr. Loomis are a bit worse for the wear, but all in all, they're back to their old business. I won't even get into the fact that by all rights, they shouldn't have survived the end of Halloween II. The matter has never been satisfactorily explained, and I am not presumptuous enough to think I can resolve it in one capsule review.The only new twist is that Michael's niece figures in the story; she shares a psychic link with her infamous uncle. Danielle Harris actually does a pretty good job; most child actors are annoying, but she always hits the mark. Ellie Cornell also delivers a solid performance as the heroine, and Donald Pleasance settles comfortably into his old role, though his character is more unbalanced than ever.Overall, it's not a terrible movie. The director does a fairly good job in making it atmospheric, particularly the eerie opening credits. There's some good action, although some of the things Michael does (like cutting off the towns electricity) strain credibility. The ending is undeniably effective. It's a decent rental for genre fans.** (out of ****)Released by Trancas International Films "}{"Title":"Bone-Chilling!","Date":"27 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I went and saw this in the theater when it first came out. It was the 1st Halloween movie I'd seen and I was so impressed that I've rented it several times since. *THIS MAY CONTAIN SPOILERS* The atmosphere starts out creepy right at the beginning, as an ambulance makes its way along a dark, twisting road to the Ridgemont Federal Sanitarium, where Michael Myers has been in a coma since being set on fire at the end of Halloween 2. While en route to another hospital, he overhears the ambulance crew referring to his niece and comes to life, savagely killing the crew who are trapped inside.During the night, that niece, Jamie Lloyd, who lives with another family, spots an ambulance outside her home, and then after going back to her room discovers Myers is hiding in it! When the lightning flashed, showing him standing in the mirror, I just about jumped out of my skin! An interesting bit was where he appeared in the doorway, immediately after Jamie saw him sitting up on the other side of her bed. Loomis's first encounter comes after he & his boss find out that the Illinois State Police have discovered the wrecked ambulance that was carrying Myers, and Loomis heads off to a gas station where Myers has acquired his traditional coveralls and wicked-looking knife. The part that spooked me the most came when Jamie was standing in front of the mirror, holding up the clown outfit. Suddenly the image in the mirror changes to that of a six-year-old boy who murdered his sister in 1963, and Myers himself appears behind her as he pulls down his mask. This mask is different from the first two, but I found it more frightening because the hollow, dark eyes give the impression that there is no human inside it. The ending scared me as well, because it left an unanswered question  -  was Myers 'reborn' or somehow connected to his niece another way? Donald Pleasance remains effective as the psychiatrist trying to stop the apparently demonic Michael, along with the new sheriff Meeker and Ellie Cornell (what a sweetheart!) as Jamie's half-sister Rachel. This one lacks the graphic gore of Halloween 2, and it seems that director Dwight Little has tried to stick to Carpenter's original formula. For the most part he and his crew have succeeded. It's better than most of the Friday the 13th ones in that you don't see most of the killings - only the end result. Definitely on a par with the first two and probably better. "},{"Title":"!!!Great!!! 5 Stars Out of 5","Date":"27 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"      This is one of The Many Great Halloween Sequels. I was Excited to see The Such Powerful Climaxes This Film takes us Through as we Progress into The Movie. Such as The Roof Scene, Where We Find Rachel and Jamie trying to Escape from the clutches of The Maniac by Making Their Way Up Onto the Roof. Another Good One is at The End Where Michael Gets Onto The Hood of the car after Killing The Five older Fellas....Only Later to be Ran-Over Be Rachel and Killed by The State Police.I Especially Liked The Special Edition of the Movie on DVD Where We Get The Feature Halloween 4--Final Cut. It is A 17 Minute Documentary of The Film. It is A Must Have For All Big Time Halloween Fans.    What Pleased me Most About The Film Was The Outstanding Acting By Both Donald Pleasence AND Danielle Harris, Allthough it Was All Good. There Were Also Some Interesting Charactors that we meet Throughout The Film as Well. Like The Truck Driver That Picks Loomis up on His Way To Haddenfield, The Power Guy who Threatens Michael That If he Doesn't Leave, He'll Call The Cops, and Plenty of Others As Well. There is Not A Single Good Thing That This Movie is Missing. I Would Without Doubt give it The Perfect Rating, that it Deseveres.    I Reccommend This Movie To ANY True Horror Fan. I Recommend The Following Movies To Anyone Who Liked It All The Halloween Movies, Friday the 13th, Hannibal, Slumber Party Massacre, SleepAway Camp, Sorority House Massacre, The Texas Chainsaw Massacre, Leprechaun, Child's Play, and Puppet Master. "},{"Title":"Ten years ago HE changed the face of Halloween. Tonight, HE'S BACK!","Date":"8 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Halloween 4 The Return of Michael Myers is a very well made horror film and is a great thrill-ride. It is incredibly suspenseful and entertaining. Donald Pleasence is a great actor and is very likable and I am so glad that he graced the Halloween series with his solid acting. I love you and miss you Mr. Pleasence. Ellie Cornell and young Danielle Harris also do excelent jobs at portraying their characters. If it weren't for Halloween 4, then I think that Halloween series would not be as successful as it is today. Thank God that Moustapha Akkad decided to continue with the Michael Myers story after Season of the Witch. I love Halloween 3, but the Michael Myers films are much more fun. The Halloween series is so much better than the other horror series of the 80's. Also, I find that the Halloween flicks are no where near as cliced as a Friday the 13th films. This is my second favorite Halloween film. Right behind the first. Michael Myers is very scary also. I really love this film alot. It shows that a genuinely good horror sequel can come out of the 80's. A big improvement over Halloween 2 and 3, 'The Return of Michael Myers' delivers!A definite and well deserved 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"The best Halloween sequel","Date":"10 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Michael returns home 10 years after the Halloween night massacre of '78 only this time after Laurie's daughter, his niece Jamie.  Halloween 4 The Return of Michael Myers is in my opinion the best of the Halloween sequels offering up some cool and even suspenseful and creepy moments.  Nicely directed by Little with a cool and creepy variation on the theme that Carpenter made famous.  A sequel that even Carpenter would be proud of.  It does have it problems though, primarily with the killings in bed of the truck.  But hell overlook that and have a good time Halloween 4 is the closest to the original as you can get.  Check it out!!!! "},{"Title":"good follow up to the michael myers storyline","Date":"15 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of the better sequels in the series.  The script is good, but has many flaws that tarnish its quality.  The acting is very good.  I didn't care for Donald Pleasance from this sequel on.  Ellie Cornell was good and very likeable.  Danielle Harris may not be as likeable, because this was her first film role and she was just getting the hang of it.  Beau Starr, Kathleen Kinmont, and Sasha Jenson give great supporting performances. The mask for michael is a little funky looking though.  This film is an improvement from the previous sequel, which has nothing to do with the others but just had to have the same name.  I was disappointed that Laurie Strode was killed off.  Luckily, Jamie Lee Curtis reprised her famous role a few years ago.  The directing is excellent, because the filming locations are very eerie.  I give this film a 7. "},{"Title":"OK, but don't expect to remember it after you see it","Date":"21 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Halloween 4 is an extremely average horror sequel, raised above most of it's kind because it's never really bad, and it gets it's 'story' told well. OK, the basic story is Michael getting resurrected and killing some more teens, but it's fairly well done, and there's a bit of suspense to go along with it. The best way to watch it is with a bunch of friends, and have a Halloween night, and rent out the whole series except for number 3, which has no connection to the rest of the series. 5/10. "},{"Title":"who can stop Michael Myers ?","Date":"7 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This film is brilliant and I would recomend it to any fans of horror movies, especially if you are a fan of the original Halloween film. This is my fravourite film in the series and the main reason for this is the atmosphere throughout the whole film . It is also done in the same style as the original and some of the death scenes are very original and entertaining.Another reason this is such a great film is that it is well acted and  is put together superbly . Halloween 4 is well worth a watch and also watch out for the great surprise ending! "},{"Title":"An ordinary sequel","Date":"26 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was an ordinary sequel, everything that happened in this movie was so obvious that you could tell what happens next. So Michael escaped again, big deal Loomis finds him shoots at him and Michael takes some hits and gets away into the darkness just so that there would be more sequels to come. Ooooo, spooky. But haven´t we seen all that already in the past two sequels? YEASSSSS! So this film is just for those who are big Halloween fans,maybe you can get some pleasure out of this movie. "},{"Title":"Michael Myers needs to diet","Date":"22 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Lets cut to the chase here. If you watch a film with the title Halloween 4, you know its not going to be Citizen Kane and as the critics have remarked how the sequel was responsible for the decline of the horror/slasher movies in the mid eighties then H4 is surely guilty as charged. However H4 is not the worst film in the series.The acting is mediocre and the script is littered with some horrendous dialogue(Check out Dr Loomis`s description of Michael Myers as Evil on two legs) but hey, lighten up, this isn`t Shakespeare. H4 to an extent delivers the goods. Its short for starters, were not waiting an hour for the action to begin, its straight into it after a classy opening credits sequence. The characters are stock horror movie characters  and thus we can relate to them. The gore is kept to a minimum (is that a good thing?) and there are a few minor shocks and twists along the way. The late great Donald Pleasance is at his eye bulging best and the film treats us to some dark humour involving some vigilante Rednecks out to nail Michael Myers but for me the major plus of this film is the John Carpenter penned music that was so well used in the first film. Surely this is one of the great movie theme tunes in history. In a nutshell H4 offers us nothing new but you pay your money and you get what you expect, a standard run of the mill low budget horror flick. hey I quite enjoyed it but don`t you think that Myers bloke is putting a bit of weight on.  "},{"Title":"A rather weak sequel","Date":"24 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  WARNING! Spoilers for the first two moviesLet me start off by saying that this is a huge set up from Part III...though that isn't saying much. Truthfully, this movie is nowhere near as good as the first two.The plot is rather simple. Michael Myers and Sam Loomis somehow survived the fire at the end of part 2. Now...I find that kind of strange since I'd be hard for a human being to survive that. But don't you remember that Michael was blinded at the end of part 2? And all of a sudden, he can see?Anyways getting back to it, Mikey has been in a max-security prison for the last ten years. But since he's in a coma and he obviously isn't waking up any time soon **wink, wink**...they decide hey let's move him to the same institution that he escaped from on this very night ten years ago...he isn't going to do anything.In real life, they'd probably be right. In a horror movie...bwahaha...idiots. Michael escapes and goes on another killing spree, stomping a B-line to Haddonfield, this time in pursuit of his cute lil' niece Jamie. It seems that Laurie Strode has tragically died, along with her husband, in a car accident about a year prior to the events in this film. Jamie is all alone in the world, being taken care of by her new foster family, including the lead in the film, Jamie's foster sister Rachael.Nice set-up, eh? Did I also mention Loomis is back in what may be his best performance in the Halloween series yet? Loomis is heavily involved in the beggining of the movie, but by the end he's almost non-existent. I think the flaws in this movie were not from the script, though it wasn't perfect.One was the acting. Danielle Harris was okay, Donald Pleasence was great, and Beau Star was passable, but everything else sucked. Didn't the Rachael/Kelly/Brady love triangle simply stink of 80s television?Another was that I didn't care for Dwight Little's style. He didn't capture the same dark feel that Carpenter and Rosenthal did, except for a few parts. Also it moves even slower than the first Halloween does and in effect, is less interesting. I also didn't like how Michael Myers was likened to Jason in this movie. Michael doesn't crush head. Jason does that. Michael doesn't stay standing after being shot the crap out of with assault rifles. Jason does that. See what I mean? Michael lost his scariness because he was simply too damn powerful. I will say that the ending was simply brillant, but overall if you have already seen parts 1+2, stop with those and forget about 3-7...Attendant-Jesus ain't got nuttin to do with this place. "}{"Title":"A surprisingly good sequel","Date":"31 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  If they cut out 2,3,5,and 6, this would be one of the best sequels.  It would have Michael returning every decade with an original plot for every film.  This could be a great film by itself, not to mention with a title to really publicize it.  Here, Myers returns to Haddenfield to kill Laurie's daughter, who is left with her relatives.  Suspenseful, witty, but Michael won't die!  This takes away the realism.  Also, by this time, the film is too routine to be called excellent.  Maybe if it was the only serial killer horror film would I give it *** or above.  Until then, **1/2 out of ****. "},{"Title":"Better Than Average Sequel","Date":"9 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Halloween 4 at least makes an attempt to create suspense and mood as opposed to just being another gore fest. The plot is pretty simple Michael Myers escapes from yet another mental health facility to wreak havoc on quiet town of Haddonfield. This time the his target is his 8 year old niece, Jamie, played with style by Danielle Harris. The film was shot in darker tones which adds to the creepy mood and the gore is kept somewhat tame.There are some draw backs, however. The first is Donald Pleasence, who, of course, should be dead, considering what happened at the end of Halloween II. I loved his performances in the first two Halloweens, his speeches on Michael Myers gave the shape the wonderful characterization of ..purely and simply evil. In this film, though, he seemed tired and unattached to his pursuit. My other complaint is the ending. Where the first film ended with a true sense of dread that the evil was still loose, this one has an ending that is done simply for the purpose of another sequel.Still I liked it enough to recommend it to any fan of the series. "},{"Title":"Michael Awakes!","Date":"18 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Michael Myers awakes from his decade long coma and returns to Haddonfield, setting his murderous sights on his young niece. Dr. Loomis follows Michael's bloody trail and tries to stop him. Good opening, fairly scary, not to bloody, and with an exiting finale.  This comes highly recommended.Halloween 4  The Return of Michael Myers is Rated R for mild horror violence, gory effects, language, and brief nudity. "},{"Title":"The best Halloween-sequel of them all! (!BEWARE BIG SPOILER!)","Date":"21 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Michael Myers is back and this time he's after his niece. This is the best sequel (even better than Halloween H20) to one of the best films ever made. Although Carpenter wasn't involved with this one the film goes back to the roots of the Halloween series having much in common with the original. Again the film is full of suspense and has some very entertaining and original camera work.Michael Myers somehow survived the explosion in Halloween II, as well as Dr. Loomis. However, Michael Myers fell into a coma but awakens when being transferred to another hospital and escapes again. He then goes after his niece who already has nightmares about her evil uncle.The film delivers plenty of good scares but is not too violent or gory. The ending is one of the best I have seen in a horror film. When Michael lies on the ground Jamie (his niece) touches him and some of the evil seems to get into Jamie. Michael is then shot by about a hundred cops and is thought to be dead although he disappears in a shaft. Back at home, in a point-of-view shot, we see Jamie grab a Halloween mask and what follows is almost identical to what happens at the beginning of the original Halloween. Truly brilliant!After Halloween III (which should not be given the acceptance as a part of the series) this movie was an immense improvement!My rating 8/10 (but from here on the series gets worse) "},{"Title":"Cracking Horror Movie!!!","Date":"18 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is an absolute cracker,  much better than the dreadful H2 and miserable H3.  This one injected some life back into the series... The story plays like a rerun of the original, but that's no bad thing...the original is a classic.  It's just a shame about the mask (it looks very, very bad) which is too bland for a Myers' mask.The acting and story are very good, and the showdown in the Sheriff's house is very suspenseful, although the film does suffer from the sequel set-up at the end, it may be unexpected, but that doesn't make it any more welcome. "},{"Title":"A BIGGER AND BRUTAL MICHAEL!!","Date":"25 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Thank God, Michael Myers has returned. And this time he is bigger, and more brutal than ever. Many think this is bad, but I enjoyed it. I think this move was made because Jason Voorhees was so brutal they didn't want Michael being seen as plain. This movie sees Michael escaping from the mental hospital and going after his neice. Good performance by the neice, good as always by Donald Pleasance (how did he survive the explosion) and Michael is great as always. Not as good as the first two but up there with the better sequels.  "},{"Title":"A good HALLOWEEN sequel","Date":"24 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  HALLOWEEN 4 was good, except for some things. One, Michael Myers never is so brutal in HALLOWEEN and HALLOWEEN II.In this one he sticks his finger through a guys skull, and sticks people in the wall with shotguns-no. The original Michael Myers has been transformed into to brutal of a thing. in H1 and H2 he either chokes em or stabs em or finds some other way, but not with his finger or something. I did like Danielle Harris as Jamie, and Donald Pleasence was again good, but this Michael Myers wasn't my fav. He was too tall and had like no neck, but doesn't matter that much. This had some jumpy parts, but I'm just wondering how Dr. Loomis could have survived the explosion in H2-? But this was the third best in the HALLOWEEN series, and overall a 6/10. "},{"Title":"Good HALLOWEEN movie","Date":"25 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This, was a good movie, in the HALLOWEEN series, but I didn't like one thing in particular. The Police get so involved in this Michael Myers thing, they have shotguns and everything else and they still can't kill him, but I did like how Jamie was Laurie's daughter, and Myers is her uncle. This is a good movie, go see it. Third best in the HALLOWEEN series. I give it 7/10 "},{"Title":"Back in the saddle...","Date":"13 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This sequel really brought the Halloween series back into the saddle.  With the exception of part three, this series of films just proves to be superior to all horror films in every respect.  The guy just gets freakier and freakier...and so does that psychotic mask!  I always wonder why the directors didn't cast any bright cast members of that day.  Danielle Harris? Well, SOME people know her if you like horror movies.  Ellie Cornell? Beau Starr?  Couldn't they at least asked Corey Haim or Ally Sheedy to play the parts?  They were the 'teen sensations' back in the eighties.  Besides the poor cast the movie is great for a dark night of horror movie feasts!  "},{"Title":"Good, despite being the fourth.","Date":"10 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  In Sweden, Halloween 4 and 5 don´t exist! But i borrowed it from a friend who bought it in England. This is a good one, even though it´s the fourth in the series. But sometimes, it could get silly (a fall from three stories causes just a few scratches). Despite this, it´s the very best since the first! "}{"Title":"Well, at least it improved","Date":"6 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Much better than number 3, but we're just not going to mention that so called sequel.  Michael Myers returns and is a little PO'd.  There is just one question i always wonder, what does Michael do for the 10 years that he was gone, i mean, he's locked up in a mental hospital, so why does he wait 10 years to escape, why doesn't he try to escape before the next Halloween? "},{"Title":"Good movie, but it won't top off the first 2.","Date":"26 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I'm glad somebody brought back Michael Myers. It was great. This easily was so much better than H3. It was cool how little Jamie took out the picture of Laurie Strode, revealing that she was her mother. It was also cool how she got almost cursed by her uncle, Michael Myers. This was an OK movie. It was kind of weird how Dr. Loomis survived the explosion at the hospital but oh well. HALLOWEEN 4 THE RETURN OF MICHAEL MYERS is a 6/10, but still, you have to see it. "},{"Title":"An ok horror movie.","Date":"13 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The setup is a bit annoying Jamie Lee Curtis' character is killed off off-screen in a silly car accident and we get her little daughter instead as the poor victim. From there the movie gets better...It's quite loyal to the original spirit of the first movie and has some spooky bits in it. Especially the ending... A little slow in the middle, but not too slow. Horror fans will enjoy this movie.  "},{"Title":"Very, very, very scary.","Date":"25 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Terrifying. There is no other word to describe this worthy sequel. When I first saw it, I was terrified, checking the house and turning on lights. It still scares me enough to still do this. Michael returns once again and is hunting his little niece, who is absolutely terrified of him and knows of his past. The whole film is filled with atmosphere, high suspense and terror. Thank God no blood and guts prevalent here, as in other so-called horror films.Enjoy, but as I said before. . don't watch it alone.carmenlpelion, sc "},{"Title":"Very entertaining sequel.","Date":"19 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Unlike many sequels this movie really lives up the the original Halloween.It is a lot better when Halloween II.Unlike the first sequel this really gives you the suspense and horror of the classic original.For Halloween fans this is an entertaining flick.For horror film fans this gives you what you want and when you want it.So its worth the price of a rent....or buy it it would be a great addition to your horror video collection. "},{"Title":"Who says all sequels suck?","Date":"11 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This sequel does not suck. The third one I hear does suck. But this one does not. It's got it's fair share of gore and some scary scenes. It's really good. Except at the end were they try to do in Myers. Yeah right like that would work! "},{"Title":"Really cool and scary.","Date":"6 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is a huge improvement over the third movie. This has a lot of really scary parts and a great plot. It's hardly ever possible to have a fourth movie in a horror series be very good but this proves you wrong. It's got great acting compared to most horror movies and little Harris is fun to watch as Jamie Lee Curtis' daughter. Michael still wears a mask that isn't as cool as the first mask but it works. Just the location of this movie is creepy. It makes you jump to the roof sometimes. The end is really cool. I won't give much away but be prepared to be shocked beyond belief. Go rent this right away it's a lot better than the third. I can't wait for the DVD to come out this month. Halloween 4 The Return of Michael Myers B+ "},{"Title":"To the Point!","Date":"31 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Halloween 4 is without a doubt, one of the better sequels made to a horror movie (see Friday the 13th and Nightmare on Elm St).  The movie is technically well made and Danielle Harris gives a suprisingly good performance at a young age.  Not much gore content as far as horror movies go, and the movie relies more on suspense.  A very good movie by itself, but even better considering its a sequel.  A rating of 6 of 10 was given.  "},{"Title":"Good Follow-up to the original","Date":"4 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  There have been 6 Halloween movies to date (I don't count 3 as part of the series) and the only ones worth seeing are the ones that come every ten years. You have the original classic, H20, and Halloween 4.  The director clearly did his homework, and has created a good SUSPENSEFUL movie, one that touches on the atmosphere that made Halloween such a classic.  With only a couple exceptions (too minor to mention here), the film is well acted.  Danielle Harris shows she has good potential, even at such a young age.  Made in the gore drenched 80's, this movie relies on suspense to get its scares, and the blood is kept to a minimum.While the ending is somewhat hokey, I must say, I didn't see it coming.  The first clearly makes an imprint here, with the picture of a young Laurie, to Danielle's character buying Michael's costume (yes, it was the same look clown costume as in the first, if you don't remember that, go to the internet knitting database).This (till H20's release) was the best of the sequels, and stands proudly in the long shadow cast by Halloween.  "},{"Title":"Incredibly impressive sequel that outshines the original","Date":"23 July 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" When he manages to escape from a local asylum and returns to his hometown, the legendary killer's murderous search for a missing relative forces his doctor and the locals into a panic trying to protect her as he gets continuously closer to her.This one ended up being a massively enjoyable and entertaining effort that produces some of the best stuff around in the series baring the original, and oftentimes even surpassing it. A lot of the film's positives here are all helped along by the more physically-imposing and traditionally-minded slasher approach given to Michael. By now, Myers had become very Jason Voorhees-esquire in that no matter what was brought to bear on him, he would still survive, and that gives this one a great main villain as he continually charges forth against all the big scenes here to stop him by surviving a multitude of gunshots, car crashes and the big final resolution here. As well, from a pure slashing standpoint, this also means his behavior is more slasher-feeling by actively stalking and killing more random bystanders since There's a larger cast that allows for more kills and gore here as this is one of the series' bloodier entries. Moreover, that leads into the plethora of amazing action-packed stalking here as there's no shortage of awesome scenes here, from the confrontation at the car-repair shop that features some fine stalking around before the explosive resolution and a series of scenes involving the lynch mob's confrontations in the streets providing some really fun times here as well as chasing him through the neighborhoods. Still, it's hard to beat this one's best part here in the final half, as the home invasion get so much right here with the blackout hiding the bodies, the rampage across the group and then stalking them up to the rood which leads to a thrilling escape attempt as it closes in on them and leads to the confrontation in the school. Eventually, the ensuing car chase and battle at the creek afterward serve as more action-oriented scenes that generate a faster-paced film than anything else in the series. The fast pace makes the movie seem much shorter than it really is, and is misleading since the action flies fast and free and is able to work nicely alongside all the other parts here. The movie also does something only the original took pride in doing as it never forsakes the suspense and manages to get a lot of them right, effectively bringing in some fine suspense along with the action, and in fact it rarely misses of the scenes it set up. The opportunities are varied, but this movie still gets quite a high number including the opening dream sequence that goes for several minutes, and Myers is never seen until the last thirty seconds popping up from under the bed illuminated by the lightning blast and the costume-shopping sequence is also a nice display of suspense with the mysterious figure stalking her throughout the store, and altogether there's a lot to like here with this one's mixture of impressive stalking action and suspense this one really gets right. Beyond these issues, there's only one real problematic issue here on the stupidity of the town's people over Myers. The fact that Loomis spends so much time convincing them to do something after the previous rampages that it nearly detracts from the movie and there's very little believability in that part. Scenes like the police station assault should've prompted them into action much earlier, but instead it barely registers at all to get them to move into action until the house assault. It's really the film's main flaw overall here.Rated R Graphic Violence, Adult Language, Brief Nudity and some drug use "}{"Title":"Works as a tribute to the original","Date":"27 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Good sequel. Ok, John Carpenter's Halloween is light years ahead of Halloween 4, but still this is an entertaining horror movie. As a tribute to the 10th anniversary of the release of the original Halloween, this film included Dr. Loomis and of course Michael Myers. Lauire Strode is still present as she left a daughter. It's supposed that Laurie died in a car crash, but that couldn't help her legacy from being in danger.After being on a 10 year comma, Michael Myers manages to come back to life as he hears about Lauire's daughter. On his way to the maximum security jail, he kills 2 paramedics and starts his way back to Haddonfield (Where have I heard something similar?). It's Halloween night and Myers is on the loose, yeah that means fun for him but not for a town that prohibited the celebration after that horrible Halloween night in 1978.Michael is back in Haddonfield and this time Rachel, Jamie, and of course badass Dr. Loomis are ready for him. Michael's intentions to kill Jamie end up in a massacre until the men from Haddonfield decide to take action by themselves. Could Michael defeat this time the old but wise Dr. Loomis? Could Michael survive the local cops attempt to kill him?You have to watch Halloween 4 from it's shocking beginning, to the chilling and surprisingly shocking ending! Surely, you don't expect this film to end the way it does.Halloween 4 good points are it's good acting. Donald Pleasence and Danielle Harris deliver the best acting in the film. The rest of the cast is awful! Don't expect good acting here. Myers is still scary, probably less than he was in part 2, and he isn't even close as the scary killer he was from part 1. The settings are creepy, though the cinematography is terrible. In an attempt to make this film extremely dark, the cinematography is quite disturbing and  not pleasant for the eye. You need to watch this film on DVD to really enjoy it.  The gore factor is not present here, but that doesn't means the film is not violent. There is good tension towards the ending, and that helps to increase the fear factor. Do not think about the original Halloween while watching part 4, because you might get disappointed. Give it a try, even if you do not like this franchise. This is where the series should've ended...6/10 -Watchable, quite interesting "},{"Title":"A perfect continuation of the original.","Date":"15 September 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Picking up where Halloween 2 left off, (as though 3 never existed, thankfully) this sequel goes a long way in living up to the first two Halloweens.First of all, Danielle Harris is pure talent! Secondly, Donald Pleasence is as excellent as he ever was! Regardless of what some critics will say, this critic says this sequel is very worthy of the Halloween line.Michael has been transferred out of the institute and Loomis's care. Of course, he escapes and is on the rampage once again. Our trusty Dr. Loomis is hot on his trail. Michael has to get back to Haddenfield so he can play slice n dice with Laurie Strode's daughter, Jamie (a completely professional performance by Danielle Harris).One thing of note in this installment of the franchise is that director Little used some interesting lighting in many sequences here. I enjoyed the photographic perspective employed here. It lent to a much better endeavor.I must say that this bore a compelling story which ran well with the Halloween time line. It is solid and well done all around. The portrayals were decent, the direction was wonderful and the editing was fluid, leaving no choppy spots. I also must say that I found the change in Michael's mask to be a bad change. I realize that at some point they had to get rid of the William Shatner mask, but the new mask is rather stark and detracts just the tiniest bit from the atmosphere.That having been said, the atmosphere is GREAT! This is a prime demonstration of suspenseful, edge of your seat fare. This particular vein of the Michael Myers story is really a quite interesting take on the whole affair and Danielle Harris is the freshest innovation to come to the series so far. I can't wait to see what she does with her career in the future. That little girl is fantastic!!While the Carpenter/Hill idea to have a different story every Halloween was a grand idea, they should have done it with the first sequel. That would have made it much more acceptable from the fans. But either way, welcome back, Michael. Just like the original, this rates a solid 8/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"violent and bloody sequel with the usual carnage","Date":"29 July 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" It has passed longtime since the psycho Michael Meyers executed the butcher in Haddonfield(Illinois) for Halloween night.Now day ,one decade later,Myers is found inmate at a psychiatric asylum,although is transfered to other hospital.Myers escapes during the travel,starting a savage and brutal slaughter.Doctor Loomis(Donald Pleasence),Dr. Hoffman(Michael Pataki)and a sheriff(Beau Starr) set off in pursuit of him. Myers has only an objective,kill to his nephew Jamie(Danielle Harris)who's cared by her sister(Elie Cornell).The new destination is Haddonfield and the arrival date , Halloween night.Since the presentation Michael Myers mask wearing executes a series of bodycount scabrously and cruelly assassinated. The film is a spine-tingler shocker that has grisly horror,suspense,terrifying screams,tense,shocks and great loads of blood,guts and gore. Myers makes a real massacre and are utilized in the gruesome and nauseating killing ,knife,cleaver and the supernatural brute force originating a gory massacre.From the beginning to end the horror and terror is continued and varied. John Carpenter music,habitual and basic element of series is electrify and frightening. The storyline remain the similar happenings and characters as well as predecessors films as successors with the sole exception of ¨Halloween 3 season of witch¨(Tommy Lee Wallace) that changes the events. The same protagonists,Elie Cornell,Danielle Harris and of course Donald Pleasence will play the following up ¨Halloween 5 the revenge of Michael Myers¨(Dominique Othenin Gerard). The picture is regularly directed by Dwight H. Little. The movie will like to Halloween series fans. "},{"Title":"Best Sequel To The Original Film","Date":"24 October 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" After Ten years in a fire coma, Michael Myers (George P Wilbur) escapes from an ambulance while getting transferred back to Smiths Grove. He sets out to Haddonfield to finish what he started back in 1963; however his newest target is his 8-year old niece since his sister Laurie died in a car accident. It is also revealed that Dr Loomis (Donald Pleasance) has survived the fire from Halloween 2 and continues to hunt after Michael.It is very unlikely that Loomis would have survived that kind of explosion but his return is certainly welcomed. Loomis seems tired and bitter after the events of 1 and 2 that is an interesting darker take on the character. Unlike in the original, Michael and Loomis cross paths on their way to Haddonfield and this time Loomis it able to speak to Michael before firing his weapon for the first time. Loomis trys to convince Michael to leave Haddonfield alone and even is willing to die for this. Although Loomis fails to convince Michael, knowing that Loomis would die for a town who hates him makes Loomis a much more likable character.Michael's new target and niece Jamie (Danielle Harris) is living in Haddonfield with foster parents because her parents died in a car accident between 2 and 4. Despite their exception of her, Jaime does not feel like she belongs. Jamie also seems to be literally haunted by her past as she has nightmares about Michael coming after her. It's impressive to see such a young child actress do such a good job playing a likable character who eventually goes down a dark path.Rachael (Ellie Cornell) Jamie's foster sister and babysitter plays the final girl role more so then Jamie does in this movie and she is okay. Cornell acts and talks like a teenager, but is not really all that great as a character. She does what she is supposed to do and that is about all. Unlike most survivor girls, who wait for someone to save them, Rachel fights back against Michael when she can.Michael Myers himself is a little disappointing. George P Wilbur looks to chunky and walks with this kind of lumber that looks like he just took a dump in his pants. The biggest problem with Michael is that god awful mask. It is too white and just looks so cheap, like they found the mask in garage sale bin marked Free Crap . If Dick Warlock returned as Michael, the movie would have been nearly perfect. Also Michael seems hardly burned for some reason and that just seems like laziness on the director's part.Michael has never created so much fear in the town of Haddenfield before or after. He first takes out the phone lines and then destroys the town's power supply Michael then kills all the towns' police force, which leads a group of trigger happy rednecks to start patrolling the streets with shotguns. These rednecks succeed in nothing other than killing anyone who happens to be out on HALLOWEEN, because that is so out of ordinary.The film does a good job handling the gore. Halloween 4 does feature a lot more blood then the original does but is never becomes excessive. There are times when the murders aren't even shown, just the horrifying aftermath. The bloody ambulance, the ruined police station and the corpse of a dog say a lot more with a lot less.This film diverges for the more traditional elements of the series. The opening isn't an ominous Jack-O-Lantern, it is a farm decorated with Halloween decorations with no music to create an ominous atmosphere. The director also adds some action scenes, like a moving truck battle. Also the characters never stay in one place for too long. The story keeps the characters moving for location to location, which I find makes Michael seem like he is everywhere.Another scene worth mentioning is that Loomis gets a ride into town from a man named Jackson P Sawyer (Carmen Filpi ) who has been hunting an unknown evil for decades. It is interesting to see Dr. Loomis for once only listen and to see what he must seem like to other people. Sawyer also states that Evil don't die like a man dies foreshadowing the films ending.The movie ends with the state police shooting Michael relentlessly into what appears to be a grave site. Later the survivors of the film return to Jamie's house. Upstairs we see someone's P.O.V as they grab some scissors and murder Jamie's foster mother. The killer is revealed to be Jamie in her clown costume. The movie ends where the first one began, with a child in a clown costume holding a blade. This is in my opinion one of the most chilling endings to a horror film and works as a conclusion to the series.Halloween 4 The Return of Michael Myers is a well-made and well-paced horror film. The movie does borrow a lot from the first one, but it does not simply rehash the first movie as there is still enough new to make it its own movie.Worth a look if you enjoyed the first film 7.5/10 Did you know this is Peter Griffins favourite movie? "},{"Title":"A return to basics","Date":"29 October 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" After the disaster tat was Halloween 3 in attempt to add interest to the franchise, the film thankfully Michael Myers is back and this time his killing spree involves his niece Jamie Lloyd the daughter of Laurie strode who is assumed dead in a car crash. Ten years after Michael's killing spree in haddonfield which has put him a coma since the events of the Halloween 2 when he was assumed dead in the fire at haddonfield hospital. He ends up reawakening from his coma after he overhears that Jamie is alive, as Michael returns to his hometown to pick up where he left off, his former doctor Sam loomis who also survived the fire at the end of the second film resumes his hunt for his patient I'm hopes of protecting Jamie. I will say the film is rather well acted particularly Ellie Cornell who plays Jamie's foster sister and the two have a rather strong bond. One of the things that the film remains known for is the cliffhanger ending which is rather shocking to this day. Overall I would say that the film is a rather nice return to basics. "},{"Title":"10 Years Ago He Changed the Face of Halloween. Tonight He's Back.","Date":"23 October 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The following review will contain spoilers.Ten years after the events of the original Halloween, Michael Myers is back. This was the first Halloween film that starred Michael Myers in seven years, his previous appearance being in Halloween 2 in 1981. While I personally consider this film to be one of the better films following the original film, it is not without it's problems. The following is my review of Halloween 4 The Return of Michael Myers.The story was written by four different credited writers. Alan B. McElroy, Benjamin Ruffner, Larry Rattner, and Dhani Lipsius all received writing credit for this film. When the idea of another Halloween film came about, studio heads asked John Carpenter and Debra Hill to write a script for the film. When their idea was turned down, both Hill and Carpenter sold their rights to the franchise to longtime series producer, Moustapha Akkad. Akkad wanted to take things back to the basics of the series, but other pieces were still added later on in the series. The story this time around is fairly basic, and a bit of a reach admittedly. Laurie Strode has died in a car crash, but her daughter(Jamie Lloyd) still lives. Her Uncle of course is Michael Myers and everyone knows where the story is going now. While the story plays out fairly nicely in this sequel, the ending is where the film sort of lost me. It implies that Jamie will follow in the footsteps of her Uncle, as she is seen attacking her step mother. While more is explained in the sequel to this film, this ending turns the overall rating of this film down a notch for me. Otherwise, I thought the efforts of these four writers were very good.The film was directed by Dwight H. Little, and this was one of his first major directing jobs. As I say above, this is one of my favorite sequels of the franchise as a whole, and it delivers some nice suspense. While nothing will top the effort of John Carpenter from the first film, Little's effort in this film is top notch for the genre, and fans of this series likely agree this is one of the better films in it. The gore and nudity seem to take a nice step backwards in comparison to the second movie, Halloween 2. While there is blood and nudity, the nudity level is very low. The gore factor is somewhat there in a few scenes, but it is nothing compared to what was shown in Halloween 2 or other major horror films in the 19080s. I personally like less gore as that is not what the original film intended. The actors who headline this film are of course acting legend Donald Pleasence, Ellie Cornell(Rachel), and first time full length movie actress Danielle Harris(Jamie). While the actors outside of Pleasence aren't anything impressive, I didn't find the acting to be bland in any way. Pleasence is of course a joy to see again playing Sam Loomis, even if he looks very old and weak in this film. Overall, Dwight H. Little delivers one of the better efforts of the series, even if I did find some story problems towards the end of the film.Alan Howarth is back once again molding the score that John Carpenter created in the original Halloween film. While Howarth's effort in previous sequels like Halloween 2 and Halloween 3 Season of the Witch were great in my opinion, we don't really see much of an effort to be different with the famous score in this film. I personally don't have a problem with that, as the original score adds so much depth to a Michael Myers film, but some originality would have been nice to see like we saw in his previous sequel efforts. In the end I don't hate his score for this film, it just simply is not as good as in other previous efforts in this series.In closing, Halloween 4 The Return of Michael Myers is one of my favorite films in this series, and while I don't rate it as high as some of the previous films, I still really enjoy watching this film from time to time. Even though the story is a bit of a stretch, hardcore fans like myself still seem to mostly enjoy it, and newer fans to the series shouldn't bypass it.7/10 "},{"Title":"A whole new Myers","Date":"14 October 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" At this point in the series, it feels like we're never going to go back to the Myers we were introduced to in the original movie. The slow-moving, menacing, precise, terrifying and discomforting massive character that could walk without making any noise, and show up anywhere, at any time. Well, he can still walk without making a noise, and show up anywhere and at any time, but other than that, he's a very different character. Surprise! Myers didn't die after getting blown up by (and along with) Loomis. Neither did Loomis. Now, Myers is back, covered from head to toe in bandages, looking for his niece (that is, Laurie Strodes daughter), so he can once again murder one of the females in his family. Except this time she's just a kid. I wouldn't have much of a problem with this movie if it wasn't for me still clinging to the old Myers style. It's action packed, it's got a couple jump scares and a couple of somewhat creepy moments, and there's plenty of killing. Except the music isn't anywhere near as good as in Halloween 1 and 2, and the atmosphere suffers greatly from it. To me, the atmosphere was what made the Halloween movies special. Now, it's just another murder fest with a familiar character doing the killing.That all said, I still somewhat enjoyed it. It might just be because it's October and I'm a sucker for horror in October, but I still found it to be an entertaining movie. Also the ending was pretty damn brilliant. "},{"Title":"Another Late-Eighties Murder Machine","Date":"5 November 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I'm not a big fan of the direction this film took the series. Or more specifically, what it did with Michael Myers. Originally a ghost-like entity, Myers has become just another late-eighties murder machine. He slaughters people with a variety of weapons, including, rather incongruously, a shotgun. He teleports all around, even right behind people. He hangs off of pick-up trucks and leaps off roofs. He slaughters random people who have no further importance to the plot. Most obnoxiously, Myers tears victims apart with his bare hands, shoving his thumb through a forehead or fingers into a skull. You can't imagine Carpenter's subtle, stalking Shape doing that. Finally, the ending changes the Shape's nature entirely, making him some sort of possessing spirit. The biggest indignity of all is that lousy dime store mask and dorky shoulder pads.The ending of Halloween II is cheaply retcon. Despite getting shot in the eyes and burnt to a crisp, Myers simply fell into a coma. Okay, sure, he's not entirely human. But how do you explain Dr. Loomis, a normal human, surviving being exploded? With only small scars on his face and hands? Apparently, the doc is just a tough guy, since the sixty-year old survives getting tossed through an upper floor window in this one.No longer a random force, Myers is now determined to kill his remaining family for reasons that aren't elaborated on. How do I feel about Jaime Lloyd? I dislike Laurie dying off-screen. The movie really lingers on Jaime's misery too much, having nightmares about her uncle for some reason and being cruelly taunted by her schoolmates. Little Danielle Harris isn't great but she's not annoying, a feat onto itself. Though Ellie Cornell is no Jaime Lee Curtis, her Rachel is likable enough. Her romantic relationships are unnecessarily focused on, but Cornell has got a tough, can-do attitude I like. The rest of the characters are thin, indistinct slasher fodder. Rachel's boyfriend is unlikable and his bimbo doesn't even show her boobs. Despite being obviously tired and probably intoxicated, Donald Pleasence holds the whole film together. His grave intonings never loose their spark, even after ten years.Dwight Little's direction is fairly flat. I like the opening, titles sparsely laid out against Halloween decorations, and occasionally he throws in some foggy, late night atmosphere. Overall though, his nights are far too bright, too clear. He also throws in some tacky slow-motion shots. The movie is never scary but the roof stalking scene comes close to generating suspense. Halloween 4 is middling for me but I suppose it is important for reviving the franchise. I guess. "},{"Title":"He's Back!","Date":"12 September 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Ten years after being apparently incinerated(along with Doctor Loomis) in the hospital explosion, Michael is revealed to have survived, but been in a coma for the whole time, but awakens upon transfer in an ambulance, and once again returns to Haddonfield, Illinois to continue his killing spree, which includes going after his young niece Jamie Lloyd(Danielle Harris), who was adopted by the Carruthers, including stepsister Rachel(Ellie Cornell), who helps Jamie escape the clutches of Michael, along with the help of Loomis, played once again by the excellent Donald Pleasance(who also survived the explosion!) Can Michael be killed for good? Though this has an effective beginning, and a surprise ending, it's otherwise utterly routine and unconvincing, with a paper thin plot and adequate direction. Mostly just an obvious cash-grab, which did do quite well at the box-office. "},{"Title":"He's back","Date":"10 July 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Well, we had a one-movie respite from the Michael Myers story; now he's back, escaping from a mental home and returning to Haddonfield to pick up where he left off. Jamie Lee Curtis presumably had better things to do so her character has been bumped off and in her place is Danielle Harris as her daughter, with Donald Pleasence returning to go through the motions. Needless to say the original 'Halloween' had a sense of style and purpose sorely lacking in this artless pile, which bestows upon Myers the ability to teleport through locked doors, magically appear in getaway trucks and stand in the middle of the road without being seen.It's a lazy, witless film, basically, cobbled together from pieces of the earlier movies and lacking in internal logic. The plot, which somehow needed four writers to scrawl, is so desperate for scares in a plot that doesn't have any that it scrapes by on dream sequences and false alarms like the scene where a bunch of kids dress up as Myers. It's all very dull.The movie contains my least favourite stock character in the horror genre, the peripheral figure who somehow knows what's going on in this case, a preacher doing a bizarre impression of John Carradine, who tells Pleasence 'You can't kill damnation, mister!' But he's a subtle guy compared to the guard at the mental institution who warns that 'Jesus ain't got nothing' to with this place' and 'this is where society dumps its worst nightmares' and 'welcome to hell'. The dialogue... isn't very good.On a more positive note, the ending is quite chilling; on another negative note, it comes out of nowhere and doesn't make much sense. I suppose if you gauge the success of a 'Halloween' film on how many empty deaths it contains than 'Halloween 4' delivers the goods, but if you want something scary or suspenseful or effective, look elsewhere. "}{"Title":"A worthy entry in the popular slice'n'dice series","Date":"5 March 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Michael Myers (a fearsome mute portrayal by George P. Wilbur) awakens from a decade long coma and returns to Haddonfield, Illinois to kill his young niece Jamie (a fine and appealing performance by the adorable Danielle Harris in her theatrical film debut). Can the ever-obsessive Dr. Loomis (Donald Pleasence in terrific lively form) stop Myers before it's too late? Director Dwight H. Little, working from a compact and compelling script by Alan B. McElroy, keeps the narrative moving along at a constant quick pace, generates a considerable amount of tension, and wisely eschews cheap scares and excessive graphic gore in favor of nicely recapturing the spooky ooga-booga atmosphere of the '78 original. The sturdy acting by the bang-up cast helps a whole lot Ellie Cornell contributes an excellent and endearing turn as Jamie's sweet and protective stepsister Rachel, Michael Pataki makes the most out of his rather minor role as Loomis' stern nemesis Dr. Hoffman, Beau Starr cuts an imposing figure as the hard-nosed Sheriff Ben Meeker, buxom blonde bombshell Kathleen Kinmont burns up the screen as shameless slut Kelly, Sasha Jenson jerks it up well as horny hunk Brady, S.F. Brownrigg movie regular Gene Ross pops up as excitable redneck vigilante posse ringleader Earl, and familiar character actor Carmen Filpi has a stand-out colorful cameo as crazy alcoholic preacherman Rev. Jackson P. Sayer, who gives Loomis a lift in his rusty old pick-up truck into Haddonfield and recognizes Loomis as a kindred spirit on a similar mission hunting evil incarnate on earth. The central concept of Myers as a pure personification of relentless and dangerous unthinking evil gets handled with commendable sincerity and seriousness by the filmmakers. The winningly warm and natural chemistry between Harris and Cornell rates as another major asset. Composer Alan Howarth delivers several nifty shivery variants on John Carpenter's classic score. The polished cinematography by Peter Lyons Collister makes extremely effective use of shadowy lighting and a fluid Steadicam. A solid slasher picture. "},{"Title":"well made, and some effective moments, but the mask is atrocious","Date":"26 January 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" i am not a big fan of halloween 4, yet it is classed as one of the better entries in the series, and i can see why, it is very well made, and there are some genuine effective moments, not to mention a solid cast for a slasher movie, but the movie ruins the biggest thing about it, the look of michael myers, the mask is comical, and his body looks ridiculess, he looks like a clown and is hard to take serious, so a lot of the threat and danger is ruined by a clown looking myers. the story is actually OK, and Donald pleaseance is brilliant as ever. its a real shame about the mask and look of michael in this movie because, this could of been a great movie, but with a villain that looks so comical in this, its hard to take serious "},{"Title":"He's Baaaaack","Date":"27 December 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" After the confusing (and disappointing) entry that strayed away from the story of Michael Myers and his murderous desire to reunite with his little sister, the series returned to form in 1988 with Halloween 4 The Return of Michael Myers.The story picks up ten years after the events of the original Halloween. Michael, having survived Loomis' multiple attempts to kill him via handgun and gas fire, is in the care of the state of Illinois. On this particular night&#x97;the night before Halloween, of course&#x97;he's scheduled to be transferred to a different facility (for no immediately apparent reason). Another oddity Michael is covered in bandages. If this is a result of the injuries he sustained at the conclusion of the second film, it's a little weird that our anti-hero is still recovering from his wounds a full decade later. Maybe this is the result of some state- funded reconstructive surgery; maybe he's just finished a killing spree within the facility where he's kept; or maybe it's none of the above. Whatever the case, it's a logical inconsistency that serves little purpose other than to shield Michael's face until he can recover his iconic mask and begin stabbing teens in Haddonfield once again.Anyway, as you'd expect, Mr. Myers escapes en route to his new maximum security destination, returns to the small town where he'd already wreaked so much havoc, and slips back into his old role without batting an eye. This time, though, he's after his niece. Apparently she's the daughter of Lorie&#x97;a character we're told is long since deceased&#x97;and has been adopted by a local family. She has nightmares about Michael, the uncle she's never met, and assumes the stereotypical role of the disturbed foster child who has trouble fitting in. How Michael knows her identity is anyone's guess, but he wastes no time in seeking her out in an effort to complete his multi-generational genocide of his namesake.Besides the logical inconsistencies, the pacing of this fourth entry is my biggest gripe. Things play out in almost the exact same way as what we've seen in the original movie, only this time the townspeople and the local Sheriff readily accept the notion that Haddonfield's own bad boy is alive and kicking with little-to-no hesitation. It's not entirely unbelievable that the small town would be put on lockdown so quickly (especially after Loomis begins his usual ranting and raving and several law enforcement officials turn up dead), but everything feels as if it's in fast forward. This, coupled with Michael's sudden decision to confront the authorities head on as opposed to walking in and out of homes silently a la his usual methodology, makes the finished product feel a little too&#x85; I don't know&#x85; manufactured.That doesn't mean that The Return of Michael Myers is a bust, though. In fact, there's a lot to admire. There are some truly creepy moments, and the movie's conclusion promises (really, I should say promised) a fresh direction for the franchise.If you've never seen it, Halloween 4 is worth a look-see. Just don't go in anticipating the grand homecoming that everyone likely expected upon its release. Oh, and try to ignore how weird The Shape's mask looks in this iteration, too. "},{"Title":"Micheal Myers Returns But Was It Worth It?(**1/2 Out Of ****)","Date":"27 October 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Belated Day 20 Of My 31 Days Of Horror 2.This year I want to review the Halloween Sequels I did not get to last year. I reviewed Halloween Resurrection a couple of weeks ago and hated it. But after watching Halloween 4 I was looking forward to the rest.The film follows Jaime Lloyd played by Danielle Harris who is the young Niece of Micheal Myers who has now come back after 10 years to wreak havoc on Haddenfield and find Jaime and her sister Rachel played by Ellie Cornell.This is a decent yet mediocre film in the series. While it is a step up from Halloween 3 It still could be better. But it is entertaining and Danielle Harris is fantastic as the terrified little Jaime Lloyd.Rated R For Horror Violence/Terror, Language, And A Scene Of Sexuality.1hr 28min/88min.1 use of the F-word.**1/2/**** "},{"Title":"Really?  Uh, I don't think so.","Date":"23 October 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" If you want to place your intelligence on the shelf and accept the drivel that Hollywood wants you to digest then by all means, get on-line and order Halloween 4. I'll admit the film isn't entirely a loss but it sure isn't going to win any awards either nor is it going to be anybody's favorite film.It does have good atmosphere and lighting. Hey, I'm trying to be generous here. The ending is quite a surprise and I'm sure it left many people stunned. I was. In fact, it's really too bad the rest of the film isn't as shocking as the ending. The acting in that one last spot is better than any of the acting in the rest of the film. The bad; the dialog is poor. Couldn't someone have come up with something better for the script? The acting isn't always very good either and some of the situations are just plain dumb. I can't believe we're expected to buy into some of this. Michael Meyers is always one step behind/ahead of Dr. Loomis and can be anywhere in an instant. Is he magic?Not a total loss but there are many other good horror films to watch that don't leave me rolling my eyes and shaking my head. Really. "},{"Title":"Underrated mix of horror, action and suspense","Date":"18 September 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" 10 years after the events of the first & second Halloween Michael Myers escapes and returns to Haddonfield to hunt down his niece.There's a lot going on in this instalment that goes back to the roots of Halloween ignoring part three. Part 4 is grander, a police station is wiped out and locals turn vigilante. Teenage shenanigan's go on that are more synonymous with slasher films that weren't really present in part 2.Despite being the fourth in a series and putting aside what the critics say Halloween Return of Michael Myers is a very strong entry. It's strength is not only Donald Pleasence's great performance, take a look at the early gas station scene but it's the likability of both Ellie Cornell and Danielle Harris' characters. Thanks to Alan B. McElroy's writing every character is fleshed out more than usual for the time and genre. Harris is a good child actress and gives Jamie an air of realism. Whereas Cornell gives depth to Rachel's moral issues and concerns. The supporting cast are all more than adequate including Beau Starr as Sheriff Ben Meeker. George P. Wilbur's take on the Shape/Michael is debatably the best portrayal of killer in the series.  Credit should go to director Dwight H. Little and legendary producer Akkad for capturing the look and feel look of the first two instalments. Little makes good use of the lighting and music building some great tension, notably the rocking chair, rooftop scene and truck escape. The surprise ending fittingly echoes the first and 4 has the right mix of horror, action and suspense without the cringe worthy cheese that come with most copycat slasher pictures of the time.  An underrated guilty pleasure. "},{"Title":"It all goes downhill from here","Date":"27 February 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" To my mind, HALLOWEEN 4 marks the beginning of the 'unnecessary' sequel stage in the Halloween franchise &#x96; from this film onwards, none of the films were required, and none add anything to the canon or display any kind of artistic merit on their own grounds. The first movie is, of course, one of the best horror films of all time, and the sequel was a fun follow-up that held true in its own right. The third film admirably went off in a different direction, and perhaps the series would have done better to stick with this unrelated theme, but it wasn't to be and the endless Michael Myers reruns were to follow from here.Compared to later films, HALLOWEEN 4 isn't all that bad. It holds fairly true as a standalone slasher film, throwing in various cheesy set-pieces, a couple of bits of unpleasant gore and a mini siege scenario at the climax whereby the survivors hide out in a house. A lot of the goodwill I feel towards this film comes from the presence of good old Donald Pleasence, really the only actor of note appearing here; he chews the scenery with relish and provides all of the movie's best lines. With his scarred face and pronounced limp, Pleasence has turned into a larger than life character, displaying even more presence than Michael himself. The sub-plot involving Danielle Harris as Michael's niece is by-the-by, to be honest. "},{"Title":"A Return Which Wont Changed If Missed","Date":"4 July 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Myers absence in Halloween III Season of the Witch struck fans as a surprise seeing he isn't he even as close to be mentioned in it. Many fans consider it the worst in the entire Halloween franchise. A few years later fans were reunited with the mask slasher in the fourth sequel Halloween 4 The Return of Michael Myers.The plot is rather decently sized for a slasher flick, especially for the 80s. People seem to like when I dub a slasher flick usually slim and slender before I elaborate my like or dislike towards the film. But this one has a new phrase, a bit more to adore.Jamie Lloyd (Danielle Harris) is a lonely girl who seems even lonely after her parents have just died. She is left in care of her step mother, father, and her sister Rachell (Ellie Cornell). Her uncle, also known as the serial killer of the town were she resides, Haddonfield, Michael Myers has just awakened from a ten year acoma and is back to find Jamie and slaughter everyone in his path.We occasionally get Dr. Samuel Loomis popping up at various times. He is cool to see in the first parts, but as the film gets better and better, you sort of wish he would stop making random on screen appearances as he usually distorts the action.The plot is really enough to keep me interested rather than a group of brain dead adolescents who encounter Jason while having a sex filled potfest. The kills in the movie, are fair, but really not spectacular or memorable. The characters are likable and shockingly interesting at points in the film as well. Michael Myers, is at his worst, showing no mercy to Rachel and Jamie, or anyone in his way. The film is creepy in points, though pretty shallow at other times.All in all, it's a mediocre slasher that gets dry and limp after a while. The movie was shocking for the time, and considered a great sequel. But I think fans were too excited because they hadnt seen Myers since 1981. I will try and find time to watch Halloween 5, but after this, I'm in no hurry.Starring Donald Pleasence, Ellie Cornell, Danielle Harris, Michael Pataki, Beau Starr, Kathleen Kinmont, and Sasha Jenson. Directed by Dwight H. Little. "},{"Title":"Michael is back","Date":"24 March 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Well it's about time that Michael Myers came back to the scene of the crime,, in the storyline it has been 10 years, and a worthless sequel in between. Laurie Stroud has a daughter and Michael decides that she has to die also,, Michael gets transferred from the prison to a sanitarium, but never quite seems to make it there. the ambulance has a mysterious accident and Michael is on his way. Meanwhile enter Dr. Loomis who is racing to Haddonfield to save the day for the townspeople and he little girl. it' not a bad sequel at all , the mask could use some work though. Michael goes threw people like they are standing still in order to exact his bloodthirsty revenge on all who cross his evil path. "},{"Title":"Ten Years Ago HE Changed The Face Of Halloween. Tonight HE'S BACK!","Date":"2 November 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This fourth installment of the series takes place ten years after the original and finds Michael Myers in a coma and being transferred from Richmond Mental Institute to Smith's Grove. However, the van gets into a horrible accident, skidding off the road and exploding. Predictably, Myers' body is nowhere to be found in the wreckage, alarming both the skeptical police and the indefatigable Dr. Loomis. Soon, Myers is spotted back in Haddonfield, and it becomes obvious that his next target is his young niece, Jamie.Let me start off by saying this I have not seen the sequel to the original film but I have seen the original film (who hasn't). I didn't really know what to expect because I just saw this film out of spontaneity and I was interested because Danielle Harris was in here, who was in the remake of HALLOWEEN. I didn't expect much and I got just that. Being the fourth film in the ever-so-popular franchise, HALLOWEEN 4 is better than most franchises would be in their fourth film and I'd expect it being a huge step up after HALLOWEEN 3. However, that's not saying much.Instead of Laurie Strode returning, we get her daughter. Now, this news may seem like the final nail to the coffin of the franchise, having a kid be in a starring role for such a popular franchise. Fortunately, however, Danielle Harris is not bad. In fact, she isn't that bad at all. She seems very mature for her age and you can tell by her performance. Ellie Cornell also did a good job in her role next to Harris. I can't say much for Donald Pleasence, though. I think he's getting tired in his role and if not, he should be.As for the movie itself, it just moves in a slow pace with a ho-hum feeling throughout. The kill scenes aren't really spectacular nor are the chase scenes thrilling. The final showdown isn't much to brag about either. The movie plays it extremely safe, I'm surprised to say. However, the last shot of the film is truly surprising and leaves a great cliffhanger for the next sequel, which I will write about very soon. I wish the whole movie were like the last shot.I really have nothing else to say about the film. Although carried by strong, young actors and ending in something unpredictable and eerie, HALLOWEEN 4 is really nothing to scream about. It plays it safe through and through and never really reaches its full potential to discover some new directions for the series to take. See it only if you're bored and when its on TV. "}{"Title":"Huge Disappointment","Date":"11 May 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Michael Myers is alive and well and committed to Ridgemont Federal Sanitarium but due to bureaucracy (and ironically on the eve of Halloween like the original) The Shape is being transported back to Smith's Grove Sanitarium. Though he is supposed to be heavily medicated inside the ambulance once one of the doctor in whose care Michael Myers is in mutters to his assistant about a living relative a niece the daughter of Laurie Strode still living in Haddonfield well the psychopath's mission is reactivated. He attacks and kills the ambulance crew making his escape back to Haddonfield.Dr. Loomis is now a scarred and crippled shadow of his former self, he storms into the office of the director that runs the Ridgemont Federal Sanitarium. While giving the director a piece of his sound advice, the telephone rings with the bad news. The chase is on.Jamie Lloyd is the biological daughter of Laurie Strode lives with her two adoptive parents and her half sister Rachel. She has vivid nightmares of Michael Myers (the Nightmare Man) possibly psychically linked to her uncle.Sheriff Brackett has been retired since 1981 and living down in St Petersburg Florida, living the good life under the sun and on the beach. His replacement is Sheriff Ben Meeker whose daughter Kelly is a slut with a rack to flaunt it.The mission is to stop Michael Myers from killing the last link of his bloodline.What follows is a dull zero suspense exercise of Friday The 13th horror this includes a Terminator-like mass murder of the police station, dumb kids playing pranks on the edgy Sheriff Meeker with loaded revolver in hand *DUCK!*, and a redneck lynch mob blowing away the innocent citizenry of Haddonfield. What a boring dumb movie I just hate that I wasted nearly 90 minutes worth of my life on such cliché ridden dreck.A barrel of overused clichés. And a lot of Donald Pleasance's lines were too hysterical. Very bad. And the film has the nerve to steal a riff from Friday The 13th IV/V with the ending. "},{"Title":"Big Dumb and pointless","Date":"15 April 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The 'first' of the Halloween sequels, released in 1988, is where the whole franchise, in my opinion, began to go downhill, its where it all began in terms of the myers/slasher phenomenon. 10 years since the 78 classic they decided to bring back myers, and there begins the problem; this movie is made blatantly by and for people who had no concept of what made the original so outstanding. Don't get me wrong, it is entertaining if you can overlook the films many Deficiences and does have some suspenseful moments.The Bad For example; how does myers(who was blown up and incinerated at the end of 2) plus being in a coma for ten years manage to easily kill the ambulance attendants and flee? after ten years on a trolley myers'd be in need of a touch of physiotherapy! Then a horribly burned man manages to get to haddonfield and get into a store and steal a mask without been seen! i mean come on! Added to the scenes where myers manages to get into the back of a police car and then when they get to the house you see the back door is open; but we all know police back doors cant be opened from the inside for obvious reasons.just silly. And when myers appears on the truck, presumably he was hiding underneath? some feat to come popping out when the trucks doin 60! There are many more aspects of this movie that i thought were dumb, the overall feel of the movie went against the original so much. so wonder carpenter bailed out. as i say, if you want a fun gory movie, this is probably for you, it certainly isn't boring but is in no way comparable to the original. "},{"Title":"Michael returns for what we hoped.","Date":"12 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" After the disappointing sequel Halloween III, Michael Myers the infamous killer is back after escaping from a sanitarium transfer. Dr Loomis also returns to help put a stop to Michaels killing rampage but not like we really expected...This film just doesn't have the original Halloween feel to it, everything seems a bit forced and put-on, nothings naturally spooky. Its only really cheesy by their efforts to do this by the continuous smoke drifting across the streets and the leaves blowing in the wind.Its not really a film you can watch without seeing the others, its basically too wrapped with What happened 10 years ago. We all know this happened, and even though we want Jamie Lee Curtis back, it should have been thought over properly... "},{"Title":"What a waste!","Date":"3 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Such a good ending wasted on such a bad movie. I never understood why people liked this movie. I guess Michael returns and that makes it acceptable. While some of the eerie Halloween flavor is still intact you can tell the story is running pretty ragged. Dr. Loomis spills out the same dialogue about Michael being pure evil. The towns people don't believe him at first then find out he's for real.Blah blah blah. You know where this goes. The only saving grace is the ending which is a mirror image of the beginning of the first. It would have or should I say could have breathed much needed new life into the series. It could have taken it out of the shadow the character Michael but alas. Just like in so many instances of this series they screwed it up big time. How may mistakes could one series make and still be successful? Well if you want to see all the movies go ahead and check it out but for me the only Halloweens worth a damn are Halloween, Halloween 2, and H20. "},{"Title":"He has a niece?","Date":"17 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Very good installment in the Halloween series but now the plot is starting to grow a new mold that says now that Michael Myers has a niece and that his killing instincts are family-driven. What? Don't get me wrong, this movie features some great chilling sequences and another good performance turned in by the veteran Pleasance as Dr. Sam Loomis but the motive in this movie is a little corny for me. Elie Cornell is great in this movie, she was a (maybe still is I don't know) 'perfect eighties horror movie heroine chick'. Danielle Harris turns in a fine role as the troubled youth trying to evade her Uncle Mike and his 'family-driven wrath'. Ending does definitely leave the doors open to another sequel (I hate that!) but overall the movie was well received and I would watch it again if I had to. Eight out of ten no problem. "},{"Title":"The best sequel!","Date":"25 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" After the first one, I thought all the rest were going to suck. But not this one. This takes place ten years after the first movie, and Michae survived that explosion and only got into coma. He heads back to Haddonfield to kill Laurie's daughter, Jamie. Silly premise, yes but the movie is well made and made me jump here and there, not totally scared me, but hey, you know all the tricks. A definite DVD to buy! The extras are great as well. You have a making of, HALLOWEEN 4/5 convention dealing with 4 of the cast members. Then some trailers. Sure, nothing fancy, but great none the less. And, almost forgot, a commentary done with the director and the writer. "},{"Title":"He's back after 10 years.","Date":"14 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" WARNING MAJOR SPOILERS HERE. IF U DO NOT WA Halloween IIISeason of the Witch received many bad reviews. The producers of Halloween were left with only one choice Bring back Michael Myers. Hallloween 4 The Return of Michael Myers takes place 10 years after the chilling events of H and H2. Audiences thought that Micahel Myers and Sam Loomis were burnt to a crisp, dead. We were wrong.After being in a coma for 10 years Michael Myers returns to the small town of Haddonfield to wreak havoc once again. H4 is one of the better sequels in the Halloween movies. This film has a recipe of suspense and thrills. Danielle Harris' acting in H4 is excellent and will please fans all over the world. Danielle really captures the essence of her character Jamie Lloyd ,and the believable dialogue that Jamie comes out with is very pleasing too. Donald Pleasence still captures the feel of Dr. Loomis. In this movie George P. Wilbur plays Michael Myers. George P. Wilbur plays Michael really well and seems to put a lot of effort as Michael. The character are good in this movie.And the love triangle between Ellie and Brady is funny and entertaining. Beau Starr plays a Sheriff Ben Meeker really well. He has similar style to that of Sheriff Liegh Brackett in the first movie. The ending to this moviegreat. "},{"Title":"The Return of Micheal Myers","Date":"17 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This film is the first of the sequels that sees the return of Micheal Myers after being burnt in Halloween II. Donald Plesence reprises his role as Dr. Sam Loomis who is tracking Micheal Myers again after he broke from the mental hospital.Micheal returns to his home Town this time to kill his niece Jamie who is Laurie Strode's daughter. It's long before Micheal is killing people off while trying to find her, Jamie and her stepsister Rachel find trapped in the house with some other people in order to protect themselves from Micheal.It may not be as good as the first but it's a decent film to watch on a night. "},{"Title":"I liked it","Date":"16 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Halloween is the best in the series. Halloween H20 is the 2nd best. Halloween 2 is the 3rd best. And Halloween 4 the Return of Michael Myers is the 4th best. That's pretty good. Anyway, Donald Pleasance reprises his role as Dr. Loomis in this film. Jamie Lee Curtis doesn't reprise her role as Laurie Strode in this one. Instead, we get a young Danielle Harris. She plays Laurie's daughter, Jamie Lloyd. (If you saw Halloween 2, you'll remember that Laurie Strode and Jimmy Lloyd fell in love at the end of the film). Apparently, Laurie and Jimmy were killed in a car crash and Jamie was adopted by the Carruthers family. I think my favorite death in this film was the electrician's death scene. He is thrown into the power lines. Anyway, the film is not worth buying. But, it's well worth renting. One more thing, don't see Halloween 5. For the love of god, don't see it. Just see this one. "},{"Title":"Michaels back after 10 years and is now after his niece","Date":"30 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This is my favorite sequel and the scariest one in my opinion. I was scared every time i saw this movie until i got older. Michael comes back after a ten year conspicuous absence. the movie begins with us seeing Michael getting switch form hospital to the next. During the ride to the next hospital he kills three paramedics. We meet his niece at the beginning when she sees him out her window. Dr. Loomis enters a little after we meet Jamie (Michaels niece). We see the mess Michael left and Dr. Loomis starts his mission to go to Haddonfeild. This installation of the series is the first one to not have Jamie Lee Curtis as Laurie Strode besides the third one. This is my favorite film in the series besides the first (of course). "}{"Title":"Definitely one of the best sequels in the series!","Date":"30 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Halloween 4 has no Jamie Lee Curtis, but it is very good. The plot is excellent. The limited budget looks extravagant. And the acting is awesome. Danielle Harris, who plays Michael Myers niece, is one of the greatest young actresses to ever hit Hollywood. I have to say this film is very violent, and should not be seen by anyone under the age of 13. It's rated R for a reason, folks. Anyway, Michael Myers is back from the pointless Halloween 3 Season of the Witch, which by the way had absolutely NOTHING to do with Michael Myers at all. So I was glad to see that Michael was back as the psychotic killer he is. The movie is very intense and I was on the edge of my seat the entire time. My knuckles literally turned white at some parts, I'm not kidding. My adrenaline rush was so fast, I had to turn the movie off until my heart slowed down, and I turned it back on again. If you don't believe me, see Halloween 4 The Return of Michael Myers.Original MPAA rating RMy MPAA rating R Strong Horror Violence/Gore, Language, and Brief Nudity.My Canadian Rating R Violence, Gory Scenes, Frightening Scenes "},{"Title":"This truly was The Return","Date":"2 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" After Halloween II (and the atrocity known as Halloween III Season of the Witch) it's not a big surprise that this movie was met with it's fair share of skeptics. However the opening credits assure us that Michael Myers has indeed returned to reek havoc on his beloved hometown of Haddonfield, IL. This time Myers has a new target, a new bunch of unsuspecting victims to slaughter and new mystique about his personality. While it's nowhere near anything the first two films presents, Halloween 4 has its own special charm and uniqueness that make it a worthwhile viewing. This would be the beginning of the Jamie trilogy, and the new story line works well for the movie (at least in this installment). Chances are if you were a fan of either of the first two movies you should find plenty to be pleased with about this movie.First off Michael Myers is indeed, as we had all suspected, not dead. It seems he just went into a coma and did not die at the end of Halloween II (despite taking 12 bullets to the chest, being shot in both of his eyes, and having his body set ablaze). It also seems Dr. Loomis (also presumed to be dead at the end of Halloween II) merely escaped the blazing boiler room with only a mild facial scaring. Loomis however believes that Myers will not remain in this vegetative state for long, and once he awakes, he will return to his old murderous ways. Of course no one believes Loomis' assumptions, which forces Dr. Loomis to watch his worst fears unfold before his eyes. While being transported to another hospital for safe keeping, Myers comes to in an ambulance and kills the personal after learning he has a niece, still residing in Haddonfield. His instinct to kill any female family member he has of course takes over. Enter Jamie, Michael's unsuspecting surviving niece. In the ten years that have passed since the events of the first two movies, Laurie Strode gave birth to Jamie and then was apparently killed in a car accident, upon which Jamie was adopted by a new family. Jamie has been having dreams and visions of her murderous uncle, although everyone dismisses them, despite her undeniable feelings that Myers is close by. Of course Myers once again returns on the night of Halloween, this time to take care of his niece. While the plot has some holes (a pointless love triangle sub plot between Rachel, the sheriff's daughter, and Rachel's supposed boyfriend, and Jamie apparently murdering her adoptive mother and then standing at the top of the stairs in front of Loomis, which was all but ignored in the fifth movie) it's definitely some great ideas flowing through out. There are plenty of genuinely creepy moments in the movie, like when Rachel is talking to the deputy in the Sheriff's house, and you see Myers face peek out of the shadows in the background, only to retreat at the first notion of the deputy to look, or when Loomis and the Sheriff are surrounding be a group of Myers look-a-likes, or when Jamie has her Myers hallucination in her room. The killings aren't nearly as scary as the ones found in the first movie, and most tend to focus more on the gore or graphic violence to get their point across. However Michael's trademark slow head turn after killing a victim is still found, which creates a few disturbing moments. The cast is great, most especially Danielle Harris, who plays Jamie. She really has a way of exerting genuine fear, and she can scream as well as any actress I've seen in a horror movie. Rachel (Ellie Cornell) is a great heroine in the vein of Jamie Lee Curtis of the first two movies, and definitely adds a lot to her character. And of course you get the ever present Donald Pleasence once again playing Dr. Loomis, who may seem a bit old and tired in this installment, but still has plenty of the charisma he displayed in the original movie. While the atmosphere isn't nearly as haunting or creepy as the original, there are definitely plenty of moments to induce a cringe or squirm, making the film a definite must see.I credit Halloween 4 for the new ideas it introduced into the series. The movie could have been a lot worse than it actually turned out, which is a welcome surprise. Taking the focus off of Laurie Strode does wonders for the movie, and definitely gave the movie a breathe of fresh air. While the latter movies (5 and 6 in particular) would practically kill anything this movie attempted to get going, it is still a worth-while viewing in itself. It's not perfect, but if you're a fan of Michael Myers or any of the Halloween movies, then I think you will be able to look over its flaws, and find an enjoyable movie. And remember You Can't Kill The Boogeyman! "},{"Title":"Good sequel, though no classic","Date":"31 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" It has been admitted that HALLOWEEN 4 was made for financial reasons. 95% of the time horror sequels made purely for financial reasons are awful (I Still Know What You Did Last Summer, Friday the 13th Part V, The Ring Two), but this movie is one of the exceptions where the finished product isn't exactly that bad. That said, there are some flaws starting with the opening sequence. Michael is being transported and he's strapped down, but there are no handcuffs or further safety precautions? This guy is a murdering maniac. Seems a bit too convenient to serve the plot at the expense of logic. And what happened to Michael's eyes being shot at the end of Part 2? No explanation is given here. Dr. Loomis (Donald Pleasance) shows up soon after and we are given little back story into what he has been doing during the ten years since Michael has been put away. At 88 minutes, details like this seem unimportant to the filmmakers. What is important to them is Michael stalking and killing. The intelligence of the first film is gone, the brutality of the second is absent, and what's left is a by-the-numbers yet still entertaining entry in the Halloween saga. To put it in the slasher genre perspective, it is above most of the Friday the 13th entries and slightly below the Nightmare on Elm Street sequels. The acting makes it rise above a so-so script that was hastily written. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Halloween 4 The Rebirth Of The Series","Date":"30 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Halloween 4 The Return Of Michael Myers is one of my favorites in the series aside from the original Halloween, Halloween II, and Halloween III Season Of The Witch. The story takes place ten years after the events of Halloween and Halloween II, in which Dr. Loomis and Michael Myers survived the fire. Of course, Michael has been in a coma for the time, but he soon wakes up while being transported to another facility and heads back to Haddonfield leaving a trail of bodies and Dr. Loomis is close pursuit behind. The acting and script are good, especially Donald Pleasence's performance as Dr. Loomis. Danielle Harris's performance as Michael's 8 year old niece is great as well! And the opening credits displaying the farm and that creepy music are just great! You'll have to see this one if you haven't already! "},{"Title":"Michael, the best besides Jason and Freddy","Date":"29 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Starting off in the Ridgemont Federal Sanitarium for almost a year after the last attack on Haddonfield. But now he has escaped with a little help by two ambulance superintendents who have gotten permission to move him from the institute to their hospital. During the trip Michael Myers(George P. Wilbur)wakens and kills them. This movie follows off in the right step as it follows the killer instead of the hero's. You see, Michael is after his niece Jamie Lloyd(Danielle Harris)as she is the only living relative to him. He'll kill whomever gets in his way, that does include his doctor, Dr. Sam Loomis(Donald Pleasence), Brady(Sasha Jenson)and Kelly Meeker(Kathleen Kinmont).Oh, and did I mention that Jamie's parents died and that she has been living with Rachael Carruthers(Ellie Cornell) and her family? I really enjoyed the killings and watching Michael walk so effortlessly to his victims as if they were nothing but toothpicks. I just wish that he would have of at least killed that doctor though, he was so annoying. The doctor that is.I gave this a seven star as it was so good and that it just directed your attention to ever detail and scene. Well done to the directors, "},{"Title":"Better than Expected Sequel to Halloween.","Date":"30 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Serial KillerMichael Myers (George P. Wilbur) escaped from being moved from a Maximum Security Prison for the Criminally Insane. After his escape... Michael goes back to Haddonfield, Illions to kill his last (supposedly) remaining family memberHis niece Jamie (Danielle Harris). But the only person that could stop Michael is a Medical Professional all too familiar with Micheal's case is Docter Sam Loomis (Donald Pleasence).Directed by Dwight H. Little (Anacondas, Murder at 1600, The Phantom of the Opera) made a decent scary sequel to Halloween but this film did receive little controversy, because Executive Producer of the Halloween Seriesthe late Moustapha Akkad started doing the sequel without the permission of Co-Writer/ProducerThe late Debra Hill and Co- Writer/DirectorJohn Carpenter. The lawsuit did went to court but Hill and Carpenter lost the fight. Akkad bought all the rights to make this sequel happen and surprisingly enough, this movie is well made and certainly worth a look. Despite some unanswered question, which Michael and Dr. Sam Loomis were supposed to be burned to death in the end of Halloween 2.The Original DVD has an fine non-anamorphic Widescreen (1.801) transfer and an good digitally remasteredDolby Digital 5.1 Surround Sound (also in the original Ultra Stereo 2.0 Sound is included). DVD only extra is the original theatrical trailer.The latest Special Divimax Edition DVD from Anchor Bay is Superb. DVD has an sharp anamorphic Widescreen (1.851) transfer and an fine Dolby Digital 5.1 Surround Sound. This DVD is remastered from HD. DVD includes two commentary tracks are worth listening more than once. Commentary One is by the stars of the filmDanielle Harris and Ellie Cornell (Who played Jamie's stepsister in the movie). Commentary Two is by die hard fans of the seriesAnthony Masi and ScreenwriterAlan B. McElroy (Rapid Fire, Spawn, Wrong Turn). DVD also includes the original 17 minute featurette with the cast & crew from the 2001 DVD edition, amusing panel discussion with cast from Halloween 4 & 5 and the original theatrical trailer. Carpenter's simple yet effective theme score is used here with Carpenter's previous collaborate music composerAlan Howarth does a fine score here. Good performances from the cast and unexpectedly shocking conclusion makes this one worth seeing. From a Story by Danny Lipsuis, Larry Rattner, Benjamin Ruffner and McElory. (*** ½/*****). "},{"Title":"Revenge of the 80's  The Sequels! Dr. Loomis' seven year itch returns!","Date":"15 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Halloween 4 (1988) after going walkabout for the past seven years, Michael Myers returns. He shows up like a bad penny after all these years. Poor Dr. Loomis, not only he didn't do his job and treat Michael of his psychosis but now he carries the burden of having to rid the earth of the mindless monster. After spending years off and on in rehab and intensive care and therapy, the good doctor has finally found him. But will he be ofany help? An adequate sequel. Neither horrible nor terrible. Recommended for Michael Myers fans (the killer smart guy, not the actor) and lovers of 80's horror films. Since this movie was filmed in the 80's, multiple sequels were mandatory. The Halloween franchise was lacking in this department so two of them were made back to back to satisfy the quota. It's the third film that follow the exploits of one crazy, cheap Captain Kirk mask wearing babysitter killer. "},{"Title":"Amazing Horror Film!","Date":"28 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This was a cool sequel. The film had amazing Halloween art in the beginning and it also had great effects on the wind, rain and lightning. And the music was suspenseful and mysterious.Michael was in Richmond And when the Halloween Theme began to play, I felt like I wanted to dance. And when Michael was taken away from Richmond in an ambulance,he came back to life and he grabbed the doctor by the head, knocked on the side wall in the ambulance a few times, the doctor bled and Michael's thumb went into the doctor's head.Later, the ambulance arrived outside the Carruthers'residence. He was now after Laurie's daughter, Jamie Lloyd (Danielle Harris)who was adopted by the Carruthers. There were some real spooky moments When Jamie went to go close her window because it was open,Michael was seen reflecting in the mirror. He was standing by Jamie's bed! And more, the closet door kept opening! And the worst one was when Michael grabbed Jamie from under her bed and when he broke free and she opened the door, there was Michael knife and all! And when her foster parents ran to check on her, they just dismissed this all as a bad dream. I don't think so! It was more of a warning! On the following day, Loomis was furious that Michael was taken out of the building.And not so soon, Michael attacked a mechanic at a service station. This time, he was in bandages from head to toe. And soon, Loomis discovered the body when it dropped from the ceiling in the garage , covered in chains. And Loomis discovered a woman's body in the restaurant and when Loomis was looking for a phone, he turned around and he saw Michael. Loomis shot him. And when Loomis went to check out the body, it was gone! Michael took off in a truck, blew the place to pieces and a telephone pole too!That night, when the parents went out. OOH! Those Halloween decorations on the Carruthers' house were spectacular! And Loomis approached the Haddonfield Police Station to inform the cops that Michael had escaped from Richmond. And the cops only believed him until he lectured them and when the cops discovered the phone lines were down. And I could NOT believe Jamie went with those kids when they treated her SO badly at school that day! Soon, Loomis and the cops searched the Carruthers' home and Loomis knew Michael had been there when he saw the dog named Sunday lying dead in Jamie's closet. And WHOA! Michael then approached the the Power Plant and attacked a worker by throwing him into the Power Plant and the whole of Haddonfield had one, big power cut! And after that, Rahcel and Jamie found each other again when Jamie got lost. They were picked up by Loomis and Sheriff Ben Meeker (Beau Starr) and then four Michaels appeared! And off went the masks, they were just three stupid kids! But the fourth one was the real one! The Police Headquarters had been destroyed! And then a bunch of beer bellies appeared when they heard that Michael was in the town. One of them lost their son ten years back due to Michael! And when a cop drove off from the Carruthers' residence, Michael was seen lying in the back! Michael killed the cop and he drove to the Meeker's residence.That was where Rachel and Jamie were taken to. While the cops were locking up the house, Michael entered and Deputy Logan (George Sullivan) saw half of his face glowing in the moonlight and it vanished.And when Kelly Meeker (Kathleen Kinmont) lit a candle, she saw Logan lying dead close to the candle. And then Michael got up from the rocking chair which Logan was sitting in, and Michael pushed Keely against a door and he pushed the rifle through her and the door too! And when Rachel came downstairs, she found the bodies and when she ran upstairs, she bumped into Brady (Sasha Jenson) and Jamie.And suddenly, Michael came up the stairs and he broke Brady's neck and he went up into the attic, he found a knife while Rachel and Jamie went up the roof. It hurt my teeth when Rachel's nails scratched the roof! And when Rachel was helping Jamie to abseil down the wall from the roof. And Rachel fell off! That was too much, thank you! Soon, Jamie bumped into Loomis and they hid in the school house. And when they got into the school house, they bumped into Michael, Loomis was thrown the glass window, Jamie ran down the stairs,tripped, feel down and she injured her foot and she was rescued by Rachel when she gassed Michael in the face! Rachel and Jamie were taken out of town by the beer bellies in. And suddenly, Michael appeared, he knocked off 3 of the guys and he killed the driver! Rachel stopped the car , Michael fell off and she knocked him down. And when Jamie went to see the body, and then she slowly walked away. Michael got hold of his knife and tried to attack Jamie and then, he was gunned down by the cops.Afterwards, Jamie had been affected by Michael, she picked up a pair of scissors, she put on her mask and she attacked Mrs.Carruthers (Karen Alston) in the bathroom. And when Loomis came up to investigate. He yelled when he saw Jamie covered in blood and all. Then Loomis tried to shot her and the Sheriff Meeker held him back. And everyone came running upstairs and they froze. WHAT A NIGHTMARE! "},{"Title":"Maybe they should stop selling Clown Costumes","Date":"2 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was decent,except for Donald Pleasence performance,which improves in 5. Well it had some interesting deaths. Michael's finale was great. Yet Jamie follows in The Myers family footprints,and kills her sister. Dumb Dumb Dumb!2/4  "},{"Title":"MM RETURNS","Date":"27 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  After taking a departure with Halloween III Season of the Witch, which had nothing to do with Michael Myers, MM returns.This is a very 80's movie, with a very high bodycount, but minimal shocks and genuine disturbing moments.The best scene is the one where MM skewers a scantily-clad (aren't they always?) girl to the wall with a shotgun, as if to underscore what is apparent in slasher movies guns have no place here.Otherwise, very dim-witted and unarresting movie. To say that it is one of the better sequels to the original doesn't say much, given that the sequels are all dire. "}{"Title":"Michael just couldn't pull this one off.","Date":"22 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  'Halloween' is a terrific movie.  As much as I'd like to say that I enjoyed 'Halloween 4' just to keep it 'in the family', I can't.  This movie is bad - real bad.The film that started the whole thing off is great.  'Halloween' is one of my favorite movies.  'Halloween 2' is a wonderful sequel.  It could have been better, but I really liked it.  I've yet to see 'Halloween 3' and by the comments I've read on it, I should probably just skip past it.  Haven't seen the fifth or sixth installments, but intend to.  'Halloween H20' is great (all 'Halloween' fans who haven't seen it should definitely watch it).  The question is, if I am such a huge fan of the other 'Halloween' editions, why didn't the fourth one appeal to me?Okay, two things.  First, if you want to make another 'Halloween' film, make one, but be sure that you have at least a semi-interesting plot to go off of.  This plot was stupid from the very beginning.  Secondly, uh, Jamie Lee Curtis.  Yeah, having her in this movie would have definitely been a plus.  Being that she was the main character in the first film and the second one (Donald Pleasence was NOT the main one, it was all Jamie), she should have probably been in this one in order for it to work just the slightest bit.  Not having Curtis, whom I absolutely adore, was not good at all.The cast didn't appeal to me.  Pleasence returns in this film doing a pretty bad job.  I liked him in the first one, he's an alright actor, but he honestly looks like he's on his deathbed, just about ready to pass out from exhaustion.  Danielle Harris was decent; nothing great, nothing too bad.  Ellie Cornell's minor role was average.  Is this film scary?  No, not the tiniest bit in my opinion.  It was predictable; way too predictable, dull, and the scenes were too slow for anything to happen in order to make me jump.  I can see that the film crew wanted to throw in some action scenes here and there.  They made a good effort but just not good enough.  The writing was awful.  I didn't realize that a script, particularly a 'Halloween' script, could be so terrible.  The lines were laughable and once again, predictable.So, I'm afraid to admit that I disliked this film so much being that the original was such a big hit with me, but I can't help it.  It almost put me to sleep!  If you're looking for a good (horror) film, I suggest staying along the same line and viewing 'Halloween 2' or 'Halloween H20'.  Now those are good 'Halloween' films.  "},{"Title":"The best sequel!","Date":"17 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Halloween 5 was the best in the series.  It was not as slow as the 1st two predecessors.  It had good murders and a brilliant ending. Michael Myers also returned in this film after Part 3 had nothing to do with him.  "},{"Title":"Not too good","Date":"16 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Halloween 4 is the third of the Halloween movies that I have seen, along with Halloween 1 & H20. As the plot was fairly easy to comprehend, the movie was able to move quickly. However, parts were slowed down at times due to the effortless acting jobs of certain characters. With the exception of Donald Pleasence (who is hardly in the movie at all) and Ellie Gottwald, all of the other actors seemed as if they had no clue what they were doing. But the main reason that this movie turned me off was the scariness of it. If you get a movie from the horror section of the videostore, wouldn't you think that you'd see some horror? Of the first six deaths, only ONE was shown on screen. I was beginning to think I was watching the wrong movie. And the scene in the school with Jamie looking for Michael, it was intended to be scary, but I found myself in hysterics! (You'll get it once you watch it). Overall, A cheesy movie with cheesy acting. 3/10 "},{"Title":"A sequel that almost lives up to the original","Date":"1 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This sequel was very close to the original in style and plot. Ignoring Halloween 3, Halloween 4 picks up 10 years after that horrible night where it seems Loomis and Myers died in the hospital explosion and Laurie could rest. Instead Laurie is supposed to have been killed in some accident and somehow Loomis and Myers have survived the second film's ending, don't ask me how. I'm as shocked as you. With Laurie supposedly dead (H20), Micheal Myers sets his sights on young Jamie Lloyd, Laurie's daughter and Micheal's niece. Myers heads back home and causes much havoc. Loomis gets there soon and tracks down Jamie with the help of the sheriff. I won't give it all away, but it is filled with much action and suspense. To bad there is a overdose of gore. Recommended for all, Halloween 4 is fun for all and has a ending that will scare the hell out of you. "},{"Title":"One of the better sequels","Date":"22 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Halloween 4 picks up 10 years after Part 2 ended. (Part 3 had nothing to do with the original storyline) Laurie Strode has died and her daughter, Jamie Lloyd, is living in Haddonfield. As soon as Michael Myers hears this, he awakens from his coma and travels there to kill her. Hot on his trail is are Dr. Loomis, the police and a bunch of hicks. Halloween 4 is one of the better sequels to the original. It moves back to its atmosphere, where Myers can only be seen in some scenes, lurking around corners, behind bushes, etc. The acting is very good as well, especially at the very end by Donald Pleasence. There isn't that much blood and gore shown either which makes it much like the original. Very good film. "},{"Title":"10 years have passed and now that he has come home, all hell will brake loose","Date":"20 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Well Laurie Strode was supposedly killed between parts 2 and 4 so now Michael Meyers (the greatest stalker of all time) has his sights on little Jamie Strode, Laurie`s daughter. In order to complete his mission he must kill her. So he goes on stalker her. But the little Jamie knows somehow that her psychotic uncle is looking for her and it is a matter of time before they meet. As well as the return of Michael Meyers, there is the return of Dr.Loomis the only actor to appear the most in the Halloween series.He has to find little Jamie before Michael does, so it`s a race against time, like always,to stop the ever stalking Michael Meyers.This is a fairly good film and there are good bits, good meaning scary, which I like.This is not the best Halloween film, but it is great to see the return of both Dr.Loomis and Michael Meyers after the totally useless Halloween III.I will give this movie a 5 and a half out of 10, but only because it has the 2 surviving characters in it. "},{"Title":"Surprising! Some very well done scenes here","Date":"3 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This film surprised me a lot. This is Halloween 4 and the third one with horror hero Michael Myers. This time, Mike returns to his old childhood home in Haddonfield and is after his little niece (the daughter of Jamie Lee Curtis's character Laurie Strode). This is a good slasher, very well made in almost all places. The movie begins when Myers is being transferred to a hospital after 10 years in coma. On the way, Mike wakes up and murders everyone in the car and breaks lose!! once again. Those opening scenes got of quite well and gave the movie a good start. The ones who don't agree, should watch this movie with no lights on and at night. This is scary and they pull it off well here. Michael Myers is no human being, he is a driven force of evil. He appears very realisic here, especially in the wherehouse scene (in the beginning...on the way to Haddonfield) where Dr. Loomis and Myers meet face to face. When returned to Haddonfield, we got the niece and her babysitter, Rachel. Both act very well and make a good team. But, Donald Pleasence as Dr. Sam Loomis is the super act here once again. Every time when he says 'this isn't a man', it always sounds more and more convincing. The Pleasence presence is unmissable. Without it, the movie wouldnt be much. Donald Pleasence is an old famous English actor, who has gained tremendous respect for his classic works. To me, the Loomis character gives Michael a certain spirit. A spirit that gives you the chills. The final scene proves this very well when Mikes soul seems to have entered the body of the little niece. The way the little girl appeared on top of the stair case in her costume with Donald Pleasence screaming and looking up at her from the bottom of the staircase; That gave gave me chills to my spine. I would not say this movie is perfect however. It has a few faults, but nothing major. So if u like the Halloween movies, u will like this one. Just watch it at night with no light. "},{"Title":"One of the better sequels...to date","Date":"19 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I loved the whole concept of Michael being in a 10 year coma after the fiery escapade of Halloween II. It was great to see Donald Pleasence back and Jamie Lee Curtis's absence was conspicuous but the movie still stood on its own. Minor things such as the mask used in this one were really the only bad parts. The idea of Laurie having a daughter that Michael was trying to kill was good to have in this movie, rather then trying to find an actress to take over Jamie Lee's part to continue the sibling rivalary. Seeing at the time Jamie was trying to avoid any other identification with Halloween. She established that she was the only was who could play Laurie, IMHO. The cast was good and though I didn't care for the character of Brady you couldn't help but feel sorry for him as Michael crushed his neck, the guy did try to redeem himself due to his actions earlier in the film. ( You know when he was fooling around with the Sheriff's daughter.) Out of 4 stars Halloween 4 deservingly gets ***1/2. "},{"Title":"**** out of ****.","Date":"13 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Halloween 4 is by far, the best slasher flick I've ever seen.  I even liked it more than Halloween.  This film is neither cliched nor predictable like others.  Right when I was ready to predict what happened next, it didn't.  I also liked the characters.  They were likeable and did smart things.  Instead of investigating strange noises, they ran away from them.  This film is incredibly suspenseful, even after ten years.  Better than Scream.  It's my number one favorite in the series, then five(***1/2), two(***1/2), one(***), H20(**1/2), then six (**). "},{"Title":"Well at least it ain't Halloween 3","Date":"30 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Halloween 4 brings back Michael Myers for his third film. This time Michael is chasing his niece. Halloween 4 is not as good as the original, but is much better than the third. My biggest complaint about the film is that Michael Myers looks silly in some scenes. In fact his hair looks white in the school scene, due to bad lighting I guess. Another complaint are the stupid hillbillies out to kill Michael. The movie has a real good ending, however it was ruined when part 5 didn't properly follow up on it. In closing if you're looking for a good Halloween movie to see rent the original, if that's out rent part 2, if that isn't in then rent part 4. But what ever you do don't rent part 3. "}{"Title":"Why?","Date":"2 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The actual path of return of Michael Myers has been long and painful. Before he had time to release a completely unnecessary and does not have the slightest relation to the TV series sequel, drove him to his grave in half a decade. But, obviously, wanting to earn some money on the old brand, the producers decided to resurrect the dead in a blazing inferno killer. Now, actually about the movie itself absolutely nothing remarkable, besides still very overextended slashers, completely lost its unusual aura of the first two films. Still, if the first two parts have saved some special mystery, starting with the fourth part, epic madman in a mask becomes a banal murder, yell, run, at least, the fourth and fifth parts dropped exclusively in this way . The end of the movie so generally quite shamelessly licked the fifth Friday-13, published three years earlier. The only thing that somehow saves this film from failure - a good game is pretty aged Donald Plizensa, probably, he was the only person for whom somehow worried and do not want to be quickly killed. "},{"Title":"For a sequel it was pretty good","Date":"25 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This picks up 10 years after Halloween (which is correct--this WAS released 10 years after the original). Michael Myers is being transported to a hospital and he hears he has a 9 year old niece (Danielle Harris) still alive. He quickly escapes from the ambulance (after killing everybody) and heads back to Haddonfield to kill her. Dr. Sam Loomis (Donald Pleasence) is hot on his trail. We're supposed to believe him and Michael survived the blast from the end of Halloween 2! For a sequel it's not bad. This one thankfully doesn't go for nonstop graphic gore (like Halloween 2) and is pretty tame. There IS some gore but it's mild compared to other 80s slasher films. There's good acting by Pleasance, Ellie Dornell (as Rachel) and Harris is incredible. There's also a nice restrained use of the original Halloween score. And the ending is GREAT! However there are problems with this. Continuity error abound; Myers hair turns WHITE twice (!!!); he can seemingly transport himself to wherever the victim is (must have taken lessons from Jason Voorhees) and Harris' character goes through an amazing amount of abuse for any child (but it does figure into the ending).I caught this in a theatre back in 1988 and was underwhelmed--but it was MUCH better than Halloween 5 (which followed the next year). So--for a sequel--it's not bad. "},{"Title":"the best of the Michael Myers movies","Date":"7 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" (this is actually the third Michael Myers film i)found Halloween 4the Return of Michael Myers to be a better movie than the first two Michael Myers movies.i actually felt there were some tense and suspenseful moments in this one,unlike the previous two.i'm not including number three here,because it is a stand alone movie that has nothing to do with the Michael Myers character.the movie also has a much eerier feel to it.i also thought the acting was actually pretty good in this one.in the first two,i didn't think too much of the acting.even though i found the movie to be good overall,the best part for me,was the ending.i thought it was great.maybe predictable,but still great.for,me this movie came closest in the series to delivering the goods for this genre.i didn't find it scary,but like i said,it was tense and suspenseful,and had a great atmosphere.for me,Halloween 4The Return of Michael Myers is an 8/10 "},{"Title":"Back to form, but slipping in interest","Date":"3 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Ten years after the second movie ended, Michael has survived the explosion, Dr. Loomis is still trying to get people to fear Michael, and Jamie Lee Curtis' character has disappeared, leaving a child behind. Michael, of course, escapes, and somehow uses his preternatural knowledge of who's related to him to hunt down the little daughter and try to kill her. At this point what Michael hopes to achieve in killing specifically members of his family is starting to be kind of confusing, and it's questionable whether or not it really wouldn't be worth it to just give him his family to his morbid delight and save all of the victims that get in his path. But why think like that, when this is a slasher flick through and through? The point is to up the body count.I have to say this movie does a good job of keeping up with all of the plot elements of the first and second movies (and completely ignoring the extraneous third). It's refreshing after the third, especially because it makes the series seem to have a lot of respect for itself.On the other hand, Halloween 4 itself doesn't really seem to know what exactly it wants to do. At one point during the movie it seems like it's going to become a survival thriller in the vein of a Romero zombie flick. Then it seems like it'll be more of an action film what with the loading up of the posse. Later it seems like it's leading into militarism as the characters rush to an outpost to defend themselves from this supernatural attacker. However, none of these threads are fully realized and the characters seem unable to just sit down and bide their time. They get up and wander around for no reason, they run in ridiculous and unproductive directions, and none of them seem able of getting an ounce of communication out.Donald Pleasence at this point looks tired of his character and bored. Michael is still delightful, but the rest of the characters are stock slasher fare. This may be an interesting movie for fans of the series, but it's not really good or bad enough to be noteworthy to anybody else.--PolarisDiB "},{"Title":"Polished but not scary","Date":"1 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The problem with HALLOWEEN 4 THE RETURN is while it is a polished production, it lacks true scares. Michael Myers is probably the least frightening slayer in cinematic history, even with frequent closeups of horribly scarred skin on the back of his hands caused by the fire in HALLOWEEN 2. In H-4, Michael is back and simply trudges about, knifing, throttling and impaling anyone or anything -- including a dog -- in his path. He has returned to Haddonfield to do in his 7-year-old niece, played by a fetching young thing, Danielle H., who unfortunately screams way too much (and which was solved in the followup, apparently filmed back to back with this, by having her play mute, presumably from shock). Donald Pleasance returns to good effect as the good doctor, with facial scars and a pronounced limp caused by the same conflagration at the end of H-2. Everyone else acts like wooden Indians. Just like Michael, come to think of it! "},{"Title":"The HALLOWEEN franchise goes into nosedive","Date":"24 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" HALLOWEEN 4 THE RETURN OF MICHAEL MYERS Aspect ratio 1.851Sound format Ultra-StereoTen years after the psychotic Michael Myers tried (and failed) to murder his sister, he escapes from custody and returns to Haddonfield, where he targets his 7 year old niece (Danielle Harris).Following a brief detour into Nigel Kneale territory with the stand-alone sequel HALLOWEEN III SEASON OF THE WITCH (1982) - John Carpenter's farewell to the franchise which had established his reputation - producer Moustapha Akkad revived the series with this half-baked potboiler, which finds Donald Pleasence's obsessive doctor (presumed killed at the end of HALLOWEEN II) still pursuing his former patient, a supernatural maniac rampaging through small-town America. Some of the early scenes are sloppy and uncoordinated, though director Dwight H. Little (ANACONDAS THE HUNT FOR THE BLOOD ORCHID) finds his feet during the film's second half, when Harris and her family are forced into a confrontation with Myers during a town curfew imposed by the sheriff's department at Pleasence's insistence. Contrivances come thick and fast, as various characters meet unspectacular deaths at the hands of the mindless killer, further isolating the object of Myers' onslaught. Harris - straight out of Cute-As-A-Button Central - gives a heroic performance for one so young (she turned 11 during production, though she looks younger), and she stands out in an otherwise nondescript cast (which includes exploitation stalwarts Michael Pataki and Kathleen Kinmont). Working from a lackluster script (by Alan B. McElroy), Little fails to energize the feeble plot, and the results are entirely routine, though the climactic 'twist' may strike some as genuinely subversive. Followed by HALLOWEEN 5 (1989), which is even more pedestrian. "},{"Title":"Halloween 4  a good horror movie disguised as any other slasher sequel.","Date":"13 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" OVERALL This is a must see for horror fans. The movie was meant to be a homage to the popular Halloween and I don't think the producers had more expectations. To these days, Halloween 4 is one of the best slasher flicks of the past 20 years and deserves a special mention for being a stand alone movie from the franchise. Sure, this is by no means better or equally good as John Carpenter's 1978 classic but it has it's own elements to be considered as a great slasher flick that could easily be watched by fans of the horror genre. Ten years have passed since Michael Myers escaped from the mental asylum and murdered three people on Halloween Night. After the terrible explosion at the local hospital that night, Michael Myers ended severely damaged and hasn't been able to wake up from a ten year old comma. It's Halloween night 1988, and after hearing about the existence of her niece Michael Myers wakes up from the comma and kills two paramedic while he was being driven to the maximum security prison. Myers once again heads to Haddonfield in order to kill his niece. Dr. Loomis also survived the explosion and he's aware of Michael's return.*SPOILERS!!!*It's hard for me to decide on which Halloween sequel is better. Part 2 was creepy and is one of the best slashers from the 80's. The Return is a solid slasher and surprisingly it handles perfectly the famous Halloween plot. The opening scene is great. The raining, the maximum security area, the man in charge of the place; the creepiness is in the atmosphere. After Michael brutally kills the two paramedics, you can feel that the movie is going in the right direction. The original Halloween was successful because it didn't need gore to shock the audience. The settings, situations, and Michael were the basic elements to create the (probably) most famous slasher from all time. The Return of Michael Myers has the basic elements from the original plus a good amount of gore, and a dark setting that fits perfect with the movie's tone. The plot keeps you interested and you never get bored. Dr. Loomis is on the hunt for Myers again but this time his mission is harder mainly because Myers proved to have some sort of supernatural force and nobody seems to stop him. In my opinion, the most important scene in the movie is when Dr. Loomis finds Michael at the gas station. Both know each other very well and after ten years, their first encounter promised a lot. The scene is shocking and sends a message to the audience towards the importance that Loomis gives to Myers return. That scene is to me one of the best moments in the series.ACTING Donald Pleasence delivers a great performance and what I like it most about it is that he gives it a special importance as if it was the role of his life. Pleasence was very involved in the series and after Myers, he's the most important character in the series. Danielle Harris also shines in the screen. Her extremely cute face makes you worry about her. The girl can act and her performance is one of the best from any child actor int he genre. GORE There are plenty of gory scenes that may please the audience. The paramedics scene is pretty gory and makes you ask for more. There's a rifle impalement, a head crushing, and some other violent scenes that make me miss the 80's slashers more. DIRECTION/SCORE/CINEMATOGRAPHY -Dwight H. Little's direction is top notch even for an 80's slasher. The man knew how to create scenes of tension and creepiness. The movie looks like a solid horror movie. After the master Carpenter, Little's direction is the best in the series. -The score is very effective. The 80's version of the classic Halloween tune is excellent! I love it. The music used in important scenes also delivered very well. When Loomis faces Myers at the gas station the score plays an important role as it starts dramatic and ends with the Halloween tune. Excellent. -The cinematography deserves a special mention because the movie is set 90% at night. There's a lot of darkness that totally sets up a very intimidating setting while Myers wanders searching for victims. When the town's electrical system is messed up by Myers; there is no more light in the movie! The darkness of the cinematography is brilliantly used in the final setting, the old house. Halloween 4 is a creepy movie mainly because it's dark cinematography. Nice one.IMPORTANT SCENES -Michael's return after the comma. -Loomis encounter with Myers at the gas station. -The shocking ending (Danielle Harris wearing THAT mask...) -The infamous rifle impalement. -Myers falling to his underground grave.8/10. Scary, intense, well directed, good acted, 80's horror movie. Recommended for fans of the genre.In my opinion if you want to experience the Halloween series, just watch the original from 1978, part 2 from 1981 and part 4 from 1988. That's it. "},{"Title":"Second best in the series","Date":"30 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This sequel to Halloween 2 is a welcome addition to the series after the horrible third installment. Michael Myers is back, and this time he wants to carve up Laurie Strode's little baby girl. But he can't get to her before dispatching a whole lot a people in Haddonfield.Director Dwight Little deserves a lot of credit here. For the most part he tries to create some genuine suspense and puts the accent mostly on atmosphere rather than blood and guts. In most respects he succeeds very well. The moody atmosphere is admirably sustained for most of the film's running time and reaches it's climax in a terrific scene inside the Haddonfield sheriff's house where Michael has silently invaded the house without anyone knowing. Using simple lighting effects to create the eerie mood, Halloween 4 most resembles John Carpenter's magnificent original than other films in the series. It's low budget origins do not show easily, the film simply designed as a seasonal cash in on the franchise, it's quite surprising to see the level of craftsmanship on display. Despite the good show of creepy atmosphere and eerie mood, the film has a spectacular edge-of-your-seat cliffhanger sequence where Michael terrorizes his victims on a roof.The familiar Halloween music score gets a reworked treatment in the hands of frequent Carpenter collaborator Alan Howarth and as in the first one the music greatly enhances the film's effectiveness. The final minutes are a bit of a letdown where poor editing and a rather unlikely scenario (even for a Halloween entry) wrap the film up, it was nearly perfect up until then. But Little throws in a surprise creepy ending which sadly was not realized better in subsequent sequels. "},{"Title":"Stupid story, almost terrible","Date":"17 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Michael is back 10 years after his massacre.  He is after his nice (interesting debut Danielle Harris). Loomis (Donald Pleasence) can hardly walk.   This should be interesting but the the film is boring, stupid because nothing happens in the first 60 minutes. Only 22 minutes of what might be more than terrible.  For Halloween's fans is a waste of time.  I haven't seen such a horrible movie since Halloween 3.   Where are the killings? And the butcher's knife?  At least we have the halloween theme.  And Donald Pleasence.  Oh, my god!!! "},{"Title":"Uncle Michael Returns to Haddonfield!","Date":"29 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Ten years ago Michael Myers murdered many people in Haddonfield.I'm very sure it wasn't 16. Let's count them. There was Annie, Lynda, Bob, the Garage Truck Guy, Girl on Phone (in H2), Mrs. Alves, Budd,Janet, Karen, Jill, the Marshall, Mr. Garrett, Dr. Mixter, that's it. So it's 13 people he murdered, not 16. Anyway,  October 30, 1988- Ridgemont Maximum Security Prison, Michael Myers has been in a coma for 10 years and wakes up in back of the ambulance and kills the four attendants gruesomly. He has returned to Haddonfield to kill the remainder of his bloodline. It's not Laurie Strode this time because she's presumed dead. It's Michael's seven year old niece, Jamie Lloyd who lives with a foster family- The Corruthers. Mom,Darlene, Dad Richard, and sis Rachel.        Now what bothers me about this is that Jamie is living in total fear throughout the whole movie, she's always upset or screaming or crying about something. At least Michael's other victims have some fun, but not her. What a baby. Anyway, Dr. Loomis, with some burnwounds on him from the fire in Halloween II, arrives at Ridgemont and is very upset because They took It out of there. So Loomis must go to Haddonfield to once again try to stop The Shape. The trip isn't easy because he meets up with Michael at a gas station, which soon blows up, along with Loomis' car. Loomis tries to hitch a ride with some kids but they just blow dust in his face, so he hitches a ride with a drunk preacher. Meanwhile in Haddonfield, Rachel and Jamie go buy a costume.Uncle Michael is in the store also, he snatches a white mask from the shelf, which resembles his old one, and even though Jamie has never met her uncle before, she is still scared of him.        Halloween night, Rachel and Jamie go trick-or-treating. Loomis meets with Haddonfield's new sherrif, Ben Meeker, who actuallybelieves Loomis' story! So they try to find him also. With all this excitement, Michael felt he should drown the city in darkness, so he cuts off the power by electrocuting the power company worker.Soon Meeker and Loomis find Rachel and Jamie and take them over toMeeker's house where they lock themselves in, little do they know they locked Michael in with them. Also, a truck load of drunks are looking for Myers with loaded shotguns.  Who's gonna be next? - Ben Meeker       Rachel and Jamie try to escape, as well as stay alive. And before long, the girls hitch a ride with the drunks, but a stowaway goes along Michael Myers. He butchers the red necks, so Rachel takes control of the truck and plows Michael off the road. Then the police finally show up and blast Michael into a well with their shotguns. Soon, it'sapparently over, or according to Dr. Loomis Michael Myers is in hell. Buried. Where he belongs.  Perhaps. But soon for no apparent reason, Jamie picks up a pair of scissors and stabs her stepmother to death.Has Michael been reborn or has the whole experience driven Jamiecrazy?         Now about this movie, it takes place after Halloween II, not Halloween III. Halloween III takes place in a different world. Therewas a scene for Halloween IV filmed but never finished. It was to take place at the beginning a rescue from the hospital from HalloweenII, Loomis tries to stop some firemen putting out Michael Myers on fire.Loomis was shouting Let him burn! Now if they did that, Michael would not keep coming back to life in four additional sequels that made no sense. Damn those firemen!        Now there are mistakes on the Halloween 4 video box. First They misspell Ridgemont as Richmond, second Two young men are trapped in their own home..., they are not trapped in their own home. They're in Sheriff Meeker's!      For all you Myers fans, and for all of you who didn't like Halloween III Season of the Witch, I think you'll be pleased with Halloween 4 because HEEEEEEEEEEEEERRE'SSS MIKEY!!!!!!!! -------------    "}{"Title":"Daddy's home!","Date":"17 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  this is quite a different movie from the rest of the series. Hardcore fans might even think its unofficial.  Gone with the awful Halloween 3, which didn't feature either Myers or Loomis, but Mike Myers is back, and ready to celebrate. Rather weird movie. where to start..Well, Myers is back, he escapes at the start and is in search of Jamie, his neice. Why? To kill her, silly! So, why does he wanna kill her? A mystery. They could have re-thought the plot some before releasing this. Acting is quite good. Somethings weird about this, Myers never says a word throughout the movie, Dr Loomis always appears depressed, or sick. The acting isn't up to scratch. Now, the special effects are simply s**t. The gun-shots sound like those of those aincent westerns. There is NO BLOOD throughout the whole movie. Funny how charachters can be shot, stabbed and run-over without once bleeding. This was given a R rating in the US, which is weird, there are no gory deaths like the other halloweens, and theres no nudity, sex, or blood. It is a decent movie for the Halloween fan. A bit out of date though, and it lacks Halloween elements. At least Myers is back to his old tricks. Only..without blood.. "},{"Title":"I was aching for a sequel....","Date":"20 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  When I heard that Halloween was about to spawn yet another sequel, my first question was, can they at least try to make is scary?  I had been through all the crappy Friday sequels ( 7,8,9 ) and the bad bad bad Nightmare sequels.  I know that there will probably never be a film that has the same effect that the original did but I could still hope for some effort.  So I eagerly ventured to the theater and bought my ticket, got my M&M's and pop and sat down in the almost full theater and waited.  The films starts off quite well.  It's a stormy night, a van is travelling what looks to be a desolate road to what looks to be a hellish place.  Inside we hear some good lines like  Jesus has nothing to do with this place lady,  and then we see him.  Good old Michael Myers.  The two attendants ship him out and it is then that we learn that it is October 30th of all nights.  Another good set piece.  So the film is moving along quite nicely at this point.  We have the stormy night, the folklore of Devils Night and two attendants that you know are going to die soon enough.  And then, it happens.  THE MUSIC.  Carpenter's famous haunting music blares eerily on the soundtrack, and that did it for me.  I was under the spell.  I was ready for another Halloween. Halloween 4 is a good film.  It is honest in its effort to pay homage to what made Halloween so popular.  The beginning is a great way to get back into the game ten years after the first graced our screen.  After the beginning the film succeeds very well.  It is not as good as the first or even the second but it does try.  Dwight H. Little probably studied the first and tried to emulate what made it so scary because he has some similar atmosphere in here, especially in the scene where Jamie is dreaming, and my favourite scene is when the sheriff's daughter tries talking to the deputy in the chair.  What appears mystically like a ghost right out of the depths of nothingness is truly what Halloween has been known for.  That one shot alone had me more frightened than almost any shot from any horror film in the 80's, save for Nightmare On Elm Street.  The story has Michael returning to Haddonfield to hunt down his niece.  There are some obvious plot holes, like how he got his sight back, but that is easily overlooked, after all, this is a horror movie.  So he returns and against everyones best judgement Dr. Loomis comes after him.  Loomis is massively scarred from the second one when he should have been dead from the fire, but again, that is acceptable, after all this is a horror film.  So he comes to Haddonfield again and he warns everyone that HE is on is way.  This time the sherriff actually believes him and they vow to search for the monster before he kills anyone.  We all know that is going to be futile. The reason this film works is because it has atmosphere.  Again, there is not a lot of gore in here but what it does have is some good scares.  It keeps you on your toes and if you pay attention to some of the shots and some of the symbolism, you will  predict the end.  That is only if you pay attention.But one downer and that is that it isn't the original.  As good as it is, it just can't be as good as the first or even the second.  And I think I might know what it is that prevents horror films from being as good as they were.  70's and 80's films look like they are 70's and 80's films.  They have that slight fuzz to them.  And that adds to the dimension of fear.  I think that if directors could somehow use a different filter or lens or whatever it is that they can use to make it look older, then they would have that desired effect.  Kubrick did it with Eyes Wide Shut, other film makers should take note.All in all this is a great sequel.  It is a good entry in the series and an honest effort to make it scary.  It is quite spooky in many parts, but it just lacks something.....  But still quite good and worth a look, especially on a rainy night when you are alone.  When you hear that music...... "},{"Title":"Halloween 4","Date":"5 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The series brings back Michael Myers, the mystique and terror of The Shape far removed. He's just some supernatural killing machine who can be anywhere he pleases and survive every scrape it seems. The Shatner mask he wears this time produces about as many chills as a Disney cartoon. The cast is pretty good, though. Michael has niece Jamie(Danielle Harris, oh so cute as the little girl..just a doll)he wishes to kill. Standing in his way, of course, Sam Loomis(Donald Pleasence)who warns Sheriff Ben Meeker(Beau Starr)that Michael has escaped from an ambulance killing the paramedics inside and is probably somewhere in Haddonfield. Michael is quite a busy man. He has time to knock out the power lines by tossing an engineer into the power grid, follows in the shadows after Jamie and foster sister Rachel(Ellie Cornell)who are trick-or-treating before accidentally separating, and sneaking into a deputy's car as he drives to the Sheriff's house for a shut-in to watch out for the killer. The film's main setting is Meeker's home where his daughter(the uber-hottie Kathleen Kinmont who knows how to where a guy's shirt)and Rachel's boyfriend Brady(Sasha Jenson of DAZED AND CONFUSED)are making out before Daddy barges in with Loomis, Rachel, Jamie all in tow. The point is to hold out for State police since Michael seemingly wiped out an entire police station as if he were the Terminator. But, despite the gang's best efforts to board up the whole house, Michael somehow can manifest himself within the place..he doesn't need an entrance way in, not Michael. My favorite portion of the film is when Rachel and Jamie are out in the neighborhoods trick-or-treating and we get a sense of what John was going for in the original..this vast area of houses where the killer could be anywhere. One great(probably the most inspired moment in the film)scene has Meeker and Loomis caught on a street..after finding Rachel and Jamie..with several men wearing Shatner masks not knowing who among them is the real Michael Myers. Sadly, though, the film barely registers past mediocrity. The kills are off-screen except when Michael plunges his finger into someone's face or forehead. The film works best, I guess, with the angle of a poor innocent child being stalked by the killer..there's a harrowing escape sequence on Meeker's roof that seems to work rather well. Good thing is that Cornell, who is cute, and Harris are both quite likable and easy to root for against the killer. My question is, does this film rise amongst the pack of the countless Friday the 13ths and slashers that came before it? Oh, and the film's little novel twist had my sides splitting.. "},{"Title":"One of the best sequels in the Halloween series.","Date":"24 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" After sitting out of the slasher biz for ten years, serial killer MICHAEL MYERS awakens from his coma following a transfer from Smith's Grove Sanitarium to another mental hospital wherein he slaughters his way to freedom & returns to his old stomping grounds of Haddonfield to try & kill his young niece Jamie & anyone who gets in his way. When Haddonfield's police force is taken out, the towns Sheriff & Dr. Loomis (the returning DONALD PLESEANCE) rounds up a posse of rednecks in order to try & stop Michael, but discover planning something like that is easy, but pulling it off will be anything but, as Michael leaves behind a trail of mangled corpses in his wake.HALLOWEEN 4 THE RETURN OF MICHAEL MYERS (Or HALLOWEEN H10 THE RETURN OF MICHAEL MYERS as some fans over the years have lovingly called it) is easily the best sequel to ever have been churned out in the long running slasher series! The pace is slick & the direction was crisp & the film felt more like a real sequel to the original than what most of the sequels did. The film, much like Carpenters original, focuses on the chills, thrills & suspense of the piece & features an ominous title sequence featuring hanging paper skeletons, scarecrows, pumpkins, ghosts & abandon houses, all the trademarks that one associates with the season. Unlike most sequels in the series which concentrated mainly on gore & a high body count, HALLOWEEN 4 tends to be the thinking man's slasher flick Michael kills a hydro man by thrusting him into the live fuses which causes a major black out, an explosion knocks out the power lines so no one can call out, the new sheriff believes Doctor Loomis when he tells them that Michael is walking around & killing instead of calling Loomis crazy & locking him up, the cast was attractive & some of the kills all though violent, are pretty painful looking & inventive & the film features a nerve wracking sequence set on the roof of a large house, where the terrified lead characters are forced to to try & prevent themselves from falling from the roof, while at the same time try & find a way off the roof as Michael pursues them. ALAN B. McELROY'S script is fast paced, smart & manages to rise itself up to become one of the best sequels in the franchise. McElroy is clearly a fan of the original & that is very evident in the films plot & execution which actually pays tribute to many plot points & elements seen in the 1978 original Both Tommy Doyle & Lindsay the two little kids Laurie babysat in the first film have cameo's here (Lindsay as Rachel the lead heroines best friend & Tommy in a cameo at a drug store as Rachel's boyfriends best friend) the lead heroine Rachel is also a babysitter who is tasked with taking her foster sister trick or treating, her friend Kelly is the daughter of the town sheriff much like Laurie's friend Annie was in the original, Dr. Loomis coming across Michael's hand work en route to Haddonfield, Jamie's costume is eerily identical that Michael wore when he stabbed his sister & much like Carpenters original, the film has a nice twist, where the first film's twist happened at the beginning by revealing that the killer (whom is seen through a lengthy POV sequence) who stabs Judith Myers while she is sitting by her bedroom combing her hair, is in fact her younger brother Michael, an eight year old boy carrying a kitchen knife & a childhood clown costume & not an adult, HALLOWEEN 4 takes this twist & places it at the end by revealing that the person (seen through a brief POV shot) who stabs the girls mother, is not Michael himself who has come back to life, but rather Michael's young niece, Jamie! wearing the very same costume Michael did when he committed his first murder! The ending helps to shock the viewer, creeping them out & ending the film in an unforgettable attention grabber that no horror fan will forget & is one of the scariest, most disturbing & unnerving climaxes in horror history & returning composer ALAN HOWARTH delivers one of the scariest scores the series has to offer!Apart from that, I had very few if any complaints about the film, the only thing I will mention is the fact that in the climax of HALLOWEEN II, Michael had his eyes shot out by Laurie, yet oddly enough he has both his eyes here, this plot point was either forgotten or ignored, with the latter probably being more probable since who on earth would give an eyeless homicidal maniac a pair of eyes to see with? much less one in a coma? All in all, HALLOWEEN 4 THE RETURN OF MICHAEL MYERS is an absolute must see for any horror fan, it's everything a really good sequel should be, smart, terrifying, suspenseful, filled to the brim with tension, excellently written, produced, directed & acted & boasts a real terrifying score, has a nice story structure & creative kills. Sadly despite the terrifying climax, the producers rather than exploring this avenue, by having Jamie grow up to replace her uncle, as the new bogeyman, to stalk Haddonfield, was abandon in the pretty good, but not as much fun, fifth instalment, HALLOWEEN 5 THE REVENGE OF MICHAEL MYERS PROLOX TRIVIAJAMIE LEE CURTIS turned down the chance to reprise her role as Laurie.MELISSA SHAFFER & MELISSA JOAN HART auditioned for roles in the film.**** stars "},{"Title":"Nothing spectacular.","Date":"30 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  On a dark Halloween night ten years ago,Michael Myers brought fear back to his home town as he murderously stalked Laurie Strode.He was captured and locked up.But tonight,as he was being transferred from Richmond Mental Institute,Michael escaped.Now he's looking for his young niece.Unstoppable,he goes on the murderous rampage stalking and hunting down anyone who gets in the way.Halloween 4The Return of Michael Myers surely doesn't live up to its predecessors by a long way.Still this shocker definitely does have its moments and it's good to see Donald Pleasence back in this one.There is only a little bit of gore,so I was disappointed.However there are some decent,suspenseful stalk-and-slash sequences to satisfy fans of slasher movies.Overall,if you're a fan of Halloween series give this one a look.7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Okay, so we are going to ignore the fact that both Myers and Loomis burned to death.","Date":"6 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" An almost good sequel, that falls prey to many wtf moments and the fact that this sequel just shouldn't have been made. With Halloween you have part 1 and 2, which go together. 3 isn't really related to the series much at all, then you can pick your sequels. Either 4, 5, and 6...or you can choose 7, 8, and soon to be 9 as the sequels as your choice. My choice is neither, I will always think of part 2 as the end of Myers and Loomis, if you saw the way Myers was killed and the fact the flames burned his face so bad you could make out his skull then you would consider him dead too. That and his eyes were shot out. People, though, just loved Myers as a killer too much so they brought him back in a sequel that almost works. Myers eyes are never explained, I mean they would transplant eyes onto a comatose serial killer would they? However, both he and the good doctor Loomis played by Donald Pleasance who is a bright spot in this movie have some minor burns. Both were engulfed in flames, but they only have simple scars from the flames here and there. This time Myers is going after his niece, and man the girl who is playing her is awful and she doesn't improve in the next installment. Myers goes on a rampage killing people while Loomis tracks him down. Nothing new or original and for some reason I just don't get the Halloween vibe I got from the first two. In the first two the trick or treaters seemed real, here it all seems to set up. As for the wtf moments, one occurs when the niece and her sister (apparently the niece was adopted after her mother was killed in a wreck and that would have been the Jamie Lee Curtis character) are on a roof. Myers is up there too, and the girls fall off, less than 5 seconds later Myers is on the ground again coming from behind the house. How the heck did he get down so fast? Were there stairs behind the house? The next moment is when they are on a truck with a posse heading for the state police headquarters. Somehow Myers comes from underneath the truck and starts killing. This is impossible as a scene earlier clearly showed no one was under the truck. There are a couple more of these moments. However, this one has its moments and it to me is a better sequel than any that came after it including the H2O one. "},{"Title":"Just fair.","Date":"26 February 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I had heard and read a lot about this movie being the best sequel to the original Halloween, so I must say that I was somewhat disappointed by the result - although it IS superior to the overrated Halloween H20. The series had already become so formulaic by that point that the elements of suspense and surprise had pretty much evaporated. This is basically a run-of-the-mill (and somewhat bland) slasher film. But there are redeeming qualities good acting by Pleasence (he's positively chilling in his final scene), Cornell (just SO sweet!) and Harris, a great ending, some imaginative touches (like the appearance of multiple Michaels in one almost surrealistic scene) and the competently executed action set pieces. The killings themselves, however, lack originality; only the first one (a grisly thumb-through-the-forehead thing) really stands out.   (**) "},{"Title":"You'd think it would be better than Halloween III Season of the Witch (1982),...but it wasn't much better","Date":"1 August 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" For obvious reasons, even for people who are not that familiar with the franchise, could understand fairly quickly why the title to this entry says The Return of Michael Myers. After Halloween III Season of the Witch (1982) failed to impress critics and fans alike, the only way to make the series a lucrative franchise again would be to somehow bring back the silent, creepy stalker, kitchen knife wielding Michael Myers from Halloween (1978) and Halloween II (1981). It's really too bad actually. Although its writing contained bigger flaws than usual like weak characterizations and clear as day plot holes, it still had a respectable cast, acceptable special effects and haunting music. The idea of creating a new film revolving around the holiday of Halloween felt like a better way for filmmakers to be creative in their horror films. However, thanks to the poor marketing, the idea was scrapped and now filmmakers had to be even more creative on how to make Michael Myers continue to revolve around the holiday. There's only so much you can do before you start beating a dead horse.Ignoring the events of Halloween III Season of the Witch (1982), this installment takes place identically as its release date - 10 years after the events of Halloween (1978) and Halloween II (1981). Initially being transferred to another location, burn victim Michael Myers (George P. Wilbur) escapes hospital custody and heads back to Haddonfield to kill Laurie Strode's daughter Jamie Lloyd (Danielle Harris) who's being fostered by Rachel Carruthers (Ellie Cornell). Hoping the events from before does not happen again, Dr. Loomis (Donald Pleasence) who teams up with Sheriff Ben Meeker (Beau Starr) follow close behind. Considering the circumstances the premise isn't half-bad, but when questions begin to arise, fans will not get their entire fill. Throughout the film, several questions are asked but very few reasons of clarification are given. The best example is that Dr. Loomis knows that Myers wants to kill Jamie, but Meeker asks how is it possible if Jamie wasn't even born when the events of Halloween (1978) and Halloween II (1981) occurred? The answer is never given. Another question is how'd Myers and Loomis survive the explosion of Halloween II (1981)? And didn't Myers have his eyes shot out? So how is it that he can see now? The screenplay by first time writer (at the time) Alan B. McElroy seems to lack the clarity of effective and coherent storytelling. Thankfully even with the sloppy writing, the acting and characters are still effective. All main actors on screen act the way they should for the predicaments they're put into. The best actor (of course) is Donald Pleasence for his persistence on attempting to take down Myers even while not being in the best of conditions. The second best actor goes to Danielle Harris for being so convincing in her role at such a young age. It's not easy to find a child actor who knows what to do for every scene and Harris nails it. As for the character of Michael Myers played by stunt man George P. Wilbur, it actually feels like there's less of a personality this time. As much as the title to this revisiting claims it is the return of Mike, Myers isn't on screen very much.Believe it or not in fact his presence feels less used than that of the first two films. There's no head tilts or other subtle movements that help define Mike. Yet it's also confusing because as much as the audience doesn't always see Myers, for every scene it seems as if he's always around. How can he be in more than one place at the same time? If that's not the case, then how does he casually walk between destinations that feel miles apart with a couple minutes? Again, no explanations. Is the violence acceptable - yes. Does it entertain - ehhh,...its something to watch so yeah, but at most minimal level. There are some kills that are performed a tad differently from other films, which involves twisting but it's not that graphic or different in style from other kills. Director Dwight H. Little seemed like he went with the flow when it came to how he wanted certain things done. The execution works but doesn't have the same spine-tingling atmosphere the first two films had down so well.Behind the camera was Peter Lyons Collister as the director of photography. Although not every scene had landscape shots and was instead used with several POV shots, there were a couple times Collister impressed. The most effective parts of Collister's work were when the camera actually focused in on Michael Myers. As much as zooming in can be distracting, Collister uses it just enough to give the viewer some goosebumps when Michael Myers steps into focus. It is a bit unsettling. The film score produced by returning composer Alan Howarth is rather disappointing. Taking into account that Howarth worked on the recognizable music since Halloween II (1981), it's jarring when nothing new is added to such a memorable score. Yes Howarth keeps the original Halloween (1978) theme and that's important but nothing else is done. There are no new motifs or creepy cues to hear in this score. A lot of it is either absent or atmospheric, which is okay to a point but not very memorable in most cases.It has a decent cast that can act well, standard cinematography and violence but that doesn't make it much better than Halloween III Season of the Witch (1982). Its music feels underdeveloped, Michael Myers feels barely present and the continuation of the story doesn't exactly make a whole lot of sense when all the facts are laid out in plain sight. "},{"Title":"DULL Continuation of the Halloween Franchise","Date":"19 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Following the disastrous release of Halloween III Season of the Witch, the franchise sat on the shelf for years until producer Moustapha Akkad decided to resurrect the character of Michael Myers who presumably had been killed at the end of Halloween II. Doctor Loomis returns to Haddonfield to protect the daughter of Laurie Strode when a comatose Michael Myers escapes from the asylum's medical transport. This rather bloodless slasher movie found an audience solely on the good graces of Carpenter's Halloween and the inevitable success of it's sequel. It's rather dull and lifeless on it's own despite an attractive cast of talented actors. Director Dwight Little never once manages to generate any scares or excitement despite an adequate production budget. "},{"Title":"Basically a remake of part one","Date":"5 November 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Another well done title scene, showing us a quiet and peaceful small town, jack-o-lanterns and Halloween decorations displayed on a small farm at sunset on All Hallows Eve, with only the wind blowing softly in the background. Unfortunately, that is the best part of this movie, because after dramatically changing the ending of part II, the rest of it is only a veritable remake of part one the masked killer comes out of a coma and returns to his hometown, on the hyperbolic ten years anniversary, to stalk more prey, specifically, his young niece.Routine, formulaic '80s slasher, with some occasional outbursts of out-of-place gore, and highly implausible they waited to transport a mass murderer until the ten years anniversary of his crimes, during a pouring down rainstorm, AFTER mentioning a family member he never knew about, thus giving him another target? The Shape also felt compelled to randomly visit a power plant, to kill a worker, and knock out the power to the entire city, sending it into clichéd darkness? As I said, formulaic in the extreme.The producers decided to bring Myers back for this one, after part III received a less than stellar response, but the $17 million this movie made was only slightly better than its predecessor's $13 million.Film includes too much teenage melodrama; alternate title could be The Haddonfield Chronicles. "}{"Title":"A bunch of beer bellies running around...","Date":"26 May 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" October 30, 1988, and Michael Myers has been in a coma since that night a decade ago when his doctor set him on fire. An ambulance makes its away along the road to Ridgemont, and Myers is on his way to another hospital. During the ride, he overhears the crew mention his young niece, and he kills them. Dr. Loomis is alerted by the state troopers after the ambulance is found with blood everywhere. Myers has already started to make his way toward Haddonfield, where he confronts his niece in a pharmacy, and then kills the town's phone & power lines leaving his niece and adopted sister trapped.Now he's coming to pay young Jamie a visit....In some sort of way, it was a smart move to bring Myers back after the experiment with the very good third movie, but it's more or less more of the same, Myers stalking family and killing silly people in wonderful ways, without even doing anything more than a slight stroll,Back in 1988, i'm sure this would have been an awesome release, especially as at the time, Jason and Freddy were slightly losing there appeal, but twenty five years later, it's doesn't hold up too well.Performances are okay, especially Harris and Pleasence, but the rest of the young cast are just Myers fodder, waiting for him to walk slowly toward them.All in all, if you are a completest, it's worth seeing, just don't expect too much. "},{"Title":"great performance of Danielle Harris","Date":"15 November 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The year is 1988 and horror is, forgive me the pun, dead. Freddy and Jason went on to become laughable in their franchise but the only one that had came to a halt was Halloween. Producer Moustapha Akkad decided that it was time to return to the original masked slasher that put the franchise on the map. With some strikes on their way the writers had to hurry (11 days) up to write this flick and another thing was that John Carpenter and Jamie Lee Curtis had left the franchise.The story picks up were part 2 ended so that was a good thing to start with but from then on I wasn't attracted to the screen anymore. In stead of the hunter tracking down his victims this is more the hunter becoming the hunted. On the other hands due the departure of Jamie they needed something to replace Laurie Strode. What could be easier to say she had a little child but Laurie had passed away. So in came Jamie Lloyd played by Danielle Harris. And let me just say that she was eleven when she was deputing in her first feature and what an excellent job she did. But one actor couldn't save a picture. The others were okay but I just couldn't get involved in feeling an affection towards them. On the other hand Michael was played by George P. Wilbur, who also appeared as Michael in The Curse of Michael Myers. And he just copied the original Michael, in fact the whole thing was a copy of Carpenter's direction. you know, Michael appearing from a dark hole or out of the darkness. But George couldn't convince me in Michael, even his mask wasn't convincing for me. Everybody was glad that Michael came back and luckily Donald Pleasence was back as Dr Loomis but it was a bad time for horror, the slashers were death and also this entry was low on on-camera killings or gore. Kathleen Kinmont was the only one who gave a bit of flesh but overall it was a bit of a let down. It took a while before things started although the ending was okay. Gore 1/5 Nudity 0,5/5 Effects 2/5 Story 3/5 Comedy 0/5 "},{"Title":"See? He's in this one! Happy now?","Date":"1 February 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Well, the masses won. To not tear this one completely to bits, I'll try not to compare it to the original all that much. Like the second one, this gives Michael a POV(and in general needs to do better at hiding him and giving him effective reveals), which was only done a few times in the first; it also isn't always well-lit, though it isn't as bad with either as II was. In spite of using the classic theme(and they may have done a thing or two to it, but it remains great), and possibly trying, this never manages to build and maintain mood or atmosphere. They didn't have to go with hicks and lynch-mobs earlier... sorry. OK, those were the last ones, I promise. This is a straight slasher, so I will try to treat it as exactly that. Since they didn't have a lot to work with as far as his motivation goes, they resorted to using the one reason that had already been established, however stupid it is. So, with Jamie Lee Curtis not returning, they killed her off and gave her a girl. Danielle Harris was a fine enough actor(unfortunately, she's one of the only ones in this), she's got a set of lungs on her for all the screaming(not to mention, she sure grew up to be hot); with that said, her role is whiny and needy(look, there's more than one way to be an orphan, and not all them make you irritating). In fact, the characters in this that aren't so bland you barely notice their presence all seem to be participating in some contest to be the most obnoxious. We don't get to care about any of them. Loomis is again yelling his lines. The plot is nearly non-existent, and purely there to set the stage for knifing. I wish I could claim that this is a worthy addition to the sub-genre... if nothing else, it isn't that known for having high standards(on that, the FX are good, and the deaths not the least creative I've seen). Meanwhile, with so many cheap scares that do not pay off, the cat jumping out from the dark type, a disappointing finale(and the ending, for the idea of it having potential, is surprisingly meh), little(which is not to say none) eye-candy for young males and a nearly utter lack of suspense, I cannot. There is plenty of brutal, bloody and gory violence, relatively infrequent moderate to strong language and brief gratuitous sexuality and nudity. The DVD holds a trailer for this and one for 5. I recommend these 80 minutes solely to those who can't do without Myers(or just a generic big guy murdering teenagers), regardless of the quality of the flick. 5/10 "},{"Title":"With Halloween 4; you begin to wonder if he'll ever actually get home.","Date":"26 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Over the course of the years and the films, you get the feeling the Halloween series tried to branch out into something a little more epic the first one was Myers vs. Strode in a house, at its core and the second one was Myers vs. Strode in a hospital with the third one going down a very different path. In Halloween 4 (only the third with Myers), Myers basically takes on a whole town; its police force; a bunch of rednecks out for revenge; and of course another screaming teenage girl, only it's not Laurie Strode this time.The reason for Halloween feeling more epic is that there are lots of other characters involved in this film but that doesn't necessarily make it any good. The first one was a master-class in suspense and voyeurism but the second was a boring gore fest with the third being something totally different, albeit rather good. Here, teenage girl Rachel Carruthers (Cornell) lives a normal life at home with her parents; school trouble; boyfriend trouble, having to baby-sit her kid sister (who will need a lot of child therapy by the end); etc. so to have her resemble the traits of Laurie from the first film is a clever move. What isn't so smart is the way the film is constructed and thought through; borrowing too much from previous efforts to feel like anything new, ground breaking or even that interesting. We are given a very brief, if not crude, reminder of Michael Myers and his history by an asylum warden as he and two others descend into the depths of the asylum's cells someone has thought of the bright idea to transfer Myers on the night of the tenth anniversary that he committed all the murders that fateful Halloween &#150; a whole two films worth of murder, violence and gore.Of course en-route, you know what happens but of course it shouldn't have done because it's worth saying here that American serial killer Ted Bundy got the electric chair a mere year after this film was made and he wasn't too dissimilar to Myers in the sense that he maimed and killed his way through life; targeting that in particular of teenage girls of some description. But, of course; in this film's universe nobody even thinks of giving Myers the chair even if it would save a lot of life. So, with a premise that has already forced us to suspend reality a little too much; Halloween 4 begins for real. Halloween 4 still bears a lot of gimmicks and a lot of 'tut and shake your head whilst smiling in disbelief' moments. One of which is the scene in which Rachel's partner goes up against Myers on the landing you know what will happen; another is the scene in which Rachel screams out loud that 'there's no way out!' even though there are windows all over the place but no, by all means climb out onto the house's roof. There is also the horrible scene in which Loomis (Pleasance) and the head sheriff are given separate reasons to actually leave the house thus leaving Rachel and her little sister even more venerable almost on their own.The things I don't like about Halloween stem from the fact it's just too incidental, ie; there are too many excuses and lame motivations for said events to happen. At the beginning, we are shown how the phone lines will come to not work in a disappointing and incidental fashion; we are shown much later on shots of Rachel and her baby sister running into the house's attic followed by a close up of Myers taking a random knife off a shelf that just happened to be there did Rachel not think to grab a weapon? Did she not run past the exact same shelf? Or did the character of Myers jump a temporal filmic space downstairs into the kitchen in the space of one cut? Twinned with this, the resulting fight on the roof plays out in an oddly humorous way with Myers lumbering around with his knife and characters surviving thirty foot falls.Thankfully, the audience is spared the 'nobody believe Loomis' story from very early on and despite having one or two eerie moments with good compositions, Halloween 4 is a disappointment; even as a horror film. Halloween 4 develops into a bit of a limp 'last stand' picture with brainless character logic and incidental thrills forming the basis of its story. I liked the tracking shot of the police station after Myers had been there and his altercation with an electricity pylon worker was humorous in a sick sort of a way Hey, don't try that Halloween s**t with me(!) but Halloween 4, unfortunately, lives up to its name a 1980s horror sequel with a number in its title. "},{"Title":"An attempt","Date":"2 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I saw all of the Halloweens in which the order they were released (including 8).  After seeing the first two the into this whole side story didn't cut it for me.  It had a somewhat decent story and acting, but the atmosphere didn't quiet hit the mark.  I did love the fact that they went back to the basic scare tactics that John Carpenter used.  There is one scene with two of the charachters that were trapped on a roof with Michael.  That whole scene was great.  During this movie you feel for the charachters.  The things I didn't like were  the guy who played Michael Myers.  He couldn't get th walk right.  It looked like he was walking with a really bad rash. They could have found a better person, I mean this guy had to wear shoulder pads.   I guess I could say it was a somewhat worthy sequel. "},{"Title":"An attempt","Date":"2 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I saw all of the Halloweens in which the order they were released (including 8).  After seeing the first two the into this whole side story didn't cut it for me.  It had a somewhat decent story and acting, but the atmosphere didn't quiet hit the mark.  I did love the fact that they went back to the basic scare tactics that John Carpenter used.  There is one scene with two of the charachters that were trapped on a roof with Michael.  That whole scene was great.  During this movie you feel for the charachters.  The things I didn't like were  the guy who played Michael Myers.  He couldn't get th walk right.  It looked like he was walking with a really bad rash. They could have found a better person, I mean this guy had to wear shoulder pads.   I guess I could say it was a somewhat worthy sequel. "},{"Title":"Guess who's back? Not invited, but somehow expected.","Date":"26 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  It has been ten years since the bloody killings in Haddonfield. Michael Myers(George P. Wilbur)awakens from a coma and escapes the institution with intent of a small family reunion. Well, his main task is to kill his seven-year-old niece Jamie(Danielle Harris). Donald Pleasence returns as Dr. Loomis. The charming Ellie Cornell plays Rachel. Beau Starr has the role of Sheriff Meeker and Kathleen Kinmont is quite fetching as Kelly Meeker. Harris is dutiful in her debut. Nerve wrecking...more creepy than scary. "},{"Title":"Not so hot.","Date":"6 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Although this movie gets Halloween back to its roots with Michael Myers and all, it still is a poor film. The acting is bad and the plotline is very cheesy, and George Wilbur does the worst Michael out of the whole series. But I still need to thank this movie for having Michael return, unlike the atrocious third movie in the series. There are some other good parts in it, too. It is pretty suspenseful, but definitely not as much as the first and even the second, which is definitely not a very good movie. The very end is really stupid, too. And even though the next two sequels have to do with it entirely, I don't really like the turn in the series with Michael stalking Jamie, his niece. It's not as good as him stalking his sister, Laurie Strode. But anyway, it has some good scenes and is an okay chapter in the series, nowhere near the best, but I'm not very disappointed in it. I mean, it's the fourth chapter! "},{"Title":"A mind-numbing sequel, one of the worst Halloween's","Date":"10 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I had high hopes for this movie, I was expecting from all the hype to see a movie that was the best of the series......ugh, I saw one of the worst of the series, sure the movie was technically well-made, but it offers no scares, or any fun that the first one had. Michael has returned out of the 10 year coma he was in after the fire, he goes and looks for his niece who is the daughter of Laurie Strode(!), wants to killer her. Donald Pleasence who revives his character, is prob the best thing in this movie, as always. Danielle Harris, who plays the little girl Michael is after, is exceptionally well in her role. But that doesn't cover up for a bad movie, that starts well, but after a while gets, well downright boring! I dunno u might like it, I didn't. 2 out of 10. Rated R for strong horror violence and gore, brief sexuality, nudity, and language. "},{"Title":"Halloween the 13th?","Date":"23 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" As I have said before, an astute critic once noted that the Friday The 13th series was the ultimate in recycling, so much so that one often had trouble telling which sequel they were watching after a while. The fact that Friday The 13th was basically plagiarized (and not very well at that) from Halloween didn't save the Halloween franchise from falling victim to the same repetition curse. It's somewhat ironic, and troubling, that the one Halloween sequel that dared to be different from episodes two, four, and the other four dozen, generally gets the harshest criticism.Halloween 4 picks up years after the end of Halloween II, a film that decided to follow an atmospheric original with a clichéd gorefest that is so devoid of impact it is a wonder the franchise has lasted at all. In a regurgitation of the anonymous-relative cliché that proves Moustapha Akkad was watching The Empire Strikes Back just a little too closely, we are told that Laurie Strode was killed in a car accident, but not before she gave birth to Jamie, who is played in this and the next episode by Danielle If I Only Had A Career Harris. Doctor Loomis is there, naturally, to give us his usual melodramatic spiel.According to something I just read, the makers of Halloween 4 felt that the finished film was too soft, and added some pickups to increase the gore factor. I must have blinked and missed these inserts, because in comparison to Halloween parts two and five, there is really very little to get carried away about here. Even the footage at the end of this episode is presented in a very tame fashion compared to when it appears in the next.A popular defence of Halloween 4 is that it at least has the titular Shatner-masked character in it. This, however, is a poor defense for formulaic dribble that brings nothing new to the genre. We keep hearing about how Michael escapes from this or that unnamed facility, and how he drives the requisite overnight drive to Haddonfield, are left to our imaginations. As in they show us absolutely nothing that gives us a clear idea of how Michael achieved these small goals. We're simply told Michael does these things, and expected to take it as read. Still, the things that we are being told aren't completely ludicrous, as happens in later sequels.I gave Halloween 4 a one out of ten. There are far better serial killer-based films out there. This one is only worth investigating if you're really bored. "}{"Title":"Michael Myers is back... now can he please go away again?","Date":"24 October 2004","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Sixteen years and four sequels later, with a fifth apparently on the table, Halloween 4 has a similar nostalgic impact nowadays as Police Academy 2. Because the previous episode in the franchise bombed at the box office, the decision was made at this point to make all future sequels to the same formula as one of the first two films in the canon. Unfortunately, they chose to base Halloween 4 upon the second, formulaic episode. Or at least, that's the impression one gets from the story, which is so basic I am surprised anyone is credited with writing it.According to trivia, inserts were filmed after principal photography in order to increase the blood and gore factor of this episode. The problem with this is that even with these inserts, there is precious little blood in the film. I can only recall one sequence in which anything resembling blood is even in front of the camera, if that. I'd therefore hate to see what kind of cut the director originally had in mind.All kidding aside, the original Halloween did not need to rely upon gore to catch the viewer's attention. Instead, it created a cast of characters that the viewer could have an emotional investment in, and an atmosphere to go with them. Halloween 4 brings us new characters, and Jamie Lloyd notwithstanding, few of them are even interesting. The mysterious long-lost relative plot device, so ruthlessly murdered by its overuse to justify so many lame horror sequels, gets dragged out one more time here. When one looks at the producer's output to date, it becomes obvious that there are so many Halloween sequels because said producer cannot create anything else.Donald Pleasance gets another turn in a role I'm sure he wishes he'd never taken. With Jamie Lee Curtis' absence from the film, he is pretty much the only actor in this episode who has appeared in anything of substance. Given that the script gives him sod all to do, it makes one wonder exactly why he bothered to appear in two other sequels. Then again, after the overacting he puts on in the final twist sequence, I doubt that too many productions would be going out of their way to ask for his participation.In the end, Halloween 4 is a one out of ten film. It isn't bad enough to be good, it's merely bland enough to be horrible. Determined completists, fanatical fans of Michael Myers, and insomniacs only need apply. "},{"Title":"Why do I want to watch these movies?","Date":"30 August 2012","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Don't get me wrong - compared to other Part 4's this is actually one of the best ones, in comparison with it's separate timeline. Whilst neither movies are perfect this is actually the better out of the 2.Why did I watch these movies when I declared they seemed like money-grabbers in my review for the first movie? Simple. I ADORE Michael Myers as a character, no other horror villain scared the crap out of me as much as this one did in the first movie (well there's The Thing but that character has a mainly off-screen presence to make the effect). As I mentioned in my review for H20 I thought Michael didn't feel like Michael in that movie. In this one it does improve in comparison, just that I felt that no sequel past the second one made me feel like I was watching Michael Myers (All Halloween movies I have seen I have reviewed).I just have one minor complaint about the ending. In the first 2 movies Michael survives being shot 15 times or there abouts, we are supposed to believe that not only did he also survive burning to death, but after a 10 year coma can display acts of incredible Strength. What stops him? More bullets.So I will watch out all the Halloween movies (except Resurrection, from what I heard from all Halloween fans the movie is crap). Sorry, it's just that I like Michael that much. "},{"Title":"Still a Decent Film","Date":"3 November 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Laurie Strode was killed in a car crash, but left behind a daughter, Jamie Lloyd (Danielle Harris). This doesn't sit well with Michael Myers, who escapes once again and tries to kill his niece! Mike Mayo says of this film Woof! (his way of saying a waste of time), and Howard Maxford gives it a moderate reasonable. I'd say it's better than reasonable, though you have to admit the plot is bit shaky we can't get Jamie Lee Curtis (heck, even John Carpenter didn't touch this) so we'll say she died and has a daughter. Weak.But, thankfully, this brought Danielle Harris into the world of horror. Harris is a wonderful person and a great actress. Despite her character's constant whining, she brings a strong character for being such a young girl (she does even better in the next installment). So, thank you for that.This could be the turning point in the series, as part five introduces the cult idea... and that will prove to be the death of Halloween. "},{"Title":"The Return to the Norm","Date":"22 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Oddly enough, one of the best qualities I can find about 'Halloween 4 The Return of Michael Myers' is the opening credits. While they didn't bombard us with the original theme music (again) they proved two things in the subtitle this is an event movie for fans and this is make-up movie for those missing Myers from #3. I don't really want to say it went downhill from there as it wasn't that bad, just average. Standard horror made up of two remakes first 2/3rds is almost a word-for-word redux of #1 and the last third is a rehash of just about any 'Friday the 13th.' A patient, Myers, is to be transferred (due to federal laws) and escapes, heading back to Haddonfield, Ill. Sound familiar? There's more his own doctor doesn't approve and gives ineffective speeches to those not listening and heads to Haddonfield, seeing destruction along the way, and aids police in the search. I know we've seen this before&#x85; Oh, and Myers's main goal is to kill a female member of his family. Yeah, pretty much a remake of the original, just updated for a new, younger and profitable crowd. Then the movie gears towards an unstoppable, inhumanly strong teleporter (he's all over the place/town in seconds) Jason Voorhees-type in a house with clichéd cutouts. While I liked the opening credits, the best part of the film happens in the last few seconds. Of course, I won't give that away, however predictable it is. The fact that this twist happens at all makes up for its unoriginality, clichés and flaws. Speaking of which since when can a character see/fear objects (ambulance) and people she's never encountered? Heck, Myers hadn't even picked up his new mask yet. When he does, it's the least scary of all. It's actually, unintentionally, I presume, comical.Side Note I hate it when the cover/poster doesn't match the character within the movie. (I.E. Pretty Woman's dress was a different color, for whatever reason) This mask on the cover is NOT the same one in the film, or I could've taken him more seriously or be somewhat frightened. Instead they got some clown mask &#x96; perhaps its symbolism to represent the other clown in the movie that represents another clown in the original&#x85;Oh, I think I'm getting too deep for a Part 4 in a horror franchise.Side Note 2 All negativity aside, I was pleased they did put some budget into this, and it certainly paid off. The budget had to have succeeded the first 3 combined. "},{"Title":"A lot more misses than hits","Date":"12 April 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Halloween 4 is sadly one of the worst in the series, although it's miles better than the atrocious Halloween 6 and the unwatchable Resurrection. That's not saying much, but oh well.It's just more of the same crap over again, with hardly any originality. It mainly consists of annoying shallow characters, a barrel of overused clichés, and hysterical dialog. Michael Myers has now become a recycled and tiresome plot device. He isn't captured in a scary light like he was in the first two films, and to make matters worse, the design of his mask is absolutely atrocious.The director failed to provide the dark, grim, and eerie feel that Carpenter and Rosenthal did. It's just bland. Ugh.Donald Pleasance is really the saving grace of Halloween 4. Wonderful as always (although here he does look tired and bored of his character; I can see why). There's also Danielle Harris, who is a surprisingly strong child actress. The introduction of kiddies into horror films can often ruin them yet Harris holds her own against her fellow cast members. Unfortunately, those two are about the only good actors in the film and all around one of the few redeeming factors of this otherwise incredibly weak sequel. It has it's moments where I think it shows it could be something really good, but it's then bogged down by chunks of the movie that are just plain dismal. Especially when the gang of rednecks form a lynch mob and go out to get them some Michael on a stick.The execution and pacing is very poor. The screenplay and direction is aimless, uneven and shoddy. By the third act, the film's a boring and repetitve mess, devoid of any scares, any build up, any eerie moments, or any real suspense.A number of things in the film are just too incidental, ie; there are too many excuses and lame motivations for said events to happen. At the beginning, we are shown how the phone lines will come to not work in a disappointing and incidental fashion; we are shown much later on shots of Rachel and her baby sister running into the house's attic followed by a close up of Myers taking a random knife off a shelf that just happened to be there did Rachel not think to grab a weapon? Did she not run past the exact same shelf? Or did the character of Myers jump a temporal filmic space downstairs into the kitchen in the space of one cut? Twinned with this, the resulting fight on the roof plays out in a very humorous way with Myers lumbering around with his knife and characters surviving thirty foot falls.Lastly, it doesn't know what to do with itself. At one point it seems like it's going to become a survival thriller in the vein of a Romero zombie flick. Then it seems like it'll be more of an action film what with the loading up of the posse. Later it seems like it's leading into militarism as the characters rush to an outpost to defend themselves from this supernatural attacker. However, none of these threads are fully realized and the characters seem unable to just sit down and bide their time. They get up and wander around for no reason, they run in ridiculous and unproductive directions, and none of them seem able of getting an ounce of communication out.To wrap things up, Halloween 4 is a disappoint on nearly every level. This film marks the point when the series officially turned stale. "},{"Title":"Welcome back Michael!","Date":"22 October 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" 10 years after the events of Halloween 1 and 2, Michael Myers was presumed dead after being burned in the hospital. Now he has been resurrected as he escapes back to Haddonfield where it's his hunting ground, Laurie Strode has passed away due to a car accident leaving her 8 year old daughter Jamie Lloyd (Danielle Harris) to be raised by adoptive parents. Dr. Sam Loomis (Donald Pleasance) is alive but half of him is badly burned from that night soon discovers Michael is out to kill his niece for only Loomis with a few locals can stop him from getting near her.Very good sequel in the franchise that brings back the Michael Myers storyline after Halloween III Season of the Witch disappointed viewers. John Carpenter originally intended the series to be a big screen horror anthology along the lines of The Twilight Zone telling different theatrical horror movies revolving around the title holiday rather then just Michael Myers again, but fans were left bitter with part 3 and the Anthology idea ended. Carpenter gave up on the Halloween franchise leaving it to Moustapha Akkad to take over, writer Alan McElroy brought the character Michael back on the screen as fans wanted and it became a hit. The acting was good including Harris's and there was some cool killings like the shotgun shoved through the torso of a person. The storyline isn't too bad and there's a cool yet bizarre twist in the end that is more haunting then the ending to Sleepaway Camp. "},{"Title":"* * out of 4.","Date":"30 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Well made sequel is certainly an improvement over parts two & three. This entry finds Mike Myers escaping from an ambulance and returning back to Haddonfield to stalk his niece. Puts atmosphere and suspense over gore, but lacking in imagination and creativity. Rated R; Sexual Situations, Violence, and Profanity. "},{"Title":"the last even half-way decent film in the franchise","Date":"15 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The last Halloween film that was even halfway decent, this one picks up years after the events of Part 2 (part 3 was a stand-alone story having nothing to do with Mike Myers and the least said of that film, the better). Micheal awakens from a coma and escapes from the transport that was moving him to another hospital to continue his rampage of death & destruction. This time the focus of his killing rage is not on Laurie Strode, but his nephew Jamie Lloyd, a young girl who is petrified by the concept of Halloween and has visions of Myers. This was the most intense one behind the original of course. But just a word of warning watch parts 1,2, and 4 ONLY. After that you're on your own and I won't be held responsible for the unneeded trauma you'll endure by being a cinema maschocist and enduring the other truly awful movies in the series.Eye Candy Kathleen Kinmont gets topless My Grade B- DVD Extras 17 minute Final Cut featurette; and Theatrical Trailer Notes Mine came in a limited edition tin casing "},{"Title":"pointless rubbish, only to be viewed as a time waster","Date":"2 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" What the hell is the point of Halloween sequels if they just keep bringing back Michael Myers from the dead?I know they make money but from a creative and artistic perspective Halloween and Halloween II were the one film cut into two volumes like the way Tarintino's Kill Bill saga is today. I know Rick Rosenthal directed Halloween II but John Carpenter's team were 90% involved in the production of that picture and they produced a brilliant sequel with a brilliant conclusion.Lets get this straight. Sam Loomis and Michael Myers were killed in the gas explosion in the operating room at Haddonfield memorial, Myer's demise was classic, he strolled out in flames, and collapsed in a heap burning to ash. right! The End!Halloween 4 is full of heart but has no power of the first two films.Myers looks comical in his new white mask and overalls and he stomps around like he has piles, the soundtrack has been remixed and revamped to make it new i guess, but it just does not work. Awful. "},{"Title":"Michael Myers returns to Haddonfield to 'up' his kill total!","Date":"14 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Ten years after the original massacre in sleepy Haddonfield, Michael Myers escapes from his sanatorium and pays the residents of his hometown another visit, hacking and slashing his way towards his ultimate target his niece, Jamie Lloyd (who is staying with a foster family).Also returning for episode IV of the Halloween series is Dr. Sam Loomis (Donald Pleasance), who hasn't given up on trying to stop the relentless killer from his murderous antics. Following a trail of corpses, he tracks the masked maniac to Haddonfield, where he alerts the local sheriff, who helps him to locate Jamie (and her foster sister, Ellie) before Michael can slice 'n' dice the poor girl.But with both the town's power and telephones having been knocked out by the knife-wielding psycho, all they can do is barricade themselves into the sheriff's house and hope that help arrives before Michael does.Director Dwight H. Little delivers an impressive fourth chapter in the successful series which, after the enjoyably silly (but unconnected) third movie, returns the action to the sleepy town where it all began. He cranks up the tension nicely and manages to scare without having to resort to cheap shocks or over-the-top gore; the level of bloodletting is extremely low, much like John Carpenter's first movie.An 11-year old Danielle Harris, as young Jamie, is thoroughly convincing as the terrified girl with the bogeyman as an uncle. Rachel Carruthers is equally as good as her protective foster sister, Ellie. Horror stalwart Donald Pleasance can do no wrong as far as I am concerned and he puts in another solid performance as the doctor who is almost as indestructible as his nemesis.And whilst I'm on the subject of impressive performances, Kathleen Kinmont is completely unforgettable as the big-breasted daughter of the sheriff, who adds a welcome dash of T&A to proceedings.A nice shock ending rounds off what is one of the best of the Halloween movies so far (at least until Rob Zombie's movie hits the big screen in '07, which I have high hopes for after being greatly impressed by The Devils Rejects).***2014 EDIT*** Sadly, RZ's Halloween was a steaming pile of ****, as was the sequel! "}{"Title":"Intro Danielle Harris and Donald Pleasence returns","Date":"20 October 2013","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" It's Halloween 1988 and Michael Myers rises again to hunt down his niece Jamie Lloyd (Danielle Harris). She lives with her adopted family and is haunted by an evil she doesn't understand. Dr Loomis (Donald Pleasence) is convinced that Myers is back but nobody believes him. So he goes to town where the Sheriff was much more cooperative. As she goes trick or treating, Loomis must save her from Michael.After all the hate from #3 where the Michael Myers storyline was abandoned, this one continues it with the introduction of Jamie Lloyd. Putting a cute little kid in danger is probably the one thing that was still taboo. And they really rolled the dice with Danielle Harris. Luckily she was up to the task. By keeping a tie to Laurie Strode and returning the wonderful Donald Pleasence, they are able to successfully reboot this franchise. "},{"Title":"Sheer ridiculous fantasy","Date":"18 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The dream at the start is totally obvious. Especially when the door opens when it's looked, then she turns around and it's closed and locked again.If they knew Micheals history (and they clearly did because they asked about him and spoke about him) then he'd be being transported a lot more securely. That's goof number 1. He'd be in a straight jacket, secured to the bed. And I don't care how superhuman he is, no-one can put their thumb through an adult human skull. That's goof number 2.The explosion at the gas station was unlikely - A van just pulling out wouldn't have blown up the pump, and the blast didn't kill Loomis. Goof number 3. The little girl looking at the picture of her dead mother, Jamie Lee Curtis. But doesn't she come back in H20? SO she isn't dead? Why wouldn't she be with her daughter? Goof number 4.Now you have to wonder why the only living relative of Micheal Myers would want to live in Haddonfield, let alone live in his old house. He gets into their house way too easily as well, don't people lock their doors in a town where people were murdered.You'd also think the police would more readily listen to the Doctor who looked after Myers his whole life.Racheal soon ignores her child-minding duties after an argument with her boyfriend. I thought Jamie would know better than to go off without her adult supervision though. I loved the fact that all the guys who had been drinking in the bar all just jumped right into their trucks without a care for the idea of drunk driving.The Sheriff asks only 1 cop to stay at the little girls house? Hasn't he heard of safety in numbers? Also for an invalid as he's described by many people, Micheal sure does a lot of walking and gets around real fast between places. Both Jamie & Racheal thought they were being followed but even Myers couldn't have been following them both at the same time. And how stupid were those 3 boys dressing up like Myers. The Sheriff should have shot them all.You also known Racheals former boyfriend is going to die at Micheals hands after screwing her friend. And that Myers was already in the Sheriffs house before they locked it all up. Another example of people who don't seem to lock house doors.The posse of men who'd been in the bar drinking killing a man by mistake shows why people shouldn't be allowed to have guns.Also, where did Myers get his mask? He's very strong for someone whose supposedly spent his entire adult life in an asylum under sedation. How did he get to build that strength? I did question why a child running down the road, at night in a town with no power screaming and shouting somebody help me didn't attract attention in seconds? And a school with an external alarm that you can't hear inside the school. Goof 5. Myers hair magically changing color? Goof 6.How the hell did Myers get on the back of the truck? He never came out the school and they were on the move. The Trucks were never left alone, MAJOR GOOF! And how Myers was able to hold onto the fast moving truck AND hold onto the knife? Occasionally I wish someone would make a horror film that didn't have glaring holes and goofs in it. And after being shot THAT many times I don't care who you are, you are DEAD! But no, even after being told by Loomis that Myers is dead we're still teased by another scare. The child kills her foster mother just like Myers killed his sister. But why? She had no motive or reason.Another awful piece of tripe with more holes than Swiss Cheese. "},{"Title":"Horrible","Date":"26 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was so bad that I don't even want to waste the wear and tear on my laptop keyboard to write too much about it.  Having said that, however I found it to be completely enjoyable when riffing the hell out of it in the spirit of Mystery Science Theater 3000.  *Possible Spoiler*I will admit to saying that one thing was cool about it, however.  The little girl presumably channeling the young Michael Myers and having fun with a knife at the end was remotely fun.  Otherwise, unless you have a couple of friends and a decent sense of humor, don't even waste your time.--Shelly  "},{"Title":"This is the best yet?","Date":"10 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  No H20 is the best since the first, this one was boring, stupid, and not scary. Even the guys who played Mike sucked. The only thing good was Harris and Pleasence. This turkey gets a 2 out of 10. Rated R for strong horror violence and gore, some language, sexuality, and brief nudity.  "},{"Title":"Shockingly bad!","Date":"16 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  It's frightening to think that if this movie was never made we would never have been subjected to the dreck that is Halloween 5, 6, 7 and 8. And the double shame is that even tho the story here is silly it is at least interesting. The continuation of this was the only decent thing about Halloween 5 and it may well have been good in 6 too but that movie all rearranged and jumbled before it hit out screens.So what we have here is a collection of dull murders with bad story continuity. H20 and Resurrection pretended that 4, 5 and 6 never happened. There is no REAL backbone or history to this series. All they represent is a producer who asks us to pay money for the same thing over and over. We cannot use photocopied money to pay for our tickets at the box office so the movie-makers owe us something new. And in Halloween 4 we don't get it. In fact I'm sure that to the untrained eye Halloween 4 and 5 could very well be the same movie.And it is SO slow! Nothing really happens for about 70 minutes worth of the movies 88 minute running time. It leaves you begging for a Jason Voorhees style mass murder spree. That does not happen I'm sorry to say. The movie cuts away at the point of every death and when it doesn't the deaths are dull and boring. A man is thrown onto an electrical power grid and...sparks fly. That's it? How about his face melting or at least getting set on fire? Plus the body count is shockingly low. What is up with the thumb thru the head? Not only is it badly shot, too quick and just plain puzzling (surely a quick neck snap would be easier and nastier) the physical possibilities of it match hammering a tack into a concrete slab. It just can't happen. I don't care how superhuman Michael Myers unexplained powers are.The whole 'motiveless psycho' may have worked well in Carpenter's original but here it's asking for money for old rope. Carpenter used it to great effect and scriptwriter Alan B. McElroy (responsible for some awesome Spawn episodes) uses it as an excuse for lazy, unimaginative writing. Tho he has the scriptwriters strike to blame as he beat the deadline by mere hours. But even a few hours worth more imagination could have made this the tiniest bit better.There's just not much for Myers to do. He comes out of a coma, goes back to Haddonfield and kills. For no reason. There are no sets other than houses and no opportunity for big excitement or set-pieces. I'm sorry but the 'famous' rooftop scene is boring, badly rehearsed and badly shot. Director Dwight H. Little (Marked For Death, Murder at 1600) even throws in a 10 second scene in an Elementary school for no reason. Plus the only shot of Michael in this shows him with WHITE hair on his mask. A pretty big goof, lookout for it.Out of all the lessons in how to make an effective horror film that were were taught in the first film none of them are really echoed here. Slasher flicks by their very nature are low brow but Carpenter had a simplistic purity and charm that made it work. Plus he filmed the movie in Panavision which instantly gives it some class. Plus he used the widescreen framing well. Dwight H. Little seems oblivious to this and instead uses standard 1.851 widescreen with no particular flare. And I must mention the very poor dialogue. It offers no insight into the lives of the teenagers in the story or provides them with extra character. Why are we supposed to care when they get killed. It's obvious from the beginning that they are nothing but fodder for Michael Myers. And it's a crime that when they die it's not even graphic or ugly in the slightest. Just boring and badly shot. It's not a horror film because nothing horrifies or upsets other than paying money to see it. Stay well away. Go watch a Friday the 13th movie and see the J-Man do his thing. Anchor Bay presents this DVD in 1.851 anamorphic widescreen. The print is grainy and rather dirty. Nothing of reference quality. Sorry. There soundtrack has been remastered in Dolby Digital 5.1 from the original Ultra Stereo tracks. It's good enough. One hardly expects a sophisticated soundtrack from a film of this nature. In fact I prefer it to the obnoxiously loud sound designs of more recent slasher flicks.A 16 minute documentary, offering new interesting insight to the movie, is included. The participants don't have much to say and seem to regard the film in a higher manner than it deserves. An original theatrical poster replica poses as the cover on a '4-page booklet' (wow-1 sheet of paper) containing some more info about the movie. The DVD itself comes in one of those beautiful Limited Edition Tins. My copy is number 05,194/40,000.  "},{"Title":"Halloween 4 The Return of Michael Myers","Date":"1 November 2010","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" After the disaster that was Halloween III Season of the Witch where Michael Myers was dropped and replaced with a stupid demonic masks story, thank god they brought him back. Basically it has been ten years since the incidents of the first (and second) film, and neither Dr. Sam Loomis (Donald Pleasence) nor Michael Myers (George P. Wilbur) died in the fire at the hospital. While Loomis escaped with only scars on his cheek, Michael went into a coma and while being transferred to Richmond Mental Institute he wakes and overhears that he has a niece. The niece, daughter of Laurie Strode who is supposedly dead, little Jamie Lloyd (Danielle Harris) is the adopted daughter of the Carruthers family, with step-daughter Rachel (Ellie Cornell) living in Haddonfield. Halloween night approaches and Michael, who Jamie has been dreaming of, has arrived to find his next victim, and many more besides, with Loomis not far behind. As the bodies pile up, Loomis tries to get the police to search for the killer and protect Jamie, but the power lines have been taken down. After a chase over rooftops and so on, it looks like Michael is dead from and being gunned down into a mine shaft, but Loomis screams in horror seeing Jamie in her clown costume with a blood covered knife just like little Michael was in the fist film. Also starring Michael Pataki as Dr. Hoffman, Beau Starr as Sheriff Ben Meeker, Kathleen Kinmont as Kelly Meeker, Sasha Jenson as Brady, Gene Ross as Earl and Carmen Filpi as Rev. Jackson P. Sayer. The deaths are reasonable with their goriness, Myers may not have the original William Shatner mask but is still creepy, Pleasance is alright, and there are one or two okay jumps, all in all, an improvement on the previous film, but a silly and pretty forgettable horror sequel. Adequate! "},{"Title":"Picking up from #2...","Date":"21 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Those psycho killers just won't stay dead, will they?!!!!!!! After it looked like Michael Myers got killed in #2 (#3 - although interesting -wasn't really part of the series), he comes back to kill his niece (Jamie Lee Curtis's character was allegedly killed in a car wreck). Needless to say, Dr. Sam Loomis (Donald Pleasance) is instantly on his tail. Also needless to say, Michael kills as many people as possible throughout the movie.Anyway, Halloween 4 The Return of Michael Myers is nothing that you wouldn't expect. Except maybe for the end. And personally, I'd like Michael, Freddy, and Jason to all duke it out one day. That would truly be THE battle royale. "},{"Title":"Still a good movie within its genre.","Date":"13 September 2009","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Because this is the already fourth establishment in the Halloween-series, this movie has always been a bit under-appreciated. After the failed attempt at a different approach that Halloween III Season of the Witch was, this fourth movie goes back to its roots again and the movie can be simply called a good and effective one within the slasher-genre, which the first movie from 1978 firstly really defined.The movie is far from being perfect though with its story that is just plain ridicules and just too hard to believe at times. The movie at times is being too simple and light about things and often simply just takes things from granted, even though as a viewer you'll hardly ever buy these things. Still the movie is good enough to serve as one that is typical and good enough for its genre. It has all the clichés you can expect but as a fan of the genre you'll hardly ever complain about these things.It's main concept still works out better than I anticipated though. I mean, Michael Myers who is after his 7-year old niece this time didn't sounded very appealing or exciting to me at first. Luckily it still works out so because the movie also features some other good characters, on which the movie concentrates just as much.I must say that Donald Pleasence was truly excellent in his role. He impressed me more than he ever did before in any of the other previous Halloween-movies.As an horror/slasher it perhaps isn't being the most original or bloodiest movie within its genre but it's being simply good and generic enough to please the fans of the genre, as long as they are open for a third sequel to a movie that redefined the genre for ever. Of course this movie doesn't ever reaches the level of the first Halloween but on its own right this movie is simply being a good one that is still very well worth watching and is much better than most other genre movies and certainly much better than most sequels to horror movies.7/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"A Good, Old-Fashioned Thrill Ride","Date":"30 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Halloween 4 (1988) *** (out of 4) The fourth film in the series has Michael Myers returning to Haddonfield with Dr. Loomis (Donald Pleasence) in pursuit. This time out Myers is trying to track down his niece (Danielle Harris) and he won't let anyone get in his way. Despite the outrage, the Myers-less HALLOWEEN III was actually a pretty good movie but there's no question that they had to bring the legendary killer back and I really can't think of a better way to do it. HALLOWEEN 4 is quite different from the other slasher films out during this period because it tries to scare the viewers and doesn't just go for cheap gore and violence. I think the film is about as good as one could hope for and the cast and director deserve all the credit. Director Dwight H. Little does a wonderful job at building up a very strong and at times eerie atmosphere and you can sense this in the opening sequence as a transportation crew show up to transfer Myers to a different hospital. The film wastes no time cutting to the chase and the lightening and storm really helps set the film off in the right direction. It's really surprising to see how effective this movie actually is and the best moments happen after a group of people lock themselves up in a house not knowing that Myers is already in it. This sequence runs a good twenty-minutes and yet it has you biting your nails. The sequence takes it time in playing out but it really delivers one tense moment after another. This continues all the way up to the ending, which finally has Myers getting his due. You really can't help but feel as if the screenwriters got everything right as the return of Myers is perfectly played out as is his return home and of course the final. Then, of course, there's the twist ending that all horror films have to have. I won't ruin what happens for those who haven't seen the picture but it's certainly a shocker. Another key aspect is how perfectly cast all the actors are. Pleasence is brilliant as usual and it's always great having such a talented actor playing a part like this because they take it so serious and deliver strong work just as if they were in an A picture. Harris is also wonderful as the niece and it's easy to see why so many genre fans fell in love with her and continue to worship her. Ellie Cornell, Beau Starr, Sasha Jenson are all good as well and then we have George Wilbur really delivering an effective Myers. At just 88-minutes the film has a perfect flow from start to finish and when you mix in the tension and the performance you really have to tip your hat to the producers who certainly went all out to deliver fans what they wanted. "},{"Title":"Has it's good points... but has it's bad ones also.","Date":"22 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Halloween 4 The Return of Michael Myers starts on the 30th October 1988 as homicidal maniac Michael Myers (George P. Wilbur) is about to be transfered from one hospital to another for reasons that are never really explained. Anyway as the ambulance speeds along Michael suddenly wakes up from his comatose state & kills his escort's... The next day in Haddonfield, Illinois & it's Halloween as the daughter of Laurie Strode & Michael Myers niece Jamie Lloyd (Danielle Harris) is getting on with her life with her foster parents & foster sister Rachel (Ellie Cornell) whom she plans to go trick or treating with. Meanwhile Michael Myers is in town & since his sister Laurie is dead he turns his attention to his last remaining blood relative Jamie whom he is intent on killing along with anyone else who gets in his way. Can Dr. Loomis (Donald Pleasence) get to Jamie before Michael & save her?Directed by Dwight H. Little this was the fourth instalment in the Halloween series of films which now totals eight & lets not forget the proposed Halloween (1978) remake to be directed by Rob Zombie that is due for release sometime in 2007... This particular entry came after the critical & financial failure of the much underrated (in my opinion anyway) Halloween III Season of the Witch (1982), the filmmakers obviously felt turning the series into another Friday the 13th (1980) franchise was the way to go, although it came before they started to add stupid supernatural elements to the plot to try & explain Michaels origins as in a couple of the subsequent sequels. It was written by Alan B. McElroy & I thought the basic story was better than the usual teen slasher film, there's slightly more to it than I expected with fairly decent character's including a child star who isn't annoying or irritating & tight story along with one or two nice scenes. However I have a huge problem with Halloween 4 The Return of Micheal Myers & that is quite simply that not enough happens in it & is almost totally bloodless. Looking at the 'Trivia' section for Hallowween 4 The Return of Michael Myers it says that the film was originally considered too 'soft' (their description, not mine) & that special effects man John Carl Buechler was brought in & shot the films only two gory scenes which, if true, tells you everything you need to know really, this is one seriously tame film & on that front it was a big disappointment. I mean I ain't watching this crap for a deep meaningful storyline that will change the way I look at life am I? No, I want Michael Myers killing people & half decent story, the decent story is there but the killing isn't I'm afraid. I also want to mention the twist ending which I thought was great & very effective especially if you've seen the previous entries.Director Little shows his action film roots with a few OK car stunts & an exploding gas station, the kills are tame & while there is a decent atmosphere & a reasonable build-up there just isn't any pay-off or reward as it's just all so tame & forgettable. There is a nice style about the film with some nice lighting & use of light & shadow. Gore wise someone has a thumb stuck in their forehead, someone has a shotgun shoved through their stomach (off screen) & someone has their throat ripped open (definitely one of Buechler's added effects scenes) & a few after-the-fact dead bodies.With a healthy sounding budget of about $5,000,000 Halloween 4 The Return of Michael Myers is well made & has nice enough production values, the acting was OK but nothing overly special & I have to mention the young Harris who does a nice job.Halloween 4 The Return of Michael Myers has me in two minds, I liked the story & character's within more than the usual slasher clone but at the same time the fact that it's just so tame & has a very low body count makes it impossible for me to recommend. Average, there are better entries in the Halloween series & I'd personally take just about any Friday the 13th over this. "}{"Title":"At least it't not #3","Date":"18 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This chapter in the Michael Myers series makes a new plot line for Myers to chop up as (it seems) the daughter of Jamie Lee Curtis (and Myers nephew) is now being hunted by the ressurected Michael Myers.  Pleasence is good, which helps,and there are some thrills.  But that might be it.  Not the best in the 8 part series (I just found out its 8), but worth watching, especially before watching part 5 and 6.  B "},{"Title":"Watchable Enough...","Date":"12 November 2004","Score":"3 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" ... But the plot is wearing thin Since HALLOWEEN 3 SEASON OF THE WITCH has absolutely nothing to do with the franchise this is regarded as the second sequel of the franchise started by John Carpenter's 1978 movie . To be honest there's not much milage to make a franchise since the plot of every film revolves around Dr Loomis saying something like  I spent ten years trying to cure the child then the rest of my life trying to kill him  , nobody believing him and all the cynics and horny teenagers getting killed I will confess that HALLOWEEN 4 THE RETURN OF MICHAEL MYERS is fairly watchable even for someone like myself who isn't obbsessed with the horror genre . I think perhaps that it's not too dissimilar to THE TERMINATOR might have something to do with this , but it's still miles better than JEEPERS CREEPER . Even the rubbish acting scenes like Danielle Harris trying to look upset at the playground taunts and Donald Pleasence screaming  NOOOOO NOOOOO NOOOOO  at the shock ending have some entertainment value "},{"Title":"More rubbish from the Halloween people","Date":"24 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Halloween 4 is a thought provoking drama that asks an intriguing question of it's audience - namely, why are you watching this?. So come on, you've already wasted your time on three horrible Halloween movies, why are you back for more? Are you a sucker for punishment? Do you like terrible films with little or no redeeming qualities? Do you enjoy seeing monotonous movies that are exactly the same as the last instalment, or was there simply nothing else on? The latter is this film fan's excuse, and I sincerely hope that's yours too as this movie is seriously terrible, and I'd hate to think that somebody actually caught it on purpose.As you may have guessed from the tagline, this sequel features the return of cinema's most boring villain - Michael Myers. Groan. Halloween 3 was rubbish, but you have to respect it for trying to take the series in a different direction and do something a little bit original. Of course, we'd have been better off without any sequels, but you can't expect a teen-friendly series like Halloween to disappear after just one outing. Also making a comeback for this sequel is Donald Pleasance, who reprises his role as Michael Myers' doctor and biggest fan, Dr Loomis. Pleasance spends the entire movie bigging up Myers; if he's not telling people that Myers cant be stopped, he's trying to convince them that he actually is evil on two legs...and it all gets rather boring very quickly. By this point you'll probably be thinking ah, but at least there's a few murders to enjoy - but no! There are murders, but in typical Halloween down style, they're boring, and not only that but they're either extremely tame or take place off screen! Boooooooo...To the film's credit, it does feature some nice scenes of atmosphere, and at least the campy style can be amusing, if not quite 'so bad it's good'. I certainly don't recommend this trash to anyone, as it's a complete and utter waste of time. Avoid. "},{"Title":"The night he came home...again and again and again","Date":"14 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" After episode 3 without Michael Myers (Season of the Witch, which turned out a marketing-mistake and a giant flop) the Halloween franchise urgently needed his charismatic knife-wielder Michael back in order to make more cash. So here we see how Myers all of a sudden wakes up from his coma during a transport from a maximum security prison to a normal hospital. While stiffing a few innocent bystanders, he heads back to his hometown Haddonfield where his little niece &#150; the cherubic Jamie Lloyd &#150; is his next target. The decrepit looking Donald Pleasance continues to chase him and constantly tries to make people aware that Michael Myers actually is EVIL&#133;on two legs. For some reason, this fourth chapter is immensely popular among horror fans. I fail to see why as it features the same old elements like the town under siege, dumb coppers and shotgun-swinging hillbillies. In fact, the best parts of the entire movie are the different shots featuring during the opening credits. Here, we see creepy images of Halloween-related scenery on remote locations. Excuse me for saying it but the rest of part IV is dull! Most of the killings are off-screen and even the ones we're witnessing are as good as bloodless. Michael is tame and the film takes itself far too serious. I easily prefer the Friday the 13th series and Jason Vorhees would beat Myers without even trying. "}]