[{"Title":"Mob-Comedy Classic Always Entertains","Date":"27 January 2007","Score":"21 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" This is a consistently funny story with some serious action scenes thrown in here and there. That combination of mob movie and comedy makes this a fun film to watch.l The characters in this movie are just that characters. Everyone is a little off, actually a little too wacky for any believability. It's just a outrageous story played for laughs with few things making sense or being realistic.Michelle Pfeiffer and Matthew Modine are the stars but Mercedes Ruehl steals the show, in my opinion, as the jealous wife. Dean Stockwell is great as the smooth mob man. Even with all the makeup to make her look cheap, Pfeiffer (Angela de Marco) still can't hide that fabulous face. The costumes in here are great, too.This is not family fare with a deserved R-rating for language, violence and some nudity but it's not really a rough movie. It has its charms, that's for sure. Modine plays the nice guy Mike Downey.Note stay with the ending credits, because there is a lot of footage of scenes that never made it to the movie but were very interesting. "},{"Title":"One of the funniest films I've ever seen!","Date":"15 April 2002","Score":"12 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I had to write this review because the only user comments on file don't begin to do this film justice.   For one thing, Michelle Pfeiffer is TERRIFIC in this role -- she demonstrates a marvelous comedic style we don't often get to see.  (Maybe the other reviewer prefers her serious work, but I dispute the comment that Pfeiffer has matured beyond this role.  It's a comedy, for goodness' sake!)And yes, Alec Baldwin is quite good, but it's Matthew Modine who steals the picture!  (He also has much more screen time.)  Mercedes Ruehl and Dean Stockwell (as Tony 'The Tiger' Russo) are absolutely delicious.  The plot is delightful, and sometimes manages to touch on some more somber issues, as all great comedies do.In short, I've seen this hilarious film two or three times over the years, and thinking about it now makes me eager to watch it all over again! "},{"Title":"Great fun!","Date":"23 July 2006","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Michelle Pfeiffer and Matthew Modine are a joy to watch in this screwball comedy. Alec Baldwin, who was an up and coming star when the film was made, is a hoot. Dean Stockwell, in a sendup of John Gotti, is hysterical. But Mercedes Ruehl, as the paranoid and over the top Connie steals the movie.Jonathan Demme, previously known for wacky comedies like Something Wild and Melvin and Howard-proves once again that he is a genius. I was not surprised at all when he went on to win the Oscar for directing Silence of The Lambs. The performances he evokes from his actors in Married are inspired, and the audience is taken along for a wild and wooly ride.One of the cutest, most endearing films of the 80's, it stands head and shoulders above many of the satires of its era. "},{"Title":"Revisiting the Mob","Date":"27 August 2009","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Time does extraordinary things. It's the ultimate judge. Time has granted Married To The Mob an extra doses of freshness. There aren't any dead moments or cheap shots. It's more of a delight now than it ever was. Michelle Pfeiffer creates a mafia widow that it's as far away from a caricature as anything she's ever done. A true original creation touching or hinting at the stereotype just to guide us through but her Angela is quite unique. The legendary Dean Stockwell presents us with a a mafia boss that it's just as menacingly real as he is hilarious. And Matthew Modine? Why did I think back then that he didn't have any chemistry with Pfeiffer? I was wrong. They are wonderful together. They reminded me, this time, to the Barbara Stanwyck, Fred MacMurray of Remember The Night I'm writing this comment now to entice you to visit or revisit this Jonathan Demme gem. "},{"Title":"Still on my list of all-time favorites, after all these years!","Date":"15 September 2004","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This is a fun movie with subtle intention. Its off-beat comedy is hilarious to me, unfunny to my friends. The soundtrack is perfect.I own this on VHS and I have watched it many, many times, because it's simply a fun and funny love story with great performances by all the principals (though using Joan Cusack solely as a perch for big hair was a waste of her talent. I know, I know, she was still young...).On a sad note, I decided to check out the DVD last night (instead of watching my VHS tape), and was SHOCKED to find many crucial scenes cut. And on the copy I watched, there was no special feature of deleted scenes it was as if the deleted scenes never existed!! I am so glad I bought the used VHS at a flea market.It is clear there was a great deal of choreography in this, which is another reason I love it so much. It takes great skill, talent, and genius to move around the scenes like Mercedes Ruehl, Dean Stockwell, and Matthew Modine do from scene to scene (Note the scene when the grocery carts converge, the rolling on the floor during the shoot-out in Miami, the Chicken Lickin' debacle, the foot massage, the salon hair-washing.) There is a very theatrical feel to this film, which may be the turn-off for so many whose poor reviews follow I know some viewers who don't quite understand this style mistake the exaggerations and over-the-top performances for poor acting and worse direction. Not so. Jonathan Demme does a great job bringing to life the entire company and their respective roles.The opening credits and first scene rank among my all-time favorites, as well (another favorite opening credits/first scene Fly Away Home).Too bad Matthew Modine so ardently skipped out of the public eye; I really like him, and found his casting PERFECT in the role of Mike Smith. Actually, this film is well-cast from soup to nuts everyone is believable and true to his role. As for the question of expecting audience to accept Pfeiffer and Stockwell as Italians - why not? I thought they pulled it off perfectly well.Charming, fun, exciting... what is there not to like? If you want a little fun, watch this quirky, colorful adventure-mob-love story. If you are looking to learn more about organized crime and families, tune to HBO's The Sopranos.  "},{"Title":"Second Chance","Date":"7 September 2015","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" The mobster 'Cucumber' Frank de Marco (Alec Baldwin) is married with the housewife Angela de Marco (Michelle Pfeiffer) and she in unhappy with their marriage and wants the divorce. Frank is having a love affair with Karen Lutnick (Nancy Travis), who is the mistress of his boss Tony 'The Tiger' Russo (Dean Stockwell). When Tony discovers their love affair, he kills them in a party. Tony is under surveillance of the FBI agents Mike Downey (Matthew Modine) and Ed Benitez (Oliver Platt) and during the wake, Tony kisses Angela. The agents and Tony's wife Connie Russo (Mercedes Ruehl) believe that the widow Angela is having an affair with Tony. Angela takes the opportunity to move from the suburbs to a small apartment in New York with her son. Meanwhile Mike bugs her apartment and soon they fall in love with each other. But Tony discovers her new address and courts her. Soon the FBI Senior Management blackmails Angela to force her to get close to Tony to help the FBI to arrest him and she discovers that Mike is an agent. Will Angela give a second chance to Mike?Married to the Mob is another great film from the 80's, directed by Jonathan Demme and with a story with comedy, romance and action. The chemistry between Michelle Pfeiffer and Matthew Modine is impressive but Mercedes Ruehl steals the show. There is cameo participation of famous people and this movie is still attractive and has not aged after being watched many times along almost thirty years. My vote is seven.Title (Brazil) De Caso com a Máfia (In an Affair with the Mafia) "},{"Title":"Guys!  It's not just a silly comedy...","Date":"4 April 2003","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I just wanted to write a quick response to all those people who give this film a bad review because they think it isn't funny or that it's boring. Here's the trick --- the film is not meant to be just a comedy.  It's got some depth to it.  Like many Demme films it deals with people living in some of the odd corners of our society who are trying to work out how to put together a fulfilling life for themselves. Unfortunately, the movie and home video industries don't deal well with subtlety and drop this in the COMEDY bin.  It IS funny, but a lot of the humor is off-beat.  However, the heart of the movie is not about the humor but about the people in it.It may not be one of the greatest films in the world but it is solid and entertaining. And the cast is one of those that shows why casting is an art unto itself.  Michelle Pfieffer is great and this may be the film that showed she had some acting chops to add to her beauty.  Mercedes Ruehl is a big hoot and gets to chew the scenery in the way only she can, in a role which requires it.  Throw in Oliver Platt, Joan Cusack in smaller roles and the talented Dean Stockwell ... and even Chris Isaak and you've got a great cast throughout which here, as usual, makes a great difference.Matthew Modine is fun, but more important, he's a major hottie in this movie.  Hot, cute and sexy.Sit back, expect the unexpected and let the movie take you where it wants to go and you should have a great time.  "},{"Title":"This movie is delightful It's a hoot","Date":"19 June 2006","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" This is a romantic comedy, so it's really a fairy tale, but an unconventional one. Cinderella, rather than living in the ashes, lives in an overdecorated castle in the suburbs with a good looking husband who's no prince. She does find her prince, but he's not that handsome. Instead of a castle, at least initially, she gets a tiny walk-up in Manhattan.Pfeifer, Stockwell and Ruehl lead a cast of fully realized, if a little over-the-top, characters. Demme reaches the highest level of movie-making in my mind. He creates a world I want to move into - a Manhattan neighborhood and street life teeming with life and community.I wish IMDb linked to reviewers' other comments. I'd like to know what other movies the people who panned this one hate. I am always looking for a lot of laughs and for nice places in which to live at least for an hour or so. "},{"Title":"Amusing","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Michelle Pfeiffer is ideally cast as the frustrated mob widow in this colourful black comedy. Matthew Modine plays a clumsy FBI agent who has taken a fancy to her. Dean Stockwell steals the show as the big shot who keeps on pestering Pfeiffer; Mercedes Ruehl is dynamic as his jealous wife. It's all very eighties, but that just adds to the fun. A nice little flick, though not for every taste. "},{"Title":"It has great moments, a clear plot, and Jonathan Demme, yes!","Date":"2 August 2004","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This has to be one of Michelle Pfeiffer's best performances, she totally nailed the part! Dean Stockwell couldn't be more perfect for the role. There was a moment when the FBI arrived at the Honeymoon suite, and he turned and snapped his fingers, his response was so immediate, so realized that it became supreme entertainment. One of the other great moments are when the FBI brothers go B-i-n-g-o wth each other, and it's because Jonathan Demme adds these touches is what makes him so great. Mercedes Ruel is dynamite too. Pfeiffer's boyfriend acted a little too awkward but was still very right for the part. The more stale and formulated plot is what abled this movie's story to be so clear and over the top. When deleted scenes were cut into credit sequences in the end it felt beautiful and brilliantly cheerful. Great movie, great performances, great director. "}{"Title":"Married to the Mob-Underworld Hilarity ***1/2","Date":"7 April 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Whatever happened to Matthew Modine and Mercedes Ruehl? They were excellent here.This is a very funny film regarding the underworld. Michelle Pfeiffer is the girl who married a mafia man, played briefly by Alec Baldwin. Baldwin takes a bullet from crime boss, Tony Russo, played with extreme relish by Dean Stockwell. Stockwell merited a best supporting actor Oscar nomination for his wonderful portrayal. Russo kills Frankie (Baldwin) and then comes on to his widow. (Michelle Pfeiffer) She is ethical in that she wanted to lead a better life than living among the mobsters with their vicious wives. As Stockwell's insanely jealous wife, Mercedes Ruehl carries the day here.Matt Modine is the FBI agent who falls for Angie (Pfeiffer) and she soon is coerced by the FBI to work for them in nabbing Russo.This is basically another funny gangster film and it succeeds. "},{"Title":"Good fun.","Date":"25 June 2001","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  It ain't Shakespeare, that's true, but it is a light and breezy romp.  Pfieffer and Modine and Baldwin and Dean Stockwell are all having a great time with this 'dissatisfied mob wife' tale, and you will too. Interesting to watch this in the light of the sopranos- they are like loopy relatives somehow. Demme went on to greater, darker films (silence of the lambs, philadelphia) but I still enjoy his lighter period. So will you.     "},{"Title":"The funniest mob flick I've ever seen","Date":"26 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" I can't get enough of this flick! The first time that I watched it, I was a little girl and I love it even more now as an adult. Okay, so it's not one of Pfeiffer's best movies, but it's still good. A delightful mob satire, it's almost non-stop laughs. Mercedes Ruehl stole the show. She had the best lines, especially during the grocery store scene. She's the generic ball-busting mafia wife with the best one-liners on film since Dirty Harry. Seriously, I kept on flipping through the flick just to watch the scenes with her over and over again. She's the best! Dean Stockwell is also pretty good in this, a very charming and rakish version of Tony Soprano. And Angela's Caribbean friend was also a nice touch. Watch this movie if you need cheering up! "},{"Title":"Amusing Mob Comedy","Date":"26 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" A recently widowed mafia wife seeks a fresh start, but must deal with romantic overtures from a mob boss as well as an undercover FBI agent who's tailing her. Pfeiffer is wonderful as the woman who can't escape the mob life. Also good is Stockwell as the mob boss who makes the move on Pfeiffer. Modine, however, is miscast as an FBI agent on the case. The role calls for charm, but Modine is so geeky and awkward that it's hard to believe that Pfeiffer would fall for him. Baldwin, who plays Pfeiffer's husband, would have fared better in the Modine role. The supporting cast features a number of familiar faces. Demme provides the breezy direction. "},{"Title":"Not terribly funny...but fun !!","Date":"13 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" In my attempts to catch up with films I did not see during their original theatrical release, I have reached the point of viewing Married to the Mob, a film that I have heard about, but have never seen until to-day, some 22 years post-release. Was in no hurry to see it, and did not know what to expect. On the VHS cover it was called ...Godfather on laughing gas...by one reviewer. Well, it was hardly that intense. The comedy in this film is rather subtle for the most part...because this film is not necessarily populated by comedians. But...I was pleasantly surprised. Michelle Pfeiffer gave a pretty good performance as a vulnerable mob wife who is, very deep inside, a decent caring person. Her husband is whacked by a mob boss, who immediately begins to make moves on Pfeiffer, despite the fact that he is married. His wife is a jealous, insecure basket case who would rather see him dead than see him with another woman. Pfeiffer moves away and tries to start all over...but to not much avail. But she does not know that the mob boss is the target of the FBI and other agencies who want to nail him...and at first they wanted to also nail her, until she unknowingly falls for one of the agents who discovers the truth about her innocence. The film has its moments, and I guess there are some funny moments in this piece of celluloid, but not enough to really qualify it as a comedy. No side-splitting humor, just funny characters and situations that are not fully taken advantage of. Pfeiffer's portrayal is one of the reasons to watch the film...and the jealous wife of the mob boss has to be seen to be believed. Not a bad flick overall, and I did not think I was going to like it at all. But I did like it...mind you, I said Like...not Love. It is a worthwhile watch...and you don't need to be Married to the Mob to have a little fun...thank goodness it has not come to that just yet. "},{"Title":"a nutty little screwball comedy, a high point for the actors mostly","Date":"11 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" A movie sometimes, actually, most of the time, needs a nudge in the right casting direction. For Married to the Mob, we have Michelle Pfeiffer and Dean Stockwell in two big roles, and others for Matthew Modine and Mercedes Ruehl to sink their teeth into, too. Each actor takes over the role in his or her own way, and makes these characters into well-rounded people. The key for Jonathan Demme is this people. They're not simply cartoon figures in a farce, but like in a good ol' screwball comedy from the days of Cary Grant, we got a premise and story that begs for actors who are so smart that they can get playing dumb, or just off-kilter or a little deranged. When we see Pfeiffer here, we believe that she's at a crossroads in her life, and she doesn't play it for laughs. Instead, she lets others around her go more over the top. In another story, she would be just as believable as an uncertain widow with a past she'd rather forget.And yes, Dean Stockwell is here in another gob-smackingly good acting gig (he even got an unlikely supporting actor nod for it). There's something about the guy that is just a little creepy, not really his fault, per-say, except that it's something in his eyes, his mannerisms, the way he'll glance at a character he doesn't trust or has something really to say to. He did this perfectly in his one scene in Blue Velvet, and to a more restrained extent in Tucker The Man & His Dream. Here, however, he goes to town as a mob-boss caricature, but he also doesn't do ALL of the heavy lifting. He is still subtle compared to Ruehl's turn as Russo's wife, who has insane jealousy (and rightfully so, perhaps, if not so far as she goes), and is so over the top that she does her best to chew scenery every which way she can.So then, with a good premise, and some fine supporting actors (Alec Baldwin has a few decent moments too), what's the problem? I think, perhaps, Demme wasn't always sure how to take the comedy where it needed to go. The script has the characters playing up behavior, which works well when, for example, Modine's Mike Smith is caught in a rock and a hard place in going out on a date with Angela. But other set-pieces sort of fall flat, and the ending is unsatisfying (especially irritating is Demme's decision to put in deleted clips from the film in the end credits, his way of doing 'outtakes'). And some of the dialog is over-cooked, making the actors strain to make it credible consistently.But Married to the Mob is fun within a certain frame of mind. It plays up some clichés like it's going out of style (which is sort of did) and leaves out others, and you may enjoy seeing the actors enjoying themselves in the scenes. It's a lighthearted affair, with touches of appropriate mob violence, and David Byrne of the Talking Heads doing the music! "},{"Title":"A 1980s Stylistic Chameleon of Glitz, Grit, Creativity and Stale Cliché","Date":"28 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" The only problem with Married to the Mob is that it is not funny. It dresses up exactly like a romantic comedy, but almost nothing that happens is funny. But if you can look at it as a film where almost nothing funny happens, then you'll have a really good time. It's a glitzy mob film, too, as per the title. Extremely glitzy. But the director, Jonathan Demme, is one of the few prevailing cult directors who fully and completely embraced the 1980s in his work from that decade rather than understandably pretending it was still the 1970s.The opening credits combine 1980s animation, Italian-Americanism and mise-en-scene lathered on top of each other at once. From there, despite 1980sness, it feels about right. The lighting by Demme's frequent cinematographer Tak Fujimoto and jukebox soundtrack rife with widely varying pop and alternative jams are gaudy and that is indeed controlled and nuanced as part of the atmosphere. Demme is good at colorful instant characterizations in his visual and sometimes seemingly impetuous composition of a fun mix of styles, a plot that could've gone any which way, where a smooth FBI agent, played by a very bland Matthew Modine, trying to infiltrate a mafia family, sees a chance when a gun moll, played with come-hither allure by Michelle Pfeiffer, tries to leave the criminal lifestyle after her trigger-man husband, in just what you would hope for in an Alec Baldwin performance, is wacked.The way it goes works for awhile, because Demme seems to have a firm hand on the wheel. He knows the significance of showing us the very subjective and relatable life-at-home scenes with Pfeiffer, as well as her cares and longings as a morally conflicted mom, although her relationship with son Joey is taken a bit for granted. What mobster's son is listening to party-pooper mom when dad's boss, played with Dean Stockwell's trademark naturalness and by far the scene-stealing stand-out of the cast, is giving him such awesome gifts? On the whole though, Demme's lathered-on stylizations are easily viewed as a novel take on a fun crime thriller tale.Ultimately, though, we find we've been going the wrong way, because inevitably, Modine and Pfeiffer have to fall in love. That's not inherently bad, and every here and there it actually feels bearable, but as a romantic subplot, it is not handled interestingly, or well, hardly at all because it hopscotches across various sundry clichés, which fulfill the initial expectation of a cheesy 1980s date flick, and for that audience, I think it has just the right impact. But for someone who has found themselves genuinely interested in the story and the aesthetic approach, it is a let-down into state of tedium.So it's a decent movie with huge missteps at certain points, but as a date movie or a nostalgic piece for those who grew up in the '80s, perhaps saw a lot of date movies in the '80s, the entertainment value is not as likely to fluctuate, except for said deficit in true laughs. There maybe a few scoffs, and it's very broadly tongue-in-cheek, but I wouldn't leave the comedy aisle with the high hopes with which I'd have initially entered. Whatever the case anyway, there are additional joys in bit roles by great character actors who have by now begun to fade, like Nancy Travis, Joan Cusack and Oliver Platt. "},{"Title":"Successful Comedy Thriller","Date":"3 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" This isn't bad, considering. That is, considering that it's still ANOTHER comedy thriller about the Mafia. The men lust after each other's wives and girl friends, drive monstrous cars, wear splashy suits and two-toned shoes, are dutifully sad at the funerals of their own victims, have mothers who bawl over them, pack pistols, move everywhere in squads, and are haunted by the FBI. The women are friendly but keep a wary eye on their men. They wear their hair in curly fright wigs, sport rings with stones the size of Plymouth rock, are covered in bangles, and visit the beauty salons daily. Everybody speaks with a working-class New York accent. When, if ever, will this genre run out of steam? When will it dwindle to a palpitating point and vanish for another generation? Alec Baldwin is doing Dean Stockwell's girl friend and when Stockwell finds out he disposes of Baldwin in a spritzbad. Stockwell then contracts a case of the hots for Baldwin's widow, Michelle Pfeiffer, and pursues her even as she tries to escape to a crummy flat in Queens and establish an anonymous existence for herself and her boy. At the same time, Stockwell's wife, Mercedes Ruehl, is having epileptiform seizures over the fancy that Stockwell is doing Pfeiffer. Meanwhile, Mathew Modine is an FBI undercover agent who is bugging Pfeiffer's apartment to get evidence on Stockwell and insinuating himself into her life and -- well, it all leads to a climactic shoot out in one of those giant and thoroughly vulgar Miami hotels with multi-room suites the color of moonstones.It all comes together pretty well. There is no credit for dialog coach, though maybe there should have been. Michelle only blows it once, when she asks Modine if he would like something to eat. It should have been sump'n, not something. Most of the acting credit goes to Mercedes Ruehl as Stockwell's pistol-packing wife. Hers is the most flamboyant performance in a flamboyant role in a flamboyant picture.All the more applause is due to the cast who are not named DeNiro, Pacino, Pesci, DeVito, Spinelli, Liota, Bracco, or Gandolfini. The appointment -- the accents, the gestures, the expressions -- are by now so familiar that they can be easily imitated even by Italian-Americans.'EY -- whadda ya tink, we're all giadruls heah? Fugeddabout it. "},{"Title":"agreeably dumb. unique, and quite beautiful, in it's own way","Date":"25 March 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" this is no great shakes as a comedy or as anything else, there are maybe two or three lines in this whole film that will even make you laugh, and even those are pretty dumb. the whole thing is quite inoffensive, though, and agreeably dopey (in a rather knowing way). Married to the Mob is probably Demme's most sheerly beautiful film, physically - it has an exquisite look to it, capturing the mob milieu with an exquisite tackiness rivalled only by Scorsese's Casino. And Demme really knows how to put together a cast - there's not a deadbeat or a lame, Susan Clark-type actor in the bunch, and while they really have very little to work with here, they make the whole dumb enterprise just that much more likable. And Dean Stockwell is great. "},{"Title":"A trip down memory lane part 2","Date":"11 January 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Married To The Mob was one of the first VHS tapes that I had along with Coming To America and Grease. I still have fond memories of this film after all these years. Hell, I still have the VHS of this film in good condition.The story Undercover cop Mike Downey(Matthew Modine)is sent to spy on Angela De Marco(Michelle Pfeiffer) the wife of the slain mafia member Frank Cucumber De Marco(Alec Baldwin). He later falls in love with her after he realizes that she is innocent in all this. Angela not only has to deal with the unwanted advances of mob boss Tony The Tiger Russo(Dean Stockwell), she also has to deal with his jealous wife Connie Russo(Mercedes Ruehl).Married To The Mob is funny and still keeps your interest when its not trying to be funny. I like the little jabs it takes at mafia life(the jealous mafia wife, the mob boss that doesn't realize that he is not a chick magnet etc) and you like the characters of Angela De Marco and Mike Downey. It was the last of the funny phase of Johnathan Demme before he got serious and gave you gems like Philadelphia and Silence Of The Lambs(best thriller of all time). If you're in the mood for comedy, Married To The Mob is a keeper. Its better than the rubbish that passes for comedy nowadays(Epic Movie, Date Movie, Meet The Spartans, Disaster Movie etc). "}{"Title":"Top Ten","Date":"1 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" I'm surprised with the amount of negative reviews on this film. If you don't like this movie for what it is - a silly, over-the-top, mob story - then you are simply reading too much into it. This film is a classic tale of a mob wife trying to escape the life and the troubles that follow her. Michelle Pfeiffer is terrificly 80's 'jersey, who is an uncertain, uncomfortable mob wife while Matthew Modine is an anal retentive-like mob tracking cop who falls for her. The plot is mostly predictable and cutesy and Mercedes Ruel steals the show as the Queen of Mob Wives. If you aren't looking for something too dynamic and complex, this movie is absolutely entertaining and an 80's cult classic. You won't be able to stop watching if you start. "},{"Title":"It doesn't have to go over the top just to be funny.","Date":"10 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Strange but acceptable mob comedy that has an undercover FBI agent (Matthew Modine) flirting with a mobster's concerned widow (Michelle Pfeffier) to tie two murders on a elusive mob boss (Dean Stockwell).The movie shows that it doesn't have to go over the top just to be funny and director Jonathan Demme (The Silence of the Lambs, Philadelphia) keeps the movie from looking like it being was restrained.  That's good and it avoids being predictiable, too.  "},{"Title":"A gem from Demme","Date":"1 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This screen gem from director Jonathan Demme is definitely worth a look for those of you who may have missed it the first time around. Long before she started performing atop pianos; cracking bullwhips dressed all in leather or teaching dangerous minds Michelle Pfeiffer played Angela DeMarco. Complete with big hair, hoop earrings and a Long Island accent. Seems poor Angela wants out of her marriage to Frankie DeMarco (Alec Baldwin). But even when he gets knocked permanantly out of the picture by Mob Boss Tony Russo(Dean Stockwell) her problems are just starting. It seems Mr Russo has a thing for Angela. He also has an insanely jealous wife(Mercedes Rhuel). On the other hand is a nice nerdish FBI agent(Matthew Modine) who just happens to be investigating Angela for possible involvment in her husband's death. All this and trying to find a job and raise her son. Director Demme manages to perfectly combine humor and menace. Michelle Pfeiffer shines in the lead role and is matched step by step from the supporting cast. Catch this one if you can. "},{"Title":"It's so Eighties!","Date":"22 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  If you're looking for a not-so-serious mob movie, with a female as the lead, you're in the right place. Pfieffer has acted much better than this. You can see she has matured beyond this picture.When I first picked this movie up, I expected Pfeiffer was poorly miscast, however,  she plays her mob wife role to the hilt. Not a bad performance from Baldwin, either.If you don't pay attention to the hair, you might enjoy this movie. But don't take it too seriously...  "},{"Title":"Following In Ava's And Marilyn's Footsteps...","Date":"29 November 2007","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" What happened to Ava Gardner in the 1940s and Marilyn Monroe in the '50s also seemed to take place for modern-day actress Michelle Pfeiffer in the '80s Her remarkable good looks got in the way of her being taken seriously as an accomplished, superbly talented actress. Anyone looking for validation of Pfeiffer's dramatic abilities need look no further than her work in 1991's Frankie and Johnny or '92's Love Field (a personal favorite of mine); those looking to see what a splendid comedic actress she can be, when given the right part, should check out 1988's Married to the Mob. In this one, she plays Angela Demarco, the widow of a recently iced Mob hit-man, who moves from her garishly tacky Long Island home to start a new life for herself and her son, while being pursued by Mob boss Dean Stockwell and FBI man Matthew Modine. While this movie has lots going for it (a very amusing script; offbeat characters; sudden sharp turns to unexpected violence, as in director Jonathan Demme's previous effort Something Wild; and hilarious yet menacing performances by Stockwell and Mercedes Ruehl, as his jealous wife from hell), Michelle steals the show easily. Notice how perfectly she nails Angela's undereducated, Long Island Italian accent, and the many fine mannerisms that she brings to the role to really flesh out this spunky and surprisingly bright character. Once upon a time, long ago, Oscars were handed out to actresses for comedic roles such as this one. Had this film been made 60 years ago, Michelle mighta been a contenduh... "},{"Title":"Leaves too weird of a taste in your mouth","Date":"2 January 2009","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Have you ever tried a kind of food that your friend made, and then said to yourself, wow, that was not a good mix? Well, that is how I felt after watching this film.Many viewers will be left highly uncomfortable with this weird mix of crime and very, very corny comedy. Its almost like watching Mr. Rogers play a ruthless gangster, very weird. Some things just don't mix and this film clearly proves that.There are some very good performances here, as Dean Stockwell, Mercedes Ruhle, and Alec Baldwin are all excellent, but that doesn't make up for the lack of balance and symmetry in the film.Jonathan Demme has done some excellent work in films such as Silence of the Lambs and Philadelphia, but seems to be out of his element with this one. "},{"Title":"The Italian Perspective","Date":"29 October 2005","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" First, don't be fooled by my family name. My mother was full blooded Italian, so I really know Italian families, and I LOVE mobster movies, even the funny ones like this.For those people who have bad rapped this film (you know who you are) you should have your movie privileges taken from you because you don't know what good is. This is a damn funny and well-styled film. The fact that almost nobody is Italian in it is part of the joke, so far as I can see. And what red-blooded straight male could complain about spending an hour and something with the likes of Michelle Pfieffer? Puh-lease! When I saw this film it won me over with the opening song by Rosemary Clooney who was as Irish as one can get, but her pronunciation of the Italian words in Mambo Italiano is flawless and sets the tone of what is to follow perfectly. (Hell, I even bought the record the next day because of it.) Just the look of every garish thing in the apartment that I have personally seen in my relatives houses, though not in the same place (which I found hysterical) sold it for me.This movie is like Goodfellas on laughing gas. I just wonder why there are no Burger Worlds and what happened to the food these guys were supposed to get? My guess is the crew ate it. The Fries are crispy. The shakes are creamy. My mouth is watering almost as much as it is thinking of the gorgeous Ms. Pfieffer. (And I never trusted clowns anyway.) And the three best things about this film are Mercedes Ruehl's achingly funny mob wife spurned, Dean Stockwell as her philandering husband Tony The Tiger and last, but DEFINITELY not least, the great mugging by Oliver Platt who should get more comic roles. And note to myself find out where that black chick went. Ouch! Why does she work so infrequently? This picture is right alongside the great mob movies as it should be. "},{"Title":"Silly 80's gangster movie with some highlights","Date":"5 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Came across this the other day on TV and what drew my attention right away was a young Alec Baldwin and Michelle Pfeiffer and her dreamy eyes and 80s fashion and then you start hearing some 80s music from New Order and it's like okay I'm hooked.But the movie got worse as it went along it seemed.It had some awesome potential but it seemed like the directors intention was to make this movie silly.Don't get me wrong I have nothing against silly but I really think this movie could have been a great smart comedy.This movie is saved somewhat by Michelle, you're drawn by how beautiful she looked in this film while trying to convey trashy gangster wife, and the acting overall in this movie is pretty good, you see lots of generic mobster acting mannerisms that were the style of the time which you sometimes still see till recently in the Sopranos for example. If you're going to into this movie looking for some silly fun and a 80s period piece than you will like it. "},{"Title":"Whose husband are you, dogface?","Date":"24 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Mafia widow Michelle Pfeiffer tries to start over, away from her late husband's criminal life. She moves into a crummy apartment on the bad side of town with her son and gets a job as a hairdresser. Meanwhile, she is followed by horny mafia boss Dean Stockwell out to sleep with her and undercover FBI agent Matthew Modine trying to nab Stockwell. Somewhat inevitably, Modine falls for Pfeiffer and things become complicated. Mostly light dramedy with a great cast. I've seen it called a screwball comedy but I can't really agree with that. It has too many serious moments for a screwball, I think. Pfeiffer is wonderful and owns the movie. Stockwell is also good with a fun performance by Mercedes Ruehl as his jealous wife. It's no classic but worth a look. "},{"Title":"Jonathan Demme comedy not that funny","Date":"8 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" On the outside, Angela (Michelle Pfeiffer) and Frank de Marco (Alec Baldwin) is living a suburban life. But Frank is part of the mob. Angela is tired of the insular life of a mob wife, and wants to have just a normal life. She wants a divorce. Tony 'The Tiger' Russo (Dean Stockwell) is the boss. Both Tony and Frank have the same mistress Karen (Nancy Travis). So Tony kills them both and tries to move in on Angela as his new mistress but she moves away. Mike Downey (Matthew Modine) and Ed Benitez (Oliver Platt) are FBI agents who wonders if Angela is the new mistress.Director Jonathan Demme is making a comedy. I don't find much of it funny. I guess it's not that kind of ha-ha comedy. It uses all the mob stereotypes. Michelle Pfeiffer is accessing her inner Guido. It's an OK movie. Maybe it could have been better as a thrilling drama. As a comedy, I'm not sure at what or why we would be laughing. "}{"Title":"A fun film but short of screwball quality","Date":"4 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Some reviewers have called this a screwball comedy. It did have some zany scenes, but all fell short of reaching the screwball level. Still, it was an enjoyable movie to watch. Michelle Pfeifer and Matthew Modine were good in their roles. But the laughs came mostly from Dean Stockwell and Mercedes Ruehl as Tony and Connie Russo. More work on a script and better direction could have boosted the funny scenes a couple notches. Then Married to the Mob would have been closer to the mold of the great screwball comedies of the early decades of filmdom. While it's an OK film for a laugh by adults, it's not a comedy for the whole family. The light-hearted treatment and scenes of the several gun-shootings earn this film its R rating. "},{"Title":"They don't call Him Franky the Cucumber for nothing.","Date":"22 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Outrageous and Subtle this is a Comedy for the Anti-Adam-Sandler Crowd. Sophisticated, Witty, and Charming it is Everything that Most Modern Comedies Lack, just a Little bit of Intelligence Please. There isn't a Body Excretion Joke within a Mile of this Screwiness.The Cast is Superb with Michelle Pfeiffer and Dean Stockwell Standing Out and is so Good that poor Talentless Matthew Modine is so Glaringly Inept that it is Embarrassing. Director Jonathan Demme is in Fine Form and the Movie is a Garishly Grotesque Display as it Pokes Fun at the 1980's Outrageous Fashion Template Contemporaneously and that is a Sign of Genius and Second Sight.It is a quite Dry Comedy that Tends to be in Restraint and might have been Even Better Amped Up a Notch, but Maybe Not. It Works Well as is and most will have a Good Time with this Mob Comedy that Today 25 Years Later may seem Dated but Truth Wins Out, because this was made well in Advance of these Situations becoming so Familiar.Wonderfully Offbeat, Breezy, and Inoffensive, this along with the Director's Similarly Styled Something Wild (1986) would make a Great Double Feature. "},{"Title":"Married to the Mob","Date":"21 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" From director Jonathan Demme (The Silence of the Lambs, Philadelphia), this thriller comedy may not have had much for me to laugh at, but it was a good film none the less. Basically Angela De Marco (Golden Globe nominated Michelle Pfieffer) is unhappily married to high Mafia member Frank 'The Cucumber' De Marco (Alec Baldwin), and it is when he is killed that she wants to break free from the Mafia world entirely and start a new life. But Frank's boss, Tony 'The Tiger' Russo (Oscar nominated Dean Stockwell) manages to find and court her, so the FBI begins surveillance on her, thinking she is his mistress. She forms a close relationship with neighbour Mike Downey (Matthew Modine), who is actually an undercover FBI agent, it is just a question of can she get away from the lifestyle she has lived in for so long. Also starring The Fisher King's Mercedes Ruehl as Connie Russo, Trey Wilson as FBI Field/Regional Director Franklin, Joan Cusack as Rose Boyle, Ellen Foley as Theresa, Eraser's Oliver Platt as Ed Benitez, Anthony J. Nici as Joey De Marco, Charles Napier as Ray - Angela's Hairdresser and Mars Attacks! star O-Lan Jones as Phyllis. There are some good violent moments, the jokes aren't very noticeable, and the performances by Pfieffer, Modine and Stockwell are very good. Good! "},{"Title":"problematic mob comedy","Date":"4 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" A beautiful mafia widow; a lecherous mob boss; his hot-tempered Italian wife; and an FBI whiz kid ad them all together with a soundtrack by David Byrne and you have another hip-to-distraction romantic comedy from director Jonathan Demme. The pace is swift; the characters are colorful; and the film benefits from a winning performance by Michelle Pfeiffer as the reluctant moll who wants to go straight. But underneath the cosmetic gloss are too many cracks (if not quite holes) in the plot, and at least one serious flaw the casting of boyish Matthew Modine as a romantic leading man. Demme is, as usual, adept at juggling offhand humor with incidental violence, but the story moves in fits and starts, although there's a clue to suggest the script itself isn't entirely to blame over the closing credits are tantalizing glimpses of outtakes which might have filled in the narrative blanks. "},{"Title":"Very dark gangster comedy starring Pfeiffer and Modine.","Date":"30 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  The following review contains MAJOR SPOILERS, do not read if you haven't seen Married to the Mob yet.To establish genre, the film starts with Frank the cucumber (Alec Baldwin)and a cronie on a commuter train into the NYC suburbs, and they execute the man sitting in front of them as the train stops. They simply get off, trade pleasantries, just another job. Then we see Frank and his family at home, with wife Angela (Michelle Pfeiffer). Quickly we learn that the boss, Tony The Tiger (Dean Stockwell) is even more of a cucumber (sticks every woman he can) and after an evening with his girl Karen, gets suspicious when she wants to stick around after he leaves the hotel room, waits to find Frank coming to bang her next, so he executes both of them.All that sets up the rest of the movie which is Mike (Matthew Modine), the FBI agent, trying to trap Angela, all the while Angela is trying to make a life on her own, but realizing in reality she can't beacause she is married to the mob.  Bugs are planted, surveillance photos taken, disguises assumed. The climax is during a trip to Miami and, although the police have the area surrounded, it is Tony's wife, Connie, who shows up finding him and Angela in the same honeymoon suite, and she does more damage than any police team could do.It is a comedy, and in many places a very sweet one when it examines the budding attraction that agent Mike and mob wife Angela are having for each other. In a pivotal scene at about 103 into the DVD, Mike realizes Angela is completely innocent, and at her place curls up beside her where they go to sleep. No clothes are taken off, no sex is suggested, and they wake up fully clothed. That scene conveyed more than any pseudo-sex scene could have. At the very end, we see that Angela and Mike have a genuine affection for the other and the romance will be given a chance.The film is entertaining mainly for Pfeiffer (she sure was at her prime at age 30), Modine, and Stockwell.  The DVD has a good picture, but the sound is only Stereo surround, and there are no extras but the original trailer. "},{"Title":"WOW!!!!","Date":"29 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I always knew Jonathan Demme would find it hard to top this masterpieces, and I was right. This film is so much fun, because the actors, they play with so much fun. It is about a girl who is married to the mob. It is the best film Krist Swanson, Jeff Daniels and Billy Baldwin will ever star in, even than there earliest work. It not be sophistication, but its so very very funny, and I like this -) "},{"Title":"Worth watching for Stockwell","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I'm not a fan of this brand of comedy - stereotyped characters over-acting their way through a cops and robbers farce.  But there are enough likable characters to sustain interest.  Michelle Pfeiffer is adorable, but the person really carrying the film is Dean Stockwell, who steals every scene as the head mobster (named Tony, no less).  Stockwell's performance is the reason I'm writing this review (and the only reason I'd recommend it), in fact.  You'll be tickled by his screen time.  He's plays the mob boss perfectly, with comedic touches in the right places, managing to avoid becoming an overbearing cliche.  In fact, Stockwell's a complete delight to watch - a master of the 'double take,' and a real 'looker' in those classy suits and fedoras.   Meesa Says A good film to watch while folding laundry or eating leftovers.   "},{"Title":"Mobsters should never marry","Date":"7 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Nicely done evil little comedy pitting the FBI against organized crime with a nice lady caught in the middle. The actress who played the jealous wife of the mob boss 'Tony the Tiger' almost stole the show with her raging tantrums. 3 stars "},{"Title":"Pfeiffer as a mob wife","Date":"10 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Michelle Pfeiffer stars as a mob widow who seeks a normal life but has her hands full with the new boss and an undercover agent. A lighthearted Demme film with some good laughs and Pfeiffer in a comical role that she has fun with..on a scale of one to ten..8 "},{"Title":"Loopy mobster comedy with squirrelly moments but not enough jokes","Date":"14 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" After her shady mobster husband is rubbed-out, Michelle Pfeiffer tries to cut ties with her past and make an independent life for herself and her young son, but Mafia don Dean Stockwell doesn't want her to get away. Schizophrenic comedy-drama from director Jonathan Demme is excessively barbed, edgy, and uncertain in tone (set-pieces that should be hilarious aren't--such as the sequence with all the Mafia wives in the supermarket--and just when a moment is about to take off, a violent undercurrent spoils the fun). Nearly every character is written and played for over-the-top laughs, but these people are not amusing on looks alone, and Demme doesn't allow the comedic momentum to build (he keeps the secondary characters flailing about, while scenes are pared down into frantic bits of business; Demme has already made up his mind how we're supposed to feel for this assembly long before we even know their agendas). After hobbling through a laborious opening, the movie does eventually pick up steam. Stockwell and torturous wife Mercedes Ruehl overdo it, but Pfeiffer is fresh and appealing--she does more for the movie than it does for her. ** from **** "}{"Title":"Very overrated","Date":"19 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" I watched this movie for the first time a few weeks ago, and It was quite possibly one of the most boring, unfunny films I ever had the misfortune of seeing. First of all Matthew Modine is a terrible actor, and ruined most of the movie, on top of that, the plot is just way too silly. The only reason a checked into this film was because of Alec Baldwin, and his character was eliminated pretty quickly. Unless you are a fan of Michelle Phiffer you should probably avoid this movie like the plague. Many people can't praise this film enough, but I just cannot figure out what people find so terrific about it. If its supposed to be the black humor that makes this film so terrific, then I guess anything can pass for comedy these days. "},{"Title":"Funny idea but badly executed. (pardon pun)","Date":"7 September 2004","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Overrated mob comedy. Director Demme makes the actors pause after some funny lines to let audience laugh, and not miss next line. Seems odd - this director did Silence of The Lambs - now there's the way to use pauses! Casting seems off. Mathew Modine too young for FBI agent and Pfeiffer's love interest! Dean Stockwell is doing a Jack Nicholson-thing with a squint, and he gets a nomination for it! Plus we have to accept Pfeiffer and Stockwell as Italians? Charles Napier as a hairdresser and Al Lewis as a mob lawyer are underused with only one line each - they should be the bumbling hoods. Song score by Chris Isaak is totally out of place - better for a flick like Pretty In Pink. Re-make this movie, it's worth it, but with proper casting and director and the satire will come through... even the often repeated Forgedaboutit.  "},{"Title":"Nothing wrong with it... except it's just not very funny","Date":"25 February 2000","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Before hitting international acclaim with The Silence of the Lambs, director Jonathan Demme cut his teeth making quirky comedies. This was one of them and like quite a few Oscar winning American comedies I could mention, it has a fine concept, is well paced, has great performances, a complicated romance. but it just simply isn't very funny. Pfeiffer is mob widow who moves to the city backwaters after her husband (Baldwin) is murdered. The crime boss who killed him (Stockwell) takes a fancy to Pfeiffer, his wife (Reuhl) is furious and to complicate matters Pfeiffer also falls for the cop who is trailing her. All of this should have been a laugh a minute. Pfeiffer, sporting a hefty wig is excellent as the widow, as is the hyperactive Ruehl and Modine is good too as the nice cop. But the script is simply devoid of one-liners, wit, humour or punch lines of the verbal or physical kind that this kind of film demands. The result is it raises smiles at best rather than guffaws. It oozes charm, but is tediously short on humour. "},{"Title":"Not bad, not good-just there.","Date":"22 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" I don't know what it is about Michelle Pfeifer movies. I am a fan of hers and like her as an actress but seem to be very bored by many of her movies. Married to the mob is, maybe not terrible but I didn't see what the fuss was all about. I remember what a big deal this flick was when it came out. Although, certain scenes were quirky and funny, I found my attention wandering more often then not. Maybe I just couldn't buy Michelle as a mobster's wife. In any event, as far as this movie goes, I wouldn't call it truly awful or even not good. Certain scenes are funny and Michelle gives it her all but I didn't see anything outstanding in this and thought it was way over-hyped.I guess the more interested one is in the plot, the more one will like this movie. To me, it was decent enough to pass the time, but nothing I'd want to see again. I'd give it 5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"misshapen","Date":"14 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" This is a very strange product from Hollywood. Apparently it didn't test well because actors who have footage in the credits have been edited completely out of the movie, which means a hasty cut job was done on it. It feels like it was wrestled out of the usually competent Demme's hands, and just thrown away. On the other and it is so totally lacking in substance that maybe nothing could save it. It has no real center, either narratively or time wise. Although it says the running time is 92 minutes, I seem to recall it ending abruptly, around the 80 minute mark. It's over before it even gets going. It's pretty much laugh free.The merits of the Matthew Modine picture were as elusive then as the Luke Wilson picture is now. "},{"Title":"A Weak, Unfunny Comedy","Date":"10 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I seem to remember a lot of hype about this movie when it came out, but had avoided seeing it throughout the years. I wish I'd waited longer. Maybe this movie was funny in 1988, I don't know. I was younger then, but it didn't seem like the world was that different. Michelle Pfeiffer, lovely as she is, is never convincing. Mercedes Ruehl not only chews scenery, but stuffs it in her cheeks like a gerbil to save for later. Dean Stockwell is about as convincing as a mob boss as James Gandolfini would be as principal dancer for the Bolshoi. And Matthew Modine demonstrated the most pronounced case of delayed puberty I've ever seen. All in all, it's not bad enough to make you want to pluck out your eyes with a melon-baller, but it's not far off. "},{"Title":"OK, but not really that funny","Date":"24 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Not as funny as I thought it would be. By now, of course, the mob family angst thing has been played to death, in Analyze This and The Sopranos, etc. Michelle Pfeiffer was beautiful, and pretty good. She could have maybe done a few more comedies back then, it might have helped her some, but of course now her career has hit that point where her age becomes a larger and larger factor. Too bad, because she was so great, and I'm sure she still is. Alec Baldwin was OK, but Dean Stockwell did not even pull of his part. However, his badness was dwarfed by that of Matthew Modine. I understand that this is a comedy, and that absolute realism doesn't necessarily apply, but Modine could never, NEVER, be mistaken for an FBI agent. Nancy Travis was so cute, it's too bad she didn't have a larger part. Haven't seen much from her lately, and that's too bad. Anyway, this well-reviewed film was, in my opinion, just barely OK. "},{"Title":"Too hip for its own good?","Date":"17 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Many people miss the point of Married to the Mob, viewing it in conventional comedy terms, when in actuality it's a deadpan downtown film (in the way of say Desperately Seeking Susan is a downtown movie). It has a hip sensibility; I call it a punk fairytale, with Pfeiffer as the 80's Italian princess. Mercedes Ruehl is memorable as the possessive, queen-bee wife of Stockwell. All the characters are deliberate stereotypes and played straight, but everything is skewed with Demme's hipster outlook. Pfeiffer, by the way, does an excellent job with the Long Island accent. I'm from New York City, and her dialog coach really had her nail the word short. (as she's getting a haircut) "},{"Title":"The talent is obvious, but not the point","Date":"11 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  By watching this film you can see the talent that Demme has. He is a gifted film maker. However, you also see a flawed genius if you will. He uses comedy, music, creative camera work, etc.. However, the sad reality is that there is no real story here. Oh sure, the main character is trying to start a new life that does not involve the mob. OK, but what then? She kind of gets pulled back into the old life. And we are kind of interested, but by the end, we really don't care. I really don't think Demme had any idea on how to end this film. He had a neat idea and a whole lot of great actors. This holds up for the first 55 minutes, but no longer. Stockwell and Modine are great. Moreover, the plot line kind of reminds us a little of Something Wild. However, Something Wild had a point, Married to the Mob does not. "},{"Title":"I didn't like it that much","Date":"30 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Angela is not happy with her marriage to Frank.  Their son plays three card monty andknows where his father keeps his gun.  She wants a divorce, but her problems are soon solved unexpectedly.  Tony the Tiger congratulates Frank on the job he did on a train (in the opening scene there is a murder on the train) but soon discovers that Frank is fooling around with Tony's girlfriend.  Tony shows up at Frank's funeral pretending to care, but what he really wants is Angela.Angela gives the house and all its contents to Goodwill and moves with her son and dog to a dump, then starts looking for work.  The FBI wants Tony and keeping track of Angela seems the best way to get to him.  One agent who is sort of a buffoon runs into Angela several times in her building and they hit it off.  Possible romance?  Meanwhile, Tony's wife Connie is jealous.Michelle Pfeiffer is a likeable Angela, but I never really cared that much for Dean Stockwell as Tony.  To me, Stockwell was better in 'Quantum Leap'.  And if this was supposed to be a comedy, it wasn't funny that much of the time.  It was also more violent than I would have liked, though considering there were mobsters, it wasn't really that bad.  The language was also quite potent before editing.  The second half was better than the first, but this movie just didn't do much for me.  A scene near the end looked like it was going to rescue the movie for me, but it didn't. Michelle Pfeiffer "}]