[{"Title":"The most majestic nature film of the century - pure escapism into the subtlety of life!","Date":"29 November 2004","Score":"57 out of 60 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Drama","Review":" We rarely see in our contemporary world simple, subtle films regarding nature which in turn give us a true essence of the meaning and beauty of life. All we absorb out of proportion day by day from watching television and films is the violence, vulnerability and sexual tendencies of the human being. The 60's and 70's were infested with the drugs and sex appeal trend and the 80's crammed more action macho flicks than one can count sheep. However, it was the 90's and the turn of the millennium that exploded into the CGI craze and destroyed the film industry, reducing it into a commercial quick-produce supermarket in which quality films came close to none-existent and where violence was more popular than ever before.A rare example of subtle contemporary masterful film making is 'L'Ours', better known in English translation as 'The Bear'. Jean-Jacques Annaud, the man behind the most extraordinary of prehistoric based films, 'Quest For Fire', stunned the world with his unparalleled mesmerizing vision of a natural world destroyed by man in what virtually is a film without dialogue. Yet it is an experience that will play with your emotions and warm your heart, right up to the chilling finale.The story is set around the 1800's and revolves around an orphaned bear cub and its struggle to survive the harsh wilderness of British Columbia following the death of its mother. Alone and with no survival skills, the bear cub must learn the necessities of life the hard way. That is until it meets a tough, lone, but wounded Grizzly bear whose endeavor to survive is all the same after mountain hunters, blinded by their hunger for wealth, pursue their valuable skins. The two Grizzlies form a bond more powerful than the guns that pursue them in which the cub learns all the hardships of life first hand and grows to stand up for itself against the vast, relentless world that it lives in. Does man, the pursuer, become one with nature and understand the value of life?Very few films without dialogue have captured the imagination that 'The Bear' has inscribed in my memory. Following the film's conclusion, I made a pledge to myself that one day I will be going to British Columbia myself. The cinematography was excruciatingly beautiful - I felt like I was there throughout the whole duration of the picture. The music was so uplifting and poignant throughout, that it completely drained me of my emotions - especially the finale!Tcheky Karyo (famous French actor) playing one of the hunting mountain men who comes to terms with nature, plays his role convincingly, but there was no better performance than that of the starring bear cub and its much larger assistant. Their commanding presence leaves us laughing, crying and despising. All were simply natural expressions and worked on a documentary level, giving this film immaculate credibility.The subtlest of all films I have ever seen, I recommend this to anybody who likes the occasional escape from reality to a world where life makes all the more sense. A definitive addition in my collection and an escape I will be taking for years to come. A masterwork of epic proportions and a classic in its genre. May the film industry bestow upon us more of these pleasures in the near future! "},{"Title":"Possibly The Best 'Animal Film' Ever","Date":"11 January 2007","Score":"48 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Drama","Review":" Almost 20 years later, this remains the best of animal movies I've ever seen - where there is little dialog and animals dominate the screen. The amazing photography with the bears, the stunning cinematography overall and the great landscape (British Columbia) all make this a visual treat. Even better, it's an interesting story and has remained that with each of the viewings I've had of this film since discovering it in the mid '90s.It's a solid adventure story, and the little bear in here is lovable. The bad guys (the hunters) aren't really all that bad, either. The bears' performances are fascinating, simply amazing. It must have taken incredible patience to film this movie.Outside of a couple of damns, there is no profanity and, I would think, is a great film for any age person to see. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"A movie that really cares about animals","Date":"23 June 2000","Score":"46 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Drama","Review":"  The movie really cares about animals as the movie  portrays them in a light that only an animal lover would. I  should know because I love animals. Perhaps the most  telling thing about the movie is it almost made from the viewpoint of a bear. The humans are part of the plot and  are not the plot itself. The movie avoids two mistakes  all  animal movies seem to fall prey to(pun intended) silly talking animals or animal melodrama with significant roles for people. The score is perfect and the closing scene is nothing but heart warming and fulfilling.As a scientist and as a thinking sentient being, the movie portrays bears in the same way science is beginning to.  Feeling and maybe maybe thinking. The only difference  between us and them is a matter of degrees (speech,  tools).They have feelings and thoughts as well.JK "},{"Title":"A rare movie.","Date":"27 February 2003","Score":"33 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Drama","Review":"  I have this on video but have not watched it for quite some time, the other night I watched it again and was of course entranced.  The director has captured perfectly the life of the cub.  If I have one gripe it is the use of a human voice for the emotions of the cub, in many scenes it is fairly obvious that it is a human being trying to express the emotions of the cub at the time.  Secondly, while I understand the storyline of the hunters being integral to the film to be honest I felt that every scene with humans involved was boring beyond belief and I couldn't wait for it to be over.  Overall this movie is a sheer joy to behold and the final scene where the cub finally goes to sleep without nightmares is pure bliss.  You have to live with animals and know animals to realize how impressive this movie is and I firmly believe that the director has captured pure magic on film.  Don't miss it.      "},{"Title":"An Oscar worthy performance by animals","Date":"21 August 2000","Score":"24 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Drama","Review":"  I saw only a small part of this movie on TV recently but found it compelling enough to spend an hour on the Internet trying to find out its title and then rented it as 'The Bear'.It was worth the effort. What a refreshing change from the parade of Hollywood block busters. An orphaned bear cub is the star along with an adult Kodiak bear. They are being hunted by two men with guns and dogs in a breathtaking never ending landscape where no dialogue is needed. Appropriately, one of the few lines of dialogue has one of the hunters refer to himself as a stupid human.I wondered how on earth some of the shots were achieved but not too much, the story is too compelling. The Bear is an enchanting glimpse into a world few people ever witness and a cautionary tale for hunters everywhere. "},{"Title":"I thought it was excellent when I was younger, its even better now that I am older","Date":"14 April 2003","Score":"19 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Drama","Review":"  The Bear was an art film veiled in the guise  of a nature film. I never looked at the roving vistas  and sharp cinematography, because when  I first watched this, I was more concerned  with the bear cub. This is certainly a minimalist  film, but the execution was so well done,  the power of the images speaks more than  the occasional piece of dialogue that is  spoken throughout the movie. While it can  never be described as kids movie, I think  kids might be interested in it due to the very  National Geographic-like quality of the film  (only without the voice overs). While it has  been a long time since I last watched this  film (about four years ago), the interesting  imagery and the simple, yet meaningful story  of survival will always stick with me. "},{"Title":"Great film....","Date":"4 May 2004","Score":"22 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Drama","Review":"  The Bear is a rare film when it comes to the ordinary cinema that we usually view.  The main characters are animals, and the connection we get from them is something no human actor could emulate.  The movie is expertly crafted, especially the direction and the cinematography.  The animal trainers are in a class all their own, making everyone else involved with the film seemingly a lot less talented.  The film, as previously said, isn't for children, despite the PG rating.  It has a fair amount of blood, peril, sadness, and some bear sex!  The film is great though, and I'm so glad I found it at Walfart on DVD for $5.50! *** 1/2 "},{"Title":"Such nice memories...","Date":"23 October 2004","Score":"27 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Drama","Review":" I am very fond of this movie. I watched it for first time when I was a very little kid and loved it. Years later, I watched it again and again I was enchanted. This is, in my opinion, the best film about animals ever made. It is very touching, with big emotional power, very beautiful movie. It has moments in which you can cry and moments, in which you can laugh, moments of high tension and moments, in which you feel the harmony of the nature. The bear cub is very, very cute and the big bear is quite formidable. I have such nice memories of this film, I'm very fond of it. I recommend it to everybody - it is a film about life, and there aren't that many of them.I rarely give a full mark, but here I can do it - 10/10. "},{"Title":"Magnificent Ecological Fable","Date":"1 March 2005","Score":"18 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Drama","Review":" A bear cub loses its mother while being fed. The orphan bear cub follows a huge male bear, being adopted, protected and fed by the adult bear. Meanwhile, two hunters are following the big animal, which tries to evade in the mountainous forest. The Bear is a magnificent ecological fable, having the story developed through the eyes of the bears, which are indeed the lead actors. I have read somewhere that it has been taken four years to Jean-Jacques Annaud prepare such a homage to the nature. Sometimes, the shooting recalls a National Geographic movie. Unfortunately the DVD released in Brazil does not have any information about the preparation of this movie. In the present days, it is hard to point out what computer makes, and what is real in a film, but it seems that the movie was shot using real trained animals. The Bear is another excellent work of the outstanding director Jean-Jacques Annaud and highly recommended as a perfect family entertainment and even to be presented for children in classrooms. My vote is nine.Title (Brazil) O Urso (The Bear) "},{"Title":"the first movie that really impressed me","Date":"16 September 2003","Score":"17 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Drama","Review":"  A difficult bet to make a movie with animals as actors. And however, Jean-Jacques Annaud managed to take up the challenge with guts and determination. His efforts were rewarded because his movie won three oscars in France in 1989 including the Best Director.The story of the film is plain and simple and the movie succeeds in creating an intense emotion thanks partly to Philippe Sarde's music and the strength of a few sequences. I think notably about the death of the bear cub's mother at the beginning of the movie. It's a very harrowing and touching sequence and it's difficult to refrain his tears.Landscapes are so gorgeous that they're taking the breath away (the movie was shot in Canada) and they confer to the movie a sensation of big and wild.It's just a pity that Jean-Jacques Annaud's movie is spoiled by an easy and conventional moral you mustn't kill but live and let live.Nevertheless, l'ours is a daring movie which was highly successful when it was released in France in 1988. "}{"Title":"The critters make the film","Date":"4 December 2006","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Drama","Review":" I remember this first as a book I read back in the '50s. I loved it then, and I love the film now.First, I have to address some of the complaints made by other reviewers here.1. About the fake bear sounds made by the bear cub. I recall a display of bear cubs at a local game farm; that's pretty much the sound they make, much like a baby.2. The unrealistic aspects The big male refraining from eating the cub; the bear confronting the defenseless hunter and allowing him to go free. Curwood claims in his preface, if I recall correctly, that these events not only really happened, they happened to him! He was the younger hunter, named Jim in the book.3. Bear sex as porn Get a grip! I think that this was straight from the book, too.Now, to my observations.Much credit has to go to the casting directors and animal trainers. These critters seem perfectly cast! Could any bear cub possible be any cuter than this one? With expressive little eyes, even! I particularly liked the sequence where he chases the frog and ends up imitating it by jumping around after it.The big male is suitably big and ferocious.The sow (female bear) is amazingly attractive and fetching, lolling on her back and practically begging Come and get it sailor!.The dogs in the book were Airedales, but in the movie were black Dobermans, looking like the spawn of Hell! Now cougars can be pretty appealing looking beasts, but this one has a distinctly dastardly appearance! I especially liked the cub's reaction of studied indifference during the Bear Sex scene, reminding me of the Ron Perlman character in Quest For Fire while his chum was making it with the native girl. Oh! Same director! But how did he get the bear to have that same expression as Perlman? "},{"Title":"An animal movie with a real difference","Date":"28 October 2000","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Drama","Review":"  At last a movie that seriously attempts to portray the world from a non-human point of view! It's a leap of the imagination that many of us, I'm sure, have never even contemplated. This beautifully-filmed movie, marketed as a kids' film, cannot of course undertake such a task without a few failures here and there; but whatever lapses into anthropomorphism there may be can be readily excused if one compares The Bear with, say, Milo and Otis (cringe).The story, set in late nineteenth-century British Columbia, revolves around two bears; a young orphan and the huge male who adopts him. Much of the film has no human speech, viewers instead having to interpret the body language and sounds of wild animals. The photography is so impressive and the editing so nicely done that this is a fascinating process, reminding us just how much we as a species have in common with other animals. We can even identify with the bears' diet; they are omnivorous, as are we. Their physical actions and expressions of emotion make a compelling comparison with our own behaviour, and the filmmakers have done their utmost to retain as natural a feel as possible to such scenes.The appearance of human beings, two bear hunters, comes almost as a shock after immersion in the simple world of the bears. The hunters are animals too, but unlike the bears they interact clumsily with the breathtaking wilderness in which they move; their predatory intelligence and use of weaponry have to compensate for their physical vulnerability. They are clearly aliens in an unfriendly environment, though they move as if they were the only creatures of importance within it. Bearskins are piled high in their camp, their little bastion of safety in the untamed wilderness.These two worlds do of course collide. The hunters, in their arrogance, bite off more than they can chew when a poorly-managed encounter with the male adult bear leads them to pursue a vendetta against him. They capture the young cub to keep the adult in the area, then systematically set out to kill the creature that has caused them so much inconvenience. But the hunters have at last come up against an enemy that seems like the personification of an offended Mother Nature. In an absolutely convincing and spine-chilling scene, one of the hunters comes face to face with the reality of his position in the scheme of things in a manner in which he, and we who watch, will never forget. His teacher is The Bear; the young hunter leaves the mountains a fundamentally changed man. I have never seen the necessity of respect for our fellow creatures more ably communicated.The movie ends with the focus once more on the young cub, who must find within himself the first glimmerings of the power his adult protector so effortlessly exudes. The humans have gone the bears live on, their wild world unchanged by their encounter with the strange two-legged creatures that dared to intrude so unwisely into their affairs.This beautiful and at times awe-inspiring movie is rated as children's viewing, but I would not recommend it for younger viewers. Older children and adults, however, can learn and gain much from this poignant and fascinating film. Hats off to the filmmakers, they have done their subject justice indeed. "},{"Title":"man vs. animal","Date":"19 August 2006","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Drama","Review":" I liked and disliked many aspects of this movie. The human noises for the cub were quite annoying at times, but I understood the purpose for them. People need a connection so that they can feel the bear's pain. The humans were crucial to the plot... you need conflict. Dialouge was important too, 88 minutes of a person making slurping and whining noises would've been unbearable without people talking. The hunters however were not so scary. They were scary when I was a kid, however as an adult I found them pretty much harmless. The big bear did more damage in this movie then the hunters. I realize the younger hunter had a life threatening experience, but the way the other two hunters cut there rather steep loses and just left was kind of unbelievable. The bear's dreams were creepy even now and the resolution right at hibernation was perfect. The ultimate feel of this movie was warm and fuzzy and the intent was in the right place. "},{"Title":"Bears, man, dogs- the great circle of life","Date":"18 January 2000","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Drama","Review":"  From the first moment when you see the little bear and his mom digging for honey I was entranced with this film. The whole aura of life in the wild- the mountain lions that prey on other animals and the bear is certainly an omnivore! I don't know how the filmmakers got all that great footage but I enjoyed seeing life through the eyes of the orphaned cub. The scenery is breathtaking. The hunters were almost an intrusion in the film, but in the end they helped to bring the story full circle. This film was recommened to me by a man who never reads, he waxed so about this film I had to see it and I agree it is both a nature film and an allegory on life. "},{"Title":"A Rare Bear","Date":"16 February 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Drama","Review":"  I hate Grizzly Bears. I hate them because I'm terrified of them. Nothing in the woods is gonna set you free like confronting a bear (well, maybe the Zodiac killer). Whenever you're out there, away from it all, there is the looming threat of The Bear. He is nature raw; he's a wake-up call, saying, it's time to prove who you are and where you belong, now!Imagine loving a film from the point of view of your worst enemy. Think about feeling empathy and compassion for your most horrible nightmare. That's this film for me.Sure it helps that the narrator is an innocent child, abandoned in the woods. Sure, he has dreams just like you do. He even chews mushrooms and trips around like you did as a teenager. He learns, he grows up, he faces trials, he is loved and protected.The Indians say that when you kill an animal, you must respect his living soul. His rights are the same as yours. Maybe you had the edge this time, maybe you live a little longer. But, in the end, you are one in the same. Only the arrogance of man makes you think you're more important. The hunter supplicates because he's out-brawned. It's only later that he realizes that he is The Bear. Maybe not now, or before, but sometime. What would happen if everyone thought of themselves as an integral part of it all? That the trees, the rocks, the animals, the clouds, hell, everything of the earth was impossible to separate from humanity's own lifeforce?It is rare when a work or art can change a perspective that's been locked in for a lifetime or re-enforced by centuries of civilization. But, for one magical moment, I was The Bear. "},{"Title":"The truth to bear","Date":"4 February 2007","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Drama","Review":" I have seen both good and bad from director Jean-Jacques Annaud, films such as 'L'Amant' being an example of the former, and 'Enemy at the Gates' an example of the latter. With this movie here he takes you to the edge of the film universe. I'm saying that in the sense that this movie relativises many things. The fascinating thing is that you have bears playing roles here. They are acting, they partake in portraying fictive situations. And they do it with credibility. To liken this to something, the issue of how young an actor might be awarded an Oscar, a César or whatever might be mentioned as one from which similarly tricky questions may stem.As to the story, it is rather simple of course. You could easily re-imagine it with human characters, with some little kid in the focus. Especially if you think of what the older male bear's character would be like then, it could be your typical socially responsible art movie with a lesson. However, telling the tale with bears turns any such consideration totally superficial. What else but a simple story could be credible in their case? Unless you're ready to see talking animals, of course.While the bears 'cast' in this movie have perhaps more of a personality than what you would by conventional wisdom attribute to them, they weren't presented as vegetarians for the sake of being more easily accepted by a moralizing audience. And seeing these bears play as they did, even knowing that in some places the film-makers did use a trick or two, who knows, perhaps I should reconsider how much of a personality a bear might have. Very likely I should, I would add, still under the impression. "},{"Title":"Beautiful and compelling","Date":"10 August 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Drama","Review":"  What's unique about the L' Ours is that its mostly from an animal's perspective, the titled character, and that it was done perfectly thanks to the ingenious mind of the great director Assaund. The movie is heartfelt, and you pity the little cub as it attempts to survive the harshness of nature. Its one of the only movies I came close to shedding a tear to.9/10 "},{"Title":"The greatest thrill is not to kill but to let live.","Date":"20 February 2004","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Drama","Review":"  This beautiful film is one of my favorites.  The story follows an orphaned bear cub in the wilderness of British Columbia, how he pairs up with an older bear and how they both elude the hunters who are after them.  The cinematography is great and the director inserts some very unique elements, like a dream sequence, to bring us into the bear's point of view.  And the little bear cub, Youk, is impossibly cute.I realize the action is staged and bears don't interact this way in nature, but the film has a purpose, to let the viewer into the world of an endangered animal and to give us a little respect for life other than our own.  I was as involved in Youk's struggles just as much as any human's, and maybe I'm a sentimental fool, but there were tears in my eyes when Youk and the adult bear snuggled up to each other in the end.During the final shot of snow-covered peaks as the camera drew back from the bears' winter den, it struck me that this is the kind of film Disney might have done at one time.  It would have been a perfect way to spend a Sunday evening with the family.  Too bad Disney has gotten away from its origins.  There are too few films like this that everyone can enjoy. "},{"Title":"One Of The Best Nature Movies I Have Ever Seen","Date":"18 August 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Drama","Review":"  Trying to think of a movie to compare this to the only one that comes to mind is Born Free, but although I enjoyed that movie immensely, The Bear is far superior in every way. Set in British Columbia in 1885, it's the story of an orphaned bear cub who struggles to survive after his mother is accidentally killed, having to face down hunters and an assortment of animals along the way. Although the cub is awfully darn cute, the movie doesn't fall into the trap of simply making this a cutesy kids movie about a bear cub. It's quite graphic in places, and there are scenes that are disturbing - the death of the mother bear, the horses and dogs after being attacked by the huge grizzly, the hunters as they torment the cub. What I particularly liked about The Bear was that it allowed the animals to be the stars. Although the hunters were an important part of the story, it was the bear cub and the huge grizzly that the movie focused on, and probably 80% of the movie at least has absolutely no human dialogue. It is instead a real look at the animals and their environment and their struggle for survival.The title of the movie (at first glance it seems quite uninspired) is actually appropriately ambiguous. It could be a movie about the orphaned bear cub around whose adventures the movie revolves, or it could be about the species in general, about which we actually learn a great deal.The only weakness I found with an otherwise delightful and fast paced story was the culmination of the encounter between the hunter and the huge male grizzly. That's where the movie fell into a bit of romanticism about the courage involved in not killing but in letting live, but I thought it quite unrealistic that the encounter would end as it did. Aside from that, though, this was an absolutely outstanding movie, and even the requisite happy and heart-warming ending seemed appropriate.9/10 "},{"Title":"Life, seen through the eyes of a bear.","Date":"12 September 2004","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Drama","Review":"   From time to time, you stumble on a movie about which you just don't know what to think when you haven't seen it. This is such a movie. What can you expect from a movie which features an old lonely bear, a little motherless bear cub and two hunters? A lot, as this movie shows you. It's really a very touching story which is told from the perspective of the bears and not of the humans as you might expect. The film starts with the death of the cub's mother. The baby bear starts wondering around in a world full of dangers and unknown things. On its journey it meets the old bear. Traveling through the wonderful landscapes of Canada they meet two bear hunters...If there is someone who says that he just hated this movie, which I don't believe, you can be sure that this person has a heart of stone. Even when you aren't a big amateur of bears, you will still be struck by the breathtaking landscapes, the innocence of the story... This is a movie which can be seen by little children as well as by adults. They will both find something valuable in it. I award it with an 8/10, it sure deserves it.  "}{"Title":"Bears are humans and hunting is bad","Date":"10 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Drama","Review":" It's 1885 British Columbia. A cub and mama bear are digging in a rocky hillside for a beehive. The rocks come loose and the mama bear is killed in a landslide. The cub is alone in the world. Tom (Tchéky Karyo) and Bill (Jack Wallace) are bear hunters for their fur. They are tracking a large male Kodiak. The cub befriends the large male. The hunters capture the cub. The large male corners Tom in the climatic confrontation.It's a bit of animal adventure from director Jean-Jacques Annaud. An adult male would just as likely to eat the cub. Annaud tries to humanize the bears. It's harsher than the normal Disney family movie. It's probably not recommended for little kids. The big confrontation with Tom is a compelling bit of cinematic visual. Other than that scene, I would suggest a National Geographic show about bears. "},{"Title":"Always Bear in Mind.","Date":"15 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Drama","Review":"  Virtually a silent live-action film for all intensive purposes about an orphaned bear cub who hooks up with a monstrous grizzly. Soon they try to dodge a very small group of hunters led by Tcheky Karyo and Jack Wallace. It might even come to pass that the younger bear might become the bait in the hunters' game of cat and mouse (or really man and bear I suppose). Great cinematography and Oscar-nominated editing are the main attractions in this one. Works better as a National Geographic special than a theatrical release. Still, there is just something about this little film that nearly makes it one of the quietest winners of all time. Above average venture. 3.5 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Beautiful, moving, terrificly done","Date":"12 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Drama","Review":"  If I recall correctly I watched The Bear at least twice in the movie theater. It was released 14 years ago so it's pretty damn hard to remember everything right but this is something I'm pretty certain of. This will always be remembered as one of the biggest masterpieces of talented French director Jean-Jacques Annaud. For example Seven years in Tibet was only a pale shadow of The Bear. This film is fascinating, enchanting, incredibly well-done nature adventure and even though the leading role is played by a bear movie certainly couldn't be further away from those cheesy, naive Disney-flicks with talking dogs, cats, lions and what have you. Actually The Bear isn't even suitable for little kiddies. Truly remarkable, unforgettable experience and a marvelous European late 80's classic. "},{"Title":"The Bear is a fantastic movie!","Date":"19 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Drama","Review":"  This must be one of the biggest movies ever. Its a beutyfull movie\documentary of a bear. I simply love it. Everyone should see this movie, its unlike anything else i've ever seen! Please, lets not make this movie rust away. "},{"Title":"Entertaining and fun Bear movie shot in marvelous outdoors with very well trained bears","Date":"30 June 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Drama","Review":" Enjoyable kiddie film about the adventurer life of an awesome bear and the feats on the wildness , as the animal has to survive on his own , facing off dangers and risks . Picturesque story about an orphan bear cub hooks up with an adult male as they attempt to dodge human hunters played by Tcheky Karyo and Jack Wallace . He's an orphan called ¨Bart the Bear¨ at the start of a journey throughout meadows , woods and mountains . Bart stars this dangerous journey to survive and being relentlessly pursued by two stubborn hunters.This is a wonderful film , an ecologist story dealing with orphaned bear cub that is adopted by an adult male bear and must avoid two obstinate hunters . The tale of the extraordinary existence and times of a little bear is well written by Gerard Brach , Roman Polanski's usual , being based on novel titled The Grizzly King by James Oliver Curwood . The impressive scenery , photography and music enhance the story of Bart and his adoptive father . The scenes featuring the bears were breathtaking , plenty of pranks and frolics , their legs moving together in smooth rhythm , they were all absolutely beautiful . There are some rousing animal shots , it must have been hell getting the bears to act . The story is treated in good sense and high sensibility ; environment , mountains , forests combine to enhance the glories of nature, one of which, after all, is silence . Because in the wild, male bears usually eat bear cubs if they can, the filmmakers prepared the adult Bart the Bear for the cub by having him play with a teddy bear the size and fur color of the cub , when the trainers felt he was ready, he was introduced to the cub and he greeted the cub affectionately . Glimmer and colorful cinematography by Philippe Rousselot , splendidly filmed in spectacular landscapes from Dolomites , Italy . Sensitive and emotive musical score by Philippe Sarde . For the music lover, ¨The Bear¨ is a sensible ride in which the music all too well toys with the soul , it is so delicately composed, performed, and chosen for the movie that it is worth seeing just to enjoy the soundtrack . The magnificent filmmaker Annaud creates yet another picture in nature with almost no human dialogue such as ¨Quest for fire¨ in this agreeable flick . Excellently directed and produced by the French Jean Jacques Annaud , an expert on animal films as proved in ¨Running Free¨ about horses and ¨Two brothers¨ dealing with tigers . The bottom line is if you love animals at all , then you will completely adore this film . Rating  Better than average , worthwhile watching . "},{"Title":"A well done film.","Date":"4 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Drama","Review":"  I thought this film was well done.  While the little bear sounds got irritating, the rest of the movie was intriguing enough to make up for it. I'm a fan of nature specials, and I liked how this whole movie played out. All in all, I think it's a movie you should see if you enjoy the discovery channel and/or the occassional bit of good cinematography. "},{"Title":"Orphaned cub goes it alone in the forest","Date":"16 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Drama","Review":"  After losing it's mother to an accident, a young bear must strike out on it's own to survive. Along the way the cub gets into some hilarious, sometimes dangerous, situations. Aided many times by an older grizzly boar, the little feller learns the lessons of life.  "},{"Title":"Very cute, but sometimes annoying","Date":"6 November 2009","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Drama","Review":" I wish they have left some things out. The stupid noises of the little bear, the dreams, the bad acting of the men, etc. Ignoring that, the rest was really OK. They must have had a lot of patience, waiting for the animals to do the right thing at the right moment. Stil it looked quite natural. Except for the stupid noises of course.Timing the hole thing seems to be something else. When the 2 bears meet, the old bear has some serious wounds. At a certain moment, they are healed. But I would except the little bear to have grown more during the healing period of the old bear.I do think it was filmed in the Italian dolomiti. I definitely recognized the Tofana di Rozes near Cortina d'Ampezzo. Very nice film for all ages! "},{"Title":"Incredible film.","Date":"21 January 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Drama","Review":" I've always had great admiration for nature, and films that can catch nature. But I am truly amazed by an artist like Jean-Jaque Annaud who can not only preserve the splendor that is the outdoors on film, but add a profound narrative above and beyond nature, and have that narrative transcend all levels of emotion.I don't know why I popped this film into the DVD player, but I did. And when I was done watching it I was truly amazed at not only the sheer effort of the technical accomplishment, but the artistry of being able to have animals convey a story of friendship and survival.Annaud brings to life a story not only of two bears, but of Earth's natural state, and what it is to live and thrive among the trees, rocks, streams, mountains, snow, and occasional swarm of honey bees. Shot, I believe, predominantly in Canada (from what I recall), Annaud brings us some very sumptuous cinematography married with a very endearing bear cub.We follow the adventures and misadventures of cub and adult bear as two hunters looking for pelts track the larger of the two. But, when the moment of truth comes, a lesson is learned in humility. To find out how, what and why, you have to watch the movie. Speaking as a man who's come in close contact with bears and other wild critters in my youth, I can say that for me, the film brings home a profound message that all of mankind could stand to relearn.Nitpicks; none really. Some people point to the fact that Jim Henson had a hand in this film, but his bears are reserved for over-the-shoulder shots when Annaud gives us the bears' POV by looking over its ears. Otherwise beyond that it's all one-hundred percent al-natural bear you're seeing on the screen. There are a couple of process shots, and one stop motion sequence, but those are kept in context of the sequence and story being conveyed, and work well.A film as compelling as this, with no major stars, essentially zero SFX save for Hensen and dream sequence, no explosions or adult-references, deserves more than just a second look. This is not market driven art, but something that should appeal to all human hearts of sound mind and soul. "},{"Title":"Really touching","Date":"7 February 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Drama","Review":" I think every animal lover should watch this movie.. it really is impressive to see how the bears act and react in the wild, sometimes it seems they are real thinking humans! It just goes to show that they do think, albeit not as we do of course, and feel too. I myself as an animal lover just loved this movie and cried several times.. i think the climax of the movie was when the bear, about the attack the man who shot it once in the left shoulder, having the opportunity to kill him, didn't, as if it heard the man's plea to let him live.. I see it as a lesson to all of us who should be merciful not only toward animals, but also toward our neighbors. In short this movie is a must see! "}{"Title":"Worth the wait...","Date":"31 December 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Drama","Review":" I first saw this film in the late eighties, when it was released in the UK. I took my son, who was eleven then and we were both inspired by the movie, its story and its message. Neither of us has ever forgotten it. My wife didn't come because although she loves animals, she always (and I mean always), cries if an animal gets hurt in the story. We've even had to leave cinemas because my shirt has been so wet from her tears! I have spent about sixteen years now, looking in TV guides and checking video and DVD sales, in an effort to see the film again. I have never found it but also, I have never forgotten it. My wife has never forgotten it either because at intervals, in all of those years, I would at some point talk about the film with affection and awe. Imagine my surprise and pleasure, when at Christmas 2004, I received the DVD as a gift... from my wife. It had come all the way from the USA and was much appreciated. I managed to convince my wife to watch it. Yes, she cried and I think even hated me a little that night for making her watch it. However, the next day she spoke of the film in affectionate terms, discussing how good it actually is, what a fine message it has and what a piece of cinematic art it represents - oh, and how cute Youk was. She even plans to watch it again. This is a magnificent film and should rank amongst the greats. The confrontation at the water hole is not quite as terrifying on the DVD, as it was on the big screen but if you have a big TV, turn the volume up and hang on to one another! You may have guessed that I love this movie and I must say, I love the person who found it for me. "},{"Title":"Wonderful.","Date":"5 April 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Drama","Review":" Based on James-Oliver Curwoods' 1917 novel The Grizzly King, The Bear is quite remarkable, a heart tugging and involving drama where animal actors are at the forefront. At the beginning, a grizzly cub is orphaned, and the poor little thing eventually hooks up with an adult Kodiak bear. The big and fearsome Kodiak becomes the cubs' companion and protector, but is itself a tempting prize for a pair of hunters, Bill (Jack Wallace), and Tom (Tcheky Karyo).Written by Gerard Brach (Repulsion, Frantic) and directed by Jean-Jacques Annaud (Quest for Fire), what's nice about The Bear is how well it manages to promote love and respect for Mother Nature. It's a beautifully shot (by Philippe Rousselot), picturesque story, with no shortage of perils into which our four legged heroes are placed. It may be hard for some people to watch at times, although scenes of harm to animals were faked as best as possible using special effects. (Admittedly, the blood looks rather like paint.) It's sometimes manipulative, to be honest, but it still engages the viewer, thanks to a delightful pair of performances by Bart (the Kodiak) and Youk (the cub). Youk in particular is adorable. Wallace and Karyo are good, refraining from being purely one dimensional. Philippe Sarde composed the touching music score.The film is actually not without humour, and even creates some surreal nightmare sequences containing striking imagery.Must viewing for lovers of both cinema and animals.Eight out of 10. "},{"Title":"Worth Viewing on a Sunday Morning","Date":"4 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Drama","Review":"  I disagree with the stunningly intellectual opinions offered by the last commentator on this film--it is indeed worth watching. The plot involving the change of heart of the two hunters is a bit over the top, but the scenes that don't involve humans are extremely compelling, if fantastical. The scenery itself is also awe-inspiring. I have no idea how they made this film, but it was no surprise to find out the editor won an Oscar for it. "},{"Title":"Exciting tale of the wild","Date":"22 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Drama","Review":"  A bear is orphaned and teams up with a male bear as they both try to avoid hunters .. A breathtakingly filmed movie, told mostly from the bear's perspective with very little dialogue..Great scenery and fun..on a scale of one to ten..7 "},{"Title":"Intriguing Wildlife Adventure","Date":"26 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Drama","Review":" This outdoor wildlife drama, stars Jack Wallace and Tcheky Kayro as two nineteenth century trappers. The trappers share the spotlight with two bears that they encounter during one of their Pacific Northwest expeditions. The film examines the relationship between a young cub and a fully matured Grizzly. This is an excellent wildlife film which might be a little frightening at times for younger children, but includes many heartwarming scenes for parents and older children. Viewers who prefer limited dialog should love this film, which presents a substantial portion of the drama from the young Grizzly's prospective. The film which has several touching and humorous moments is highly recommended for family viewing, but keep in mind that it may not be suitable for younger children. "},{"Title":"Man vs. Nature","Date":"23 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Drama","Review":"  The first movie to describe a hunt from the point of view of the animal being hunted, The Bear is one of the best, if not the best nature movie ever made.  The cub and the adult male bear who befriends him are endowed with many humanized characteristics---loyalty, bravery, lust (even a nature movie has a sex scene in it as the male bear mates with a female). The Grizzly is the king of his domain, the most powerful predator in the mountains.  But then the humans arrive and they bring with them fire, rifles, horses and hunting dogs.  I enjoyed how the movie became a battle of predator vs. predator, man vs. bear.  Both predators are formidable.  The humans compensate for their physical weakness by their intelligence, teamwork and weaponry.  The grizzly has his tremendous size, strength and ferocity.  Of course this being a movie, the grizzly seems to be endowed with something more as he takes the battle to the humans by killing their horses.  In the end the battle between predators is a stand off.  The grizzly decides to let the defenseless human go.  The human finally recognizes the dignity and even honor of the grizzly and lets the grizzly go on his way.   "},{"Title":"Beautiful movie based on J. Curwood's stories","Date":"17 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Drama","Review":"  It's touching and natural like any movie based on J. Curwood's stories has to be. Bear cub Youk is a real movie star ) I was rather sceptic switching my vcr on but I've lost all my scepticism after a pair of minutes of watching the film. "},{"Title":"Perfect In Every Respect","Date":"23 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Drama","Review":"  A True Classic Wildlife Experience. This Is The Film You Should Watch This Year.. Forget The Rest..Go For The Best!!! You Will Not Be Dissapointed. "},{"Title":"Jean-Jacques Annaud Best Film!!","Date":"26 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Drama","Review":"  This is a very enjoyable movie. The scenery is breathtaking.There isn't much dialog in it, that's because grizzlie bears are the main stars. It is a very heart warming story with a good message behind it. I was very impressed by some of the shots director Jean-Jacques Annaud used. If you have never seen this film, then I suggest that you rent it. Great Movie!!  "},{"Title":"cute...","Date":"20 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Drama","Review":" I am French and was only 13 when I saw that French movie at the cinema. I loved it, the cute cub is really funny and you love him straight away! I felt strongly for these animals and how nasty men can be... The only time I felt that feeling was with another of JJA's masterpiece, Two Brothers... (along with an old movie called Antarctica) . This one was far more painful though. The injustice really made me cry all movie long, I even considered not watching it until the end as I found it too painful. Antarctica, that I saw when I was 10, was as painful as Two Brothers... Antarctica is a wonderful movie, and has just been re-released under the name Eigth Below. The original was made by Japanese but I guess Americans just like to re-do movies and make money so, there it is... Although you want to laugh and then cry in L'Ours, the overall emotion is more bearable (ah ah!) and the film is very beautiful! The scenery in that movie is spectacular. You really leave the cinema thinking a lot and this is a movie you won't forget. Enjoy! "}{"Title":"one of my favorites from childhood; leaves quite the impact","Date":"31 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Drama","Review":" At a time when I was around 6-10 years old, give or take, I had an obsession with bears. Through nature documentaries, as well as the first inspiration being Winnie the Pooh, something about these creatures sparked my interest at that age. This film, in particular, had a very special place in my life at the time, and I saw it several times in that period. I saw it again recently and was struck by how it really is not the typical childhood movie. The humor in the story, where it's at, is fairly subtle at times or totally unexpected, and lacking in the usual pee-and-fart jokes now a given in most 'family' films. It also has moments of true terror and suspense, some scenes of which did really keep me enthralled the first times I saw it. And, of course, there is relatively little dialog, being that the two or three male humans in the film don't strike up that much conversation anyway (as hunters and all). So the film's story of the two bears is really based on bringing the viewer to be active in what goes on. If you're a parent reading this, and you're thinking of showing this to your kid, make sure he's not bouncing all over the place (as I've seen happen in some movie theaters from time to time); this is a film that should be taken in.In this tale of survival, companionship, and the odds of bears and men, the bear cub of the story loses his mother in a tragedy right at the start of the film leaving him orphaned. After this initial shock wears off, the bear meets another bear, a rather large, solitary Kodiak bear, by way of helping him after being shot. This compassion draws both ways as the two become an unlikely pair through certain usuals with bears (hunting, fishing, mating, etc). But there are also the two hunters of the story, also in a father/son dynamic, who in the late 19th century have no endangered species acts against them. And while director Jean-Jacques Annaud, by keeping his story more with the bears (mainly the cub) as the focus of the film, the males of the story are not left completely one-dimensional. One of the most powerful scenes still in my memory is when the Kodiak is face to face with one of the hunters, who's been left armless (gunless I mean), having to see the wrath of nature, and in tears because of it.Few films like these have been able to not only to get most of the truth of what its like for bears in the wild in a feature-film (with one or two facts about bears changed for the sake of the story), but that it can appeal for children and not just some cult of a contingent interested in nature films. If a recent movie like Herzog's Grizzly Man paints the all-true picture of what its like for man to be with the bears, this little gem of the 1980's is a portrait of what it's like for the bears themselves. Another highlight- the frogs early in the film (creepy, especially as a kid). "},{"Title":"Sometimes the best revenge...","Date":"22 August 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Drama","Review":" ... is to leave your enemy alive knowing that without his dogs and his guns and his buddies and his notched bullets meant to cause his prey to explode not just die, that this enemy is just a great big sissy. No, the story is more complex than that, but at the climax of the film you can almost detect the trace of a smile on the face of the gigantic Kodiak bear as he roars in the face of the unsuspecting hunter who is left on his knees, hands on his ears begging please don't kill me. And then the bear just turns around and ambles away.So how did we get to this point? It is British Columbia 1885, and this story starts out with a momma bear and her cub, digging honeycomb out of the base of a hill. The momma is making such a ruckus digging that she causes a minor rock slide and is killed instantly in the process. This is the very saddest part of the film, as the baby first tries to help mom by removing the rocks, and then snuggles up next to her corpse until hunger makes him leave her behind.Meanwhile there is the gigantic Kodiak bear I mentioned in the first paragraph, doing what Kodiak bears do - scratching his back on trees until they fall, mating with female bears he comes across, and killing elk for food because, for something this big, some fish and berries are just not going to do the job.Also there are a pair of hunters, an older one and a younger one. They are obviously after bear pelts, because as we meet them the older hunter is flinging the bear meat into the fire and finishing up the job of skinning his latest kill. Now at the time I am writing this, trophy hunters are in the news, and the news is repellent, people killing wild animals just for the sport. But this is a wilderness and more than likely these hunters need the pelts to sell and to use in the harsh cold winters for themselves. Everything pulls its weight in such an ecosystem or it is deemed as unnecessary and won't last long anyways.What sets up our story is that the pair of hunters detect our gigantic friend. The younger hunter is inexperienced, though, and shoots too soon. He wounds the bear but does not kill it. The hunters go out looking for the bear and when they don't find it, the older hunter says to let it go. That is, until they realize they are the hunted and see that the bear has doubled back on them and slaughtered their pack horses, including the older hunter's own horse, and probably as close to a pet as you get in this place. The older hunter swears revenge and leaves the younger hunter there while he goes back to town and gets their tracking dogs.In the end we have the most unlikeliest of scenarios. The male bear takes up with the baby bear feeding it and protecting it in almost a big brother/little brother relationship that provides some precious moments, and we have the young hunter and the old hunter deciding to let the giant bear get away in spite of the fact that he killed the older hunter's horse and the younger hunter's favorite dog in the chase.Watch this one to see the forgiveness that seems to go both ways in the animal kingdom - human to animal, animal to human, and to see the possibility that sometimes animals can strike up friendships even in the harshest of environments. And might I add that the beautiful Canadian scenery almost steals the show. Highly recommended. Let me also note that there is almost no dialogue in this one, but it is unnecessary to convey the relationship between the hunters and what they are thinking. The acting and direction are that good. "},{"Title":"It will make you appreciate life","Date":"15 September 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Drama","Review":" I have seen this movie on one of family channels . I recommend it to everyone , not only for family viewings . It's a movie for everyone &#x96; kids and adults. I can easily imagine the whole movie (with small details) made in animation by Disney , but I'm happy that Jean Jacques Annaud made it this way . It's much more unique and impressive this way.For most of the part the movie is told without any dialogue , only by images (similarly to Annaud's earlier movie Quest for fire) . I don't know how they did it , but the bears and rest of animals are really good actors . It probably took a lot of work and time , but the result was certainly worth it. The human actors are good too.The nature never looked more beautiful than here photographed by Philippe Rousselot. The artistic dream sequences were created by Bretislav Pojar . And don't forget about music by Philippe Sarde. The Bear is based on the book The Grizzly king by James-Oliver Curwood .We live in such cynical times where people are insensitive more and more with each day. It's good that such movies like The Bear are being made. Life itself is a miracle and we should treat it as the most delicate flower. It's the biggest treasure of all . We should always act as HUMANS.Remember   The greatest thrill is not in killing , but in letting live . I give it 8/10. "},{"Title":"Survival in the Wild","Date":"26 April 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Drama","Review":" ***SPOILER*** Beautifully and breathtakingly photographed in the Italian Alps, subbing for the snow capped mountains of British Columbia, The Bear is one of the finest films about man and beast, in this case grizzly bears, to come out in the last 30 or so years. There's this 1,500 grizzly, Bart, who's injured by a pair of trophy hunters who turns violent and after attacking the hunters camp ends up killing and injuring all their pack mules and horses.It's little Youk a baby grizzly bear who's mother was killed in an avalanche who tries to befriend Big Bart who at first drives him away and later, after Youk ends up licking and cleaning his gunshot wound, accepts him as his own. While all this is going on the two hunters are determined to track down Big Bart and kill him before he does any more damage. Big Bart who knows the landscape far better then the two hunters eludes them at every turn but little Youk isn't that successful. Youk get caught by the hunters and left tied in their camp as a pet together with the hunters tracking dogs.***SPOILERS*** It's later when one of the hunters is caught off guard, minus his bear killing rifle, that Big Bart confronts him on a mountain ledge having him scared, in knowing what Big Bart is capable of doing, out of his wits. With the terrified hunter showing fear as well as submission Big Bart in returns show the helpless hunter the kind of mercy that he and his fellows hunter never showed to the big bad bear. What's even more striking in all this is that Big Bart was shot and seriously wounded while eating wild berries, and not attacking them,by the hunters earlier as well as him being tracked down by them to be killed while at first being no threat to them at all! Yet Big Bart showed the trapped hunter the kind of human like mercy that he or any other hunter would have never showed to him under the same circumstances!****MORE SPOILERS*** With the hunter now a changed man he refuses to gun down Big Bart when he with his back turned walks away from him. He also gets his fellow hunter to do the same thing without telling him of the frighting and traumatic as well as heart lifting experience he just had with the big grizzly. With the now changed, in killing wild animals, hunters releasing little Youk back into the wild the cute little bear is soon stalked and confronted by a hungry and ferocious mountain lion who after what seemed like over a mile chase cornered him and was just about to stick his deadly claws and fangs into the helpless baby bear. It's just then that something caught the mountain lions attention and he not only ceased his attacking little Youk but turned tail and ran for his life. It was Youk's adopted daddy Big Bart who despite being separated from little Youk for some time he in fact didn't forget him as he came to his rescue! "},{"Title":"A Raw Look","Date":"21 November 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Drama","Review":" A Very good film about animals and human beings. This film isn't afraid to show the grime and guts of bleeding animals. It's a sad scene to see the little bear cub cuddled about with all of the dead bear skins and heads because it reminds him of his Mother. It's a sad movie. But more or less the issue in this movie is to be kind to all beings on this planet. It's one thing if you have to kill for survival, it's another to kill for sport or for unnecessary food or prestige or money. The little bear cub in this movie will make you laugh, smile, cry and remember what life is all about. The final scene in the movie is one of the best messages of them all, where the bear shows mercy on the human and then the human is about to kill the bear, but he shows mercy on the bear because the bear had showed mercy on him. It's a great message to remember. Show mercy.This movie gets down to the brass tacks of life, not just human life, but all species of life on this planet. A great message and a great movie! Not the easiest to watch though. "},{"Title":"A glorious massage on the senses.","Date":"20 October 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Drama","Review":" I tend to be a genuine sucker for animal pictures. One of the reasons may be because animals are so genuinely unpredictable, unlike most people in the movies these days. You can look into the eyes of most animals and not have a real clear picture of what they are thinking or feeling. So I sometimes find movie-animals more fascinating than movie-people. But the second&#x97;and primary&#x97;reason is because they bring me to admire the skills and patience that go into making a film. All movies are difficult to make, even the awful ones. That goes without saying. But there a number of them where the tremendous effort does not really paint itself on the screen, regardless of whether they are good or bad, absorbing or unbearable. I tend to be astonishing by animal movies for the same reason I tend to be astonished by movies featuring stop-motion animation I instantly become aware of the exhaustion the creators had to subject themselves to.To make The Bear, the filmmakers required their stars, two bears, one an adult, the other a cub, to crawl across landscapes, play around in water, and appear to grow close to one another. The cub is orphaned at the beginning of the picture when its mother is killed in a landslide; the adult is a territorial old male wounded by bear hunters. Now the bears had to perform just right before the camera. They had to not only appear convincing, but maintain continuity whenever the director would decide it was time to move the camera to another angle. I've heard of accounts where the director and trainer would wait all day just to get the bear cub to turn its head in the right direction for a subsequent shot and then keep its head there when they got to that subsequent shot.On that level, and others, The Bear is an absorbing movie-going experience. But it is also a glorious massage on the senses. First of all, it looks beautiful. The directing, which consists of numerous cuts, not just long documentary extreme wide-angles, is consistently interesting. Also remarkable is the sound design. The movie was probably shot, mostly, without any sound equipment, for the trainers would be shouting at the bears every second, commanding them what to do and when. So every footstep, every grunt, snarl, bird chirp, gust of wind, sound of a grasshopper, you name it, was developed and integrated in post-production. Yet it all feels so natural; it was not until after I saw the movie that I became aware of this, once again reminding me of how much stress the filmmakers had to put upon themselves.Just imaging the making of The Bear puts my memories of volunteering on The Boarder, a low-budget family drama shot in rural Nebraska, to shame.I also liked the movie for its human scenes. I guess that contradicts part of my opening statement, but then again, there seems to be an exception to every rule when it comes to the movies. The only humans in the movies are the two hunters chasing after the adult bear. Apart from the wonderful acting by Jack Wallace and Tcheky Karyo, I also enjoyed the level of detail given to them. The way, in the opening, the movie breaks down the process by which they hunt the bear. I particularly liked the touch where Mr. Wallace plucks some grass and lets it fly from his fingertips in the wind, so he knows just how much he needs to angle his rifle before he takes the shot. These are pretty interesting characters, and I actually did not mind it so much when their moral denouement at the end flew completely from the realm of predictability.The Bear only loses its head when it tries to get inside the mind of a bear. Literally. Animals dream. Anybody who has ever owned a dog knows that. But just what they dream or what they see in their dreams is anybody's guess. Now the movie does offer a suggestion a purple-tinted world with a quirkier-moving version of the animal wandering about in some strange surrounding. The dream sequences are handled through stop-motion animation the other movie-making process that astounds me. And also I certainly did not mind seeing the animation, it nevertheless broke the shape of the picture. More effective would have been implying that the animal was dreaming and allowing us to use our imagination. "},{"Title":"One of the best","Date":"30 August 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Drama","Review":" I've always been a big fan of Bart the Bear (1), and whenever I think of Bart, this movie always comes to mind as the highest achievement of this amazing bear and his trainer.There are two things that surprised me about the film. First, I've lived in Kodiak, Alaska where Bart's relatives originate, and I've visited much of the Rocky Mountains and the mountain ranges of Alberta, Canada. The mountains in the film seemed strange and unidentifiable to me. Later, I discovered that the film was actually shot in the mountain ranges of Italy. The other, more natural surprise, was that a male bear had been coaxed into accepting the presence of a baby bear - something very strange in the real wilderness. Most bear cubs who get anywhere near daddy bear end up as lunch meat, unless momma comes to the rescue. distasteful as it may seem to us, it's just part of the real bear world. In fact, much of the natural behavior of living bears was altered or ignored in this film for the sake of the story. Yet, somehow you simply become immersed in this charming tale of childhood survival and learning. And, those of us who are familiar with the species of mushroom the little bear ate, were rolling in the aisles with laughter.For those who may consider the face off of the Bear and the Hunter near the end of the film as pure fantasy, this encounter is actually quite possible. Bears are very predictable in many respects, but their behavior under duress can often be startling and unexpected. Bears are built by nature as the perfect killing machine. But, they are also extremely intelligent and capable of incredible survival instincts. We were told in Alaska that a simple coke can with a stone inside makes a sound that bears are scared of. Bears also react to strange smells. People have been known to drop their shirts or coats while being chased by a bear. More times than not, the animal will pause to sniff the garment, and cease the attack because of the strange scent. However, to be even more prepared, a hiker or camper should carry a fully charged pepper spray canister in the back country just in case. They really do work. "},{"Title":"Quintessential coming of age story","Date":"25 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Drama","Review":" After finally watching the movie from start to end for the first time, rather than portions of it as I have when it has occasionally been on TV; I have to say that the film was truly inspiring. Besides the obviously remarkable cinematography and beautiful setting, the film also contained a quintessential coming of age story represented through an animal protagonist. After watching this film, we can all be inspired to continue life and move past the adversity we come across, hopefully with a little help from the friends we make along the way. I highly recommend this film to anyone, especially those who enjoy coming of age stories but are tired of the trite and old Hollywood version. "},{"Title":"Loved it!","Date":"18 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Drama","Review":" This is one of the best movies I have ever seen BECAUSE it didn't rely on special effects or million dollar actors/actresses to make a truly beautiful, awe-inspiring movie. Yes, it is sad when the mother bear dies and the cub waits for a long time before leaving her body. The big male bear does not want the cub around but he licks the bullet wound for the big male and they have a sort of peace. The humans are incidental to the movie. I think the bear noises are adorable. It makes you want to pick him up, cuddle him and take him home with you until he can fend for himself. The part where he is being attacked by the cougar is just precious.There are scary moments for a young child seeing this movie. I would not recommend it for any child under 10. The ending, while beautiful and heartwarming was a little too far-fetched for me. We would all like to put human characteristics on animals, but we don't know what goes through their heads.The scenery was beautiful, the interaction and growing affection between the bears was sweet to watch. On my top 20 list of favorite movies along with White Fang another animal movie. Watch it, I'll think you'll be surprised. Now, I must go down to Wal-Mart and find the $5.00 DVD everyone is talking about..... "},{"Title":"Best animal film ever made","Date":"14 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Drama","Review":"  This is simply the most perfect animal movie done, the bears- a huge grizzly and cute little cub- are better actors than 95% of Hollywood and the British Columbia scenery is breathtaking. It captures one's heart with the plight and adventures of a cub after it's mother is killed in a rockslide, and the close in photography of these obviously well-trained bears (Strassburg?) is incredibly- never obvious. Shot with ambient sound, the animals are the stars in this movies, the one dimensional humans aren't cookie cutter monsters, but part of the landscape and capable of growth. The idea that man can change his murderous ways is the most hopeful thing in this film- and I didn't think the denouement unlikely. The only thing a tiny bit hokey is the human making cute breathy noises for the cub.Bears are truly magnificent beasts- several decades ago a black bear lunged at me outside the Smokey Mountaintop shelter at 3am, and I still have the scar (from running into the wire with cans that alerted us when the bear came in- other shelters had heavy chain link fences). At Bear Country, SD I watched 400 pound bears play tag 30 feet up a scrawny tree, leaning out on branches too thin for me, waiting for the inevitable crack and tumble. CRACK! The bear, without missing a beat flipped his claws into the trunk and didn't drop an inch. When you see these huge creatures ride a little bike in the circus, they really transcend their clumsy brute image. I hiked into Yellowstone River canyon in the beginning of June when the bears were coming out of their dens, hungry and irritable, and spent much night time blowing my whistle at the night (like when a buffalo came up to a foot from the tent). Once I watched a grizzly running down the canyon slope at 30 mph on a grade so steep a human would have picking his way step by step. Later a listened to lecture, snowed in at Old Faithful, where a ranger explained how the bears ate a Swiss tourist they only found the arms. Owww-ey.Michael Hammerschlag "}{"Title":"A few lovely sequences do not make it a classic...","Date":"30 March 2008","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Drama","Review":" Well-received French film from James Oliver Curwood's book harks back to the wildlife documentaries from 1950s Disney in both style and sentiment, as an orphaned bear cub trails a Kodiak bear around a mountain terrain for companionship. Soon, they're both being followed by an eager pack of hunters. The Bear features several eloquent and lovely moments, captured beautifully on film by director Jean-Jacques Annaud, though unfortunately the film as a whole isn't especially worthwhile. The animals are manipulated into action for the sake of thrills, some of which have a brutal edge, leaving an uncomfortable pall hanging over the project. Ultimately, it's an old-fashioned adventure story with a sincere appreciation for the bears involved, yet it doesn't leave one feeling very satisfied. ** from **** "},{"Title":"Absolute tripe","Date":"10 May 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Drama","Review":" I saw this film when it came out in theaters, and was utterly disappointed in it. The storyline is completely unrealistic and the audio dubbing is horrible and detracts from any value the cinematography may have. As a nature and animal lover, I was so looking forward to this film, but the storyline was so unbelievable and trite, and the sound track so bad that I hated the film and walked out after an hour.I was surprised to see someone linking to a clip from this film on Facebook recently, citing it as a very engaging and emotive short film. It is still utter tripe. "},{"Title":"Respect the bear.","Date":"11 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Drama","Review":" This is a great movie. No, this is a fantastic movie. It is one of the best movies ever made. And it stars - a bear. A big grizzly bear who protects a small orphan cub from the hunters who get their come-ponce and are humbled in the process. The bear is a hero, and a creature to be admired and respected, not only for his size and strength, but for his courage. When you watch The Bear, you gain a greater appreciation of this creature within its natural habitat and to treat this animal not as a dumb beast, but as the magnificent and intelligent creature. This movie is a cinematic gem, deserves much wider recognition, and unlike a lot of the boiler-plate material churned out by Hollywood, this is a thoughtful as well as entertaining adventure movie. "},{"Title":"Wonderful movie (except for the bear sex)","Date":"11 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Drama","Review":" A note to parents and anyone who is creeped out by the sight of bears making babies. Although this is a wonderful film, there is a bear sex scene in the film. It didn't bother me but it sure felt unnecessary and probably resulted in some interesting comments from the kids, such as Mommy--how did those two bears get stuck together.Okay, apart from that, this is one of the best family films you can find. Unlike MOST made for kids movies, this one will actually interest the parents as much as the kids. This is one of the reasons the movie gets high marks from me.The story is about an orphaned grizzly cub who is befriended by an adult male grizzly. Now you MUST suspend disbelief here, because in real life, the adult male would have certainly eaten the cub (sorry, I was a biology major and psychology major back in college and I know that is the norm). But, if you ignore this, it is a charming story guaranteed to keep your attention and give you a greater appreciation for nature. Great stuff from this French production company. "},{"Title":"Only 15 bears were killed during the filming of this motion picture.","Date":"1 October 2007","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Drama","Review":" People who criticize this movie for lack of realism regarding bear behaviour have missed the point. This is not an Animal Planet documentary; it is a movie. One reviewer bitches that an adult male bear would have killed or even eaten a bear cub. Who cares? This guy probably watches Dumbo and then scratches his empty head, wondering whether he ever saw an elephant that can fly.I wish more of these knuckleheads would put that much thought and scrutinize Michael Moore's fantasy propaganda documentaries with the same kind of nit-picking zeal.Watching the film, I was torn between enjoying it and wondering if some animals weren't hurt in the making of it after all - in spite of the obligatory end-credits statement that no animals were harmed. Of course, if any animals WERE harmed, they'd hardly be able to take the film-makers to court, now would they? And their animal relatives? Animals are far too poor to afford lawyers that can go head-to-head against Hollywood's finest scheissters.Obviously, bears can be trained to do all sorts of things, being the intelligent creatures that they are, but some of the scenes were a little dubious. Look... We'll just drop the cub into a fast stream, and see if he does something funny. If he dies, we'll get another one. Who'll notice? Am I being paranoid? I don't trust film-makers, especially European ones (not to mention French ones)...The Bear is a solid movie. It has its slow/dull moments, but some highlights, as well. The dream sequences were unusual, an interesting approach to trying to get inside the mind of an animal. The bear cub himself was also quite amusing in a number of sequences.The only major criticism I have is that they gave the cub human baby-voices, i.e. half of the noises we hear from him come from some French actress sitting in a dubbing studio, goo-gooing her a** off to please the director. It just sounds stupid. I would think that the noises a bear-cub makes would be sufficiently amusing/entertaining on their own without such nonsense having to be thrown in. "},{"Title":"I thought it might be an OK movie at first, but then I got through the commercials","Date":"13 July 2005","Score":"7 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Drama","Review":" OK, to start with, let me say that I'm sure that this movie had some really cute parts in it. But there are things in it that are almost UN-Bear-able here they are 1.the dumb little bear sounds that the little bear makes (definitly fake) 2.the fact that the producers included the little bear's dreams... seriously 3.the fact that the old bear gets a girlfriend about halfway through the film and they go off and do it in the woods while the little bear watches. this part was unnecessary and for a moment i thought the producers would dub in porn music... it was close 4.after the little bear watches the old bear and his girlfriend do it in the woods, the little bear goes off and eatsmushrooms, and yes, the producers meant it this way, they specifically included a little bear trip where the mushroom he ate goes all Technicolor and floats around, eventually morphing into a Technicolor butterfly.I first watched this as a little kid and did not pick up on all of these things, but recently watched it again and thought up a better title for it then just the bear how bout' the noisy, drug-addicted, completely fake-acting porn star bear "},{"Title":"Beautiful scenery, but should not be rated PG.","Date":"18 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Drama","Review":" The Bear is definitely an adult appropriate movie, but not appropriate for kids. It should probably be rated PG-13 at the least. There were several frightening and distressful scenes that were hard to watch that contained blood splatters, animal cries, wounds and deaths. This was especially hard to watch if you love animals and hate hunting! The moral of the story was a good one and should be taken seriously, but was over-shadowed by the endless terror and gore throughout most of the movie. For instance, just when you feel the worst is over, the baby bear is chased by a vicious cougar and is attacked, blood is shown. I am a young adult who found it hard to sit through this movie without fast-forwarding some of the traumatic scenes. While the scenery was beautiful and there were a few precious moments shared between the baby bear and the adult bear, these weren't the focus of the movie. Parents be advised when showing this movie to your children. "},{"Title":"Beautiful....when it doesn't sag.","Date":"31 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Drama","Review":"  There are some extraordinary moments in this stunningly filmed movie (a tear in the eye of a horse that's about to die, a human-bear close encounter, a weird dream sequence), but it often sags because of its rather numbing pacing. The bear cub is certainly lovable and expressive, but maybe it's just impossible for us to stay as deeply involved in the story of a bear cub as we can stay in a story with humans.  (**1/2) "},{"Title":"Claymation and bears shouldn't mix","Date":"12 April 2003","Score":"3 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Drama","Review":"  I was in the middle of watching The Bear when I was struck with the sudden idea, someone needs to protect the public from such atrocities found in this cinematography debacle. Although the scenery is spectacular, there is not much left to be interested in the movie.The movie is a coming of age story of main character, a baby bear. The dialogue is limited to about 5 minutes of human interaction and about 80 minutes of bear grunting and groaning. The only other interesting twist is nature vs. man (instead of man vs. nature), but that grows old after about a minute. Amazing flubs found in this movie are dreaming in claymation, bear sex (with bear groaning), magic mushrooms, squeeks by squirrels and the baby bear, and dialogue like, Hop it, baby, hop it. "},{"Title":"oh man this movie was so bad, it is painful to watch , really it is!!  minor spoiler alert","Date":"30 October 2000","Score":"5 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Drama","Review":"  This movie is so terrible on so many levels, lets start with those annoying bear noises those were so annoying i couldn't sit through the show , i had to watch it 4 separate times, I had to know why everyone thought this was such a great movie, boy were they wrong, this movie would be more enjoyable if it was silent, the plot was acceptable but not believable, a male bear would eat a cub or kill it at the sight of it not protect , sheesh! and it is long and boring at the end i was hoping the bear hunters would kill both bears especially that stupid ass little bear, please avoid at all costs this movie is the worst movies i have ever seen and that including laser mission with brandon lee!! a good actor just a BAAAAADDDDD movie! "}{"Title":"Liberal tripe","Date":"1 September 2001","Score":"4 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Drama","Review":"  I tire of the liberal-elite attributing human feelings and emotion to animal behavior.  So what if this movie is beautifully filmed, any amateur can point a camera at the Rocky Mountains and have a pretty picture.  If that is what I want, I'll watch National Geographic.  Spare me this liberal tripe. "}]