[{"Title":"A movie that works without being able to explain why","Date":"27 May 2004","Score":"111 out of 116 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Years ago while living in another state, I was bored and went to the local mom and pop video store to find something to pass the time. The proprietor asked me what type of movie I preferred. I responded that I like movies that are good stories about people, relationships, friendships, etc.He recommended Bagdad Cafe.A few years later, the video store was driven out of business by the larger chains. It is too bad really, because I doubt that I would ever have stumbled upon this little gem of a movie at one of the huge mega video marts that are popping up all over the planet like unwanted zits, but I digress.I owe that person a huge Thank you! for introducing me to what has become one of my all time favorite movies. I was strangely pulled into the movie right from the beginning. For me, it was like a great book that you just can't put down, and that you want to read over, and over again to see if you missed anything, or merely to recapture the warm feeling you got the first time through.What is also unusual is that after more than 10 years have passed, I recently was able to talk my 25-year-old son into watching it with me. His comment about midway through was, I am strangely drawn to this movie. At the end, he said it was Great! and asked me if it had won any awards. I found this perspective amazing coming from someone who regularly feeds on a diet of movies such as Lord of the Rings, Matrix, and Kill Bill. Go figure. From my limited observation of those who appreciate this movie (like me), I have come to the conclusion that this is a movie that works without being able to explain why. When asked to describe in one word what this movie is about, the best response I can come up with is friendship. However, that is such a lame description, because there is so much more to the movie than just that. Yet, on the surface, one could get the mistaken impression that there is not really much going on Bagdad Cafe. There are no car chases, love scenes, murders, suicides, explosions, deaths, births, weddings, or funerals. The movie just, is. It is a slice of mid-life for two women, Jasmine & Brenda, when their paths cross. These two are women who are trying to cope with their respective lots in life, which from external appearances seem to be quite diverse. However, at the heart they are really the same. Both are in ruts, looking for change, for something better in the middle of nowhere, when they find each other. Once the rock-hard exterior melts away and they reach a common ground, their blossoming friendship transforms both.The character of Jasmine is the glue that brings the story together. In Bagdad Cafe, she gives new meaning to the old saying, making lemonade out of lemons and in the process, she also brings magic and new energy into the life of Brenda and her family. The subtlety of the revelation of Jasmine's real character is one of the best examples of a human metamorphosis ever captured on the screen.If you are looking for a movie with special effects of epic proportions, or new adventures in creative violence, this movie might not be for you. However, if you are looking for a story about humanity, love and friendship done with a light touch, then pop the popcorn and put on Bagdad Cafe and enjoy.Oh, and to the owner of the little video store who recommended this movie to me, where ever you are, thank you for bringing the magic of Bagdad Cafe into my life.  "},{"Title":"Magic in the desert and music by Bach","Date":"3 January 2006","Score":"49 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Out of Rosenheim is a film about how the kind Jasmin touches the lives of other people that at first disdain her. In fact, Jasmin is an angel that happens to come to the help of the poor people at the seedy motel and cafe because she perceives beauty where there is ugliness, hope where there was despair and turns everyone around to appreciate her for what she contributes to enhance their lives.Percy Adlon, who is an original filmmaker, scored a big success with this simple film that, judging by some negative responses to this forum, can either make the viewer love it for its subtle charm, or just be perplexed because there is no action. Yet, Mr. Adlon, writing with his wife, Eleonor and Christopher Doherty, created a film that will stay in the viewer's mind for some time to come. As the film opens, we watch Jasmin and her husband taking a break in their journey through the desert. As they quarrel, Jasmin decides to leave him and gets her suitcase out of the trunk to walk along the solitary highway to find a place where to rest. Before that, we have seen a strange sort of mirage in the desert horizon where two surreal lights are seen through some mist. Those lights seem to guide Jasmin as to what route to take in order to continue her journey, or maybe she is just an angel with a mission, as the film continues.As Jasmin arrives at the seedy cafe that is next to the motel, she encounters a hostile Brenda, a black woman who is struggling to make the cafe and motel work with little success. Jasmin is given a room, but being suspicious, Brenda calls the local sheriff to investigate what is she doing at her place, but since there is nothing wrong, Brenda can't do anything.Jasmin upon discovering the cleaning tools in her room gets an inspiration to continue to straighten the rest of the place. She goes and cleans Brenda's office, which is in a state of chaos. When Brenda gets back, she is horrified watching the confusion she left behind has been turned into a neater place where to conduct business. She can't concede the fact to Jasmin, who she still considers an unwelcome guest that has overstayed and has committed the ultimate sin of making Brenda aware of the messy state of her place and her life.When Jasmin discovers in her husband's suitcase a kit about learning magic, she begins to practice the different tricks that she shows the others in the cafe. Rudi Cox, the strange man living in a trailer in the property, is a painter; he decides he wants to paint Jasmin and little by little he discovers the beauty of his subject who seems to radiate it from inside her soul.The film owes a great deal of gratitude to Marianne Sagebrecht, one of the most accomplished actresses from Germany who is an asset to anything where she is cast. Ms. Sagebrecht steals the film because of the luminosity she projects; she seems to cast an aura that others see and are instantly won over by her kindness and her generosity.CCH Pounder, makes a good contribution to the film. Her Brenda is at the beginning harsh, curt and just plain nasty because the way life has treated her. Jack Palance doesn't have much of a role to play, but his chemistry with Ms. Sagebrecht makes a sweet distraction for the movie.Out of Rosenheim is a film in which nothing seems to happen, yet it is packed with a powerful message that comes across as one watches it. Percy Adlon and his star, Marianne Sagebrecht, made a timeless film that will survive the passage of time. "},{"Title":"Long Overdue Comments","Date":"16 February 2003","Score":"50 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Bagdad Cafe has been one of my favorite films since I first saw it back in the late '80s.  Like so many others who have commented on this film before me, as the film began, I too wondered how long I was going to last while I watched its very strange opening sequence.  But, I stayed with it and by the end, was so taken by the characters and locale of this film that I immediately added it to my library and have watched it at least once a year ever since.  Watching it is now like visiting old friends once again.  One person commented below that they wished Bagdad Cafe really existed.  While the characters in Bagdad Cafe may be fictional, the cafe really does exist. It is located in Newberry Springs, CA, about 20 miles east of the desert town of Barstow.  Though it was originally called The Sidewinder Cafe, due to the following of this film, it is now called Badgad Cafe.  I have had lunch there several times and each visit is a completely surreal experience. The cafe looks much the same as it did in the film and you can sit at the table right by the door where Jasmine used to sit and have her coffee.  If you're ever passing by on Interstate 40, don't forget to visit.  In the meantime, check out this special film.  The memorable performances will keep you involved, even if the first 30 minutes have you wondering what and why you are watching, but hang in there.  You won't be disappointed.  "},{"Title":"Amazing!","Date":"25 December 2002","Score":"41 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I watched this because C.C.H. Pounder is one of my favorites. 1 minute in I thought...'why am I watching this?' Three minutes in I was so hooked I watched it twice. One of my favorite Jack Palance performances. Pounder is unbelievably good, and Marianne Sagebrecht is a marvel. The haunting score alone is worth the movie. Do yourself a big favor and ignore the FEW negative comments here and watch this movie. Try to forget big efx, car chase, alien films for a couple of hours and you won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"I never wanted to leave...","Date":"22 August 2003","Score":"31 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I sat down and watched this in a rather distressed state having had a trying day. After a few minutes into the film my mood changed as I became immersed into this strange tale of a harassed owner of a cafe in the middle of nowhere and a tourist from Germany. The owner of the cafe brilliantly played by CCH Pounder is just as bemused as we are why this German tourist delightfully played by Marianne Sagebrecht wants to stay at her cafe. This is a wonderfully unpredictable film never going where most films would go. It's utterly charming and I only got distressed again when I realised it was about to end! (9/10) "},{"Title":"Mesmerizing Cafe, Mesmerizing Movie","Date":"9 April 2003","Score":"29 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  When this film first started, my first thoughts were to turn to something else because Bagdad Cafe was not what I thought it would be.  The movie guide said it was about a large women who brings change to another women's business.For some reason, I stuck with the movie and was pleasantly surprised.  I found myself laughing, crying, cheering, standing, sitting, jumping and even talking to myself.  All of this equates to happiness, I felt happy by the time the movie ended and of course, I didn't want Bagdad Cafe to end.An unlikely German woman named Jasmin (played by Marianne Sägebrecht) appears at this cafe/motel out of no where.  She has a suitcase of men's clothes and no car.  Her appearance raises the eyebrows of the owner, whose husband just left her, as well as some of the permanent residents of the Cafe.  Jack Palance, for one, is a painter who finds Jasmin mesmerizing and wants desperately to paint her.  The owner (Brenda) has a son who plays classic piano that no one cares to hear until this woman, who later performs magic, comes along.By the end of the movie, things are jumping, attitudes have disappeared, and the camaraderie among the cafe staff is unbelievable.  This is truly a feel good movie that picks up long after it's slow beginning.  It took me to a place, in my heart, that was filled with emotion, song and dance.  Bob Telson won an Oscar for best song (Calling You) for this movie in 1989.  The song was also mesmerizing and would win again in 2003 if it were up for an award.  The owner, played by CCH Pounder, played the role of a lifetime.  She should have gotten an award for her performance as well.  There's a lot to be learned at the Bagdad Cafe.  "},{"Title":"Brilliant character drama - a tiny masterpiece even.","Date":"17 October 2004","Score":"30 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A overweight German tourist is dumped in the middle of nowhere by her angry husband and puts in motion a set of unlikely comic and touching events.Here in the Internet age we can do a lot of good work digging up and re-appraising films that deserve to be seen. While this is film might not to be everyone's taste it is a wonderful light drama about people of no particular importance doing very little beyond learning about each other.Yet it works so well and haunts you for days after seeing it.For reasons I also can't explain I find the American hinterlands strangely poetic and underused. Films such as Paris, Texas and The Last Picture Show also used these regions effectively.More than any other film I have seen it cannot really be explained in words. It is about atmosphere and delivery and superb acting for a cast of - mostly - unknowns. It doesn't really have a plot as such and merely lingers in small-town America and observes small town mores and manners with cold detachment.A little gem. "},{"Title":"A desert gem","Date":"29 April 1999","Score":"32 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a love story. And in this film magical love comes to the Bagdad Cafe in the form of Jasmin, who brings meaning and purpose to the lives of the small group of people who surround her the painter who begins to paint again and falls in love; Brenda, the harried, frustrated owner of the cafe who finds friendship, comfort and support; Brenda's children, who also benefit from Jasmin's caring and compassion. The use of the boomerang was interesting a metaphor for what you give, you get back, and the joy of giving and receiving. The magic of Love will appear anywhere -even in the middle of the desert- as long as you have an open heart and mind.  "},{"Title":"A film worth seeing.","Date":"10 September 2002","Score":"26 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A German woman had a fight with her husband and left her on the outside a motel in the middle of the desert. She meets colorful characters along like motel owner and a former Hollywood artist. Usually the plot make the movie, but the opposite is true for this movie. It is the characters that make the movie plot click together. Unlike any movie you never seen before on the screen. I recommend watching Bagdad Cafe for the excellent performances of each actor in movie. A film saying a statement without expressing a bad word.      "},{"Title":"This movie is a gem.","Date":"23 February 2001","Score":"16 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Bagdad Café is an atypical feel-good film with a great deal to say about human relationships and the impact one person can have on others.  The offbeat characters who have virtually no past history-and none is needed-interact naturally and wonderfully.  The viewer finds out all he needs to know when it's time for him to know it. The temptation to present these individuals as misfits has been avoided; instead, this odd group is portrayed as a microcosm of society as a whole. Their ultimate transformation is effected smoothly and believably, except for a jarring `musical' sequence near the end, which appears as an attempt to tie up loose ends.  Symbols abound-the magic kit functioning as a metaphor for the changes effected by Jasmin, the unlikely protagonist of this story.  The boomerang suggests that what one puts forth emotionally comes back to them. Many visual clues serve to connect the `incidents'-the coffee maker, the painting in the motel room, the box of magic tricks, a finger tracing dirt on the desk in Brenda's `office'.  This is a film that is better on the second and the third viewing, when the directorial skills of Percy Adlon become more evident.  He achieves a remarkable non-judgmental attitude in a nearly plotless story. Marianne Sägebrecht is superb as Jasmin; Jack Palance gives a wonderful performance as a retired Hollywood set-painter whose lust for Sägebrecht constantly boils humorously below the surface.  CCH Pounder, as Brenda, holds back just enough in her performance to make her transformation unquestioned and acceptable.  This is not a film of sex or violence; it is, instead, a film about people we might have encountered, the nature of being human, and the pleasures of being alive. "}{"Title":"Sheer Magic That Is Simple, Subtle and Sublime","Date":"25 December 2008","Score":"10 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" 'Out of Rosenheim' (aka 'Bagdad Cafe') is a simply executed film. There are no lavish sets, no heavy special effects and the story is just as simple. But the experience of watching this movie is magical. The film takes place in an isolated motel in desert-like Bagdad (not Iraq's capital city) in California. A young mother (and grandmother) struggles to run her motel and keep her family together. Enter an enigmatic German lady into the motel and there is magic in everyone's life.In a way 'Out of Rosenheim' can be described as a mood piece. The visuals are beautiful, very detailed and symbolic. The colourful characters are very likable. The enigmatic song 'Calling to You' appears every now and then as though Jasmine receives her calling. The background score is just as effective. Adlon makes good use of light and climate. How the heat seemingly irritates the characters in the beginning but gradually as the characters get accustomed or as 'life gets better' the heat is no bother.Yet, 'Out of Rosenheim' is not just a mood piece. There is a solid story but it's not easy to describe what it's about. At the centre of it lies the friendship between Jasmine and Brenda. However there is just so much more going on. Both ladies are coping with their daily lives. Jasmine finally takes some measure and, consequently comes to Bagdad where she meets all these strange characters and as a friendliness develops, she brings colour not only into their lives but also her own. Adlon beautifully unfolds the mystery of her character by revealing that she's a magician at heart. There are so many beautiful and endearing scenes but it all feels genuine and authentic rather than syrupy. In a way, the film reminded me of the classic 'Mary Poppins' and the unique and subtle presentation of 'Out Of Rosenheim' makes it more real (in contrast to the fairy tale of 'Mary Poppins').Just like everything else, the acting is great. Marianne Sägebrecht and CCH Pounder clearly own the movie. Sägebrecht unfolds her character's layers with skill and ease. She brings a gentleness and calmness to Jasmine that excellently contrasts Pounder's Brenda. Likewise, Pounder too demonstrates her talent as the chaotic and verbally aggressive mother who's trying to keep it together. The rest of the cast perform well.Overall, 'Out of Rosenheim' is a cinematic treat. I would love to visit this film over and over again to see if I missed anything because of the detail but also the heartfelt story and characters warrant an invitation to watch again. "},{"Title":"Delightfully oddball, sweet film.","Date":"18 May 2010","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A wonderful, funny, odd, and unique film. Strong acting all around (Jack Palance is amazing). Inventive use of distorted colors and changing camera speeds. A few moments get a bit precious, but generally one of the best uses I've seen of a slightly surreal style to tell a very touching, human story - an overweight, depressed Bavarian housewife is left stranded in the southwest desert by her husband, and slowly finds herself, and a home among the odd characters who live and work at the Bagdad Cafe.This is a case where brave film-making enhances rather than distracts from emotional involvement. The basic theme (we're all weird, and we all need somewhere to fit in) is nothing new, but the approach here makes it delightful and fresh.The original 15 minute longer 'director's cut' available on European DVDs does add some nice details, moments and filling out of characters. The film works fine in its shorter US version, and the Italian DVD of the director's cut I got was frustrating in that it had a a weaker visual transfer than the US DVD, and there were Italian subtitles you couldn't turn off, but I was glad to see it, and overall it's an even stronger film with the original material added back in. "},{"Title":"A Film for Thinking Men and Women - Not Kids","Date":"22 December 2009","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie has been one of my favorites for a long time. In fact, I was first inspired to watch it only after listening to a CD of the soundtrack. I think one reason the kids don't get it is that the film is really a character study of adult behavior, without the typical gimmicks that sell movies nowadays hand-to-hand combat, car chases, gunfire, million-dollar stunts, and bombastic sex. I think that this movie appeals primarily to people who watch a movie to learn something--about themselves or about human nature. And it delivers, providing a wonderful expose' of the intricacies and development of interpersonal relationships. The unusual setting of the desert café, along with the quirkiness of the characters and the outstanding musical score, just add spice to the sauce. Definitely a film for thinking men and women, it takes some effort to get it - something most of today's moviegoers are unwilling to expend. "},{"Title":"Heartwarming tale, beautiful images","Date":"30 March 2007","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is a rare gem. The first time I saw this film I was attracted by the beautifully shot images, the warm colors and the beautiful song that accompanied them. Then, when learning to know the characters better, the film really unfolds to you it's whole essence! This is a simple, straightforward story about friendship, pain, love and humanity. Every single character is very real and well acted, and the story evolves very naturally. This is a film that makes you love mankind, that makes you love it's characters and that gets deep under your skin. A film that with all it's simplicity and beauty catches you and never leaves you. An unpretentious and heartwarming gem. Brilliant! "},{"Title":"Bright Colours, Weird Angles, Big Heart.....","Date":"27 March 2012","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Here's a lovely oddity from little known German director Percy Adlon - his first in English. Set in the Arizona scrub is a scruffy diner, where a motley crew of staff and regulars make their home.A plump German housewife (a joyous Marianne Sagebrecht) is dumped at the roadside by her husband after they row. She makes it to the diner, cases in tow, where the argument has been all about the broken down coffee machine. You want a room? HERE!!? enquires boss Brenda (CCH Pounder). The camera shows odd angles and takes on things, rather like Oliver Stone's might do.Jack Palance, radiating comic charm is the resident just beyond-middle age hippie and he takes a shine to the Frau Jasmin. His performance is as memorable as his Oscar winning one in City Slickers. Anyways, the bustling restless Jasmin has her ways of thinking and those ways don't always meet that of Brenda. Her first task is to do the much needed vacuuming in a pea-green walled room that she's paid $25 to stay in. It's the sight of Jasmin's unpacked lederhosen that causes Brenda to call out the local sheriff.In a charming, heart-warming tale, full of human colour, is a film that can be enjoyed time and again (I'm on my third view) and one that is offbeat enough to be interesting but always stays the side of going too far. An unknown and enjoyable gem. "},{"Title":"Brenda ... oh, Brenda!","Date":"19 July 2010","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" When I first discovered Bagdad Cafe on VHS back in 1991, it rocketed to the top of my favourite film list and has remained there ever since. I've introduced the film to many people and most of them now share my passion for its quirky, off-beat tone and inexplicable cinematography, its otherworldly sound-scape, its motley crew of disappointed women and defeated men, and its gradual ascent towards a sublime musical climax as the characters realise and embrace their passions. The deepening friendship between Brenda (CCH Pounder) and Jasmine (Marianne Sägebrecht) is achingly tender and rich. I now own the Australian release DVD but found it to be a disappointment. It contains additional footage not seen in the theatrical release, and for good reason, as it only serves to drag the pace of the film (particularly the climactic magic show musical number, which, as it drags on, grows increasingly tedious). The adage, less is more should have been applied here. Ultimately it adds nothing, and spoils an otherwise perfect film. Brenda. Oh, Brenda. "},{"Title":"on a desert road from Vegas to nowhere...","Date":"14 January 2010","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" In a world where (some) men just escape and hide, and women go ahead and start everything anew, any place becomes a good place to give new lymph to one's life change lies in everyone's will to make it happen, and history teaches that women are far better than men in this. The director (a man!) of Out of Rosenheim (better known as Bagdad Cafè) proves this simple truth very clearly and honestly. In my still in progress search for on the road movies I bumped into this curious piece of cinema, not a road picture properly, since no physical journey happens, but certainly more than an inner journey develops. It involves the lives of some odd characters, especially Jasmin and Brenda whose lives, so distant but so similar, come to meet at the Bagdad Café, located on a desert road from Vegas to nowhere (quotation from the wonderful leading song Calling you). At the beginning it is a shabby, dirty, anonymous place, where people only pass by, run by a hysterical and melancholic Brenda, whose encounter with the impeccable deutsche Jasmin will turn the cafè into an amusing and happy place and will renew both lives radically. They will become friends, besides suspicion and fear, by teaching mutually how to enjoy life again. And it will turn out very difficult, almost impossible, to leave this magic place. The cast is outstanding, the two female protagonists are perfect in their parts, but also Jack Palance, with his mixture of past glory and present melancholy, leaves the mark.The very good photography (some settings captured at sunset are really effective), together with the deeply involving and enigmatic music contribute to a significant emotional impact on the viewer, and also some very funny moments are to be enjoyed. A truly worth seeing picture. "},{"Title":"A Shining-Time Station for Adults","Date":"30 December 2001","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is, perhaps, the film I'd choose if I were marooned on some island. No - it's not Kane or Potemkin. It's not important, profound, unforgettable or any such Face-the-front!-No-talking!-Shut-up! momentousness. Bagdad (not quite a sensible  story) is a plausibly implausible film about love, friendship and joy found in an unlikely place among unlikely people - all of whom we can recognize.There's no Disney-like roll-over-and-lick-your-hand cutesiness. No showdowns, no happy or sad ending. It simply satisfies each moment it's before you. Then it's gone and I felt great. See it again the next year; it's astonishing again. I felt great again. What more can one ask of any film? "},{"Title":"Magic Marianne","Date":"7 November 2013","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I discovered Bagdad Cafe by accident. The film I'd set out to see was sold out so, having schlepped into London, I reluctantly settled for something I'd never heard of showing on another screen. It was Bagdad Cafe. Subsequently I bought the VHS, lent it to someone - You MUST see this movie! - and never got it back. I bought the DVD, lent it to someone else, same result. I bought a second DVD and I am NEVER lending it out. Never ever.This is a spellbinding film, and like many of the reviewers here I can't quite work out what the spell is. It's a simple story a German tourist finds herself dumped in the Nevada desert by her obnoxious husband and makes her way to an isolated, rundown motel and service station - the eponymous Bagdad Cafe. She makes friends with the people there. That's it. The isolation of the motel reflects the isolation of the motley collection of characters living there. Life seems to have passed them by just as the trucks on the highway pass them by. They are in the middle of nowhere, going nowhere, cast up on the edge of the flow like human flotsam. Each is lost in solitude and quiet desperation, stuck, trying to make the best of things. Jasmin, Marianne Sagebrecht's character, is also stranded by the abrupt and brutal break-up of her marriage. In a black irony she has grabbed not her own suitcase but her husband's, which contains his clothes and, surreally, a teach-yourself-magic kit. With a vulnerable, valiant and soul-wrenching dignity Jasmin sets about making the most of her bleak situation, a stranger in a very strange land. She rolls up her sleeves and cleans the place. She makes proper coffee, strong. Alone in her room, she starts teaching herself magic tricks from the kit as mile-long trains trundle by in the night.One by one, the other characters begin to thaw around her. Jasmin is the catalyst that brings them together. Artist and former Hollywood set-painter Rudi Cox (Jack Palance, in lizard-skin cowboy boots as reptilian as his eyes) falls helplessly in lust, then love, with this voluptuous Teuton who has appeared out of the desert like a perspiring valkyrie. The café owner Brenda (CCH Pounder, a world of helpless pain in her face) slowly lets go of the rage that is tearing her apart. She learns to smile again. Brenda's grown-up children, the Bach-worshipping son and the wayward daughter, are won over. The once-deserted café starts to attract a clientèle. Why? It's magic, as Jasmin says, blue eyes glinting, prestidigitating eggs, coins and ribbons from the ears of laughing customers. Magic indeed. The film weaves an indefinable spell under skies cascading with colour, against a soundtrack that includes Bob Telson's Oscar-nominated 'Calling You'. Love, friendship and fellowship bloom in the desert. Hope blossoms in the sand. Director Percy Adlon (the screenplay was written by his wife Eleonore) has created a gentle, haunting, humanist jewel. And no, you can't borrow my copy. "},{"Title":"'Bagdad Cafe' - Wonderfully offbeat, charming","Date":"28 September 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie has enough quirkiness to satisfy a David Lynch fan, but it is ultimately sweet without being saccharine.  You'll meet some very unusual characters here, and you'll enjoy it.  Jack Palance nearly steals the show with his wonderfully underplayed role, but the ladies are the stars of the show - CCH Pounder and Marianne Sagebrecht are as opposite as they can be but both just wonderful.  Never mind the setting and plot - it's the characters that shine.  The only people to whom this wouldn't appeal are die-hard action fans, because the pacing is methodical.  So many touching moments and surprises, even a few laughs along the way -- definitely one of the more unusual films you'll see.  Some hauntingly beautiful music completes the picture.  (Don't bother with the remake - the original is the best by far.) "}{"Title":"A real gem... see it.","Date":"30 November 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I had never heard of this movie and picked it up to give it a try... no expectations. I was totally unprepared for this unusual, sometime bizarre bit of movie making.I liked the quirky characters and the subsequent character development. Marianne Sagebrecht was very good as the German haus frau. Palance did a very nice turn as the eccentric painter and Apensanahkwat was great in a small role as Sheriff Arnie.This film began bizarre and I was never sure where it was going to head next. The opening was reminiscent of the Last Picture Show -- desert desolation and desperate lives of the people trying to eke out a living. The use of amber lens, the constant background howl of the wind and the ethereal theme song lend themselves very nicely to the overall mood of the film.One particularly moving scene has the German tourist (Jasmine) arriving at the gas station and using a handkerchief to wipe the sweat from her face after a long walk in the hot sun following an argument with her husband juxtapositioned with the Cafe owner (Brenda) wiping the tears from her eyes after an argument with her husband. The development of the relationship between these two is the backbone of the film.The film is likeable, despite some shaky acting from CCH Pounder. Her character goes through unbelievable character shifts -- she was over the top by the end of the film in a scene where the movie degenerates into a weird musical number that is best described as out of character and out of context.Still, this is a quirky, enjoyable, and at times moving film. The title song will stay with you a long, long time. Take your next opportunity to see it. "},{"Title":"Starts very slowly and finished very strongly, so give it a chance.","Date":"19 December 2001","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I watched this because it had been recommended by a friend.  After 15-20 minutes I almost quit, but I decided to stick it out another ten minutes, which was an excellent idea.  The two leads turn in marvelous performances and Jack Palance does an even better turn here than he did in City Slickers. The last thirty minutes (of the US version) is wonderful.  So stick with it, even though it's slow going to start with.  You will be amply rewarded for your patience.  Quirky little film.  Most recommended. "},{"Title":"Loved it","Date":"23 July 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I started watching this movie on television half way through and was immediately captivated . It was interrupted by commercials all the time and that irritated me big deal. After it got finished I searched the web to see where I can watch it from the beginning and found on YouTube, in a foreign language though, but the one I speak. I loved absolutely everything about this movie. Refreshing change from clichéd US films of the time.A radiant, oddball comedy-drama about the relationship.This sparkling little gem is not just a hilarious and touching account of the friendship that develops between two women of jarringly different cultures.It also offers a renewed, endearingly quirky vision of America as the land of opportunity, not in the economic sense, but as a place with plenty of room for self-discovery and individuality. "},{"Title":"Funky, bittersweet, simple but great.","Date":"28 March 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Very interesting. Here is a film that takes place before cell phones and computers. In fact, at the front desk of this cafe they have a rotary phone.Still with me? Bagdad Cafe is out in the desert. No downtown, no Starbucks, no shopping malls. But, it's a place where people have landed and have to make due with what they have. Ever heard of the phrase if you get stuck with lemons make lemonade? Well, these people do just that.This film is about people stuck with something that might seem dismal at first but taking the bull by the horns and making something out of it. The film shows a small group of people who are depressed and bitter but then becoming alive and happy. All it takes is some imagination. Not an expensive computer or I-phone.The acting is excellent, the sets are wonderful, the characters perfect. It may be bittersweet at times, it may seem a bit low key but it all ends well. "},{"Title":"One of my Top Ten Favorites","Date":"19 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The ingenious casting, superb acting, flawless editing, haunting theme song, and imaginative story reaching Shakespearean proportion in its mythos and symbolism, is what keeps me coming back to this gem of a movie, which I've viewed religiously for the past twenty years, and will no doubt continue to re-visit from time to time. CCH Pounder and Marianne Sagebrecht are unforgettable in their roles as two vastly dissimilar women who find in their mutual loneliness how the magic of friendship, ingenuity, and understanding can make a windswept way station, Baghdad Cafe, a broken down truck stop and gas station in the middle of California's Mohave desert, bloom. Jack Palance, too, hands in an understated but compelling performance as a washed-up Hollywood scene painter brought back to life by the ineffable charisma of Jasmin (Sagebrecht), a touring interloper arriving out of nowhere (Rosenheim, Germany, actually) and happening onto the scene to completely transform the lives of Brenda (Pounder), the beleaguered manager of the café, her hen-pecked husband and family, along with its other colorful denizens. "},{"Title":"A Small Film with a Big Heart","Date":"17 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This film was an unexpected pleasure when I first saw it in the late Eighties. I've seen it twice since and it gets better with age. If I had to be specific, it has something different and at the same time it has familiar elements such as the friendship between the two women, and the insertion of Palance into the plot. Authentic filmcrafting in every sense of the word. CCH Pounder and Marianne Sagebrect were brilliant, and this movie restored Jack Palance's worthy career. It looks great and has fine music as well. And the director, Percy Adlon, really succeeded in creating a sense of time, place and mood. All things considered, one of the most under appreciated films of the Eighties, but happily, finally receiving the praise it has always deserved. "},{"Title":"One fine enjoyable film","Date":"15 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" My husband and I saw this movie on TV years ago and really enjoyed the story and the excellent cast. We purchased the DVD last Christmas and watched it again the other day and still found it just as entertaining. A few years ago on one of our trips to Las Vegas we stopped off at the Sidewinder Cafe in New Berry Springs, Ca. for lunch. This is the Cafe that was used in the movie and nothing has changed the decor was still the same with a few minor changes. We also saw some photos on the wall that were taken during the filming. We sat at the table near the window at the back where Jack Palance sat in the movie that was very special. I wish they would do more movies like this. "},{"Title":"beautiful, magical film","Date":"9 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I was really, pleasantly surprised by this film. It was one of those free with your weekly something DVDs that came along, and one night we bunged it in the player and took a look. If you can get past the rather severe (and surprising) German stereotyping of the first few minutes,not to mention the tilting camera angles, this is a wonderful, beautifully filmed and acted little trip. CCH Pounder is a revelation and quite, quite sexy as the café's owner, and the wonderfully inventive direction distracts, as in sleight-of-hand, from the plot holes (Jasmin wins the family, especially Brenda and her daughter, over rather too easily). It's funny, warm, sharply scripted and beautifully acted, and I loved every minute of it. "},{"Title":"an incongruous visitor shows up at a truck stop motel and everything changes","Date":"10 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is a wonderful movie if you stick with it a bit. The soundtrack gets stuck in my head for days every time I watch it. (bc it is haunting and beautiful) It is about people edging closer to each other in the strange and jerky way that life really works in. It has a sinuous, hushed, lovely tone to it, a lot of humor and poignancy. The assortment of characters and quirkiness of the location and juxtapositions are really wonderful. Jack Palance is a wonder to behold and I had never known the other actors, but they were all perfect in their parts. One of those movies that seems like it appeared fully formed somehow, but from where? I guess more like life than a movie in this way. One wonders about the process of its being made--how all those characters were assembled in someone's imagination and how they took form. Traces true organic development. A detail-lover's movie. "},{"Title":"YOU MUST VISIT THIS CAFE","Date":"9 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Friends arrives slowly and - after some time - they can change a lot of things, they can make our lives better and better and better, they can make us see the world in a different and beautiful way. And this is Bagdad Cafe a great lesson about friendship. See it.  "}{"Title":"Great","Date":"13 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I absolutely agree with Tapio - the same thing is happening to me. More I see this amazing film, more I need to see it again. It's pure magic, I cannot explain it, but this is the best thing I've ever seen. And it is doing good, you feel purified. The things the film is talking about are so obvious, that we never see them. I envy the director and the whole team, for having this film in their biographies. Thank you! "},{"Title":"bagdad cafe is genius","Date":"10 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  this movie is the most unique i've ever seen. the song i'm calling you is hypnotic and comforting all at the same time. cch pounder is fabulous as the grumpy frustrated motel manager and marianne sagebrecht is wonderful as the visitor to bagdad. "},{"Title":"Out of Rosenheim??","Date":"5 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film is well worth your time. I'm not quite sure where that title came from, Out Of Rosenheim but aside from that, this is a wonderful  film. The players are real, and before you know it it's over, and your wanting more. A film you can talk over, and want to see again. The only thing that bothers me is, why there was no Bagdad Cafe II. With all of the meaningless sequels out there, this would have been perfect.  You can't go wrong with this gem. Look for it. "},{"Title":"Truly Magic","Date":"10 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Want a feel-good movie without the treacle?  Then consider renting this wonderful little film.  Stocked with oddly likable characters and a quirky story line, it pleases on several levels.  So different, it holds your attention -- none of this telegraphing where the story line is going (although the boomerang metaphor gets over used a bit).  Nice performances, too.  Makes you wish the Bagdad Cafe really existed.  Definitely makes you glad they still make films like this.    "},{"Title":"AKA Bagdad Cafe","Date":"23 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A little too far off the freeway sits the Bagdad Cafe, a desolate and run-down desert roadhouse where the air and life of things has leaked away. Brenda, the lonely and bitter proprietress, is at the end of her rope. Then, one hot summer's day, an overdressed German tourist, Jasmin, takes a room. Things will never be the same at the Bagdad Cafe.Filmed near Barstow, CA, Bagdad Cafe offers a warm and generous look at how life can change for the better with a little elbow grease, some magic, and a good, strong cup of coffee. Jack Palace offers an incredible performance as Rudi Cox, an eccentric who sees visions in the sky and paints them. Turns out the vision is real-- you can see it yourself, just outside Barstow. Though its source is never revealed in the movie, it's an artifact of Solar Two, a large Solar power plant a few miles outside of town. "},{"Title":"Why this is my favorite film","Date":"17 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Bagdad Cafe leaves me with a warm feeling every time I watch it.  The beginning of the film would have turned me off, but circumstances forced me to watch all of it.  Thank goodness.  I now watch it about once every other month, but when I first bought the video I watched it over and over.  It is the ultimate friendship movie. "},{"Title":"Refreshing, offbeat, introspective comedy-drama","Date":"27 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Baghdad Cafe is one of those movies you feel proud to recommend to your friends. It is one of those little gems that can occasionally be glimpsed on the Independent Film Channel, but hardly anywhere else.One of the most significant elements of Baghdad Cafe is the character of Eric, the boomerang player. His boomerang throwing and catching sessions at sunset (or is it sunrise?) make for pleasant, escapist segues between scenes.It is important to point out that this is one of the most accurate depictions of the modern, recreational sport of boomerangs in a film not about boomerangs. Too often our deeply ingrained but totally erroneous notions of boomerangs as weapons are reinforced by Hollywood. This is a myth as old as Captain Cook's first visit to the land down under, but a myth nonetheless. (Think about it why would you want a weapon to come BACK at you?)But Alan Scott Craig's boomerang scenes are more than merely accurate depictions; they almost fully capture the serene awe and magic one feels when booming. I say 'almost fully' because nothing compares to the real thing.So, go out and rent Baghdad Cafe for its warm artistry and refreshingly organic characters, but keep an eye on Eric's boomerang. It will open new doors for you. "},{"Title":"Charming, mystical film","Date":"31 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I agree with the previous reviewers who somewhat objected to the words quirky and weird to describe elements of this film.  Both those words have negative implications to me, and I found this film charming, fascinating, offbeat and mystical.  The story of the mysterious stranger who shows up and transforms the people around him or her isn't new, but it is so beautifully handled here, especially in Marianne Sagebrecht's wonderful performance. This film was an unexpected delight. "},{"Title":"On How to Watch Bagdad Cafe","Date":"8 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The weird taste of Rosenheim coffee is the first of many symbols that build up the character of a grotesque stranger. To really understand the movie, the viewer has to have the experience in abandoning his or her comfort zone. Empathy is not only depicted by the plot, but rather by hidden symbols that reason the simple minded confusion, anger and intolerance. Gas and Oil Bagdad Cafe is physically shown as a dirty, remote desert location. However, throughout the story it transforms into prosperous oasis of human conscience. The song Calling You by Jevetta Steele doesn't represent abandonment, but the overall longing for the lost taste of Rosenheim coffee. "},{"Title":"A real good feel good...","Date":"12 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" To me this movie started off a little slow but once I got into the story and the characters I was there. The supporting cast delivers mediocre acting at times and I couldn't decide whether the directing was bad enough to be original or just original - but it all just worked.The starring actors (CCH Pounder and Marianne Sägebrecht) delivers the soul of the movie. The director also has to be given credit by avoiding a lot of cliché moments that at least I expected to come at times. He's leaving a lot unsaid, but says quite enough.The pace for this one is rather slow compared to todays movies so you gotta have some time to sit down - but if you have just that, I think you'll have a nice stay at the Bagdad Gas and Oil Café! "}{"Title":"Quirky comedy set in the Mojave desert","Date":"16 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is a delightful little film. Some might call it a quirky comedy...The lives of the central characters intersect at a small roadside cafe in the Mojave desert. Initially, there are misunderstandings and tensions, but eventually they resolve and everyone lives and works together happily.The film moves at a fairly slow pace initially, and the haunting theme tune contributes to this. But towards the end of the movie, things are decidedly up-beat and the movie turns into an extended song and dance routine! The cafe is transformed into a popular truck stop and everyone lives happily ever after...If you liked this film, you may also like The Station Agent (2003), another quirky comedy with a rural setting. "},{"Title":"Characters Make the Movie","Date":"7 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The subtle but definite character development and the pace of the plot really capture the feel of the desert location. Surreal and simple. Oasis or not, I will seek out Bagdad as a vacation spot and savor each moment as I pass through thanks to this movie. "},{"Title":"Neat movie from out of the blue.","Date":"20 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I thought this movie was very, very strange at first and I wasn't sure exactly what I had gotten myself into as I looked at the clock.  As it went on though, I really got into the pacing of the film and started to understand the story as it unfolded. This movie is a triumph in storytelling and it leaves you with a great feeling afterwards without being one of those typical feel-good movies.Highly recommended as one you would not normally see but are glad you did afterwards. "},{"Title":"Pure delight","Date":"27 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  When I got out of the theater after this one, the main thing I remember now is I didn't see a usual movie, but I got the feeling I had to offer a beer to anybody who enjoyed it as much as myself, so we didn't end that enjoyment too abruptly;  It's sure this one is difficult to list according to usual standards, but what about creating a new category (starting with this one) raw entertainment, movies who really make you happy you saw them, just for the sake of spending a good time. What I can understand it's why there are not many like this it's sure easier spending money for exploding cars, trucks, or planes, and exploiting morbid fascination. Maybe it would be too much to hope for DVD release? "},{"Title":"It gets better with each viewing","Date":"19 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I have seen this movie at least 3 or 4 times and every time I watch it, I am that much more closely moved to tears. I can't explain it. Perhaps it is just the beauty of Marianne Sagebrecht's performance. The film goes far, far beyond mere quirky, believe me.And I'm Calling You has got to be one of the hands-down best songs ever written for a film. A real shame it didn't win the Oscar the year it was nominated. (I believe Carly Simon's middling song for Working Girl got it instead.)A wonderful film to curl up with in your pajamas, either with a bowl of popcorn or a pot of tea, on a quiet evening at home. "},{"Title":"Weird, funny, heart-touching","Date":"19 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Get together a bunch of interesting actors, cast them in quirky roles, give them unusual problems, and turn them loose in a weird locale.  That's the formula for Bagdad Cafe (aka Out of Rosenheim).  My friends and I keep watching this weird film over and over.  Besides being really funny, it's heart-touching, too.  But I never saw the TV series based on it.  I doubt it was any good.  You can't repeat the success of something like this.  "},{"Title":"Heartwarming","Date":"4 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This strangely amateurish film takes on the issues of women as independent and sexual creatures from a fresh angle.  The idea of an overweight middle-aged Bavarian woman becoming the sexual goddess in one artist's mind is totally wonderful.  Kudos to the fine cast for pulling off such enjoyable characters, ones we hate to leave.  Marianne shines, but so does CCH Pounder.  It is amazing how one woman can transform so many lives without really thinking about it.  "},{"Title":"The magic of this film is the joy and love that a strange Bavarian woman brings to the lives of the disparate souls that convene at a Nevada desert cafe.","Date":"20 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A German couple vacationing in the U.S. get sick of each other somewhere in the Nevada desert and the wife (Marianne Sägebrecht) takes her bags and walks off on her own. Sägebrecht ends up at a seedy motel/cafe where she takes a room. The owner of the motel/cafe (C.C.H. Pounder) is a single mother of two teenagers. The daughter is a free-spirited valley girl type and the son is an unmarried teenage father who has a penchant for playing Bach on the piano. Jack Palance has an atypical role as a sensitive artist in the midst of an array of truckers who all hang out at the cafe. Sägebrecht's peculiarities -- including her attempt to clean up Pounder's dusty, disheveled office and storage room -- initially rub Pounder the wrong way. In the meantime, however, Sägebrecht has a magic kit and spends hours in her motel room teaching herself magic tricks. Sägebrecht eventually starts working at the cafe and everyone, including Pounder, take a liking to her -- especially when she starts performing her magic act.  "},{"Title":"Great characters, great dialogue.  Magic.","Date":"15 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is one of my favorites.  It shows what you can do with a small cast of competent actors, a good script, and a little magic.  Prepare to be transported.  "},{"Title":"Very unusual friendship develops between two women brought together by strange circumstances.","Date":"1 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a definite must see for fans of quirky movies. The characters and their situation are strange yet you will find that you become attached to them. Jack Palance is amazing in his portrayal of a desert artist. CCH Pounder is true to life as the beleaguered owner of the Bagdad Cafe and Motel. There is also a haunting soundtrack that will pull you into the mood of the movie. You will remember Jasmin and Brenda for a long, long time. "}{"Title":"Why I liked the film","Date":"26 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I was surprized at the Movie, Bagdad Cafe.  It was well-written and well acted, and very funny.  What I think I liked most was the use of characters you don't normally see in a film and attitudes that aren't particularly popular just now.  There were no 'pretty people', but folks you believe you could actually know.  The women are believable, as are the men.I found it charming. "},{"Title":"One Terrific Little Film.","Date":"25 January 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Loving a small touch of surrealism in your movies, I would have to say that this film would be a perfect fit for you. The way the film was photographed (often off-kilter), the desert colors (looking air- brushed), the people are very much off the edge (the result of heatstroke maybe?), and even the inanimate objects all seem to have a life of their own in this film. It was wonderful that the actor Jack Palance left behind his typical slightly mean persona to play a character that is bemused and a big lovestruck artist. CCH Pounder is an actor that can scold and holler better than anyone. She is so very commanding. It is great that the characters of the long-suffering men in her life eventually get to appreciate the story unfolding before them. The overweight German woman who turns a disgusting dirty, down on its luck café/motel into a special place, where magical things happen on so many different levels, is just wonderful. The last scene kind of disappointed me, but overall it doesn't undermine this goofball quality of this one terrific little film. "},{"Title":"Highly educational","Date":"4 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Extremely entertaining movie with a very positive message to those who don't feel life makes any sense and without this notion still can do something about it, even in the American desert. Life offers us all these options if we stay true to ourselves and don't let ourselves drag into negativism and routine. This movie is highly recommendable for all ages and social levels and for people who lost any hope on a better future. Curious coincidence that I saw this movie on the day Jack Palance died without knowing it before. Jack died on November 10 2006 and I had the impression he was very much himself in this movie. Truly comical and absurd the presence of the Australian hitch hiker with his boomerang.. "},{"Title":"Pure magic!","Date":"2 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Sometimes sad, frequently funny and always heartwarming, it is difficult to believe that this fabulous film comes from the US of A. And, of course, it doesn't, not really. Made by Germans in America.Notwithstanding, this simple story, spiced with a touch of madness and magic, is a total delight to watch and watch again. The acting of the two principals, Marianne Sägebrecht and CCH Pounder, as Jasmin and Brenda, is spot-on throughout, never over done. Even the extensive use of filters, to enhance the lighting, serves only to improve the film's ambience.If you have not had the opportunity to watch this film, make it a priority! You will not regret it. "},{"Title":"A Bit Odd","Date":"15 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A lonely German woman (Marianne Sägebrecht) ends up in the most desolate motel on Earth and decides to make it brighter.Whether or not this is a good film is really hard for me to say. I suppose it is, but really it is more of an oddity than anything else. A German film that takes place in America where Germans (who speak poor English) are tourists? Okay. That is different.Those who want to see a young CCH Pounder in action will appreciate this film, but it is Jack Palance that steals the show. He seems just as out of place as the Germans, and watching him interact with everyone seems so strange. Pounder claims that Palance had to act off-camera in the romantic scenes because he found Sagebrecht unattractive. I can believe it, because everything Palance does seems so distant. "},{"Title":"Very strange...also very lovely","Date":"4 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Surreal, mercurial drama from West Germany has troubled-yet-complacent Marianne Sägebrecht leaving a bad marriage and coming across an eccentric café in the California desert. Oddball picture gets off on the wrong foot, with confusing hysteria and shouting from the residents, but those who stick with it will be rewarded by what follows. The sneaky film captures viewers unawares with its sideways message of love and friendship, eventually becoming a rather touching, lovely fantasy about human bonds. The unusual cast, including CCH Pounder, Christine Kaufman and (surprise!) Jack Palance, does strong work, though it is Sägebrecht's beautiful performance which holds the movie together. Followed by a far-inferior television sitcom. *** from **** "},{"Title":"Join the party!","Date":"28 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Living in god old Europe I have the pleasure to watch Out of Rosenheim several times a year in German free TV. That shows you over here this (German) film isn't kind of independent at all, it's somewhat mainstream, maybe cult. Trying to celebrate our desire of live and let live. Making a full stop to this noisy & violent attitude of elbowing one's through. Finding our way almost wordless, smoothly, not straight on but driving round. Circling the targets we're aiming to although our dreams would have lead somewhere else. Coloring achromatic circumstances, if necessary. Leaving behind what isn't worth to remember (for everybody has his very own Rosenheim) and making new friends instead of. Coming home, which means reaching the place where is no need for either apologize nor explanation, a place like Bagdad Cafe proved to be for Marianne alias Jasmin. After all you'll find yourself in front of the mirror wondering and what about me (us)? "},{"Title":"Strong character puzzle missing a couple of pieces, but still beautiful","Date":"27 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Here's for an American comedy that's... uh... VERY German. At least, it's set in Nevada just outside of Las Vegas, and holds a very strong sense of the Southwest and its colors and energy, but directed by a German in a very Expressionist way.A German tourist has an argument with her husband and they split up, him taking the car and leaving her out in the hot sunny wasteland. Wandering along the highway she makes her way to Bagdad, a small town... or rather, a café with people who for some reason like to hang out around it all their lives... and befriends the usually angry and very aggravated owner. The two, though very confused with each other at first, eventually spark a friendship of magic that attracts many visitors to the small outpost.It's very funny and pretty quirky. A lot of the strange editing and washed-out cinematography add to a sense of Expressionism, but captures very well the landscape... both its heat and its beauty.This film is missing a few bits of character development and sometimes feels a bit rushed, but it's a very nice and very loving take on yet another type of culture shock that eventually works magic and brings people together. Some things weren't developed enough (Brenda's husband spends all that time spying and yet never comes back?) but the short time we spend with all these characters paints broad portraits that leave their echoes with us forever. That, indeed, is a very strong ability indeed.CCH Pounder is brilliant. If you want to see her do brilliantly as a very different character in a very good movie, watch Benny and Joon. The two movies are similar in that they bring very quirky characters together, but otherwise are nearly completely different. Between the two of these movies, I wish CCH Pounder was in a lot more movies than animations and television series.--PolarisDiB "},{"Title":"Excellent character-lead drama","Date":"25 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Films like this don't usually interest me, but it's hard not to be taken in by Bagdad Cafe's energy and brilliantly put together characters. This lushly shot film follows the fortunes of a family that runs a café in the middle of the desert, and their friends that live close by. The story really starts when German woman, Jasmin, has an argument with her husband and ends up staying at the motel owned by the café owners. It isn't long before she's interacting with the family, much to the dismay, at first, to the head of the family; Brenda. The point of the film seems to be one about family and the importance of friendship. The film makes it's points well, and with a smile on it's face. The way that the story moves is not unlike some of John Luc-Godard's work, in that it works more through the vitality and energy of it's characters than actual plot. The crisp photography blends well with the tune that plays through a lot of the film, and this helps to instil the atmosphere that the story needs to flourish; namely, a fun but brooding one.The cast is mostly made up on unknown/lesser known actors. Marianne Sägebrecht, a German actress takes the 'lead' role as the German woman that finds herself at the café. She does a brilliant job in making sure that her character's ascent into being a member of the café's family is always believable. Films like this can sometimes get too over sentimental, but her downbeat performance ensures that if there is any sentiment to be detected; it is realistic. CCH Pounder stars opposite her as the head of the family and gives a nice performance. She goes through a range of emotions, and every one of them is believable and well played out. The only real 'name' on the cast list is Jack Palance. Again, he adds to the ensemble and helps to ensure that the film is strong in the acting department. The plotting isn't quite consistent throughout, with the nice start being followed up by a downturn for the middle. The film picks up again towards the end, however, and the completely uncharacteristic (of the film) dance turn at the climax helps to ensure that Bagdad café goes out with a bang. "},{"Title":"Quirky","Date":"7 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A lonely German woman decides to spend some time at a roadside inn in a desolate desert town in the U.S. West. The film gets off to a bad start, with a man and a woman apparently having a fight, but it plays like a silent film without titles, so it's not clear what is going on and no explanation is provided. It becomes engaging once Sagebrecht settles down at the café and starts to change the lives of the locals. However, there's no rhyme or reason to the plot. The focus is on quirky characters and situations, and it is charming enough in terms of quirkiness. There are good performances from Sagebrecht, Pounder, and Palance. "}{"Title":"Perhaps too deliberately offbeat but still a nice film with a good heart","Date":"11 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Jasmin Muenchgstettner abandons her husband in the middle of the Arizona desert and walks to the nearest town, Bagdad. Really all the town is though is a truck stop with a café run by the short tempered and stressed Brenda. Brenda's husband Sal has just left and she has to run the café herself with her staff and her children to look after &#150; not that hard a task considering how little business it does. Jasmin tries to fit in and takes on chores around the café (despite Brenda's mistrust and dislike of her) and gradually little changes come about as a result.It has been almost 15 years since I watched this film and I remembered very little about it apart from the title (which ironically it isn't actually called). Although you can see where the plot is heading and what the basic character dynamics are going to be, the film has enough weird unique charm about it to have picked up the cult following that it still has today. I can understand why some don't like it, because it is very deliberately offbeat in direction, characters and setting and in a way this approach is covering up for the lack of substance. Personally though the offbeat air and characters produced a heart and warm feel to the film that covered up for the lack of story. Director Adlon's imagery, the use of music and the great colours from the cinematographer all combine to aid this feel and it does make it strangely engaging.The lack of development beyond the kookiness was a bit of an issue for me because with the tone just right it wouldn't have killed it to reach a bit deeper and draw real emotion but it never seems to aspire to this. That said I did enjoy it because it still works as fantasy and half the fun is watching the dry café turned into something unlikely but very appealing. The cast buy into the fantasy as well. Pounder is great as she has the hardest character to deliver but she manages to be bad tempered without just being a b1tch &#150; she allows us to see the root causes and thus feel for her. Sagebrecht is a weird piece of casting and she looks strange and out of place (which is the point I guess). Her performance is a bit more restrained and I didn't get to understand her character that much but she is good fun with it. Palance is a surprise piece of casting but adds to the kookiness of the whole thing. Calhoun, Flagg, Campbell and others all fill out the cast well and all get the tone of the film perfectly.Overall then somewhat of an acquired taste. A bit too deliberately kooky and offbeat for some tastes but yet still has a good heart and a slightly touching air to boot. Understandably this film is more of a cult success than a blockbuster but it is a nice little film that is worth a look for what it does well rather than its story or depth (neither of which it really has a lot of). "},{"Title":"Cleanning the dust","Date":"26 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  OUT OF ROSENHEIM (1987) BAGDAD CAFÉ         A lonely coffee bar in the middle of nowhere ran by an eccentric and tired owner, Brenda, who is constantly juggling with her numerous responsabilities, which some of them are         A son whose only passion is to play his piano (passion that isabsolutely repudiated and censored by his family); a teenager daughter,restless and liberal; a breast fed grandson completely ignored by his father and predestined to listen in a constant way his melodies; a lazy and irresponsible husband who has been expelled from the place by herself, and who loves her just the way she is; and a small group of customers absolutely bizarre, immersed in a tedious and routinist world.        In this desserted and dusty landscape a miracle happens. An angel comes tired and sweating not from the heaven but from a most unexpected place Germany. She is the Brenda´s angel, not quite handsome but endowed with a hermetic will, which shall not be broken by vulgarities nor by nervous attacks. An angel that will clean the dust not only from the town, but from the souls of its inhabitants.7/10. Great!  "},{"Title":"Two different worlds harmonize in quiet gem of a film.","Date":"2 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  When a middle aged Bavarian Tourist lands in a remote, scarcely populated California desert town, she creates not only a stir with the locals, but eventually brightens the spirits of her host family as well as all the regulars who pass through the Bagdad Cafe. What started out as a big mistake soon looks like divine providence. Miss Jasmin (the German lady with a matching accent) and Miss Brenda (the rough-talking owner of a greasy-spoon restaurant who employs Jasmin and gives her a home) become close friends. An aging showbusiness man (brilliantly played by pre-City-Slickers Jack Palance) views Miss Jasmin as his muse and is inspired to paint her portrait. When word gets out that her tourist visa had expired, the local Sheriff forces Jasmin to return to Germany. Sadness canvases the place where Jasmin had been embraced as a welcome change of schedule. The life she had brought with her seemed drained away with her departure.There isn't much plot to stretch the running time (the original German cut runs nearly 2 hours), however there are many bittersweet moments in this simple, but beautiful film. The last few scenes deliver the inevidible (thus predictable) conclusion. A little on the artsy side and clearly without a multi-million dollar budget, but still a palatable final product.  "},{"Title":"Nearly Unique.","Date":"31 March 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" No movie of recent memory has gotten off to a less promising start. Opening scene A car on a desert pull off, two unprepossessing, middle-aged Germans arguing, the fat woman gets out, opens the trunk, and pulls out her suitcase. The man, furious, tries to pull away but backs into some obstacle and the trunk pops open. Still shouting at the woman, he gets out, slams down the truck, which pops open again, slams, reslams, and skids away onto the highway, leaving the Rubensque German woman behind. She trudges off, dragging her suitcase.Okay. So far, not loathsome. A little involving. What the hell was the argument about? How could a man be so angry that he'd drive off and leave a middle-aged fat woman in such a desolate place? But this introduction, whatever its narrative features, is almost obliterated by directorial razzle dazzle. The inserts are instantaneous; the camera tilts at crazy angles; the scene is desemanticized because nobody can get hold of anything while the director insists on his camera being the main character. It's very much like those ill-considered cinematic experiments from the 1980s when making a film was a childhood adventure, like throwing stones at a squirrel.And what next? Cut to a dilapidated gas/station lunch counter on the same disconsolate road; a one-room aluminum trailer, a broken-down porch, and C C H Pounder, the worst emblem of angry black womanhood imaginable. She's dressed in shabby old clothes. There are a couple of her kids hanging around. Most are lifeless. One is practicing the piano but makes too many mistakes and repeats the same irritating passage over and over. Poor Bach. Poor ill-tempered clavier. Jack Palace with his flat face, toothy grin, and hissing voice is no help. He's dressed like a geriatric hippy and claims to be a painter from Hollywood. He hangs in the background, an indistinct vision. Meanwhile Pounder is bustling here and there, almost hysterical, constantly screeching and slamming doors, though no one pays attention. A viewer is exhausted just watching and listening to her.Enter the Bavarian Brunhilde, sweaty from her hike but carefully dressed in a suit and a ridiculous Bavarian hat with feathers. She trudges to the counter and says, Coffee -- or rather Kaffee. No coffee. The new plastic coffee maker doesn't work; it just makes grinding noise and jiggles about. Juice? No juice? But with the presence of Marianne Sägebrecht, the movie changes. She takes a room in the shabby motel behind the café. The place is a dump -- paint peeling, holes in the wall, the skeleton of the wooden frame showing through the ceiling. But Marianne Sägebrecht is a German and she is industrious. She sets about, cleaning the place up. Done with her room, she attacks Pounder's office, throws out all the garbage, neatens the shelves, and even blows years worth of accumulated sand from the roof. When Pounder sees this, she explodes with rage.That's about the point at which the movie acquires genuine character and I don't think I'll take the plot farther. You may or may not be able to guess what happens by the end. (Probably you can.) But by this time, despite that regrettable opening scene, I doubt that you'll switch channels. All kinds of spontaneous stuff crops up. Christine Kaufmann shows up as a truck stop hooker and tattoo artist. Palance explains to the matronly Sägebrecht that, well, yes, he was a painter in Hollywood. I painted sets. Then he paints absolutely awful portraits of the German lady, meanwhile spouting exaltations in Polish.The tuneful theme song, Calling You, is available on YouTube.It's an impressive film -- if you get through the first five minutes or so. "},{"Title":"Peculiar but charming little slow-starter.","Date":"28 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Bagdad Cafe tells of a stout, laconic female German tourist who abandons her husband in the middle of California's Mohave desert and wanders into a ramshackle truck stop where she proceeds to quietly do a sort of Tony Robbins transformation of its eccentric inhabitants. A plodding slow-starter, this flick requires patience from the audience as it tells its somewhat sweet story and delivers its moral which is loosely something like attitude is everything. A worthwhile watch for those into quirky one-of-a-kind feel good flicks. "},{"Title":"A long way from Rosenheim","Date":"26 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" An unlikely visitor arrives in an unhappy community, and, after a false start, brings happiness to them and to herself. Such an outline of Percy Adlon's 'Bagdad Cafe' sounds almost conventional; but it wouldn't prepare you for the sheer weirdness of the characters or the setting (this is Bagdad, Nevada) or for the fantastical element that develops as the film progresses; nor for the sudden song and dance routine that breaks out before the movie ends. Even the theme song, which features prominently throughout, is frankly a little odd. The net result is certainly original, and not without charm; it never feels forced, but it is deliberately peculiar, and how much you like it will probably depend on how easy you find it to fall into its world. Adlon himself is Bavarian (as his the lead character); but if this is true Bavarian humour, it's certainly very strange. "},{"Title":"A sort of odd character study; pretty good...","Date":"29 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Liked this quirky film a lot more than I expected to. Real kudos to Marianne Sagebrecht and CCH Pounder, who played two women who knew very little about hope and love. These characters grew into decent, (fairly) normal people under each other's influence. Check this one out. Grade B+ "},{"Title":"a charming eyesore","Date":"6 November 2010","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The desert blooms, in more ways than one, when a hefty Bavarian häusfräu is abandoned by her husband on the doorstep of a run-down, off-highway pit stop somewhere in the Mojave Desert, geographically (and culturally) midway between Disneyland and Las Vegas. The fanciful Arabian Nights title offers a clue to director Percy Adlon's intentions, but in this trans-Atlantic fairy tale it takes a good German woman to bring magic (and efficiency) to the desert oasis, dazzling with her sleight-of-hand the gallery of local eccentrics (including an aging ex-Hollywood hippie, played with sensitive self-parody by Jack Palance) and gradually winning the trust and affection of the café's bitter proprietress. It's refreshing in this age of boilerplate buddy film cliché to see such an easy rapport allowed to develop between the two women, but the natural charm of the story is almost overwhelmed by the psychedelic complexity of Adlon's visual scheme. Like his earlier 'Sugarbaby' the film is stylized to distraction, with the unnatural lighting, distorted camera angles, and ostentatious editing functioning as camouflage, perhaps to mask the director's shallow perception of offbeat Americana Jack Palance with a ponytail is a hoot, but the climactic song and dance routine is (to put it mildly) an embarrassment. "},{"Title":"Awful movie - why was this ever made?","Date":"4 July 2011","Score":"3 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I loved Marian Sagebrecht in Sugar Baby. Great actor. I missed Bagdad Cafe when it came out so I jut watched it. AWFUL!No sense of place or context. No character development or exegesis. Most of the roles seem pasted into the script like Colorforms - they are all cartoon characters. CCH Pounder plays Brenda at only two levels - a perpetually angry and unlikable woman, and then as an inexplicable softy - my only wonder about the movie was what took her husband so long to leave her. The ending was ludicrous - I thought it could have been an SNL skit and I was waiting for Will Farrell to appear as Robert Goulet on trucker tour.And whoever Jevetta Steele is, who sings the soundtrack, her voice is most irritating.I will say that the cinematography and editing were very good. "},{"Title":"What were they on?","Date":"28 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film has no redeeming features.  The script is stupid and barely intelligible.  The camera work is amateurish.  The acting (Jack Palance must have needed the money badly) is on the high school level.Barely a two star job, the plus coming in the filming of some night sunsets. "}{"Title":"Why do people like this movie?  Baffling!","Date":"7 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A fat woman shows up in the life of a black woman who is played by a not-very-good actress. For the next two hours absolutely nothing happens except a theme song, which isn't a bad tune really, is repeated so often you grow to hate it with a passion.Everything positive people say about this film -- character relationship, bonding between women, sisterhood, whatever -- seems to be stuff they're reading into it because there is truly very little in the way of story or characterization. As Gertrude Stein said of Oakland, there is no there there.Staring at a blank screen for two hours would be more enlightening -- and certainly more entertaining. "}]