[{"Title":"TRULY WONDERFUL ESCAPISM !!!","Date":"22 June 2001","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  'Heartbreak Hotel' is one one the all-time greatest entertainment treasures. With a solid, brilliant cast led by the incredibly talented  Mr. David Keith as Elvis Presley,  this movie could brighten even the dullest mood with its simple charm, humour and wonderful music. Some of the more short-sighted have complained about, among other irrelevancies, the lack of facial likeness between Mr. Keith and 'The King' as if that was an error of some kind rather than recognizing the fact that Mr. Keith was obviously chosen for the role because he is an amazing 'Elvis' vocal and visual impersonator with the necessary talent in order to capture the essence of Elvis without having to rely on physical likeness which can only testify to the limitless capabilities of this great actor, so much so that there are moments when Elvis almost appears  transfigure through David Keith, who incidently is also a native of the State of Tennessee.No-one ever intended this movie to be taken seriously, but only enjoyed for its sheer entertainment value. The majority of the singing is actually performed by David Keith himself, which no Elvis impersonator could top !!  I have read reviews of this movie which cast doubt on this fact, but if you watch the end titles you will see his vocal performing credits. I also know that he used his own voice because HE told me in person during several chats I had with him whilst he was here in Hope, BC with James Spader filming the upcoming movie 'The Stick-Up'. Charlie Schlater is also an immensely talented actor with the same kind of natural charisma and talent of Michael J. Fox. As I said previously,  all the cast are magnificent and obviously adored making this movie as their pleasure and happiness shines through. Remember, this is not an Elvis biography, but merely a fantasy tale which in its own way honours the memory of the real Elvis. A heartfelt tribute to 'The King'. David Keith can also be seen in 'An Officer and a Gentleman'; 'U-571'; 'Men of Honor'; 'Brubaker'; 'The Rose'; 'The Lords of Discipline'; 'Major League 2'; and 'Texas'  among many others.  "},{"Title":"A fun rock 'n roll fantasy","Date":"28 April 2001","Score":"12 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" HEARTBREAK HOTEL takes the viewer on a light hearted what if fantasy ride to the world of the Elvis of 1972.  The makers of this movie were certainly Elvis fans.  There is a good amount of detailed inside information about Elvis and the plot respects his musical talents, although there is some poking fun at his personal habits.HEARTBREAK HOTEL accomplishes exactly what it sets out to do.  I hope more rock 'n roll fantasy movies will be made in the future. "},{"Title":"Hell no, kid. I didn't do that for you. I did that for rock and roll.","Date":"21 June 2004","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" This movie is much better than people seem to think. It's not just fun family entertainment, it really shows Elvis trying to come to terms with what went right and wrong with his life. It goes from a spooky, spiritual opening, where Elvis acknowledges his own mortality in song (So hush little baby, don't you cry/You know your daddy's bound to die)to a rousing If I Can Dream finale. The idea is that Elvis gets everything right here that he got so tragically wrong in real time. He is the perfect father, husband, and artist, and he stands up for what we believe in, instead of just wasting himself. Touching and inspiring film. What keeps the movie from going soft is the fact that the young rock and roller played by Charlie Schlatter (whatever happened to him?) is initially quite contemptuous of Elvis and his Las Vegas style lounge act. The kid chews Elvis out in a very memorable scene that really represents the feelings of millions of young 70's teens about the way Elvis went soft. The fact that Elvis listens and learns is extremely inspiring, but again, the film stays honest. At the end he tells the family, I've found something here, and I'm afraid if I leave it will slip away again.Sadly, it did. "},{"Title":"Very cute Elvis story.  Tuesday Weld wonderful as the mother.","Date":"30 November 1999","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Good acting.  Suspend belief, and enjoy an original story of the King being kidnapped for a teen's mother who is down in the dumps in a small Ohio town though who wouldn't be in a small Ohio town.  1988 movie.  Big question is where is the lovely mid fiftyish Tuesday Weld now?     "},{"Title":"A NICE Movie . . .","Date":"20 October 2006","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" This is one of my favorite sweet movies of all time. Enough conflict and tension to make you wonder what's going to happen and that fun what if . . . factor that ties the whole thing together, especially with Elvis being such an important pop culture icon. Keith has done Elvis before I believe, and turns in a great job again, realistically I think enjoying his respite from the demands of public life, and then heading back. Everyone seems to be having fun in this fairy tale, and I wonder if Elvis ever really got a chance to kick back like this. I'm a baby Elvis fan and especially love the oddball stuff connected with him, and this movie fits the bill perfectly. It's just a nice little flick to cuddle up to, preferably with someone and enjoy. "},{"Title":"A must for all Elvis Fans","Date":"30 August 2005","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" A Rock and Roll Fantasy with an underrated cast, this movie is a lot of fun. David Keith gives a believable performance portraying Elvis as human rather than as the icon we all choose to remember. That's the most gratifying thing about this movie; Elvis ceases to be ELVIS in all that the name/legend implies and is instead Elvis, a character who happens to be a superstar in the reality of this movie. Charlie Schlatter gives us a realistic teen who can't relate to his mother's musical preference and who benefits from the influence of Elvis--the Man, not the image. It's also nice to think that, by the end, Elvis benefits from the influence of Charlie's character! (Keeping in mind that I mean Elvis the character in this movie and not The Real Elvis!) Definitely worth seeing! "},{"Title":"See it for some light entertainment","Date":"10 July 2003","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  I just saw this movie. I was surfing on cable and I came across it. At first I thought it would be rubbish but then it caught me. At the end of the movie I found that I was in a much better mood than when I started. It was not the world's best film but I really enjoyed it. It is excellent light entertainment for Elvis fans. My advice is see it.....dont take it too seriously and dont expect too much and you will thoroughly enjoy it. I guarantee you will be singing along. Now, I'm off to listen to some old Elvis songs!  "},{"Title":"This movie has everything in it.","Date":"26 January 2002","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  This movie is cute,funny, has action,musical. David Keith is a gorgeous man and does a great job as Elvis. The ending scene although unrealistic as is the whole movie was really awesome! I loved it. It is a shame this really didn't happen to the king because he could've used some back to his roots at the end of his life. "},{"Title":"This is a great movie","Date":"21 October 2003","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  This is pure fantasy. As an Elvis fan it made me think what if Elvis had been confronted with his past towards the end of his life? The end of the film I found to be sad as we all know what happened to him and wished it were otherwise. The music is very good, as are the performances. This is in my top 30. "},{"Title":"A nice interesting, entertaining film","Date":"9 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" I have seen this film a few times, and I really do like it. Its a nice fictional story, set in the 80's. By this time Elvis obviously didn't die young, and is in his 60's, or at least getting old. Johnny helps his mum who owns a hotel. When he see's his mother in distress, he and a friend kidnaps Elvis in a bid to gain her happiness again. At first Elvis is furious, but he soon begins to live and let live, and a friendship and bond ensues between them all.It is a pleasant film, and enjoyable. May not be to everyones taste, but I liked it.With a good soundtrack, and good acting, it really isn't a bad film. "}{"Title":"Great!","Date":"27 May 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  I think HEARTBREAK HOTEL was a great movie. Maybe David Keith doesn't look much like the real Elvis Presley but he is a pretty good Elvis imitator. Ronnie McDowell sang most of the Elvis song. Besides a few which Elvis Presley sang. They have a song by Dobie Gray in it too. David Keith, Tuesday Weld, and Charlie Schlatter work great together. Heartbreak Hotel is about a single mother of 2 named Marie who is very depressed (Tuesday Weld). So her 17 year old son Johnny (Charlie Schlatter) kidnaps Elvis Presley for her. By dressing the locale pizza place owner Rosie as Gladys Presley. Elvis (David Keith) and Johnny get off to a bad start. You would to with the guy who just kidnapped you. But at the end they're great friends.      "},{"Title":"A sweet confection","Date":"20 February 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  If you're an Elvis purist, stay away. This film takes great liberties with the life of the King and David Keith really doesn't look like him, either. Never mind, because Heartbreak Hotel is such a sweet (and manipulative!) picture that you'll be  reaching for your hanky by the end. It's the Elvis film that truly raises him to an iconic level, and I can well imagine the Church of Elvis incorporating this into their video Bible a hundred years from now. The films of Elvis himself will be the Old Testament, and Heartbreak Hotel will be one of the Gospels. For now, grab a box of kleenex, settle into your easy chair and enjoy the re-creation of the restaurant scene from Loving You that is one of the highlights of this most enjoyable bit of fluff. "},{"Title":"Heartbreaking to see a bad imitation of Elvis.","Date":"14 August 2000","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Don't get me wrong. I do like most of Chris Columbus' other projects. I do like David Keith, but he gives one of the worse portrayals of Elvis I have ever seen. This time flattery is not complimentary. It bothers me to see Elvis portrayed with a chip on his shoulder and with such an angry attitude.This was meant to be a fantasy/comedy, but I feel it sure misses the mark. Outlandish story of a teenage boy gathering a few of his buddies and kidnapping Elvis after a concert in Ohio. The King of Rock 'n' Roll is persuaded to 'hideout' at the home of the boy as a surprise for his depressed mother, an avid Elvis fan.I thought this was a cute movie the first time I saw it. Upon viewing a couple of more times, I find it less attractive. For the pure Presley fans out there, this is like watching an outbreak of the plague. The ending tries to leave you with a peaceful and proud feeling, but the damage had already been done.One time Elvis co-star in WILD IN THE COUNTRY , Tuesday Weld plays the bewildered fanatic. Charlie Schlatter plays the wise ass kidnapper.If you are an Elvis fan and haven't already seen this; don't waste your time. "},{"Title":"A brilliant great movie!","Date":"18 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Even if David Keith wasn't the real Elvis, he had the voice, the moves and the super outfits. It would be great if the real Elvis was still alive by the time this movie was made, I can imagine it would be a box office hit! Charlie Schlatter looking always cute, I was disappointed to see that he didn't wear a biker leather jacket, a white t-shirt and jeans when Elvis got use to him. Heck, it would make sense that he would want to be Elvis Presley all along! By the way, his character could become the next Elvis, he such a talented singer too! I was so sad at the end, I would have expected Elvis to bring the mother and the kids with him. He was such a great father figure model for both Johnny and Pam. I honestly wish the storyline did have to end well then realising it didn't. Anyways forget about it, I thought this movie was rather enjoyable and thank god, Elvis Presley's legacy lives on. RIP the king of Rock n Roll <3 "},{"Title":"THE KING !","Date":"27 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Cute aging Tuesday Weld is sad. Everything's gone bad in her life. When she was younger, she used to be a big Elvis Presley fan, including his movies. So, to make her happy, Tuesday's son decides to kidnapped Elvis. What a nice present! Of course, Tuesday can't believe her eyes! So is Elvis! But, as the days gone by, everybody's happy. Elvis is doing the lawn, Elvis is warm to Tuesday, Elvis shows the kid how to rock. Gee... Chris Columbus movie's are all nightmares!!! I'm sure he's the Ed Wood of the 1980's and 1990's and that his films will be cult favorites for beer drinking students of 2075. "}]