[{"Title":"What we can learn from this film","Date":"19 October 2005","Score":"118 out of 128 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" The real question that The Naked Gun poses is not why it's one of the funniest spoofs ever made, but why virtually no subsequent movie in this genre has been any good at all. I used to adore this sort of movie when I was a kid--Airplane, Top Secret, and the six-episode Police Squad show, which became the basis for the Naked Gun series, were among the funniest films I knew. When I first saw The Naked Gun in the theater when I was eleven, I was in uncontrollable laughter for the first few minutes. That was my standard of great humor at the time.But the following decades gave us a variety of similar spoof films, some of which involved one or more of the Zucker-Abrams-Nielsen team, and none of these films were even remotely in the league of their predecessors. These included Hot Shots, Loaded Weapon 1, Jane Austen's Mafia, Spy Hard, Wrongfully Accused, and Scary Movie. These films would typically feature some funny stuff, but you'd walk away indifferently, wondering what the overall point was. Seeing a ponytailed Leslie Nielsen imitating John Travolta's dance sequence in Pulp Fiction is funny for a second, but there's nothing enduring about such humor. An entire movie filled with such scenes doesn't amount to much. What's the big deal about such jokes, anyway? There's nothing intrinsically funny about making references to other films, even if you do it in a silly way. At what point did the genre go wrong and become such a dreary, uninspired affair? Is it that I've just outgrown this sort of humor?I have another theory. When I first watched The Naked Gun at age eleven, I had not seen many of the movies it was spoofing, such as the early James Bond pictures. I was vaguely familiar with some of the clichés it was making fun of, but many of the political and sexual jokes went right over my head. And the celebrity cameos meant nothing to me. So what was it about the film that appealed to me so much, that made me laugh till my sides hurt?The answer is simple it was the film's utter silliness. Think of the scene at the beginning when we discover that Ayatollah Khomeini secretly sports a mohawk underneath his turban. Or the opening credits where the police car goes on the sidewalk, inside buildings, on a roller coaster, and so on. None of this makes any sense, of course; it's just an exercise in pure absurdity. I loved The Naked Gun for pretty much the same reason I loved the Three Stooges or Bugs Bunny cartoons. Even as an adult, I appreciate unsubtle cartoon humor when it is handled effectively. As long as it makes me laugh, who cares that it's not sophisticated? For example, the scene where Lt. Drebin breaks into a building and tries to be as quiet as possible, but then inadvertently sets off a player piano, is masterfully filmed.Thus, The Naked Gun is farce as much as it is satire. As I grew older, I would gain a greater appreciation for the one-liners, like You take a chance getting up in the morning, crossing the street or sticking your face in a fan. To be sure, many of these jokes are dumb. They're supposed to be. That's the whole point. What I understood even at age eleven was that the movie was essentially playing games with the audience. When Lt. Drebin looks in a drawer and says bingo, I knew immediately that the drawer would reveal a bingo board. I was used to this sort of humor, because I'd seen it in the earlier Zucker-Abrams films, where the jokes had a definite logic to them, and trying to predict them in advance was part of the fun. They have far more to do with audience anticipation than with trying to make us laugh at bad puns.The modern spoof films have forgotten all this. They've forgotten that making a good spoof requires a measure of invention, even if much of the plot is ripped off from elsewhere. Car chases may not be original, but The Naked Gun is, as far as I know, the first film in which the chase is conducted by a student driver. This type of cleverness is largely absent from the modern spoofs, which assume that they have no reason to be creative when their ideas are based broadly on other films. They've forgotten that the most effective way to make fun of a cliché is by coming up with an ingenious twist. Even the characters in films like these matter, and Lt. Drebin is crafted in the grand tradition of other inept lawmen like Inspector Clousseau. This is what gives the film its own personal stamp that makes it more than an exercise in movie references. "},{"Title":"In praise of Leslie Nielsen....","Date":"6 October 1999","Score":"63 out of 69 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The movie itself is funny.  The Naked Gun is without a doubt the best skewering of all cop movie cliches available in this day and age.  It works on every conceivable level and a few that haven't been conceived yet.But what puts it over the top is Leslie Nielsen.It's amazing he was great in Airplane!, another classic from the ZAZ team (Zucker, Abrahams, Zucker), and in the lamentably short TV series Police Squad!.  But here, he spreads his wings and flies to new heights of insanity and delerium.  With jaw set square and tongue firmly in cheek, Neilsen makes the role of Lt. Frank Drebin all his own and the movie-going public's collective life is all the more enriched because of it.He's aided and abetted by greats like Kennedy, Presley and Montalban (who knew?) and the movie even finds good moments for John Houseman and Reggie Jackson.  As I said, the movie takes off and finds great things to do with police cars with a mind all their own and goes on from there to take on such cliches as car chases, illegal searches, the cleaning out of the desk, the trip to the police lab, shoot-outs, the lax housework of a single police detective, etc., etc., etc.....And what other cop movie in the history of the world has a music video in the middle, courtesy of Herman's Hermits?Just one.Ten stars and a Dugout Dog for The Naked Gun, the film that answers once and for all - can Leslie Nielsen do comedy?I think you know the answer. "},{"Title":"Leslie Neilsen is a comedic genius.","Date":"21 February 2006","Score":"34 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This is another movie from the creators of the ever hysterical Airplane. If you've seen Airplane, than you can expect the same kind of humor from this. This is one of those movies in which you can go crazy by trying to count the gags in the first ten minutes. Airplane did disaster films, this one does police dramas.Frank Drebin (Leslie Neilsen) is a respected cop with gravel for a brain. He is part of a police force called Police Squad, who the security of Queen Elizabeth has just been handed to for her visit to Los Angeles. Frank bumbles through several hilarious scenarios in trying to foil an assassination attempt on her, and catch the attempted murderer of his best friend Nordberg (OJ Simpson). Meanwhile, he starts going out with the beautiful Jane Spencer (Priscilla Presley).This movie goes from one hilarious situation to another, from commandeering a car that's being used for a drivers test, to trying to save a valuable pen from a fish tank. Leslie Neilsen's comedic timing is brilliant. His facial expressions during the slapstick sequences are priceless, as are his dead-seriousness of delivering one liners. Some of his quotes are so hilarious, that I have trouble figuring out how he could have possibly kept a straight face during filming. This is another classic in the same style as Airplane, which means hilarity. This gets a 9/10.It is rated PG-13 for Crude and Sexual Humor, and for Some Language. Sex 7/10 Violence 4/10 Swearing 4/10 Drugs 5/10 "},{"Title":"Screamingly funny!","Date":"1 May 2000","Score":"40 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The Naked Gun From the Files of Police Squad! is the first movie based on the 1982 cult classic TV sitcom Police Squad! And this movie stands up next to Airplane! as one of the funniest movies ever made. That's no surprise, since the same team (Zucker/Abrahams/Zucker) that made Airplane! made The Naked Gun. This movie is quite similar to Airplane! in the way it presents its jokes. Rapid fire, and you can't stop laughing. My kind of comedy. The Naked Gun has some of the biggest laughs in a movie that I've ever seen. Leslie Nielsen is perfect in his return to the role of inept cop Lt. Frank Drebin. Priscilla Presley is very funny in her film debut. George Kennedy, Ricardo Montalban, and even Nancy Marchand (a decade before The Sopranos) get big laughs amongst the craziness. And love that opening title sequence. Very original. And unlike the Police Academy series, The Naked Gun sequels lived up to the original 1988 film. The first one is still the best, but Naked Gun 2 1/2 and Naked Gun 33 1/3 were very funny too. That's why The Naked Gun series is the funniest movie series ever made. I wish Zucker/Abrahams/Zucker would dream up an idea for a fourth Naked Gun picture. If they do, I'll see it in a flash.**** (out of four)  "},{"Title":"Even when you're not laughing you'll still be chuckling (as long as you're in the mood)","Date":"11 July 2004","Score":"39 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Fresh from tackling terrorism in Beruit, with his own unique hands on style, Lt Frank Drebin is immediately called onto the job to investigate the near fatal shooting of a fellow officer. Det Nordberg was gunned down investigating a case in the docks and Drebin's investigation begins with the company that Nordberg was undercover with &#150; that of pillar of the community Vincent Ludwig. As Frank falls for Ludwig's PA, the beautiful Jane Spencer, he uncovers proof of a dastardly plot by Ludwig &#150; but who will believe him?If there is a man, woman or child on this earth who can say, hand on heart, that they just don't find Airplane, Naked Gun, Police Squad and the like funny then I would very much like to meet the sad sack just to discover what it takes to elicit a smile from them. Needless to say, this sort of film is very much my type of thing but not to the point where I cannot spot a good one from a bad one. In fact one of the big downsides of this film is that it did create many copies that just couldn't do it as well &#150; so we have had spoofs of all sorts of genres recently, but too many have more hits than misses.It is to this films credit that it has a very high hit/miss ratio and I enjoy it so much because the laughs keep coming. The material is very silly but it is the constant straight face that it delivers it with that is perfect and makes it work. Other films of the ilk have been overly silly without keeping this straight face. However, our characters here seem oblivious &#150; apart from the odd one who gives the other a funny look etc, and this makes the goings on even funnier. The plot is silly but that doesn't matter as you will be laughing too much to really care. Having seen it so often I have stopped roaring the way I did the first time but I still chuckled all the way.The writing and direction is spot on &#150; delivering sharp lines that make me laugh due to their sheer unexpectedness or the way they are so very out of place as well as sight gags that are imaginative and clever. However lets not forget a delivery by a very talented cast who make the material work. Praise goes to Nielsen in the lead; he may have worn his role thin over the years with typecasting and, shall we say 'less than perfect' material but give him the tools and he'll do you a job. He can be straight, he can dither or he can just be a clown and he does them all here &#150; his delivery is great whether it's action or reaction shots. Likewise I felt the rest of the cast did well even if most of them are given reaction shots to Drebin. Presley is straight and funny for it while Kennedy seems to fit into the material with ease. OJ doesn't have as much chance to be funny and seems a little stiff in the scenes he is in, but he is still good &#150; just pales a little when next to the others. I love Montalban and he uses his ooze really well in this film &#150; and his reaction shots are very good. The support is all good but it is Nielsen doing his (now) time-honoured turn as spoof-master than steals the show.Overall I love this genre and consider this film (indeed the series) to be up there with Police Squad and Airplane. It is not as hilarious as Airplane but it has way more hits than misses and is relentlessly funny. As a film it isn't perfect but anyone watching this who complains about plot holes, lack of character development or lack of narrative really have missed the point.  "},{"Title":"Only Leslie Nielsen could do this!","Date":"19 January 2006","Score":"29 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" For sheer goof-ball exuberance, you needn't look any further than The Naked Gun From the Files of Police Squad!. Leslie Nielsen remains forever associated with the role of inept Lt. Frank Drebin, who always tries to do the right thing but always makes a mess of everything. Here, he's trying to foil an assassination attempt on Queen Elizabeth. Since this is from the people behind Airplane!, it means that much of the humor derives from twisted dialogue and things popping out of the background. To crown it all, there's even a guest appearance by Weird Al Yankovic as himself. Also starring are Priscilla Presley, George Kennedy, O.J. Simpson, and Ricardo Montalban.And to think that Leslie Nielsen started out in movies like Forbidden Planet! "},{"Title":"The Zucker's best.  Nielson's best as well","Date":"9 April 2000","Score":"34 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  ZAZ's(David Zucker, Jim Abrahams and Jerry Zucker) The Naked Gun is one of the funniest (if not funniest) film ever with more parodies and gags than one could ever imagine.  And the writing is if not good, great that never lets up (even through the finale baseball game with Reggie Jackson). But what really gets this film up there is it's main characters.  Leslie Nielson has never been better and probably won;t ever be this good ever again.  He brings an insane type of humor from a cop that hasn't been seen since Clouseau.  The supporting characters are good also, including Priscilla Pressley, George Kennedy, Ricardo Montebaum, Nancy Marchand and (odd to see him in a movie today) OJ Simpson.  There zany characters and added with a great script make this a treasure in cinema comedy.  One of the best films of the 80's.  A++ "},{"Title":"Great blend of slapstick and one-liners","Date":"4 January 2005","Score":"23 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I suppose when it comes down to it,I am very easily entertained when it comes to comedy.It just doesn't take much to make me laugh.The makers of The Naked Gun did their job well.The film is so overloaded with sight gags,that if you blink,you just might miss one,or maybe even two of them.The slightest distractions will make you miss something.Some of the humor is vulgar and downright tasteless,but nonetheless funny.The final sequences involving the baseball game were the best.With the possible exception of O.J.Simpson,who was never good when he tried to act,this was a grand all around comedic effort,and comedy,as many have said,is hard to produce.I actually can recall the short lived television series that this film is based on.Only six episodes were produced,and it was a shame more were not made.I was glad to see it come roaring back on the big screen.Perhaps it belonged there all along. "},{"Title":"Blood, Guts, Glory, and much much more","Date":"4 August 1998","Score":"22 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  In this film, Leslie Nielsen gives full expression to the comic genius which  he began to reveal in AIRPLANE! Frank Drebin is one of the great comic  characters in film.Just as in AIRPLANE! we get a grand spoof -- this time detective/police  movie/TV cliches get roasted. The sight gags, Nielsen's dead-pan, and the  wonderfully silly dialogue add up to a great comedy. "},{"Title":"Great","Date":"6 June 2004","Score":"19 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Really good film, I liked this one!I recently bought the boxed set, (all 3 films) and really enjoyed watching them again. I have to admit though, I did not quite laugh as much as I did when I first watched them.I remembering watching them the first time and thinking What the hell am I watching? This is MAD! hahaha lol. All the bits like Frank hitting stuff with his car every time he parks and the bit with Nordberg at the start - classic!Really good light-hearted fun...7 out of 10 "}{"Title":"Fast, furious, zany and most importantly...fun!","Date":"29 April 2011","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Leslie Nielson's death last November was a big shock to me. Sure he has been in some bad films, such as 2001A Space Travesty, but he had also made some quintessential classics such as Airplane, the only film of his career I consider better than this, and the Naked Gun series, of which this is the best. Whatever the outcome of the film, that doesn't stop me from considering Nielson a comedy genius.The Naked GunFrom the Files of Police Squad! is fast, furious, zany and most importantly, enormous fun film. While it looks great, is wonderfully directed, brilliantly paced with seldom a dull moment and has energetic music and a fun story, it is the humour and acting that really makes this film so good.The dialogue is deliciously dry-witted, and the plentiful juvenile gags never cease to be hilarious. Nielson gives one of his career's best performances in a wonderfully deadpan characterisation as an likable inept character. The support performances from Priscilla Presley, George Kennedy and OJ Simpson are equally great, but special mention has to go to Riccardo Montalban who just oozes cool.Overall, a hilarious film. Forget rubbish like Disaster Movie, 2001A Space Travesty, Meet the Spartans and Epic Movie and watch the classic spoof movies like Young Frankenstein, Airplane, Galaxy Quest and this. You won't regret it! 10/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"One of the Best Spoofs of all time    ****1/2 out of *****","Date":"17 January 2009","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" For those who don't know, The Naked Gun From the files of Police Squad was a spin off to the very Short Lived series 'Police Squad' which was canned after the 1st episode although 6 were made.LT.Frank Drebin was a tailor made role for Leslie Nielsen, His deadpan delivery has me in stitches every time I watch This movie, Previously Nielsen was a B Movie Actor who appeared in Straight roles, that all changed in Airplane! (1980) as Doctor 'Don't call me Surely' Rumack and has appeared in Spoofs of varying quality ever since, but this along with it's two sequels are his best.LT Drebin and his cop buddies Capt.Ed Hocken (George Kennedy) & Det.Norberg (O.J Simpson) try to foil an assassination of Queen Elizabeth (lookalike Jeannette Charles - Who has played her in various productions) by respected Businessman Vincent Ludwig (The now late Ricardo Montalban who died a couple of days ago)along for the fun ride is also Jane Spencer (Pricilla Presley - While despite not being the best actress in the world is actually surprisingly good) who appears as Ludwig's secretary and later Drebin's Love Interest.The gags are almost non-stop and are incredibly funny even after watching this film as many times as I have, The Zucker Brothers along with Abrahams and Proft are on top form here...It's sooooo Much better than the hit and miss Scary Movie's 3 & 4, Wrongfully accused or Mr Magoo.Leave your brain at the door and enjoy****1/2 out of *****The Naked Gun 2 1/2 The Smell of Fear **** / ***** The Naked Gun 33 1/3 The Final Insult ***1/2 / ***** "},{"Title":"That's why I went to Beirut... to relax.","Date":"7 May 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Frank Drebin(Nielsen) is an old school cop. A hard-ass. He's also remarkably incompetent. He gets a tip that an important businessman(played by Khan himself, so you know he's evil!) is smuggling heroin, and when he meets with him to try to find out, he is introduced to Jane(Presley), and they fall for each other so hard that they appear in every scene from all montages that have ever been in Hollywood films. He also has to foil an assassination attempt on Queen Elizabeth. This is one of the best spoofs I've ever seen. It fits in all the clichés from the tough police officer investigative crime thrillers. The Zuckers know exactly what they're doing... varying the marvelously written and planned jokes and gags, at times having only a single element in a sequence be off(and thus everyone else react realistically, and the laws of physics behave as they should, other than this one thing) so that the contrast heightens the impact, and, in the midst of all of this, there's actually a plot, and we do care about the characters, we want to see the good guys win and the bad guys burn. Sure, we're laughing on account of the slapstick, silliness, clever lines and wordplay, still, we also want to see what happens next, how it progresses(even for it following the simple formula of the genre it's referencing). And somehow, even when it goes where we expect it to, we're immensely entertained by the trip there(which might surprise anyway, in some of the details). I mean, when Leslie, already having been established as being clumsy, is told that this fish in the tank is expensive and rare, and that that pen is priceless, and tolerant of everything but water, we know where the bit is headed. There is a little moderate to strong language and sexuality, as well as brief female nudity. I recommend this to any fan of parody. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Fast and zany parody of policiers.","Date":"3 July 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I have to hand it to the Zuckers and Abrahams. This is really funny, a send-up of every crime movie you've ever seen, something about a plot to assassinate Queen Elizabeth during her visit to Los Angeles. It borrows from every place. There's a scene lifted directly from Don Siegel's Telefon. Some of the first-person narration quotes Raymond Chandler Her hair was the color of gold in old paintings. Most of the jokes are original, though, and half loony. Some don't work -- a car pulls into a parking space at the docks and knocks a screaming man into the water. Others are so outlandish as to be almost surreal.In the opening scene, Detective Nordberg (a depressing but still effective O. J. Simpson) creeps up, gun drawn, to a door behind which a dozen hoodlums are negotiating the purchase of a horde of dope. He takes a deep breath and kicks against the door. The door doesn't swing open. Instead, Simpson's foot crashes through the panel and he must extract it and fiddle with the knob. By the time he gets the door opens and announces that everyone is under arrest, the gang has their own guns loaded, cocked, and aimed at him. They shoot him six times. Instead of slumping to the deck, he caroms around the walls, shouting in pain when he bunks his head against some pipes, when he puts his hand on a red hot wood stove, when he leans against a wall of fresh paint, when a window slams down on his hand, when he steps into a bear trap, and so on.Simpson winds up in the hospital. While preparing to visit him, Lt. Frank Drebin (Leslie Nielson) asks how he's doing. Nielson's boss, George Kennedy, tells him solemnly, The doctors say he has a 50/50 chance of living, though there's only a ten percent chance of that. In other words, there is a ten percent chance that Simpson has a fifty percent chance of living. To put it more simply, that's 1/20 or p = .05. I'd be happy to clarify this further by using base-8 math but I don't know how.The doctors tending Simpson tell his wife, We think we can save your husband's arm. Where would you like it sent? I don't think I want to go any farther with the plot because it's really insignificant, just a frame to hang a lot of jokes on. And I don't want to give any more of the jokes away.Well, one more. The voices tell me to do it. Nielson makes a harrowing escape across the facade of a tall building, hanging on to decorative human figures as he goes, breaking off the penis of one of the male figures, before he crashes through a window and into the bedroom of a half-dressed shrieking woman, and dizzily brandishes the broken-off tool. The mayor charges him with searching without a warrant, breaking and entering, arson, and assault with a concrete dildo. You'll have to see the movie to get the rest of them. It's ribald and hilarious. "},{"Title":"You'll laugh till it hurts","Date":"23 June 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I am rather stingy with my perfect 10 ratings on IMDb; of the nearly 600 films I've rated, I've given only nineteen perfect 10s, or about 3% of all movies. So how did The Naked Gun From the Files of Police Squad get the ultimate movie rating from me? By being so ridiculously over-the-top hilarious that it moved me to tears from laughing so hard and literally knocked me off of the couch when I saw it the first time. I remember the first time that I watched The Naked Gun. I was home alone, it was on HBO, and I figured that it might be a funny movie to kill a night with. I was chuckling during the opening scene but what really got me going was the scene in which O.J. Simpson attempts a drug bust on a ship. I laughed uncontrollably from that point forward, at one point falling off my couch from laughter. The jokes are non-stop; there is not a single serious moment in this movie, and the gags are so rapid-fire that you don't notice the unfunny ones because you are too busy laughing at the next one. The whole movie is hilarious, but two scenes stand out as absolute classics to me the ship scene with O.J. Simpson and the climactic baseball scene. I have seen the movie a dozen times and those two scenes still have me hysterical every time. A must-see film for anyone who likes slapstick humor or just has a sense of humor in general. Leslie Nielsen is superb. 10/10! "},{"Title":"An Absolute Success from the ZAZ comedy team.","Date":"3 April 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" The writing team of David Zucker, Jim Abrahams and Jerry Zucker became a famous success after Airplane! made nearly 24 times its budget. Although Kentucky Fried Movie exceeded its own 33 times, it was their second film that gripped the attention of the critics and the public alike. They parlayed its success into the six episode show Police Squad. After Top Secret!, they went back to their short-lived television show and made the first of three Naked Gun films. Bringing back the show's star Leslie Nielsen and their signature machine gun paced humor, they crafted their finest work.Why did I spend 100 words, giving the background to this movie? The answer is that there is not much else to say without spoiling the hilarious content. I grew up on Abbott and Costello, Laurel and Hardy, and the Three Stooges; the first two are legendary and the third has a fiercely loyal following to this day. It has been difficult ever since for a comedy to impress me. There are only two comedies I have given a vote of ten stars. The Naked Gun From the Files of Police Squad! is even better than Spaceballs. Inept Lt. Frank Drebin (Leslie Nielsen) of Police Squad returns from abroad to the news that his partner (O.J. Simpson, when he was still funny) has been shot. We see it happen in the first of many sequences where we think the joke is over and then see it go on and on using wildly out-of-place props. Meanwhile, Vincent Ludwig (Ricardo Montalban), one of the most respected citizens in Los Angeles, has concocted an elaborate scheme to assassinate the visiting Queen of England! Thankfully, Lt. Drebin's boss (Oscar winner George Kennedy) and the rest of Police Squad have been assigned to protect her. That means Drebin must cross horns with Ludwig to prevent international disaster from culminating&#133;at a Major League Baseball game! I am a *huge* baseball fan, and the climax is the most sensationally funny scene I have ever watched. I even saw my hometown team, although Zucker, Abrahams and Zucker clearly had no idea how bad the Seattle Mariners were at the time. They do prove that you don't have to know baseball to make it into the Television Booth.From an acting standpoint, The Naked Gun is about as good as it gets. Comedy is an entirely different discipline than dramatic acting. That is why you hear about certain actors simply as comedians. Some critics and acting teachers believe comedy is harder. Nielsen is the king of treating outrageous scripts like they are The Ten Commandments. He has been in many bad comedies, but with the right script, few are better at making even the best jokes funnier than they already are.Also notable is Ricardo Montalban. He publicly mentioned that he took the part for money to buy a new Chrysler. I immediately thought of Sean Connery upon reading this. After Thunderball, Connery grew uninterested in playing James Bond, possibly from the strain of four films in four years plus the deplorable Japanese media's behavior during the shooting of You Only Live Twice. In both that film and the later Diamonds Are Forever, a role he only took for the cash, his boredom is unmasked in the two worst lead performances of the series.Such is not the case with Montalban. His facial expressions during the seventh inning stretch of the baseball game and his conversation with a terrorist whose name I would never wish on anybody look like they come from a man enjoying the part. The ability to keep external factors off the screen or stage is one of the fundamental cores of acting that has been lost on many talented thespians through the years. Montalban is not one of them. "},{"Title":"One Of My All Time Favourite Comedies,","Date":"28 January 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" The Naked Gun From The Files Of Police Squad! is a fantastic comedy with a brilliant story,a great cast,brilliant characters and plenty of laughs all around from start to finish,and its no surprise since its from Jim Abrahams,David Zucker and Jerry Zucker,the people who brought us Airplane,and bought of these movies are some of my favourite movies of all time.And of course,this movie is all great because of Leslie Nielsen,a fantastic comedy actor who will always make me laugh,even movies hes starred in that I didn't like,for example,Superhero Movie,I did enjoy his parts.I was very excited when I first found out they were working on a fourth Naked Gun,but shortly after that Leslie Nielsen died,so because,there is no way,if they ever end up making one I wont see it,because Leslie Nielsen is the only man who can ever play Frank Drebin.Frank Drebin (Leslie Nielsen) gets involved in a case involving a man who shot his friend Nordberg (O.J. Simpson),who is now planning to assassinate the Queen of England,who is visiting America. "},{"Title":"Zany, madcap, Tex Avery noir","Date":"4 January 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" There's not much to really say about a film like this, except that at least for me, it's always been a pleasant experience. The jokes are piled so thick that not all of it register, but the good moments are worth it. It's Enrico Palazzo! gets me every time.The film parodies every mode of cop flicks, but only two of those are the real backbone. The obvious thrust in the plot lampoons James Bond super-spy stuff, which is underscored by having the Queen over to visit and a suave, exotic villain. I think it's with the second mode that Abrahams/Zucker really stumbled onto something&#x97;film noir.In the film, Drebin imagines himself as the cocksure Philip Marlowe guy, there is the snappy noir voice-over, the Double Indemnity quotations, the alluring woman, the glistening pavements and neon night atmosphere....but from our position as viewers, we know he is a bumbling buffoon who sleepwalks in his own illusory bubble&#x97;most importantly, the woman is not a femme fatale as he suspects&#x97;so the surreal situations that develop, which are a staple of the noir nightmare, are his own illogical doing.Because the film is a comedy, these are played for laughs, and the buffoon has to be shown to triumph, but this is a smart, interesting reworking. The second film is even better.★★★★☆ "},{"Title":"Great Fun!","Date":"3 June 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Man, Zucker really knows how to keep the laughs coming with his trademark brand of comedy that includes spoofing serious situations (whether or not they have appeared in actual movies) wordplay, sight gags and through the vehicle of Leslie Nielson- deadpan humor.No punches are pulled. If it will get a laugh, they use it. Not much for plot; it's mainly a bunch of hilarious situations cobbled together to form that ideal of entertainment portion sizes the screen film.My favorite scene in this film was the mayor's announcement of the Queen's impending arrival and their security measures with Frank and the mike. Boy, did i have soda squirting out of my every orifice! Priscilla Presley is beautiful. I found it really heartwarming that she was a successful actress in her own right after being married to one of the most famous celebrities ever (Elvis). "},{"Title":"It will have you in stitches","Date":"1 May 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" If you don't think that this movie is absolutely hilarious, then you don't know great comedy.Leslie Nielsen is one of the funniest actors of all time in my book. He is at his comedic best in this movie. His delivery of the most ridiculous lines with a completely straight face really sells the comedy.Leslie Nielsen plays Lt. Frank Drebin of Police Squad a special division of the police force. He bumbles his way through investigations in a manner somewhat reminiscent of Peter Sellers' Inspector Dreyfus.This movie is actually a continuation of the show Police Squad! They kept much of the same cast but made it a little more mainstream. Give this movie a watch and then if you liked that, find a copy of Police Squad! and watch that too. "}{"Title":"Leslie Nielsen Rocks!","Date":"24 April 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Leslie Nielsen Rocks! 'The Naked Gun From the Files of Police Squad!', proves that fact, evidently. An amazing performance, that deserves the highest amounts of praises. He plays it dumb, with such flexibility, that you actually leave this slap-stick comedy with happiness.'The Naked Gun From the Files of Police Squad!', is directed by David Zucker, a legend in his own right. Zucker has even written the film along-with his legendary combo of Jerry Zucker, Jim Abrahams & Pat Proft. This one's a fast-paced slapstick comedy, that includes a lot of visual and verbal puns and gags, and chronicles the adventures of Nielsen's character, the bumbling police Lieutenant Frank Drebin.There are hilarious moments all through. The Writing is absurd, funny & lively. It succeeds by holding your attention completely, from start to end. The dialogue, are outrageous, but so very innovative at the same time. Zucker has had a ball making this flick, and his excitement reflects on the screen each minute. Cinematography by Robert M. Stevens, captures each and every moment, wonderfully.Leslie Nielsen can never die in the memory of film-buffs, like me and many more. His performance here, according to me, ranks as one of the most intelligently funny performances of all-times. A special mention for Priscilla Presley, for her sincere & likable performance in here.On the whole, Don't miss this one! Logic can be over-looked for sometime. "},{"Title":"Hilarious film that's more clever than some people realize","Date":"19 December 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" It's difficult to review a comedy, which is why I haven't attempted it until now. (What do you say, after all? This is a really, really funny movie!) The great thing about The Naked Gun is that, in addition to being genuinely funny, it's a smart little film. Perfect example Raymond Chandler fans will get a kick out of the reference to Farewell, My Lovely. Upon his first meeting with Priscilla Presley's character, Leslie Nielsen (as Lt. Frank Drebin) notes in the voice-over, She was giving me a look I could feel in my hip pocket. This line is lifted directly from Chandler's novel, but it's so subtle and fits into the film so well that viewers who know nothing of Chandler won't feel left out. This, along with Nielsen's lovably goofy performance, is what separates the work of the Zucker brothers from knockoffs like Loaded Weapon. Sure, you've seen The Naked Gun already...but see it again and you'll pick up on things you didn't notice the first time. (Single best moment of the film O.J. Simpson's absurdly prolonged reaction to being shot by Ricardo Montalban's goons. It sends me into fits of laughter every time!) "},{"Title":"A comedy classic!","Date":"3 May 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Seriously. This movie is superb. Leslie Nielsen does a very funny job of being Lt. Frank Drebin, and I thought every joke in this movie (pretty much anyway) was very funny. It reminds me a lot of Monty Python, fresh and funny! Heck, the acting is great too! The whole movie is great! Everything about it rocks! This is one of my top 10 favorite movies, and I definitely recommend it to any comedy fan, unless you don't like comedy too much, which is possible if you're a girl or are just not entertained by stupid comedy like this, but I know that I loved it.10/10 "},{"Title":"One of the funniest movies... ever!","Date":"29 November 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I usually like to rent movies at least twice a month. The only catch is that I don't like taking my friends, because I like to read and I know this sounds silly, but concentrate on the movies that I'd like to see. Just because I don't like to see movies that I know will be bad. But my friends and I were out and I mentioned how I was going to rent movies that night. They asked if they could come, and I couldn't say no. That would just be horrible to say, and especially with my silly theory. I saw Naked Gun sitting there, and my friend asked me if I ever saw this movie, and I said no. She said that this would be the movie to watch for a good laugh. So, I decided for once to let go and rent. I was glad that I did. This is by far one of the funniest movies I have seen. You can't take it seriously, but that's what I love about it. It's a great movie. I would recommend it for comedy lovers.10/10 "},{"Title":"Nifty Nuttiness","Date":"2 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Laugh-A-Thon that was a Big HIt and spawned two Sequels, from the Creators of the similar Airplane (1980), this was a Spin off from the also Excellent TV Show. The Humor is mostly Slapstick, Puns, and Ridiculous situations rendered in Deadpan from Leslie Nielsen and the rest of Cast along for the Ride.Most of the Jokes Hit and it is a Delight to just let the thing play out in its own World where things are Crazy and get even Crazier as it goes along. Does tend to run out of steam at the Ballpark where Lt. Drubin runs amok and the One Setting leaves no room for things to broaden out even more.But it is a Scream most of the time. Someone said that Life is easy, Comedy is hard. But in this Nifty and Nutty Picture everything looks effortless. A Winner. "},{"Title":"One of the funniest movies of the 20th century.","Date":"31 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Yes, the movie was dumb, the plot had holes in it, and there was little character development, but who even cares? As soon as the movie starts, to the very minute it ends, the gag never stops. There is not one moment when a joke is not happening, at that is what makes this movie so funny. I was smiling throughout the whole movie. I was giggling throughout most of it. I was historically laughing at least 10 times, and was even in tears twice. The acting from Leslie Nielsen who plays a hilarious and oblivious policeman was perfect for his role, and it made the movie. This is as movie that I could re-watch multiple times and never get bored, because of the energy that this movie gives out. All of the actors looked like they were having a blast making this, and at the end of the day, thats what makes a movie good- when the people involved are having fun with it. The only gripe about Naked Gun that I have is the dumb and cliché plot, but it worked for this type of story just fine, and barely took me out of this movie that I love. "},{"Title":"Side-splitting funny - Nielson at some of his best!","Date":"22 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This is a comedy-spoof from David and Jerry Zucker, a film based on the short-lived TV series, Police Squad, starring Leslie Nielson as Lt. Frank Drebin, where we get to see the blundering Los Angeles police detective attempting to protect the visiting Queen Elizabeth from an assassin.It's non-stop laughs from start to finish that will send tears to your eyes and have you holding your stomaches. The plot elements from an earlier Zucker spoof also starring Nielseon, Airplane!, are in this movie calm and serious characters delivering outrageous comedic lines and action; slapstick comedy like Jane Spencer (Priscilla Presley) falling down a flight of stairs and bumping into walls and Drebin getting bit by a $25,000 lion-fish; on-site gags like fences with automatic spray-paint to target graffiti vandals, stun guns coming out of cuff links, and Nielson harassing a concrete statue; and absurd, inside jokes.I first watched this film when I was a little kid and remembered it as being one of the funniest movies I've seen at that time, recalling such scenes as Drebin sending Queen Elizabeth flying across a table and the automatic piano in villain Vincent Ludwig's (Ricardo Montalban) office.With all the jokes, one-liners and gags in abundance, you wouldn't want to treat this movie seriously. The characters, however, seem to treat their mission seriously, giving this movie a fast-paced plot and story nonetheless, despite all the spoofed humor. I always have a fun time watching this film and there also always seem to be a new joke or gag to catch in the film every time. I just wished that I would have watched this movie in theaters when it first came out; it would have been fun being around all the audience members laughing their hearts out.With awesome acting, an exciting plot and a classical crime drama-style music score, I recommend this film to any movie-lovers. You will be thoroughly entertained! Grade A "},{"Title":"The First of The Funny Guns","Date":"18 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" 'The Naked Gun From the Files of Police Squad!' is the first of Leslie Nielsen's hilarious Naked Gun trilogy, one that has stood the test of time and still makes me laugh out loud even after repeated viewings. The writing packs a solid story full of humour between words. The humour is an amusing ingredient of dry, slapstick, situational, spoofy and even a pinch of the political. The aim of the film was obviously to draw laughter and all three Naked Guns achieve that with ease. Nielsen does a superb job. It's nothing new that he's a master in his craft when it comes to comedy and he's at his best here. Priscilla does a good enough job of matching wits. George Kennedy is equally likable as the sidekick. It's time to revisit the sequels just to re-enjoy more of this adventure. "},{"Title":"RIP Leslie Nielsen (1926-2010)","Date":"2 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" The story of the Naked Gun films starts out all the way back in 1976. This is when a comedy group known as the Kentucky Fried Theatre Group (consisting of David Zucker, Jim Abrahams,& Jerry Zucker) made a low-budget independent film called Kentucky Fried Movie. Although, not starring Leslie Nielsen, this little-known, but widely regarded film set the tone as what would follow in they're next huge movies. Their sense and style of comedy is groundbreaking is so far away from what comedy was like previous. Their style of taking things literally and adding little subtle gags here and there are very amusing and will have you rolling on the floor dying of laughter.....literally. In 1980, the same team finally put their comedy into mainstream movies as to what would become a milestone in comedic film history....Airplane ! The film starring some well known celebrities such as Robert Hays, Robert Stack, and Lloyd Bridges, but one familiar, yet unknown actor, Leslie Nielsen was cast as a leading role. Nielsen had done previous serious acting roles in the 50s sci-fi classic, Forbidden Planet, and in the 1972 epic disaster movie, The Poseiden Adventure as the captain. Leslie's serious delivering of comedic lines is what earned him his trademark and an entire audience crazed about his style of acting. Nielsen became such a huge hit that Paramont put him as the star of a short-lived t.v series Police Squad. Written by the Kentucky Fried Theatre group. It wasn't until 1988 that the same writers decided to put the series up on the big screen in what would be one of the funniest films of our time.Leslie Nielsen is seen playing Lt. Frank Drebin again with his partner Ed Hockin (George Kennedy) and the absent minded Norberg (O.J. Simpson) and their division of the Los Angeles police force is to protect the queen on her visit to the U.S. Trouble strikes when Norberg is is nearly killed while trying bust open one of the biggest villains of the city played by Richardo Montalbaun. All in a hilariously funny comedy adventure film that will leave laughing in tears.The film went on to spawn two other sequels (Naked Gun 2 The Smell of Fear & The Naked Gun 33 1/3 The Final Insult) and what would've become a fourth sequel in 2012, however the fate of that is now unknown. We will truly miss movies like this most of the greatest comedic actors and actresses of our time are either dead or too old to act. From now on comedies are considered to be movies with bad words and sex jokes as a form of entertainment. You know what I am talking about Superbad, Grown Ups, Knocked Up etc. crap like that. I've always come to believe that Leslie Nielsen would be here forever since he was still working on movies till his dying day. His death has surprised all of us and he will Shirley be missed. "},{"Title":"Probably the Funniest Movie Ever!","Date":"11 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This movie simply takes your breath away. But not because it's something new, extraordinary or odd, but because you can't breath from laughing! Each and every detail in this movie is made to be funny, and you have to constantly keep watching the whole screen, because something very funny is always going on, if not in the focus, than in the background.The whole (holy) trilogy has its recognizable intro, the police siren going to the most bizarre places in the city (someone's bedroom, toilet, kitchen, etc.) )Anyway, The Naked Gun will leave a deep footprint in the history of comedies. "}{"Title":"One of the Funniest Ever","Date":"4 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" The Naked Gun and Airplane, both by the same directors, rank on my list as 2 of the funniest movies ever made. The perfect mixture of slapstick jokes, satires of the classic cop movie, political jokes, and just plain silliness makes The Naked Gun a great comedy for all ages.Leslie Neilsen as Frank Dreben is the best and most memorable role of his career. All of the supporting actors give credible and hilarious performances as well. The jokes come rapid fire, and most surprisingly of all, there is an actual plot that is interesting, a rare commodity in today's satires like Date Movie and Epic Movie.Two thumbs way way up! "},{"Title":"Greatest comedy series ever!!!","Date":"30 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I can honestly say that I never laughed so hard before watching The Naked Gun.This is simply a masterpiece comedy,the greatest of all time along with the sequels.Trust me you will almost die from laughter.Leslie Nielsen is a comedy genius,an absolute one.This guy plays so well and looks so serious that when he does all the stupid things he does it looks like he's surprised just as much as the audience.Sheer brilliance to the max. The story is simpleDetective Frank Drebin tries to uncover a plan to assassinate Queen Elizabeth II (who is on a state visit to the USA). The main suspect is Vincent Ludwig ,a man (hired by Papshmir, a recurring villain) who has a way of turning anyone into an unknowing assassin at the press of Ludwig's beeper; it appears that the victims are responding to a post-hypnotic suggestion, but the film makes no effort to clarify the point.As he works on the case, Drebin meets and falls in love with Ludwig's assistant Jane Spencer. It is eventually revealed that Jane knows nothing about Ludwig's plot, and after the pair spend the night together, she helps Frank with his investigation.The laughs are more than you can count I can assure you.This spoof of cop movies is excellent watch it immediately.For me the three movies are the greatest comedies of all time. "},{"Title":"A heart warming, pleasant and very funny film!","Date":"12 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I remember i was at a friends house, one day, we were on youtube and he decided to type in The Naked Gun then, i'd never heard of it, the only Nielsen flick i ever saw was Spy Hard. Anyway we watched the best bits of this film, i enjoyed it very much and then we went to Xtravision to rent out 33 1/3, it wasn't there, so we rented out this one, which was i kinda bad idea considering we already saw the best bits, but i still enjoyed it, and it encouraged me to buy 33 1/3, which i really REALLY enjoyed, all i need now is 2 1/2......Anyway about the film, well it's great, there are some top-notch jokes, and the odd unfunny joke but all comedies have them, it's a great way to spend an hour and a half and would recommend it to anybody in dire need of a good laugh, i can guarantee you, it'll be worth it, in fact It's impossible not to laugh! 8/10 "},{"Title":"Hilarious slapstick","Date":"9 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This is by far the best Leslie Nielson comedy. Almost every joke worked, and even the ones that didn't were done as well as they could be.Leuitenant Frank Drebin has to stop the murder of Queen Elizibeth, while trying to also figure out who's behind the attack of his police friend Norwood (OJ Simpson). Yes, the movie has no real plot and it's a bunch of gags thrown together, and yes, it begins to run out of steam by the end, but this is just a hilarious movie. Leslie Nielson's serious manner is perfect for his ridiculous lines, and the constant sight gags are hilarious. Even Pricilla Presley managed to be amusing.Great job to the Zuckers for their wonderful creation.My rating *** 1/2 out of ****. 83 mins. PG-13 for sexual humor. "},{"Title":"One  Man's Trash is Another Man's Treasure! Cancelled on TV, the POLICE SQUAD! Project taken to PARAMOUNT PICTURES and the movies , with great $ucce$$!!","Date":"26 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" The creative team of Zucker/Abrahams/Zucker were overnight successes with the public acceptance and Box Office $ucce$$ of their AIRPLANE!(Paramount, 1980). This opened the door to them for other projects. So, to the small screen of Television Land they did travel.Utilizing the same type of tongue in cheek, verbal punning and sight gag loaded spoofing humor as AIRPLANE, they chose to launch a double barreled assault on the Cop Show. The result was POLICE SQUAD!(1982).The series produced a grand total of six(6) measly episodes, but what a six episodes they were. Each was a little gem on its own, and would have worked well as those old time 2 Reelers Comedies once so popular at the theatre, featuring the likes of Laurel & Hardy, The Three Stooges, Edgar Kennedy, 'Joe McDoakes', Pete Smith, etc.Well, some joker with a position as an Executive at the American Broadcasting Company (ABC) TV Network pronounced the series as a candidate for the 'old Axe' because .....you have to pay too much attention to the episodes on your TV., or some such dribble.So away went POLICE SQUAD with Captain/Lieutennant/Sergeant Frank Drebbin(Leslie Nielsen), ne'er to be heard from again. WRONG! In 1988, the concept with Leslie Nielsen starring rose again as THE NAKED GUN From The Files of Police Squad!( Paramount, 1988). It was a feature film, one that required viewing at a movie house and paying an admission. Well, with 2 sequels following, it's kinda obvious that it was successful, where it counts, with the public!* The story opens up with a scene of a big meeting of America's Enemies. Among those being portrayed are Castro, Khadaffi, Arafatt, Idi Amin, the Ayatola Khomani and others. Their meeting being broken up by the sudden appearance of Frank Drebbin, on special Government assignment.Back home in L.A., he is met at the Airport by his boss, Captain Ed Hocken(George Kennedy)who informs him of the coming visit of State by Her Majesty, Queen Elizabeth II to Los Angeles. A visit complicated by the Underground Operations by Some Murderous Gang of Drug Smugglers. The city Fathers are concerned over some Murders connected to them. Also, Detective Nordberg (O.J. Simpson) lies close to death in Hospital after attempting to infiltrate the Mob.The plot takes us on a merry chase, all 'round L.A., before winding up at the California Angels' Big A Ball Park in Aneheim.Without getting into particulars, let's just say that this is the Crown Jewels of the whole picture. We are treated to a succession of super gags, each as good or better than the last. The back-drop of a Baseball Game between the Angels and the Seattle Mariners provides the opportunity for Leslie Nielasen to perform a true Tour-de-Force of Comedic Performance that will remain unmatched for many a year! (Oh, Hell! Just see it, next chance you get!) "},{"Title":"an enjoyable exercise of outrageously silly gags","Date":"19 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Clever, broadly funny comic spoof. The story begins as a Los Angeles police officer is nearly killed while investigating malfeasance on the local docks. He survives, and leaves clues for best friend Lieutenant Frank Drebin, a brainless fellow officer determined to try and apprehend the culprit. Drebin's investigation leads him onto the trail of Vincent Ludwig (Montalban), a well-respected businessman who may be involved in a plot to assassinate the Queen of England. Intentionally silly, often hilarious comedy has a few lulls as it nears the finale, but up until then it's an amusing barrage of ingenious gags, funny lines, and a steadily playful feel throughout. Nielsen is perfectly cast as the bumbling, obtuse officer, aided by a script that's both smart and consistently funny. *** "},{"Title":"One of the funniest movies ever!","Date":"13 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" First off, I'm new at reviewing. So I'd appreciate it if someone could tell me the limits of reviewing a movie without warning about spoilers.Anyways, this is one of the greatest comedies ever created. From hilarious, speechless scenes, to great one-liners, this movie is also the greatest police movie spoof. It's a great reprise of the short-lasting series that was somewhat-recently released onto DVD, Police Squad... IN COLOR! Leslie Nielsen did a great job acting as well. He managed to make the role an actual character, just like in Police Squad. I doubt anyone else could've pulled off the part perfectly. "},{"Title":"A good 80's comedy","Date":"18 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Leslie Nielsen heads a talented cast in the first Naked Gun film. He stars as Lt. Frank Drebin, and his bumbling pursuit of a criminal mastermind serves as the main plot in The Naked Gun. Along the way he must also act as security for the Queen of England who is making a visit, which allows for more hilarious antics from one of the most funny actors in Hollywood.Nielsen is supported by a great cast including Priscilla Presley as his love interest Jane Spencer (the scene where they have safe sex is perhaps one of the funniest scenes I have ever seen in a movie), Ricardo Montalban as the villainous Vincent Ludwig, George Kennedy as Drebin's kind-hearted superior Captain Ed Hocken, and Nancy Marchand who is terrific as the dismissive Mayor Barkley.The Naked Gun is not just a straight-comedy, there are literally countless spoofs littered throughout the film, as well as plenty of remarks on society. Aside from the safe sex scene other highly amusing scenes include Drebin and a learner driver, O.J. Simpsons blundered attack on some crooks, and Drebin destroying a valuable collection of artwork and statues.The main problem with the film though is that it seems to have aged. Several of the social context related jokes and themes seem lost in today's society, but were no doubt effective in their time. Being only 4 years old when the film was originally released it is a bit hard to remember though. Overall, an entertaining and enjoyable film. "},{"Title":"It's funny.","Date":"27 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" It's really funny. Zucker/Abrahams/Zucker, the geniuses behind Airplane!, the biggest laugh-fest of all time, have done it again with this ultra-hilarious movie. Leslie Nielsen is one of the best comic actors of all time (my goal in life is to have seen all of his movies by the way). George Kennedy, O.J., Priscilla Presley, and the like also have funny roles. Some very funny lines (i.e. nice beaver), funny moments, and some great cameos (Dr. Joyce Brothers as an announcer). Plus, we get to see Leslie Nielsen goof up the national anthem, which is something you don't see every day. This is a funny movie, and everyone should see it. Now if only a Naked Gun 4 was made...... "},{"Title":"Superb Silliness","Date":"20 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" The first of the three Naked Gun films sets the tone for this insanely silly series. The film essentially takes the unfairly short TV series, Police Squad, to the big screen often merely lifting jokes and scenarios from the latter. The manner in which this transition succeeds must largely be thanks to the lead actor Leslie Nielson who plays Lt. Frank Drebbin the unwittingly chaotic police officer.The storyline doesn't really matter (an assassination attempt on Queen Elizabeth II using mind control), it merely contextualises the Zucker and Abrahams format of incessant humour - indeed such is the barrage of jokes that one needs to watch it several times to get the often interwoven layers of slapstick, innuendo, smut, and wordplay on offer here.The aforementioned Nielson is cast superbly as the lead role as he was in Police Squad but unlike the TV series I believe the supporting cast in Naked Gun is better chosen. Simpson, Pressley and Kennedy all play off the lead, who is in almost every scene, and the result is a fabulously funny spoof film that retains its humour nearly 20 years on. "}{"Title":"Hilarious absurd comedy.","Date":"21 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" The Naked Gun is a spoof of most cop movies from any decade. In it, a bumbling detective uncovers a plot made by a big business man to murder the Queen of England at the World Series with a device that can control people's minds. It is a completely absurd comedy the likes of Airplane!, and anybody with a taste for hilarious parody will enjoy it.The plot of the movie is pretty good. It is mainly a spoof of detective movies from the 50s, what with the confident detective who narrates and speaks in the macho tone. Unfortunately, this detective is so clueless that everything he does is a major screw up. The humour in this movie isn't really intelligent humour. It's stupid humour that is so ridiculous it's funny. I can't really think of much else to say besides this movie is hilarious. It features one of my favourite kinds of humour, and that's word gags. Most of the jokes come from the way people speak to each other rather than visually.Leslie Nielsen is a great comedian, and this movie is no exception. The other actors in the film are good as well, including Percilla Presley and Ricardo Montalbon.Overall, this is a classic comedy I would recommend to anybody who needs a good laugh.8/10 "},{"Title":"One of the best comedies of all time!","Date":"19 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Starring Leslie Nielsen, Priscilla Presley, Ricardo Montalban, O.J. SimpsonLt. Frank Drebin (Nielsen) is a real man's man. He fakes his orgasms, loves a nice stuffed beaver, and laughs through comedies like 'Platoon'. Fresh off of kicking terrorist butt in Beirut, Drebin returns home to an empty apartment and a broken heart. Everywhere he looks, there's something to remind him of his old flame in the smiling faces of happy couples, or a pair of twin breast-shaped nuclear reactors in San Onofre.Enter Jane (Presley), the lovely assistant of real estate tycoon Vincent Ludwig (Montalban), and the woman of Frank's dreams. How 'bout dinner? he asks her. She can't make it, but offers a rain-check. Well, lets just stick to dinner, he replies. They hit it off immediately, but Frank's got bigger fish to fry. Queen Elizabeth II is coming to Los Angeles, and it's up to Drebin and Police Squad, an elite unit of the LAPD, to keep her safe. Ludwig is the villain, and the movie makes it no secret -- by the 10min mark, he's already pumped Frank's partner Nordberg (Simpson) full of bullets. Luckily, Nordberg survives, albeit hospitalized and in critical condition. It's up to Frank and Capt. Ed Hocken (George Kennedy) to counsel his crying wife I think what Frank's trying to say is, as soon as Nordberg's better, he's welcome back on Police Squad, Ed explains. Drebin interrupts, Unless he's a drooling vegetable -- but that's just common sense.If it seems like I'm pumping this review full of quotes, I am. This is one of the funniest movies ever made. I can't count how many times I've seen it, and I die laughing each time. Directed by David Zucker, from a script he co-wrote with his brother Jerry and Jim Abrahams, The Naked Gun is based on a failed TV show the three of them produced for NBC, called 'Police Squad!' That the show was canned after only four episodes seems criminal. The ZAZ Boys, who also masterminded such comedy classics as 'Airplane!' and 'Top Secret!', are gifted comedians with a penchant for exclamation marks. Their gift is in casting accomplished dramatic actors to play everything straight. Kennedy was (and still is) an Academy Award winner; Montalban was one of cinema's great villains, playing opposite William Shatner's James T. Kirk in 'The Wrath of Khan'; Presley had been a prime-time soap star for years. Dead-panned, the words and sight gags speak for themselves -- and they speak volumes. Think I've ruined the best bits? Not even close, and you notice something new every time.FINAL SCORE 9.3 = AThe movie lives and dies by Nielsen, and Jacques Clouseau's got nothing on this hard-boiled doofus. Kicked off the force, Drebin bites his lower lip and says, Just think...the next time I shoot a man, I could be arrested. This is classic comedy through and through. "},{"Title":"Nice beaver!","Date":"12 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  No matter how many times I see this film, it never fails to get me laughing my pants off. Easily earns a spot on my top ten all time comedies list.There are a few places where the laughs slow down a bit, but overall everything is almost perfect.SPOILERS Some of my favorite bits include 1)Nordberg's botched surprise entrance on the boat at the beginning (that scream he makes when he steps in the bear trap is classic!)2)The interrogation of the dock-worker by Drebin.3)Drebin setting fire to and demolishing an apartment while looking for clues (love that player piano!)4)Drebin firing at his car while it's rolling away with about 5 airbags inflating out the windows.5)The body condoms6)Drebin's over exuberant entrance into his own apartment before finding Priscilla cooking a roast in his kitchen (How moist and west would you like it?  Vvveerry moist, and vvveeerrryyy wet!)and many many more...........A true classic that has gotten funnier with age.rating9 "},{"Title":"Zucker/Abrahams/Zucker... what else can you expect but a hilarious movie?","Date":"14 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  *minor spoilers in this review*Jim Abrahams, David Zucker, Jerry Zucker and Pat Proft write a hilarious movie putting Leslie Nielsen as Lt. Frank Drebin, not the wisest cop out there, but sure as hell the funniest. The movie starts off with Leslie saving America from the heads of major Islamic countries... including Yasser Arafat played by a person who's last name is Katz. But it gets way funnier as Leslie Nielsen is put on a case to protect Queen Elizabeth II on her visit to L.A. Leslie Nielsen is just hilarious. Everything from words to visual jokes (like the beaver and bingo jokes and the hilarious scene where he's out on the ledge of the building after setting Ludwig's apartment on fire). Priscilla Presley is delightfully funny as his love interest (the safe-sex scene was cute). George Kennedy and Ricardo Montalban are funny as well. And before his controversial trial O.J. played Nordberg, who has a very bad streak of luck (unlike the real O.J.). Also look for Weird Al Yankovic's cameo as himself and the late Nancy Marchand as the mayor.Doesn't beat Airplane! which will forever be the Zucker/Abrahams/Zucker classic, but is very very funny.  "},{"Title":"Inspired Idiocy","Date":"22 March 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" A cop tries to foil an assassination attempt on Queen Elizabeth during her visit to the United States. Like other films by Abrahams and the Zuckers, this one is a relentless series of jokes. Of course, some of the jokes work and some don't, but the film is never dull, alternately generating groans and chuckles. Nielsen parlays his career-changing comedic turn in Airplane! into a role that he seems born to play, and he has a field day as the most idiotic cop since Inspector Clouseau roamed the streets of Paris. Presley also seems to be having fun as something of a femme fatale who becomes romantically entangled with Nielsen. "},{"Title":"Rather funny spoof spawned from the short lived television show.","Date":"5 December 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Of the spoof films that Leslie Nielson has starred in, this is probably his second best film behind the super funny Airplane. To me, nothing can really top his performance in that one because he was so deadly serious while all this insane stuff was happening. He was rather good here to as Lt. Frank Drebin as this character does his stuff rather seriously too. Though he does get a bit more goofy with this role than the one in Airplane. This movie sort of came about thanks to Police Squad, a very short running television show that I loved when I was a kid. It was just so funny with all the puns and crazy situations. This film is not quite up there with the show, almost just not quite. It has the same energy for the most part, but I thought it fizzled a bit in places too. The story has Frank trying to uncover a plot to assassinate the Queen of England. His main suspect is a character played by Ricardo Montalban who is really good in this one too. Along the way Frank meets Jane Spencer played by Priscilla Presley and they have a very romantic day suffice to say. The jokes for the most part come at a fast pace, I did not really like the ending baseball game all that much though. It was funny, just not like the rest of the film though I did enjoy the villain's demise. A funny spoof, kind of nice seeing O.J. Simpson really taking the punishment in this one too. "},{"Title":"the funniest movie of alltime, classic","Date":"15 May 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" i didn't really rate airplane the first time i saw it, but i did love leslie nielsen in it, i thought he was by far the funniest thing about it. so i saw the naked gun and i loved it, it is the funniest movie of alltime period, leslie nielsen as frank drebin is legendary and is one of the best characters of cinema period, a tad more aware than he was in police squad but just as funny, leslie nielsen really is a joy to watch hear, and it really will have you rolling on the floor, it isn't worth going into the plot trust me, but thats not what makes these kinds of movies, trust me the naked gun is the funniest comedy of alltime period and will always be. "},{"Title":"It was easy my dear. You forget I spent two years as a building contractor.","Date":"3 July 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Frank Drebin is a cop on the trail of the world's worst terrorists and after a major successful operation returns to the United States, only to be upstaged by Weird Al Yankovic! This is the madcap world that Frank Drebin inhabits, a world where scientists find the ultimate deterrent for Graffiti artists, where a cop can fall into a birthday cake and a mantrap and both can be as bad as the other and a place where you take a risk when you cross a street or stick your face in a fan.However, when it comes to danger it's nothing compared to the attempted assassination of Queen Elizabeth during her forthcoming state visit. As Drebin's investigations continue he begins to suspect that respected industrialist Vincent Ludwig is connected to the plot and, against his superior's wishes he undertakes a lone crusade in order to prove his point.This is the best of the naked gun films and Leslie Neilsen's delivery is free from the over the top looks that so mark out his later turns in the role of Drebin, and the script unlike, the second film contains fewer references from the Police Squad series, with many good gags and memorable moments. As such this makes for an entertaining slice of hokum that leaves one with a smile of your face when you stop watching it.While it's not as good as the immense Airplane it is still worthy of a watch and very entertaining. "},{"Title":"Champagne comedy","Date":"8 June 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" The second DVD up for viewing from our weekly grab was The Naked Gun. I hadn't seen for a long time and figured I'd probably get more jokes in it than I did when I was 12.The story, if you haven't seen it for some reason, revolves around Frank Drebin (Nielsen), a wacky cop who is given the responsibility of overseeing the security for the impending visit of the Queen. Also on his plate is discovering what happened to his closest friend Nordberg(O.J Simpson, before he did you know what), who was shot at repeatedly on a drugs investigation. Drebin soon discovers there's a link between the visit and the attempt on Nordberg's life and sets about catching a would be assassin before they get to the Queen.From the same writers of the original Flying High, there is some comedy gold in here. While some of it has aged, there's plenty of good stuff in there still. Besides discovering some innuendo I was oblivious to as a pre-teen, I found a few new jokes plus spotted the guy who played Elaine's dad in Seinfeld as a the Angels manager.One of the great comedies of the 80's. "},{"Title":"Great Slapstick Comedy.","Date":"3 February 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" The Naked Gun came out before i was born, and when i first watched it was way too young to appreciate lots of its humour. Still, there was enough low-brow and physical comedy to crack me up, and it was one of my early favourite movies. While I've outgrown a lot of slapstick movies that I liked a good few years back, I can still watch The Naked Gun and laugh, and I even get the jokes that went way over my head as a kid.The film is somewhat a movie remake of its predecessor Police Squad!, it couldn't be simpler, and that's the way they want it. Lt. Frank Drebin has to to clear the name of his partner Norberg (The killer OJ Simpson to be precise) while protecting the life of Queen Elisabeth, in Los Angeles on a tour of America. For ninety minutes, the movie exploits, and frequently ignores, the plot in the name of jokes. Just plain and simple, this movie is out to make you laugh, and it will sink to any depth to get there. "}{"Title":"Lots of silly laughters with great entertainment and fun","Date":"13 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This likable silly farce with numberless comedy set pieces deals about the Agent Frank Drebin(Leslie Nielsen),he is assigned by Mayor(Nancy Marchand)to protect the Queen of England and thwart the plans of cunning baddie(Ricardo Montalban).Frank along with captain Ed (George Kennedy) must to investigate the attempting murder of his mate police(O.J.Simson).Meanwhile he falls in love with a gorgeous woman(Priscilla Presley). This is a hilarious parody of the TV series¨Police squad¨ with a similar premise to ¨Airplane¨and ¨Top secret¨.The spoof is surrealist,extreme and gross-out but is also bold and intelligent with a myriad of imaginative sketches with no sense, slapdash and slapstick.The picture contains an unstopped string of gags each thirty seconds and silly jokes but from the start to the ending the comedy and humor are interminable for that the viewers will laugh uncontrollably.Habitual quirky and lunatic personages,especially reincarnated by Nielsen as a deadpan,idiot detective.Most of the laughs and sight gags galore work acceptably,especially the jokes with the Queen's reception fiasco however the overlong gags about the baseball are dull and boring .The picture is well screen-written and realized by Jim Abrahams and brothers Jerry ,David Zucker(ZAZ),a parody pioneers and longtime collaborators with successful work making their own comedy troupe.Rated PG(parents guide) for some sexually gags with occasional adult content and profanities.Followed by two inferior sequels with similar actors,elements and characters¨The smell of fear¨and ¨The final insult¨.The film will like to absurd,unruly,wacky comedy fans.The movie is a vehicle Nielsen ,if you like his crazy,manic performance,you'll enjoy this one. "},{"Title":"you have the right to remain in hysterics","Date":"18 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Liutenent Frank Drebin (Leslie Neilson) has to foil a plot by Ricardo Montalban to assassinate Queen Elizabeth the second. But c'Mon the plot doesn't really matter. All you need to know is this was a movie version of the police Squad show and that it was made by the team of Zucker/Abrahams/Zucker in their heyday. Which means non-stop sight gags and slapstick from beginning to end at breakneck speed with nary a time to catch your breath. This movie is hilarious and for you kids who only know Scary Movie 3, you have no clue how truly hilarious these guys can be. Rent this, Airplane and Top Secret for a night of non-stop laughter. You can thank me in the morning.My GradeB+ DVD Extras Commentary with David Zucker, Robert Weiss, and Peter Tilden; and Theatrical trailer (it would have been nice if they included deleted or the extended TV scenes) Eye Candy A random girl's ass in the beginning credits "},{"Title":"The Naked Truth","Date":"2 May 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" One of the funniest movies of all time. I am glad that I got The Naked Gun as one of the movies in my collection. Out of all 3 in the trilogy nothing is as good as the first!I have seen this movie at least 15 times and each time is as good as the first. Leslie Nielson fits the role to perfection. A quaky, dorky, and very accident prone cop. The cast includes some famous celebrities as well. Priscilla Presly and O.J. Simpson are just a few of the cast members.If you have not seen The Naked Gun, I strongly recommend that you check it out! A great movie! 7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Absolutely One Of The Funniest Movies Ever Made!","Date":"20 November 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This is absolutely one of the funniest movies ever made, With One of the most funniest performances ever in a movie from Leslie Nielsen!. This And Airplane are the best spoof comedies ever in my opinion, and there film, will have you constantly on the floor laughing, plus O.J Simpson is actually quite funny!(even though he is a murderer now). Every time i watch this i find new jokes that i didn't notice before, and it just seems to get funnier after each viewing, plus i can watch this a 1000 times and it never gets old!. Leslie Nielsen and Priscilla Presley have great chemistry together,and the ending was great plus,Ricardo Montalban is extremely menacing as the main villain. This is absolutely one of the funniest movies ever made, and if you have not seen it, where have you been, see it immediately!. The Direction is awesome!. David Zucker does an awesome job here, with good camera work, keeping the film funny at all times, and keeping the film at a great pace!. The Acting is fantastic!. Leslie Nielsen is AMAZING as always, and is at his absolute funniest here, he has you constantly laughing, his character, is extremely likable and he was just a lot of fun to watch, this is his best role in my opinion!. (Leslie Rules!). Priscilla Presley is very pretty, and is good with what she had to do, and had good chemistry with Leslie. Ricardo Montalban is fantastic as the main villain, was just great, i loved his lines!, he was also extremely menacing. George Kennedy is good in his supporting role, the scenes with him and Leslie are very funny. O.J. Simpson is very funny in his role, it's too bad what he has become, he could have had a decent career. Rest of the cast is fine. Overall a must see immediately! it's one of my favorite movies. ***** out of 5 "},{"Title":"Non-stop laughs as Lt Frank Drebin tries to stop an assassin","Date":"24 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Lt Frank Drebin of 'Police Squad' is back. After dealing with a group of well known 'Enemies of America' he returns to Los Angeles and is given the job of organising the security during a visit from Queen Elizabeth II. He is also investigating the shooting of his colleague Detective Nordberg; this leads him to businessman Vincent Ludwig, who is coincidentally involved in the organisation of the Queen's visit. It isn't long before Frank learns that Ludwig is involved in a plot to assassinate the Queen but unfortunately burns the evidence.Anybody hoping for a gritty drama will be sorely disappointed; this film features a series of gags that don't stop from start to finish. In fact the jokes come so thick and fast that if one gag doesn't work the next one will follow seconds later. The jokes are delightfully silly. Leslie Nielsen does a great job as Lt. Drebin; managing to keep a straight face in a variety of ridiculous situations. Ricardo Montalban impresses as the villain Ludwig and Priscilla Presley puts in a fun performance as love interest Jane. It is hard to pick out highlights as it is all pretty funny; I did particularly enjoy OJ Simpson's early scene where Nordberg confronts Ludwig's men, the scene where Frank ends up on top of the Queen and the final baseball game. Overall I'd definitely recommend this classic comedy to anybody who enjoyed the TV series or enjoys silly laughs. "},{"Title":"Once is not enough.....","Date":"15 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Like the 1980 comedy classic Airplane!, the first of the Naked Gun movies is a gem. It isn't an excellent film like Airplane! was, but it sure is an improvement over Airplane II which stalled the Zucker/Abrams films for almost a decade. A major part of Airplane!, but other than flashbacks, absent from Airplane II, Leslie Nielsen is back, this time in the lead and repeating his role of Lt. Frank Drebbin from the brief TV series Police Squad. His squad team is new for the movies, and it includes a very funny George Kennedy and the accident prone O.J. Simpson whose mishaps will create hysterical laughs more for his personal life than for the funny way his basically decent character is abused.The opening shows many long deceased world leaders being confronted by Nielsen in a very funny way, and from there comes in the opening credits, basically the same from the T.V. series, only with the title changed, and missing the special guest star credit that was a gag in every episode. (My personal favorites were Florence Henderson doing a Wesson commercial and being confronted by a disgruntled fan and Abraham Lincoln reacting to a shooter while at Ford's Theater.) The theme of the credits would remain a part of the series and were often some of the funniest bits in the show, including a bit of T&A (for those who like that sort of thing) and sometimes even a celebrity cameo that parodied their real life.There's a great villain, played by real-life good guy Ricardo Montalban, and a gorgeous heroine, played by the angelic looking Priscilla Presley. Sexual innuendos provide laughs, and even if they could now be considered bad taste (particularly Nielsen ending out on a ledge of Montalban's condo complex, accidentally assaulting one of his neighbors with a concrete phallic symbol), you would have to be rather prissy to be offended by it all. Jeanette Charles, who more than just slightly resembles Queen Elizabeth II, is the victim of an assassination attempt, first seen in an encounter with Nielsen that puts her in an embarrassing position, and later at a baseball game where she finds herself rather inconvenienced by passing sodas and hot dogs down the line in the royal box. The wonderfully imperious Nancy Marchand is hysterically funny as the mayor of L.A. (female and white, quite the opposite of L.A.'s then mayor Tom Bradley), and I longed for her in the next two movies where other imperious women replaced her in similar parts.This is a film that you must see at least every couple of years, not only for the gags that you've forgotten, but for those you may have missed along the way on previous viewings. Certainly, this is what was considered a popcorn film back when the movie theaters were loaded with those (and not overwhelmed with noisy special effects), but it is definitely a crowd pleaser. Back in the time of its release, it probably was a film that guys dragged their girlfriends to (revenge for being dragged to chick flicks), but sometime tells me that even the ladies in the crowd could laugh at the delicious un-p.c. themes of the story, which slight at best and predictable, always keep you on your feet. The conclusion with the villain getting their come-uppance is delightfully disgusting, and of course, the best is saved for O.J. who could only scream It Hertz! as he takes lump after lump. Oh if only justice had been served that way during the trial of the century, but fortunately the Naked Gun movies allow us to laugh at him, as well as with him, because no matter how much he is hated now, you can't help but agree that he was a good sport. "},{"Title":"Funny stuff from the late Leslie Nielsen...","Date":"5 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" If actor Leslie Nielsen hadn't sadly died on November 28th this year (2010), I maybe wouldn't have watched this. I have seen it many times before but this is the first time I've attempted a review. The trouble with reviewing the work of someone that has recently passed is that you feel you don't want to say anything bad about them. I will, however, try to keep my impartiality. Here's a short summary of the plot before I get into it (summary haters please keep an eye on that crazy baseball umpire while I write the next paragraph).Undercover policeman, Nordberg, has been shot and it's up to inept cop Frank Drebin to find who's responsible. Add to that the fact that Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth II is visiting the city and Drebin has his plate full. The finger of suspicion falls on respected businessman Vincent Ludwig and Frank decides to pay him a visit. There he meets Jane Spencer who has been persuaded by Ludwig to get close to Drebin so he can discover what the police know. During his investigation Drebin discovers a plot to assassinate the Queen during her visit. Can Frank find out who shot Nordberg and also stop the assassination attempt on the Queen and maybe even get the girl? So many questions, so little time.A pretty well made film with a very high gag (in the comedy sense) ratio. For me there were surprisingly few 'laugh out loud' moments though. I put it down to the difference in culture between the USA and the UK. We may speak more or less the same language, but what makes us laugh is very different. That isn't to say there were any bad performances, far from it, Leslie Nielsen was excellent as Frank Drebin, Priscilla Presley put in a stellar performance as Jane Spencer and Ricardo Montalban was excellent as Vincent Ludwig. Honourable mentions must also go to George Kennedy as Ed Hocken, O.J. Simpson as Nordberg and Nancy Marchand as the Mayor.I used to love the TV show but I'm afraid it doesn't translate too well to the big screen. It's still pretty good, but I don't think the humour comes across as well when you are bombarded with it for 80 minutes solid. So, over all, not as good as the TV show, but still recommended if only for Leslie Nielson's performance, he will be missed.My score 7.6/10 "},{"Title":"A parody movie that serves it's purpose","Date":"4 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Due to Leslie Nielson's tragic and untimely death, I decided to visit one of his many films I haven't had the pleasure of seeing. I saw Airplane many years ago, I saw Scary Movie 3 and 4 in the theaters, and saw Creepshow last fall. I didn't however see Nielsen's parody films which made him famous like The Naked Gun trilogy and Spy Hard. So I finally put one on to watch what I had missed...22 years later.It's true you don't know what you have until it's gone, and you appreciate it/them more when they're gone. I knew who Corey Haim was before he died and saw License to Drive a couple months before his death, but became somewhat obsessed with him when he died. Same thing applies with Michael Jackson, Greg Giraldo, and a number of others. Leslie Nielsen may be a victim to my awkward obsession. After watching this gem, he very well could be. If that's a good thing.Leslie plays Frank Drebbin a policy officer who likes to think he is doing a good job, when really, he doesn't know what he is doing, and when he tries to do something good, he gets himself and others hurt. Drebbin now has to protect Queen Elizabeth II from being assassinated at a California Angels baseball game during the seventh inning stretch. Although the plot sounds very serious, it delivers an uncountable number of laughs in the process.Going into this, aware of it being a parody/spoof film, I was nothing but skeptical. A parody film? Hasn't that genre been beaten, trashed, abused, and spat on by the duo of Jason Friedberg and Aaron Seltzer? But in the eighties and nineties, David Zucker knew how to be funny and original simultaneously. Rather than cramming over thirty pop culture characters/references that, most of the time, lack a purpose or dimension, Zucker took in a cop that wanted to do the right thing but unknowingly made matters either unclear or even worse than they already were.The goal for a parody film is to make it play like a regular film. It's supposed to feel like an actual film, but it should poke fun at all of the movie clichés (i.e. comforting wife when husband was in ER). One cop would never bring up the worst possible outcomes that could happen to the wife when her husband is in the hospital bed near death. So in a nutshell, when constructing a parody film, don't focus on setting a record for the most pop culture characters utilized in an eighty minute film. Make it like a real film and just poke fun at common clichés.The Naked Gun is definitely a winner, and probably takes the cake for my favorite parody film. Leslie Nielsen's acting was memorable as well my first time seeing O.J. Simpson acting in anything. I never thought I'd say or type this but, we have a great parody film on our hands.Starring Leslie Nielsen, Priscilla Presley, Ricardo Montalbán, George Kennedy, O. J. Simpson, and Nancy Marchand. Directed by David Zucker. "},{"Title":"One of the best spoofs ever made.","Date":"30 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Incompetent Cop Frank Drebin (The late Leslie Nielsen) from Police Squad. He is investigating the attempted murder of his partner Nordberg (The infamous O.J. Simpson). He finds himself in a conspiracy that the millionaire Vincent Ludwig (The late Ricardo Montalban) is planning to assassinated Queen Elizabeth the Second (Jeannette Charles).Directed by David Zucker (Scary Movie 3 and Scary Movie 4, Ruthless People, Top Secret!) made an enjoyable comedic spoof, based on the failed TV Show. Which the TV Show was created by David Zucker, Jim Abrahams and Jerry Zucker. The late Nielsen is terrific as a clueless police detective. Priscilla Presley is amusing as Drebin's love interest. Oscar-WinnerGeorge Kennedy appears in a supporting role as Ed Hocken from the Police Squad.DVD has an good anamorphic Widescreen (1.781) transfer and an digitally remastered Dolby Digital 5.1 Surround Sound. DVD includes an entertaining commentary track by David Zucker, ProducerRobert K. Weiss (The Blues Brothers, Dragnet, Tommy Boy) and HostPeter Tilden. DVD also includes the original theatrical trailer. The Naked GunFrom the Files of Police Squad! is one of the most memorable spoofs ever made and it was certainly one of the funniest comedies made in the 1980's. There is some familiar faces in bit parts. TV Version adds some additional footage. Don't miss this Leslie Nielsen classic, Mr. Nielsen we will miss you. Written by Jerry Zucker (First Knight, Ghost, Rat Race), Jim Abrahams (Hot Shots! and Hot Shots! Part Deux, Big Business, Jane Austin's Mafia!), David Zucker and Pat Proft (Bachelor Party, High School High, Police Academy). (****/*****). "},{"Title":"Leslie Nielsen, the king of travesty","Date":"29 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This morning I heard a really sad news, that Leslie Nielsen has passed away at the age of 84 to pneumonia.This man became known from a numerous spoof movies.He really was the master when it came to parodies.David Zucker's, Jim Abrahams' and Jerry Zucker's The Naked Gun From the Files of Police Squad! (1988) is one we all know.In it Leslie plays Detective Frank Drebin, the character we first saw in the short-lived Police Squad series (1982).Frank causes a lot of damage, but he also gets the criminals in the end.In the first movie Drebin tries to safe the Queen Elizabeth II from assassination.Frank's sweetheart is played by Priscilla Presley.George Kennedy is Ed Hocken.O.J. Simpson, when he was mainly known from football and acting, plays Nordberg.Ricardo Montalban is Vincent Ludwig.Jeannette Charles is the Queen.Ed Williams plays Ted Olsen.We also see 'Weird Al' Yankovic in the movie.And Dr. Joyce Brothers.The movie has lots of funny stuff that has made me laugh many times over the years.Take the baseball scene, for instance.So thanks for the laughs, Leslie! "}{"Title":"The Naked File From Police Squad A Tribute To The Late Leslie Nielsen","Date":"29 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" A re-run of many of the gags from the original TV series 'Police Squad'. An Airplane type spoof, this time with the an incompetent lieutenant (Drebin) who always 'gets his man'. Visual gags come thick and fast, and it's impossible to catch them all with one viewing. The plot.. Queen Elizabeth II of England is coming to town, and Vincent Ludwig has plans to assassinate her using a brainwashed baseball player. Now As Far As Stupid Over The Top Comedies Go I Love This One. I Am Still In Shock About What Happened Today Its Weird With His Age But I Did Not Expect Him To Die Just Yet. Looking At This Movie Now I Can't Help But See How Much These Actors & Actresses Have Changed In Age. This Is One Incredibly Funny Movie. There Is A Line Between Hysteria With Comedies & Just Plain Stupid...This Movie Is On That Line. All In All A Must See. "},{"Title":"Surely, You Can Never Be Serious","Date":"18 September 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" A must-see for any Airplane!-enthusiast, The Naked Gun From the Files of Police Squad! is so close to perfect, from beginning to end, you'll wonder why the defunct TV program didn't last. For, it's all the same jokes.Perhaps that was their gamble only the 50 or less people who saw the show &#x96; me, included &#x96; would recognize these replayed jokes. Nevertheless, this movie is downright hilarious and it never, ever lets up or changes course.Very few creators (Abrahams, Zucker & Zucker) of comedy can achieve such heights. Despite some recent setbacks, they've been behind masters of slapstick &#x96; Airplane!, Top Secret! and this one from Police Squad! &#x96; wow, they definitely like to shout a lot. So, if you're into silly humor, like I happen to be, watch this. Of course, if you haven't already, shame on you. Check this Beaver out now.Police Squad's Frank Drebin (Nielsen) beats up innocents and terrorist alike, whether by stumbling into them or hitting them with his runaway car. But now, he MUST SAVE THE QUEEN, who happens to be visiting their town of L.A.Evil, eeeevil Vincent Ludwig (Montalban) has plans for the perfect assassin and his lovely, but blameless assistant Jane (Presley) serves her purpose of spying on Drebin. You know how the story goes&#x85;Frank It's the same old story. Boy finds girl, boy loses girl, girl finds boy, boy forgets girl, boy remembers girl, girl dies in a tragic blimp accident over the Orange Bowl on New Year's Day. Jane Goodyear? Frank No, the worst.This review would be increased tenfold if I was to lay out (okay, fine, copy) all the fantastic quotes, but this is a great example of what you're getting yourself into. If you like the above, you'll love the rest of the movie.And if you have seen this movie, and it's been awhile, like for me, watch it again. I practically had it memorized from seeing it probably two dozen times as a kid, and still, I was cracking up and enjoyed every last scene. Yeah, even with OJ Simpson as one of the leads.Side Note As much as I love pure slapstick &#x96; not the crappy Vampires Suck and Disaster Movies of today - my only (SLIGHT) complaint is when they look at the camera to indicate even they think this is crazy. They do it a little too much in this movie &#x96; but not enough to downgrade the movie. Yes, my favorite comedy of all time, Airplane!, barely did it once or twice &#x96; but for 99% of that movie, it was a perfectly insane world. "},{"Title":"Nielsen takes charge of another Zucker, Abrahams and Zucker gem","Date":"4 June 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" What started in 1977 with Kentucky Fried Movie continues again in The Naked Gun, a film version of the TV series Police Squad! only this time detective/cop films are the culprit, seemingly perfect fodder for spoofing and the Zucker, Abrahams and Zucker one-two punch of subtle literalist humor and preposterous gags. The only real difference between this and 1980's Airplane! is that Lesley Nielsen takes command of this film as opposed to an all-cast effort.Nobody must be able to keep a straighter face than Nielsen. As Lt. Frank Drebin, the things he must do and say while remaining ignorant to their comedic value are absurd in quantity and quality. Drebin is when James Bond meets Inspector Clouseau -- he's completely oblivious yet he knows exactly what he's doing. As contradictory as that sounds, it's completely true. Nielsen does both incredible deadpan and slapstick, a highly specialized skill for a comedian, and unfortunately for the rest Nielsen's career, that's all he has. Nevertheless, it's perfect for The Naked Gun.Unlike Airplane!, this film has to be a bit more plot-focused because the cop/detective genre necessitates it. Airplane! could descend into utter chaos, whereas The Naked Gun feels obligated to make sense in some regard. All you need to know is that O.J Simpson's character got shot and the investigation leads to the uncovering of a possible assassination attempt on the life of Queen Elizabeth II. The challenge for the viewer is to forget making sense of what's going on and pay attention to the small details that make these films even funnier. In some scenes this is easier than others and for the most part, the easier it is, the better The Naked Gun gets.A lot of the times these are the laughs that make you smile inside instead of laughing out loud, but especially toward the end when the humor becomes more slapstick, The Naked Gun really takes off ... pardon the Airplane! lingo. Another fun film from these guys. "},{"Title":"Hilarious spoof","Date":"11 October 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" The Naked Gun From the Files of Police Squad! (1998, Dir. David Zucker) When Det. Nordberg (Simpson) is shot and placed into a coma, bumbling Lt. Frank Drebin (Nielsen) of Police Squad, make it his number one target of who is responsible. It leads him into the presence of rich Vincent Ludwig (Montalban) and a plot to assassinate Queen Elizabeth II (Charles).Hilarious spoof which doesn't slow down from start to finish. This was released back when spoof movies actually had a story. Instead of random gags, the jokes are tired together with a well thought of storyline, which shows perfectly why Leslie Nielsen will forever be known as the king of spoof.Frank, they're not here for you. Weird Al Yankovic is on the plane. &#150; Captain Ed Hocken (George Kennedy) "},{"Title":"A funny spoof, with continuous slapstick","Date":"25 September 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" The only spoof movie I saw starring Leslie Nielsen before this one was Spy Hard, and like so many others, I did not care much for it. However, knowing that The Naked Gun From the Files of Police Squad! was a lot more popular (as I'm sure you can tell by comparing the IMDb ratings), I watched it with relatively high expectations. I found virtually no laughs in Spy Hard, but found many in this police spoof, which proves that the mediocrity of SH has nothing to do with Nielsen's starring role.Detective Nordberg, a member of Police Squad, is shot multiple times during an investigation, and is nearly killed! While he is in the hospital, a fellow member of Police Squad, the clumsy Lieutenant Frank Drebin, must investigate this attempted murder. While on the case, Drebin eventually finds proof that Vincent Ludwig, a local businessman, plans to have the Queen of England assassinated during her visit in L.A.! Unfortunately, Drebin accidentally burns the proof of this assassination plot (he ends up burning a lot more than that), and Ludwig is a very well-respected individual, so how will the clumsy detective convince anyone of this sinister plan?!A ton of slapstick is featured in this spoof, and as big a fan as I am of the type of humour, I have to admit that this film may overdo it a bit at times, making some of the gags a tad too predictable. Fortunately, most of the movie doesn't have this problem. In fact, the jokes are often hilarious, whether they are physical gags, or comical lines! For better or worse, there are also some tasteless gags here and there, such as in the scene early in the film where Lieutenant Frank Drebin visits Detective Nordberg in the hospital. If you're into silly spoof movies and slapstick, and are generally not irked by raunchiness and/or tastelessness, I highly recommend The Naked Gun From the Files of Police Squad! for you! "},{"Title":"Royally hilarious.","Date":"12 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I haven't laughed this hard in a long time because I have seen this movie thousands of times and still think this is hilarious. Frank has to protect the queen of England from being killed but along the way he gets into all these hilarious messes. He even goes home to find out that something has spoiled long ago. I also love the whole scene at the baseball game. The thing about this movie that makes it so hilarious is that it's so literal. He talks about her beaver and then she removes it from the shelf and you see an actual stuffed beaver. Literally, I laughed until my sides hurt and my eyes watered. I was rolling on the floor and I've seen this movie so many times. It doesn't get old for me. It's great. "},{"Title":"Hilarious!","Date":"6 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Funny funny and more funny in fact nearly every moment is funny! Especially the 'sexual assault with concrete dildo' ha ha ha ha! such a good movie almost better than Airplane. Leslie Neilson, man he was great such an amazing performance. Here are a few pointers on why Police Squad is so funny 1. I love you-Norgberg to Frank I love you to-Frank, five minuets later Wait when Norgberg was saying I love you he was saying the name of the boat-Ed Yes I realise that now-Frank. That made me laugh every time I thought about it. Here's another funny line from the same scene -Norgberg is in hospital and his wife is upset about him being unfit to work at police squad- Dont worry the doctors say he'll be fit and healthy within weeks-Ed and we'll be happy to welcome him aboard police squad as soon as he's better-Ed Unless he is a snivelling vegetable-Frank. I nearly died of laughter! 10/10 "},{"Title":"fun spoof","Date":"23 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" The Naked Gun is one of the Zucker Brothers' more entertaining films, and one of the better spoofs of crime/action films out there. Like their masterpiece Airplane, this film includes Leslie Neilsen (as detective Frank Drebben) as well as an odd assortment of actors and celebrities from B-films and the sports world, this time including Priscilla Presley, George Kennedy, Ricardo Montalban, and O.J. Simpson among others. You could almost spend the whole film just watching for celebrity cameos (the best of which is Reggie Jackson as a brainwashed assassin must kill the queen&#133;.. must kill the queen. Some of the jokes don't work and quite a lot of them are just stupid puns, but the physical comedy is generally well done. Presley makes a surprisingly effective straight man. The jokes keep rolling in fast enough that even the ones that miss don't slow down the fun.Just by coincidence I saw the movie recently after seeing the Zucker's Kentucky Fried Movie just a few days before. So I noticed that they actually re-used one device from that film here, the botched break-in (which occurs in KFM during the extended martial arts sequence) where Neilsen goes into Montalban's character's apartment and smashes just about everything in sight (eventually starting a fire) while supposedly trying to sneak around.Not a classic film in my opinion nor am I sure it ever will be, but it's well worth a few laughs if you're in the right mood. "},{"Title":"A fantastic and classic comedy","Date":"5 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I have seen many movies, and many comedies. But this is still one of the greatest comedies of them all.It contains that kind of humor that I love. It's a classic.Leslie Nielsen delivers a great performance as the cop Frank Drebin. The cop who always solves the crimes. Not with intelligence, but with his foolishness and stupidity.And because of his reputation as the stupid cop no one believes him when he finds out that a man named Vincent Ludwig tries to assassinate Queen Elizabeth. He is sure in his case, and will not rest before Ludwig is arrested. But cops needs something to put people in jail. Envidences! So Frank need to prove that Ludwig is a bad guy, and it results in many funny situations.The movie is 19 years old, but it's still a great movie, everyone should watch. "},{"Title":"Cult","Date":"5 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" The Zucker-Abrahams-Zucker ,who are the artisans of some of the most comic moments in movie history, create this brilliant insane comedy spoof, transforming Leslie Nielsen into the king of skit. Leslie Nielsen plays incompetent, senile Lieutenant Frank Drebin of Police Squad, who must stop a plot to assassinate the Queen of England on American soil. The movie is a spoof of police, detective, secret agent movies, making fun of every possible cliché. Leslie Nielsen delivers some of the most immature punchlines with a straight face and generally transforms immaturity and lack of judgment into a craft, creating a new icon for the video generation. The gags come so closely one after another, you will discover new meanings even after multiple viewings of this movie. Practically every line is a memorable quote, especially for those passionate about movies, who will get them at an even deeper level than occasional moviegoers (for example the - laughing exiting the theater where Platoon was screening - scene). "}{"Title":"The first part in the Naked Gun-series","Date":"21 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Leslie Nielsen's first movie as the pathetic Frank Drebin is without doubt the finest too. Though it has got some flaws and suffers from weak material sometimes, the movie is surprisingly strong and funny, especially as Nielsen's character is being probably the most stupid policeman in the whole world. And it's a classic silly-comedy, featuring dozens of silly scenes leaving no space for it to be mistaken as a serious movie.The movie makes you laugh, that's for sure, because either you will find it so silly that you have to laugh at it, or you find it amusing, and you have to laugh with it. So it's a guarantee success watching with friends, and the Naked Gun is one of the first classic silly-comedies, so it deserves honor for it's originality and sprawling ideas. "},{"Title":"Problem with Batman Parody","Date":"4 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Everyone who has seen The Naked Gun knows that there is a blatant parody of Batman in the film (when Frank murders the henchman in the Dugout Dogs factory, the man's outstretched hand lowers into the green goo just like the Joker's does in Batman; that shot of the hand, and the setting of both scenes look very familiar, and the same in some cases). The only problem is that Batman was released in 1989, a year after The Naked Gun was released. Therefore, did Batman copy off of The Naked Gun? Was that scene in the movie even a parody of anything? Explanations, comments, or theories would be useful in understanding this discrepancy. "},{"Title":"Best Spoof film ever","Date":"15 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" If your in the mood for a laugh you should watch The Naked Gun as i have on many occasions sometimes just to cheer me up. I have found few films too match the naked guns comedic brilliance and their fractured take on the u.s police force. This film contains a performance of pure brilliance by Leslie Nielson who has shown people that he is the master of spoof films Mel Brooks not included This laugh out loud performance by Nielson is excuse alone to watch this film but is supported brilliantly by George Kennedy, O.J Simpson, Priscilla Presley and Ricardo Montalban. This film's plot is basically the queen of England is visiting the states and Frank Drebin of police Squad is put in charge of security while a terrorist organisation plan her assassination and only Luitenent Frank Drebin of Police Squad can stop it. Cue the laugh out loud slapstick,one liners and completely off the wall antics in The Naked Gun. "},{"Title":"not as funny as Airplane or Scary Movie 3, but still offers some good laughs","Date":"27 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  In this action comedy(more comedy), Leslie tries to stop an attempt to kill The Queen. This was a spoof. And i'm not saying that this wasn't funny, but I think Scary Movie 3 and Airplane was funnier. The laughs were more in the other two and longer. This was funny. Pretty good script, ok acting.I give this a 7/10.PG-13 sex-related humor amd some action violence. "},{"Title":"...sexual assault with a concrete dildo?!","Date":"14 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is the first, and probably best installment of The Naked Gun trilogy, a MAD magazine parody of police shows and movies brought to life by the Zucker-Abrahams-Zucker (Airplane!) team.  Not all of the jokes work, and at times the film feels pretty bloated with its own comic excess, but I can't fault them for trying.  There are many moments of pants-wetting laughter, from the amplified urinal scene to the hilarious ledge sequence, to Leslie Neilsen's incredible rendition of The Star-Spangled Banner.6.5/10 "},{"Title":"Flat-out Funny","Date":"5 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The Naked Gun is one of the greatest spoofs ever made. Most of the jokes are original and hilarious. Once you see this movie it at the least put a smile on your face.It is a smart, clever film that goes at a fast pace. The reason it goes at such a great pace is that they have hilarious jokes when the movie is reveling the plot. Which I think is the way most comedies should be. Everyone who wrote the script are comics who show their skill by making a completely funny movie.Leslie Nielsen is a cop, who falls in love. At the same time when his partner goes to the hospital, he thinks someone is trying to kill the Queen of England. That's what makes this movie great, it's structure. This is one of Leslie Nielsen's best performances ever.Ha, ha, ha, ha. That is what you will be during the complete film. I would suggest this film to anyone that likes spoofs or comedies. It is a great spoof and a film.Rated PG-13What I think it should be rated and why. PG-13 for sexual content sometimes crude, some language, and comic violence. "},{"Title":"Ridiculously funny!","Date":"21 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Based on the relatively unsuccessful TV series, 'Police Squad' this is a hilariously stupid and ridiculous film from the makers of 'Airplane'. The Naked Gun series cemented Leslie Neilson's position as king of spoof and showed that George Kennedy can be a great comedy actor. The commentary on the dvd is very funny as well, but the film is one that can be watched over and over and over......................Superb, and a lesson to the makers of some of the garbage spoof films of recent years.10/10 "},{"Title":"ZAZ's Best","Date":"4 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The Naked Gun is that strange breed of movie that has been dubbed `spoof'. Taking elements from other movies and totally making fun of them, the 80's was the golden era of spoofs with classics like 'Airplane', 'Top Secret', 'Kentucky Fried Movie', TV series 'Police Sqaud' and the movie that was inspired by that 'The Naked Gun'. All those movies were made by ZAZ. The is an affectionate term for Jim Abrahams, David Zucker and Jerry Zucker, easily the best movie making trio in comedy history. 'The Naked Gun' spoofs everything from the film noir of the 40's to love and romance films. It's possible one of the funniest movies ever made with Leslie Nielson, OJ Simpson and Priscilla Presley delivering hilarious performances. Looking at this movie, it has a fresh original quality which has been the template for every spoof since. Although some gags get tired and dated, there's still a great watchable quality with this film that is not seen in many 90's comedies with the possible exception of Jerry Zucker's 'Rat Race' and Kevin Smith's 'Mallrats'. This film spawned two fairly succesful sequels and countless rip-offs and with the possible exception of part 3, no other movie comes as close as the brilliance of this. Some of the sight gags in this are just pure hilarity, plain and simple. It's a shame we might never see another sequel but at least we have ZAZ's other films and the short lived TV series this movie was based on. Long live 'The Naked Gun'! "},{"Title":"Flawless Comedy","Date":"27 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"     One of the great comedy classics of the '80s, there's nary a miss or pause from start to finish as Nielsen tries to foil plot to kill Queen of England.  Kennedy and Presley are great in supporting roles.  Concept started out as 6 equally funny TV episodes six years earlier.  Inspired two amusing if inferior sequels, as well as a number of really unfunny copycats.   "},{"Title":"Very good...but sequels were better!","Date":"7 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Very good..but I found the sequels better, especially the second one..that was the best! How the americans could only give it a PG 13 though is beyond me..especially when it has a concrete dildo involved and when huge condoms are thrown around. A 15 used by the British Film Classification Authority is much more adequate! "}{"Title":"Funniest movie ever!","Date":"1 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  An side splittingly hilarious movie that will leave your sides aching. This is one of the most funniest movies of all time. The comedic timing is perfect and Leslie Nielsen is at his best. There are too many jokes too mention and you will realise after the first five minutes that you are watching a classic. 9 out of 10 "},{"Title":"The start of the perfect trilogy.","Date":"26 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  *** 1/2Starring Leslie Nielson, Priscilla Presley, and George Kennedy.If there is only one man who can stop a madman from mind-controlling people to kill Queen Elizebeth, it's Frank Drebin.  Frank is a bumbling cop who steps on the plot to kill the Queen, so he must take this into his own hands.  The movie is quite possibly the funniest parody of all time and is the start of one of the best trilogies of all time. "},{"Title":"Leslie Nielsen is the king of Slapstick","Date":"28 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I hereby Crown Leslie Nielsen the king of Slapstick comedy. He's so funny at playing this part of a good cop having a bad day. The good thing about slapstick comedy is that its different to conventional comedy in that it relies on over exaggurations and mimicking things in strange ways to make them funny i.e the fact that he keeps running into rubbish bins and even a fisherman. I'd rate it 10 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"zany,hilarious,among the funniest movies of all time","Date":"18 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  the naked gun truly is a classic.its laugh-a-minute dialoque and combination of visual,slapstick and zany comedy works like a charm. some jokes may be dry and used but there is more than enough to redeem the film of its occasional flaws. the naked gun is right up there with airplane,top secret and all other slapstick comedies of the 1980's. Naked Gun 2 1/2 wasn't quite as good and 33 1/3 was very funny and quite a rival but the predessor shines the brightest. 7.9 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Nonstop hilarity","Date":"16 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  THE NAKED GUN is a genuine laughfest. The climactic baseball game is classic comedy. The script takes unexpected turns and the dialogue is absolutely brilliant. A real pleasure to watch,especially for thechemistry between Leslie Nielsen and Priscilla Presley. The only negative thing about this movie is that O.J. Simpson is in it...  "},{"Title":"Hilarious!","Date":"15 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Leslie Nielson rocks in this great spoof of policemen/crime movies.  The entire movie is a hilarious romp and I highly recommend it.  If you want to see a great comedy, then I suggest you see this one.Overall the whole movie, from beginning to end, is wonderful.  Rating BIG 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"By Far One of the Most Funniest Movies","Date":"8 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I probably have seen this movie thousands of times and i have always laughed harder each time. This movie is a spoof with alot of laughter plus a fairly good plot to such a ridiculous movie. Leslie Neilson cant do anything else other than spoofs. Its hard to take him serious in some of his older roles. Ive seen funny spoofy movies but this one next to spaceballs is the funniest spoof ive ever seen. There are many movie i feel shouldnt even be at the top where this one should always be. "},{"Title":"why do I comment?","Date":"28 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  So I decided to check something on the Naked Gun page. And then there it was. This strange force. Drawing me towards the link that allowed me to add my own comment. I tried to resist. After all, I loved the rapid-fire jokes, hilarious one-liners, and deadpan acting no more than anyone else. I had absolutely nothing new to say about The Naked Gun. But this force was drawing me forward. I felt myself being sucked in. Finally, I surrendered in reckless abandonment and decided, oh, fine, I'd write a superfluous comment that, once again, recommends this movie, even though I had nothing new to say about it. As if I had some kind of obligation to comment about movies I liked a lot. If I don't have anything new to say, then I have no obligation! Or do I? Anyway, this movie is very very funny and highly recommended. (shudder) "},{"Title":"The greatest spoof movie ever!","Date":"25 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  They don't make them quite like this anymore. I first saw it when I was 8 and I thought it was hilarious back then but I took it at face value and didn't get all the jokes as I was too young. Now I get them and it's even more hilarious. I'm surprised that the Police Squad show was a failure back then.Still, this was great and Leslie Nielsen is just brilliant as Frank Drebin. There are plenty of gags and it doesn't go overboard or try too hard to impress it's audience like 'Scary Movie' or other spoof movies of today that push the envelope of vulgarity to attain cheap laughs. This was flat out comic genius by the men who know their craft. The Zucker brothers. Sequels kind of sucked but few sequels are better than the original. "},{"Title":"One of the funniest movies.....EVER","Date":"21 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I think this is one of the funniest movies...EVER. It has hilarious slapstick as well as wordplay, two of the BEST FORMS OF COMEDY. Even if you dislike both, surprisingly, you will enjoy this movie cause it is so silly. My god it is so good and you should see it. I recommend this very funny movie to everyone who can watch a pg-13 movie. GRADE A+ "}{"Title":"quite possibly the perfect spoof","Date":"12 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie was one of the funniest ever made. The bathroom/press conference scene was a classic and had me on my knees with laughter when I saw it in the theatre. I loved it. Plenty of great lines, sight gags, and other related jokes/humor were just great. Absolutely marvelous.*** out of **** "},{"Title":"ZAZ's second funniest movie and one of the funniest comedies of the '80s.","Date":"26 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The Naked Gun is hilarious from start to finish. Just when you think it can't get any funnier, it does. Rarely is there a gag that feels stale. Leslie Nielsen is at his funniest here at Frank Drebin. Overall, A hilarious spoof thats ZAZ's second funniest movie (second behind Airplane!) and one of the funniest comedies of the '80s.  "},{"Title":"Spectacular.","Date":"19 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Absolutely one of my favorite movies. I find new, funny things I missed every time I watch it. And I have probably seen it 50 or 60 times. But, if you are not into slapstick humor, then this may not be the movie for you. Otherwise, enjoy.  "},{"Title":"The best comedy ever. Why? Well...","Date":"11 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" ...it's consistently hilarious, the whole cast have a funny moment, and Leslie Nielsen is at his best. Lt Frank Drebin, an overly incompetent cop, has to foil an attempt at assasinating Queen Elizabeth II, with moments of comic genius. Examples include when he pees with his mic still on at a conference, when Nielsen and Priscilla Presley practice safe sex by wrapping themselves in plastic and when Drebin keeps injuring the already half-dead O.J. Simpson. It's far better than the inferior sequels(which are still alright) and beats 1980's Airplane! as the best parody movie. I wouldn't mind if Leslie continued this until he's 90, because he's fantastic. "},{"Title":"Classic!","Date":"16 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is one of the funniest movies of all time!  The scenes at the baseball park were the greatest.  Watching Frank Drebin take control as the umpire was great.  If you liked the movie Airplane! you'll like this movie too. "},{"Title":"Easily the funniest film of all time!","Date":"15 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Without plucking any of the golden jokes from the multitude, I will safely say that I've never found a movie I've laughed over more.  Sure, it's slapstick, but it has enough class to keep lame parody/spoof jokes to a minimum, and relies on smart dialogue (snicker) and sight gags for a perfect comedy.  There is no fear of picking this one up and not enjoying it.  I personally guarantee it! "},{"Title":"Hilarious Send-Up of Police/Detective Genre","Date":"11 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This film is the first of the hilarious Naked Gun trilogy.  I never tire of watching this film.  The thing that makes the Zucker/Abrahams/Zucker films funnier than other comedies is that the acting is so dramatic, yet, the actors get very silly lines and situations.  Rent, no, buy Naked Gun; you will be laughing constantly while watching it. "},{"Title":"The funniest movie I have ever seen","Date":"23 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I remember going to see this one in the theaters. It is the only movie that ever had me (literally) rolling on the floor. I laughed til it hurt and at times, the laughing was so intense that I remember wishing that they'd stop the movie for a minute so I could catch my breath ) The reason I think this one worked so well (and the reason why pretty much all movies of this type after it sucked) is because a lot of the situations were believable. For example, when Drebin is at the press conference and goes to take a leak and forgets to turn of his mic (hehe), something like that could actually happen. Compare this to some of the sequels in this series and those that came after it which have situations that are just *way* out in left field. Not that this movie doesn't have some of those, but it just doesn't seem so obvious. Some people compare this movie to Airplane, but I personally think Naked Gun is much better - a masterpiece. I haven't seen a movie nearly as funny as this and I don't imagine I ever will. If you like movies like Airplane, Hot Shots, and Wrongfully Accused and have never seen this one, shame on you ) Rent it today! "},{"Title":"Slapstick at its greatest.","Date":"3 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  What else is there to say, except this movie, much like all the ones involving Leslie Nielson, is a comedic masterpiece.  There's never a dull moment right from the beginning to the end.  In my opinion the best part of the movie is the pre-credits sequence with Frank in an undercover job overseas, but I won't spoil it for you.  The Weird Al Yankovic cameo is also nice.I give it a 9 of 10 (I have a strict policy on not giving tens unless it's the best movie ever, and while this is among the best I've seen, it's not the greatest. "},{"Title":"Never Boring","Date":"6 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  There are few movies that you can watch over and over and over again without it getting old and tired.  This is one of the few that evokes interest and laughter and has been since it's release some twelve years ago. Catch it whenever and you too will be a fan. "}{"Title":"You can not watch for more than 5 mins. without laughing...","Date":"23 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Great comedy with wonderful sight gags. My favorite line (repeated in subsequent Naked Gun movies) is when Drebin holds out an open pack of smokes and says cigarette? and the 'offeree' responds, yes, I know. It still cracks me up. Funny, funny stuff.    "},{"Title":"A Really Funny movie!!!","Date":"22 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Leslie Nielsen stars as the funniest cop in..................... The Naked Gun From The Files Of Police Squad!The Queen of England is coming to America and Frank Drebin will have to stay on the loose for trouble makers, while a cop just got hurt. Hilarious Airplane! humor! One of my favorite movies! See it today, before Drebin gets you. "},{"Title":"Funniest movie ever","Date":"21 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is the perfect movie.  It's amazing that every single attempt at humor in this film hits the mark.  I've watched this way too many times, and each time I pass by it while flipping the channels, I sit there and watch it again.I'm a huge fan of the Zucker-Abrahams-Zucker trio.  I would list this, Airplane! and Top Secret as my three favorite movies of all time.The best part about this movie is Leslie Nielsen's performance.  In recent films, Nielsen has played his characters as clowns who are trying to be funny.  That's a major mistake.  In The Naked Gun, he plays Lt Frank Drebin as a serious character(much like his performance as the doctor in Airplane!), and it really makes the movie. "},{"Title":"As good as Airplane! if not better","Date":"14 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This film hits all the right buttons!  Hilarious word-play, visual puns, and deadpan delivery from Neilson make this one of my all-time favorite comedies.  Throw in Priscilla Presley as the sultry love interest, Ricardo Montalban as the villain and you've got comedy gold.  If you've been living under a rock for the past decade, run out and SEE THIS FILM! "},{"Title":"Leslie Neilsen's greatest comedic triumph","Date":"9 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  As disappointing as a lot of the late 80's cinema was, Naked Gun, was a godsend.  The jokes are simple but great and Leslie Neilsen is fantastic as Frank Drebin, the forgetful and incompetent member of the L.A. Police Squad. He's trying to track down and reveal a drug-smuggling and assassin ring that is currently trying to assassinate the queen of England on her visit to L.A.  The results are hilarious.  This movie is a must see for comedy and has many small jokes hidden in the background.  And also, it has the funniest opening sequence of any comedy I know. "},{"Title":"Leslie Neilsen's Best Work","Date":"8 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  With the stupidity of the Police Academy movies and the majority of most 80's comedy, Naked Gun just looks like all of the rest.  But, it is brilliant.  Leslie Neilsen is hilarious in his incompetence as a police officer and his complete oblivious reactions to the chaos he has caused. The subtle jokes in the background are many and the most hilarious of all. You have to pay close attention when you watch this movie, or you will miss a lot of the punchlines.  It is '80s comedy at its best as well as Leslie Neilsen's character he brings to his role.  It is a comedy not to miss. "},{"Title":"The funniest movie ever!","Date":"1 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  If you haven't seen Naked Gun you don't know what you have been missing. This is by far Leslie Nielsen's funniest film.  This film is the original of its kind.  It is the kind of movie that you have to watch over and over again to catch all of the funny things in the backround.  I'm sure you have seen many movies similar to this, where there are funny things that happen in the backround, but Naked Gun is what paved the path for these movies. If you for some reason haven't seen this movie, then you need to go to your local video store and rent it! "},{"Title":"Not bad, but, ah, those memories.","Date":"13 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This film, though sometimes funny, is somewhat of a cheat. This is not because it was taken from a TV series (Police Squad), or that the name of the series was changed for the big screen. Rather, it is because Leslie Nielsen's character is turned around with respect to what he was on television. The world of Police Squad (all six episodes of it) is like that of Airplane, one in which, for example, a female witness can ask detectives to wait while she changes and come back a completely different person, or where the scientist down at Police Squad headquarters can demonstrate ballistics by showing how far a bullet can penetrate through a row of Barbara Walters interview tapes. Nothing quite make sense to us, but it does to them, which is one reason why the series was so hilarious.On Police Squad, the occasional exception to this state of affairs was Lt. Frank Drebin (Nielsen), who seemed to be the only one who could perceive that a statement was too ludicrous even for his universe (which he would indicate by pausing, grinning slightly and saying Well . . . and then moving on).In the movie, however, Frank becomes something of an Inspector Clouseau clumsy, accident-prone, annoying to his superiors. This is not at all what he was in Police Squad. There he was the ultimate good cop loyal, smooth-talking, respected by his colleagues and bosses downtown. The viewer must judge for himself which version he likes better. I, of course, preferred the old version, mostly because I am just old enough to remember why Nielsen was chosen to be in Airplane, namely, because the straightness of most of his roles up to that point only served to emphasize the zaniness of the script.Yes, this is probably too much analysis for a simple comedy. I just miss the television series. In brief Naked Gun is entertaining fare, though it is certainly no Airplane or even Police Squad. Too much slapstick, not quite enough wit.But excellent opening credits. "},{"Title":"Nielsen's finest series...","Date":"1 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Naked Gun is without a doubt one of the best comedy series of all time. Leslie Nielsen gave the character Frank Drebin life as a slick cop with an always interesting head for thoughts.  He isn't a bumbler like Inspector Clouseau but he is rather funny. The slapstick humor in this movie works out just fine.  From everything as eating a Dugout Dog full of things to giving away remarks regarding Nordberg (O.J. before his tribulation) as Nordberg is seriously wounded.  This show is a complete genius of a show and is rewarded with good stuff.  The other two sequels are sort of going hardcore on the slapstick and should take a breather... "},{"Title":"A Comedy Classic!","Date":"24 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The Naked Gun is a great and funny movie.  It is full of very easily understood comedy.  I loved this movie so much that i decided to own it, and purchased it some time ago.  My personal favorite part in the movie is when Priscilla Presley goes up onto the ladder to get some files and such and Leslie Nielsen says, Nice beaver!  It always makes me laugh out loud. I highly recommend this movie to anyone who wants a good chuckle. "}{"Title":"A complete review in as short as possible...","Date":"11 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The Naked Gun A complete review in as short as possible...The Naked Gun is one of those few classics that prove that the originals are always the best! This movie is fast-paced, just too funny and the BEST comedy movie I have EVER seen! A non-stop one-way comedy-derby that you'll never want to end!Nielsen puts on his very best performance, making one think he saves it all for the Naked Gun movies! The casting is PERFECT, the support cast is excellent, the soundtrack is brilliant, the story is just what the doctor ordered! There can never be as funny a Naked Gun movie as this!!Oomph!-meter (from 5) ***** "},{"Title":"probably my favorite movie of all time","Date":"4 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Naked Gun is probably my favorite movie of all time.  It is one of only a handful of movies that I can watch again and again and find the jokes as funny, if not funnier, as the first time I saw them.  Naked Gun is very close to being a perfect movie for me.   "},{"Title":"Uproarious comedy !!","Date":"24 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  An incompetent cop must save the queen from death but encounters some hilarious problems along the way.Silly comedy is over the top in every way.Rating**** (out of five) "},{"Title":"very funny","Date":"10 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is a great movie based on the short lived 1982 TV series Police Squad that only produced 6 shows !!!! One of my fav. parts is when Weird Al Yankovic is on the airplane. If you haven't seen this film YOU SHOULD!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Laugh till you die","Date":"10 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Men! How I love this movie. I see it over and over and I just can´t stop laughing. It was made ten years ago but Frank Drebin has the ability to make me laugh again and again. It´s not just a comedy. It´s also a love story in the middle of an strange world in which Leslie Nielsen lives life to his own way. Burning evidence, killing people by accident, briding and being bride and most of all, placing love and friendship before everything. Frank Drebin is the cup I would like to be rescued by!!!  "},{"Title":"Laughs galore","Date":"17 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie is just too funny.  I own the movie, and have seen it many times. This is one of Leslie Nielsen's best comedies ever.  Hey, it even features O.J.!!!!  It is sort of funny to see him in movies after all this junk about the murder.  Anyway, Frank Drebin is a bumbling idiot cop in this movie, and some of the things he does are just hilarious!!!!  This movie gets a 8/10. It was ranked down for some real repetitive jokes, doing the same thing over and over just gets lame after awhile.  Rated PG-13 for sex, language, and sex related humor, this movie is fine for around 13 and up.  "},{"Title":"It is physically impossible to not fall down on the floor while laughing your head off!","Date":"17 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Holy crap! This is the best comedy ever made! Even the sequels (The Naked Gun 2 1/2 The Smell of Fear -- The Naked Gun 33 1/3 The Final Insult) are just as funny and good! This movie stars the funniest man on the planet (next to Jim Carrey and Billy Bob Thornton) which is Leslie Neilsen (Spy Hard, Scary Movie 4)! This movie also stars other hilarious actors and actresses...such as Priscilla Presley (TV's Breakfast with Einstein, HBO's Tales from the Crypt), Ricardo Montalban (Spy Kids 3-D Game Over, Star Trek The Wrath of Khan), George Kennedy (Airport '77, Creepshow 2), and O.J. Simpson (The Towering Inferno, Firepower) in this TOTALLY HILARIOUS movie.The funny parts are so imaginative and creative and belly-laugh-bringers. Leslie Nielsen plays Lt. Frank Drebin character so well. Everyone plays their character so well! Oh my, God, this movie is so hilarious! I know I've said that like three times now, but it's true! Even goth people who never laugh and are obsessed with death and blood will laugh at this movie if they at least give the movie a try. I'm serious, I used to be a horror movie fan (but I wasn't goth, though), but when I decided to try this movie out (it's a comedy by the way...oh, wait, you already know that), and I LOVED IT! I literally watched it at least a hundred times. And I'm only 12 years old! I watched it once everyday last year in a hundred days! And I still watch it, but I lost count now! I love this movie! I also watch its sequels. They're also the best of the best of the best of the comedy genre. If you choose to watch this movie, YOU ROCK! You have a pure, good soul. If you choose to NOT watch this movie, then you need a good psychiatrist because you DO NOT know what you are missing. You only need a psychiatrist if you don't watch it AFTER you read this comment. If you haven't seen it before because you haven't heard of it before, then that's okay.WHAT AM I TALKING ABOUT? BACK TO THE MOVIE! Leslie Neilsen is definitely talented and God gave him a rare and special gift that one-in-a-billion people have. Leslie is so funny and good-hearted. Oh, and so what if he has a girl name? That doesn't make him weird. He's hilarious and he's a very gifted actor that brings belly-laughs in every single movie and TV show he has been in (all 223 of them, he'll be starring in three more movies, two in 2007, which are Music Within and Lipshitz Saves the World...and one in 2008, which is Scary Movie 5!!!) Anyway, this movie is for almost all ages (11 or older) I'd have to say because there is a lot of strong off-color humor and some border-line strong sexuality (but mostly sexual humor) and is not for younger children.See this movie! You won't regret it! **** out of **** 10 out of 10 stars My MPAA rating PG-13 Off-Color Humor, Sexual Content and Dialogue, and for Some Language "},{"Title":"One of the best.","Date":"24 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Ah, the first Naked Gun. Easily the best of the three, and easily one of the funniest movies ever. Whether you like absolutely silly-funny movies or witty and clever comedies, Naked Gun delivers.This movie is capable of making someone laugh the whole way through. A lot of movies today just try to do absolutely stupid stuff for the entire movie, while Naked Gun requires that the viewer is intelligent. It is therefore impossible that the same person who watches Dumb and Dumber (an absolutely awful movie) can find Naked Gun funny. He is not mentally capable.I think that this is the reason it does not get even close to the credit it should get. This is one of the best comedies ever, from one of the best comedy writing teams ever. "},{"Title":"Hilarious for sure!","Date":"3 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" The Naked Gun From the Files of Police Squad! is classic slapstick comedy. It had a great story and right on dialogue that was perfectly said by the great actor Leslie Neilsen (who was the right pick for the role of Lt. Frank Drebin as well as the costars). Gags just keep happening at the right time, nicely paced throughout the film. The best scene in the film is when Frank Drebin accidentally tops a surprised Queen Elizabeth! And Ira Newborn's great score for this film and the successive two films is inventive, adding to the laugh out riot tone. A near perfect film that is a must see for anyone who is into comedy . . . a solid 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"... having your nuts bit of by a Laplander... That's the way I want it...","Date":"7 October 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Naked Gun is one of the few screw ball comedies that crack me up every time. There's something in it, that just wont age willingly, it stays fresh. Or maybe it's just my sense of humor, or the the fabulous acting of Leslie Nielsen, I laugh every time when I watch it.Leslie Nielsen plays Drebin, a detective, who spills out hard boiled inner dialogue and keeps his stone cut expression no matter what. He fights crime to the last. And with Drebin the crime wont last it churns up into a chaos. Priscilla Presly is Jane Specner, a secretary of Vincent Ludwig (Ricardo Montalban) the bad guy of the film. Jane also is the la fem fetal whom Drebin falls head over heels. There is a plot about assassination of Queen Elizabeht II, but as this type of comedy works, the over all plot is pretty meaningless. And that's okay, at least for me It's the humor that counts in this type of movies.David Zukcer has managed to milk everything from the movie, it is as funny as it could be. I can't see any way to improved the film, it has gags for everyone, be them fast sight gags or verbal juggling, or even slap stick comedy. The bests scenes are, when someone is doing something seemingly important while Drebin or some else goofs up in the background, leading up in sheer stupidity and situations so absurd, that you just cannot help but to laugh "}{"Title":"The comedy team of Zucker, Abrahams and Zucker.","Date":"7 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" The Naked Gun From the files of Police Squad! (1988) marks the return of Lt. Frank Drebin, a character he played on the short lived television series POLICE SQUAD! This time around, one of his colleagues Nordberg (O.J. Simpson) is hospitalized after a botched undercover operation. Lt. Frank Drebin and his partner (George Kennedy) have to pick up where Nordberg left off. This leads him to Vincent Ludwig (Ricardo Montelban). Whilst investigating him he comes across his personal assistant Jane (Priscella Pressley). Drebin's smitten by Jane. But as the movie progresses Will Drebin find true love? Can he catch Ludwig in a criminal act? What will happen to Nordberg? Do I need to see this movie? All questions will be answered when you watch THE NAKED GUN FROM THE FILES OF POLICE SQUAD!!!A funny movie that's followed by two less than spectacular sequels. This one is highly recommended! "},{"Title":"Look!  It's Enrico Pullazo!","Date":"15 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" If Airplane! was the movie that proved how funny Forbidden Planet star Leslie Nielsen can be (and he can be a riot with the right material), Naked Gun was the movie that cemented his reputation in this regard, for better or worse.Nielsen plays Lt. Frank Drebbin, a seemingly incompetent cop who manages to nonetheless to get the job done. In the beginning of the movie, he busts a meeting filled with evil world leaders including Idi Amin, the Ayatollah Khomeini, and Gorbachev (I knew it! Drebbin yells as he rubs off the mark on Gorbachev's forehead). But when he suspects that a shady character named Vincent Ludwig (Ricardo Montalban from Fantasy Island) is plotting to kill Queen Elizabeth, nobody except his captain, Ed Hocken (played by another serious actor who shows a great ability with comedy, George Kennedy) is willing to take him seriously. His retractors include the mayor (played by Nancy Marchand, later of The Sopranos), who after a series of pratfalls that make Drebbin look like an idiot (it's not hard) takes his badge. But Drebbin is determined to prove his case, even if it means posing as opera star Enrico Pullazo and an umpire to do it, and prevent the assassination of the queen.There's a love story between Drebbin and Jane Spencer, played by Priscilla Presley, who is also not ready to accept that her boss Ludwig is a murderer, and O.J. Simpson provides support (and some of the funniest scenes in the movie) as the hapless Det. Nordberg, who can't seem to avoid getting hurt time and time again. Admit it, it's a hoot watching these scenes now and imagining that the real O.J. is the one nearly being killed.The movie was made by Zucker, Abrahams, and Zucker, the team also responsible for Airplane!, and is based on the cult classic TV show (cancelled before its time because, of course, it was too much for the dumb TV audiences to be able to follow) Police Squad! I think it can be easily argued that it's because of the material provided by these geniuses that Nielsen is so funny; God knows he can't be in anything not created by them. But let's give Leslie Nielsen some credit; NOBODY does deadpan like him. And he gets strong support from the rest of the cast. There are some hilarious one-liners and sight gags here; one of my favorites is the final scene with Nordberg (Oh Frank! Everybody should have a friend like you!). Also notable are the cameos throughout, including Weird Al Yankovic, Reggie Jackson, Dick Vitale, Dick Enberg, Dr. Joyce Brothers (as a baseball announcer!), and best of all John Houseman in his final screen appearance, playing a driving instructor in a car Drebbin has to take control of for a chase; the poor teenage girl is still driving, and Houseman is calmly directing her on how to do it, as they speed down the highway. This is classic stuff, and even though its not a serious role, I'm glad he had something so memorable for his last movie.Naked Gun isn't as consistently funny as Airplane!, but it's still one of the funniest movies ever, and further proof (with apologies to Mel Brooks) that the Zuckers are the greatest spoofmakers of all time. "},{"Title":"Innovative comedy spoofing inept high profile police work","Date":"22 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This is a rather refreshing 'new kind of comedy', with an original premise Have a law-man who is clearly 'not with it' go on a crime-fighting spree, critically injuring innocent people as he goes, only to end up catching the bad guys (by accident or by mistake), receiving top recognition for his fine work. You must see this sort of bizarre non-sense to believe it! When Police Sergeant Frank Drebin (played by Leslie Nielsen) first appeared on American TV screens back in about 1980, we weren't quite ready for the humor that came without a cuing laugh track. A few years later The Naked Gun gave us another chance. This time it took! The one-liners and come backs in this film are hilarious, as the clumsy Drebin always gets his man. Pricilla Presley is wonderful as the agent for the enemy who soon becomes Drebin's love interest.The scenes where fellow police officer Nuremberg (played by O.J. Simpson) repeatedly gets brutally injured (to roaring laughter from the audience) have been criticized as racist. Some of the double entendre is a bit risqué for kids, but otherwise this is fun for any age audience. "},{"Title":"Best comedy ever made!!!","Date":"12 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I don't know how many times I have watched this film, but it's many. And even though i don't laugh as much as I did the first times, I still have no problem putting this movie at the all-time top of comedies. The beginning of it, with all the dictators, is especially well-made. My salute to the people who came ut with the idea of that one. Leslie Nielsen is simply the king of comedies, especially slapstick-comedies like this one. Movies like this one are so crazy that there aren't even a tiny little serious microsecond in the whole movie, and that's one of the reasons it's so great. It's just totally crazy. This movie will never get too old. Humour and laughter is indeed timeless. "},{"Title":"Funniest Lines","Date":"29 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" What are some of the Funniest lines in this movie? Frank It's true what they say Jane climbs a ladder Frank Saayyy, nice beaver. Jane Spencer producing a stuffed beaver Thanks. I just had it stuffed. Frank Drebin is emptying out his files after being kicked off the force Frank Hey! The missing evidence in the Kelner case! He really was innocent! Ed Frank, Kelner went to the chair two years ago. Frank Well, uh... Frank Drebin quickly shoves the evidence back into the file cabinet Jane Spencer I wanted you to know, now, I've loved you since the first day I met you, and I'll never stop. I'm a very lucky woman. Frank So am I... Drebin searches a drawer Frank Bingo! pulls out a bingo card "},{"Title":"Amusing, highly watchable lowbrow humor...tasteless but funny...","Date":"5 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  If you can forgive several bad lapses in taste and have a yen for lowbrow humor, you'll enjoy this comedy with Leslie Nielsen doing his usual deadpan shtick as a bumbling police officer.It moves along at a breezy clip, fast-paced all the way through and some of the sight gags are genuinely amusing. But I wouldn't call it a laugh riot since most of the humor is strictly of the pratfall kind and the double entendre lines in the script are pretty obvious.Not bad for this kind of flick, but never rises above pure slapstick with all of it being a strain on credibility. Nevertheless, Leslie Nielsen, Priscilla Presley, George Kennedy, Ricardo Montalban and, yes, even O.J. Simpson, keep things lively enough to pass the time for 85 minutes.This led to a few sequels of which this one is reportedly the best of the lot. "},{"Title":"drop dead funny","Date":"3 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is the first and the best of THe Naked Gun movies. Leslie Nielsen is hysterical because he always looks like he's taking it so seriously. He and George Kennedy must have had a ball making this film. Its a joy from start to finish because if one gag doesn't make you laugh the next five will. They just come so fast you have to watch carefully to keep up with it. What gets me is that for the first thirty years of his career Leslie Nielsen was a dramatic actor. Airplane was probably the first comedy that he ever did and yet all people know him for is being a comedian. Watching this film now is uncomfortable for me in just one aspect, it has OJ Simpson in it. We all know he did it. "},{"Title":"Fast, Witty, non-stop laughter!!!","Date":"2 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Fast, Witty, non-stop laughter!!! A spectacular film, Although I werent too excited when I sat down to watch it? I suppose it was because a lot of the American films are the usual run of mill Hollywood bore, but this was better in many ways. First of all it wasnt rubbish, second of all it had actual actors in, third of all it had hilarious jokes in.This sums up a perfect film! The funniest part was when two men were searching Leslie Nielsen, and one of the men held his arms behind his back, and the other guy searched his pockets but he accidently reached into his mate's pocket and got a wallet! he opened it and shouted to the man whose wallet it was Hey hes got a picture of your wife! the man turned Leslie Nielsen around and punched him in the face! See hilarious comedy... should not be missed!This film was great in many ways but always there is a bad point in which you must loose a mark out of 10 for, this is the acting, but in lots of comedys you cant act you must be funny so no comedy would be likely to get 10/10. All because there are either people voting who have no taste in pure hilarious comedy. Or because of the acting in which has to be poor to make it funny.Leslie Nielsen also made a laugh echo over britain and the US as he played a characteristic comic character in Airoplane! Thats what he should be a comic character. His passionate flirting was almost pathetic although it worked! He has the power to catch the viewer and then take them into never never land (then leave them behind). Basically he catches your eye you sit down laughing, laughing, and laughing and youll be left there with out noticing!Yes Im referring to what happened to me! An 8/10 film lost 1 mark for acting and the other for the whole setting, laughter, character fault all summed up, If you havent see it now! This was a film not to be missed I started off with someone recommending it, and Im pleased! Hilarious, Excellent, Brilliant, Fantastic!!! "},{"Title":"Still A Classic","Date":"24 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I saw The Naked Gun this weekend, for the first time in several years (actually, the first time I had seen ANY of the NG flicks since the OJ murder trial started). I found it as hilarious as ever, like most of the Zucker and/or Abrams schtick.People who hated Airplane or deplored the Marx Brothers will hate this one (and its sequels), too. Those who enjoy a good satire of the traditional formula police story, as well as some nifty sight gags and puns, will love it.Leslie Nielson was born for the role of Frank Dreben. Viewers who may have grown tired of his straight-faced hijinx, which has grown into a chiche after three NG movies, Airplane, the short-lived (but awesome) Police Squad TV show and numerous commercials, should be reminded just how funny the man was when the schtick was new.George Kennedy is a perfect foil for Nielson, as Allen North was in the TV series. Priscilla Presley is solid as the love interest. The movie might be even better without the long romance segments. The Zucker/Abrams crew, though, is no doubt making just such a point about the police/detective shows and movies they are spoofing. I did get a kick out of the fun day montage, showing them walking out of a theatre, laughing heartily, then the camera pulling back & showing that they had just watched Platoon.So many gags are really enjoyable. Nielson and Kennedy searching the distinguished couple at the queen's reception is priceless. With Kennedy behind the man, Nielson frisks him, then reaches for his pockets. Instead, he reaches too far & pulls Kennedy's gun out of HIS pocket. Convinced they have a hot one, Nielson sticks another hand in the man's pocket (so he thinks; actually it's Kennedy's pocket again) and pulls out Kennedy's wallet. One expects them to accuse the man of impersonating a police officer. Instead Nielson gasps Ed, he's got a picture of your wife in his wallet! after which the normally reserved Kennedy promptly belts the poor man in the mouth!Of course Ricardo Montalban was great in virtually everything he did and is outstanding as the villainous Vincent Ludwig The entire cast is strong and the baseball game is truly memorable. Dreben impersonating an international opera star and the home plate umpire are classics. I also loved the fake footage being seen on the `Angel Vision,' including a player run over by a car in the infield and a baserunner attacked by a lion at second base, followed by Mel Allen's patented `How ABOUT that!' lolThe move is at least as good as I remembered it being. Rent it or buy it - and, by all means, find a copy of the six `Police Squad' TV episodes! They're hilarious, too!  "},{"Title":"Timeless hilarity","Date":"17 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The Naked Gun came out when I was only eight years old, and way too young to appreciate a lot of its jokes.  Still, there was enough low-brow and physical comedy to crack me up, and it was one of my early favorite movies.  And while I've outgrown a lot of stuff I liked at that age, I can still watch The Naked Gun and laugh, and I even get the jokes that went way over my head as a young'un.The film, subtitled From The Files of Police Squad!, couldn't be simpler, and that's the way they want it.  Lt. Frank Drebin has to to clear the name of his partner Norberg (The now ironic OJ Simpson) while protecting the life of Queen Elisabeth, in Los Angeles on a tour of America.  For ninety minutes, the movie exploits, and frequently ignores, the plot in the name of jokes.  Just plain and simple, this movie is out to make you laugh, and it will sink to any depth to get there.  Everyone has their favorite Naked Gun moment; mine has to be Leslie Nielsen performing the worst rendition of the Star Spangled Banner in history.  His fireside monologue about a lost love who played the harp is priceless as well.Kudos also to Ricardo Montalban's  performance as real estate tycoon Vincent Ludwig.  So ridiculous is his accent and accentuations that he makes even straight lines funny.  I'll never get tired of him saying to a frightened Priscilla Presley, It was easy my dear!  You forget I spent two years as a building contractor!  Stupidty at its funniest.This is not a classic, and it didn't change the face of comedy (It is after all, a simple application of the Airplane! formula to cop movies), but The Naked Gun is funny, and it never loses its charm no matter how many times you watch it.   "}{"Title":"The best movie","Date":"17 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This movie is the best Leslie Nielsen movie. I am a big Leslie Nielsen fan and I am proud to say that it is my favorite movie. Leslie Nielsen stars as Lieutentent Frank Drebin. The clumsy head of Police Squad a special division of the LA Police Force. When the someone attempts to assassinate the queen of england at a dodgers game, its up to Drebin and his buddy cop Ed Hocken played by George Kennedy to find the culprit. In the process, Drebin meets and falls for Jane played by Pricilla Presly. Some spoofs of some classic movies but mainly its Leslie Nielsens deadpan performance that makes the movie as good as it is. The movie was based on an unsuccessful television series called Police Squad which starred Nielsen as well. Leslie Nielsen becomes the funniest man alive when put in the directing style of David Zucker. Although Airplane is a great Zucker movie, this movie is the best. The movie also spawned two sequels The Naked Gun 2 1/2 The Smell of Fear and Naked Gun 33 1/3 The Final Insult. Leslie Nielsen is the spoofmaster king and he is such a joy to watch. This movie is his triumph. If you liked this movie you want to definitely see the sequels, Wrongfully Accused, Spy Hard, Scary Movie 3( not the first two crappy ones) and the upcoming Scary Movie 4. This movie also stars O.J. Simpson (pre-trial) and Ricardo Montolbaun. See this movie and laugh your butt off. "},{"Title":"What a Parody Is Meant to Be.","Date":"14 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Very good comedy that stars Leslie Nielsen in a Pink-Pantheresque role as a hapless detective who trips into every situation. Nielsen proves to be the ultimate straight-man in this laugh-a-minute-romp. Priscilla Presley, Ricardo Montalban, George Kennedy and yes O.J. Simpson are just super as the LAPD tries to stop an assassination plot on the Queen of England. Brain-washing and a whacked professional baseball game at the finale are two of the films major calling cards. Look for former baseball star Reggie Jackson and Weird Al Yankovic in hilarious cameo appearances. 4 stars out of 5.  "},{"Title":"The Naked Gun 8/10","Date":"10 October 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  From the goofs that created Airplane! and Rat Race (David Zucker, Jim Abrahams, Jerry Zucker), here comes The Naked Gun, based on their short-lived TV series (Police Squad!).Leslie Nielsen is dunderheaded Lieutenant Frank Drebin, who is part of L.A.'s Police Squad. He's been their for awhile, but isn't the sanest person in the sanitarium. When the Police Squad is called on to protect the Queen of England on her visit to America, Frank is the main man. Along the way, he meets someone who may be in a plot to assassinate her.This may look like a plotless comedy, and it somewhat is. Just like Airplane!, it manages to have lots of sketches while still in the plot (unlike Austin Powers, for instance). Like the scene in Ludwig's office when Frank, let's say, changes it's decor. Nielsen is like his other films-the type of character who doesn't think he's funny but he is. Some jokes are tasteless (like the statues), but some are full of taste. Well, now that I think about it, there weren't many tastefull jokes, but The Naked Gun still made me laugh.There weren't as many funny parts as Airplane! (which was one huge laugh), but some scenes were side-splitting. The ending momentum slowed down some at the baseball game finale, and his checking the players got old after awhile. It was just in to stretch the running time to 85 minutes (which was a perfect length, by the way). Besides what I did, there's not much more to say about it except it's really funny and recommended.My rating 8/10Rated PG-13 for sex-related humor. "},{"Title":"The movie not is so funny you will see it once and forget it.","Date":"2 May 2016","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" People always say this is a funny movie. But they do not see more then once and do not remember it. The trues is it is not funny. It is just very very stupid. Do not see it. It is overrated. And like most comedies it is badly written. I do not known why people like it. It is so stupid. It is not a 7.6. It is just pooh. I give 4 out of 10. Because it is pooh pooh. It not funny at all. It is just weird pooh pooh. I do not know how any one could laugh at it. It is just awful. It could never have been made. And do not know why people think it so funny. People who think this is funny will just laugh at any thing, This is just cheap laughs. "},{"Title":"Warning this movie WILL make your sides hurt","Date":"22 February 2016","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Well, it sure made my sides hurt, and my friends', and my familys', and my classmates', and every stranger, co worker I've ever talked too, etc. This, Top secret, and Airplane are the funniest spoofs ever. I don't even know where to start. If I was to list every funny thing from this film here, I would be writing a review 10 pages long. I'd be writing a book! And almost everyone on earth who hasn't been on Mars since 1989 most likely has almost every joke in this movie memorized by now. Just about everybody who will read this review will already know every joke. But I'll still name three out of my fifty favorite jokes here. One Leslie starting to make a speech and the way he started his speech when everyone was actually there to see Weird Al Yankavits. Two Leslie forgetting to take off his microphone at city hall when going to the mens room. Three the whole scene at Ludwig's apartment from accidentally setting it on fire straight through to the concrete statues joke. Also, Ludwig was played by Riccardo Montablan for those who've recognized him from the love interest in a couple of Esther Williams' films. The Marx brothers were the best and funniest films of Hollywood's golden age. And Naked gun, Top secret, and Airplane are the best, funniest movies from the more modern times. Rest in peace Leslie Nielson. You HAVE made difference. "},{"Title":"Modern Comedy Classic","Date":"25 November 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Incompetent cop Frank Drebin (Leslie Nielsen) has to foil an attempt to assassinate Queen Elizabeth II.Leslie Nielsen really made a name for himself with goofy comedies. The best, of course, was Airplane!. But the Naked Gun series was nothing to sneeze at. While I would not personally say the first is the best in the series, if it had not been successful we would never have seen parts two or three or possibly even other Nielsen movies. So, thank you.There is bathroom humor, sexual innuendo, and other crude elements. But there is also a fair amount of clever wordplay, and we see this is a smarter comedy than the more modern gross-out films (such as American Pie). This is the sort of comedy we should be emulating. "},{"Title":"Most Racist Movie I've ever seen","Date":"6 September 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" So I pop in this movie thinking it's a comedy classic and wanting to laugh (not knowing what to expect since it's relatively old). And right from the start the movie is the most racist piece of crap I have ever seen. It is clearly part of the Jewish-controlled Hollywood propaganda attempting to label Arabs as terrorists. To be honest, I could not stand watching more than 2 minutes of it before being infuriated. To the producers (Zucker, Abrahams, Zucker) I say f#@K you motherf#@kers. I'm an Arab and I'm better educated than you'll ever be. Time for the Jewish propaganda machine to take a break!! We're in 2015, and it's time to put the cycle of hatred to rest. I'm hoping Globalization will slowly take care of this extreme hatred which the Jews and Arabs hold for each other because, frankly, as someone who has friends of all religious beliefs or lack thereof it's time for the people of the world to unite and coexist. ENOUGH IS ENOUGH!! Also, the media and underground intelligence should stop turning the people of war-torn countries on each other for the interest of Israel and other special interests and external forces. It's time to grow up people... "},{"Title":"Easily the best of the goofy trilogy","Date":"31 January 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" The three Naked Gun movies from 1988, 1991 and 1994 are all extremely goofy comedies starring Lesley Nielsen, Priscilla Presley, George Kennedy and OJ Simpson. They're consistently amusing and, pretty much, interchangeable. If you like one, you'll like 'em all. Priscilla was one of the most beautiful women to walk the planet in her prime and looks great in these films. The first two were hugely successful at the box office; the third one didn't do bad, but nowhere near as good. Whether or not you prefer one to another depends on the story and guest stars. In my opinion, this first one is easily the best simply because it's more consistently amusing and often laugh-out-loud funny, which explains my high grade.As for the two sequels go, I slightly prefer part 3, but all three come in handy when you want to turn off your brain and enjoy something silly.The film runs 85 minutes and was shot in the Los Angeles area and San Diego.GRADE A- "},{"Title":"Laugh-a-minute gag-fest","Date":"21 January 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I don't think there's really any criticism you can level at THE NAKED GUN it's juvenile, sure, and very silly, but it also happens to be one of the best comedies of the 1980s (a decade packed to the seams with genre titles), surpassed only by the even-better sequel. It's a laugh-a-minute gag fest which delightfully spoofs movies in general, so the more you've seen, the funnier it becomes.It's also one of those films that everyone seems to have seen countless times, so to recount the plot would be a waste of time. Leslie Nielsen has never been better as the bumbling Frank Drebin, a cop who creates chaos wherever he goes in the best slapstick tradition. Supporting him are George Kennedy as the straight man and Priscilla Presley (ex-wife of Elvis) as his love interest, while O. J. Simpson proves unexpectedly amusing as another cop.The movie's scattershot approach means that the gags come thick and fast, so even if you don't enjoy one you'll soon forget it as another will be along almost straight away. Truly this is one of the greats of the decade, a film you can never tire of watching. "},{"Title":"Leslie Nielsen at his very best","Date":"7 January 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" There are few directors who can make a screwball comedy better than brothers David and Jerry Zucker. And there are few actors better at playing dumb, or at remaining straight faced in the midst of travesty than the late, great Leslie Neilson. When you put them together, the results are nothing less than spectacular. Case in Point, The Naked Gun From the Files of Police Squad!, which is one of the most outrageous, side splittingly hilarious comedies ever made.Neilson is perfectly cast as LAPD Lieutenant Frank Drebin, who surely must be related to the legendary inspector Clouseau. After socking it to America's enemies in the utterly ridiculous pre-title sequence, Drebin must save Queen Elizabeth II from an assassination plot at the hands of the dastardly Vincent Ludwig (Ricardo Montalbon). This would prove impossible for the spectacularly incompetent detective if not for one small fact everyone else in this movie is nearly as clueless as he is. Rarely does a movie combine as many comedic devices, or use them to such effect, as this film. Naked Gun joins together the slapstick of Keaton, the manic energy and one-liners of the Marx Brothers, and the sheer ridiculousness of Monty Python, then dials them up in a way that only the Zuckers can manage. The slapstick sequences build and build, linking together one mishap after another in a way that defies all logic. Their dialog utilizes a one of a kind mixture of double entendre, mixed metaphors, monologues, and self-negating sentences that produce some of the most quotable lines in cinema. Speaking of quotes, watch for delicious parodies of some of the best known lines from famous cop dramas.And before the movie ends, they manage to skewer practically every cliché known to the cop genre. The shootouts, the chases, the interrogations, the tearful meeting with the partner's wife, it's all here. They even managed to spoof the opening credits of practically every cop movie ever made. And no-one understands the comedic power of overstatement more than they do. Their car chases don't end in a massive fireball, they end in three. When they introduce the requisite romantic subplot, they take you through every possible variation of the semi-obligatory lyrical interlude. And when the hero's heartfelt statement of true love comes, it's so moving that it ends the Arab/ Israeli feud. While they were at it, the Zuckers also managed to spoof the Bond franchise, and to include possibly the best sports scene in any non-sports movie. It may not be subtle, or entirely tasteful, or contain any twists that a third grader couldn't predict, but Naked Gun is just about the most fun you can have at the movies. There is not a single moment that passes without a gag, and you'll be laughing so hard you'll hardly have time to breath. "}{"Title":"A Quirky Spoof","Date":"27 October 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Leslie Nelson is detective Frank Drebin in this quirky spoof of Police Squad. Drebin will always gets his man but he has quite a few comedic follies doing it. This movie is worth watching if you enjoyed Nelson in films like 'Airplane!' and 'Dracula Dead And Loving It'.If you enjoyed The Naked Gun or other Nelson films then you might like other comedy movies with a similar theme (goofy police, spies, detectives type films) 'Fletch', 'Police Academy', 'Turner and Hooch', 'Dead Men Don't Wear Plaid' or 'Spies Like Us'.The Naked Gun is a spoof, and if another comedy spoof is what you want then try such films as 'Robin Hood Men in Tights', 'Galaxy Quest', 'Spaceballs' or even 'Young Frankenstein'.8.5/10 "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"19 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" The kind of film that proves that a small story can be much more meaningful than a larger one. Here's a rerun of many of the gags from the TV series Police Squad. It's an important film, as well as very entertaining. It is very light-hearted and it isn't complex at all. Visual gags come fast, and it's impossible to catch them all! From an artistic standpoint, there were some plot elements and character developments I didn't think were totally needed. They do however drive the story, which seemed to be their purpose, so I can accept them. Heartfelt and riveting from the first frame to the last. Great performances help to enhance this amazing story. "},{"Title":"Hilarious","Date":"11 July 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Hilarious slapstick-comedy. Clever, witty dialogue and brilliant sight- gags. So quotable. The problem with these types of movies is that once the initial novelty wears off, the movie runs out of ideas, leaving the last half of the movie quite lame. Naked Gun doesn't have this problem. It stays original, unpredictable and funny right until the end. It also knows when to end.Great performance by Leslie Nielsen in the lead role. Can't think of too many other comedians or actors who could have pulled off the role. George Kennedy is solid as the straight man to Nielsen's clown.Probably the movie that started the run of spoof genre movies of the late-80s/early-90s. Unfortunately the genre has now become rather low- brow, unoriginal and far too prevalent. "},{"Title":"The team continues","Date":"29 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" LAPD Lieutenant Frank Drebin (Leslie Nielsen) is a bumbling police officer who seems to always come out on top. In Beirut, he breaks up a meeting of America's enemies. He comes back to LA to find his wife gone, his friend detective Nordberg (O.J. Simpson) gunned down at the docks, and Queen Elizabeth coming for a visit. While investigating Nordberg's shooting, he becomes suspicious of businessman Vincent Ludwig (Ricardo Montalban) while Vicent's assistant Jane Spencer (Priscilla Presley) catches his eye immediately.This is the Zuckers-Abrahams brand of parody comedy. After a short stint as a TV show, they reform 'Police Squad!' to make this police procedural spoof. These guys have sharpened their formula. At this point, their kind of comedy is still fresh. And it's always great to have Leslie Nielsen's goofiness. "},{"Title":"Slapstick Classic","Date":"19 January 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I have a special place in my heart for this title. The Naked Gun series is, I believe, the first series I saw Leslie Nielson in, and I loved him ever since. This series, along with Airplane! and Spy Hard, are some of the best slapstick films ever made---and arguably some of the best comedies ever made. The Naked Gun is full of hilarious slapstick and situation comedy; and Leslie Nielson, with his distinctive, side-splitting acting, makes it all the more funny. I recommend this movie to anyone, no matter what sense of humor you have, because chances are you will like it if you have any sense of humor at all. "},{"Title":"Classic Laughs","Date":"23 December 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Naked Gun, The (1988) **** (out of 4) The dimwitted Lt. Frank Drebin (Leslie Nielsen) begins to investigate the attempted murder of his partner (O.J. Simpson) and soon gets involved with the attempted murder of the Queen. For my money this is one of the greatest, side splitting comedies ever made and it hasn't lost any of its charm in the twenty-years since it was released. What's so amazing to me is that the movie spits out one gag after another and most movies that attempt this end up having the jokes be hit and miss. I don't think I'm overstating this but to me this movie hits the mark on each joke it tries and that's why this will remain one of the greatest comedies ever made. It's really hard to explain any of the jokes or why they're funny because there's no doubt that they are childish and dumber than dumb itself. Just as you start laughing at one joke before that laugh is over you'll be starting over again on the next one. The jokes are rapid fast and Nielsen handles them with no trouble. His comic timing is perfect for the character and you can't help but feel that Drebin really is that stupid. The supporting characters are all wonderful as they perfectly set up all the jokes for Drebin to bat around. George Kennedy, Priscilla Presley and Ricardo Montalban are all very good and even Simpson comes off quite funny and that's especially true during his opening scene where he gets shot up. What really makes this film is classic to me are its final twenty-minutes, which usually leave me with tears in my eyes from laughing. Being a baseball fan it's priceless seeing Drebin getting involved in a game he clearly knows nothing about. "},{"Title":"One of the most funniest movies ever","Date":"28 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" The Naked Gun Trilogy is nothing but a classic. I'd hate to see people reacting badly to this trilogy just because they're sensitive to perverted stuff. But still, you will laugh and blow your brains out. Watching this, with some pizza and Coke, I nearly spit out pizza from my mouth about five times, and actually sprayed Coke on my table three times. It was so unusual for me, I actually counted. Leslie Nielson is a classic, and it's truly a pity someone as funny as him in great movies like this one go to waster by acting in retarded and pointless films. Naked Gun may not be the smartest film made, but it has a genius on it that can NEVER be beaten. Watch this film and bring some napkins. "},{"Title":"The funniest movie of... what year is it again?","Date":"8 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Before I move on with this, my fifth review for IMDb, I'll run you down on what my star ratings mean. 1 star (which I gave to Batman and Robin) means that a film is abysmal or worse, and has virtually no redeeming qualities. 2 stars (which I gave to AVP) means that I found the film to be terrible, and only has one or two small (sometimes very small) positive attributes. I gave Alien3 4 stars, which means that I found a film mediocre. A film that receives 4 stars has some good things going for it, but has serious problems that hinder it from succeeding, and I overall don't like it very much. I gave Fantastic 4 Rise of the Silver Surfer 7 stars, which means that I thought the film was good. While it has a few obvious problems, I still think it has enough good qualities to outweigh them, and overall I find it solid. My next target is The Naked Gun From the Files of Police Squad. Because this is a spoof, I have to judge it on how funny I thought it was, and how good the comedic performers are. Im giving this film 9 stars because it made me laugh myself silly.The Positives -In the vein of their previous films, the Zucker brothers have given us a film where the jokes either hit or miss. For me, I don't recall any moments where they missed. -Leslie Nielsen is in his prime here as Lt. Frank Drebin, and he sells every laugh without breaking a sweat. The entire supporting cast (even O.J. Simpson!) perform admirably here.The Negatives -Sometimes, the jokes are so silly and/or juvenile that you feel guilty for laughing so hard at them. Seriously, you will laugh when Drebin's love interest falls down the stairs, even though you see it coming.My 3 choice words Hilarious, Silly, Entertaining "},{"Title":"Hilarious movie spoof from genius director Zucker","Date":"2 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" There would be no Scary Movie's had it not been for Naked Gun. The movie that started the unofficial spoof genre is by far a classic when it comes to comedy movies. And all of that can be traced to one man Lieutenant Frank Dreblin (Nielsen).I feel I should spend more time talking about Nielsen's character Dreblin he is the perfect character for a comedy movie dumbly smart, arrogant, and hilarious. The facial expressions are priceless; you can't describe this type of humor. You simply have to experience it.True hilarity comes from Naked Gun it has that clever humor where you know the writers and actors aren't overdoing it. While not all of the jokes were perfect, none of them were annoying. Now how many comedies can claim that? Naked Gun is the perfect example of humor that I love. I mean it when I say this you have got to watch this movie! "},{"Title":"The Naked Gun is Leslie Neilsons 2nd best comedy.","Date":"13 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" The Naked Gun is an hilarious Spoof/Comedy that should go down as the second best Leslie Neilsons comedy(only surpassed by The Naked Gun 2). It is about Lietenent Frank Drebin(Leslie Nielson) and after his best friend and partner gets shot down Frank goes for revenge. The movie is good for many reasons 1. Its spoofs are funny and original as well as its jokes 2. The jokes are always persistent and 3. It starts with laughs and ends with laughs. Overall I think this movie is definitely one of Leslie Neilsons finest comedy's and the movie itself is hilarious. So I rate this movie 94% and if you missed this one somehow you should definitely go out and rent it right now. "}{"Title":"Whats the song played during the baseball game?","Date":"17 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Does anyone know the name of the kool song (and artist) played during the baseballgame in the movie?? I cant find it on the soundtrack list.....if you know please e-mail it to me. The movie is great within its genre. I guess it is one of the first satires made on police plots and it makes fun of the typical klichés, at the same time, because of doing so the movie also contains all the elements needed to make it as interesting as any police movie. I am just writing this to get my 10 lines which are required to get my comment in hehe, maybe there is a place for questions but I'm too stupid to find it. Anyway, i hope someone can help me. "},{"Title":"How cool the film is","Date":"19 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" The Naked Gun series are the funniest films on the planet!!! Everyone should buy them!!!! The jokes are non-stop. What would he be doing there? Sex Frank Er not now Ed, we have work to do HAHAHAHAHAHAHA. I laughed so much when Drebin leaned over the research machine in the second film and his hard hat fell in and broke it. Leslie is the master of pulling faces! In 33 1/3 when Tanya Peters (who is so hot without the slightly strange addition) reveals her dong S Leslie Nielson makes the funniest stupidest face ever! And the pigeon, that Frank chucks through the window, that bit was hilarious. Everyone has to watch the Naked Gun series!!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Knee Slappin' Funny","Date":"8 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Movies just don't get much funnier than The Naked Gun. From the people that brought you Airplane! comes a comedy in a similar vein, stuffed with one-liners and sight gags. Leslie Nielsen is perfect for this kind of comedy. He's droll and oblivious to the absurdity around him. He takes everything completely seriously but manages to make fun of himself in the process somehow anyway. It's hard to explain but you'll see what I mean when you watch the movie.Ever since The Naked Gun was released in 1988, it's been one of those movies I watch every once in a while when I just want some mindless entertainment or when there's nothing else on, and it never fails to disappoint. It holds up well (I think even better than Airplane!) and deserves to be counted among the best screen comedies ever made.Grade A+ "},{"Title":"Priceless!!!","Date":"13 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Leslie Nielsen IS the Lord High Sultan of Slapstick!!! For me, this is the performance that made his reputation forever as a comic genius. He rules!!!No matter how many times I've watched this movie (and I've seen it a zillion times), I always end up in tears from laughing so hard. Some of the sight gags are the greatest ever shot on film.Cases in point 1) The scene where Drebin tackles the Queen and they go sliding across the full length table.2) The last scene where Nordberg goes flying out of the upper deck.3) Where Ludwig falls over the side and gets run over by a steamroller, a marching band and a circus. And Ed says that his dad went the same way.This is just untouchable!!! "},{"Title":"Hilarious! One of Nielsens Best","Date":"12 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" A lot of films have tried to capitalize off Naked Gun's success. They can't. In this film everything works. The zany humor of Zucker and Abraham along with Nielsen playing the bumbling detective is played to perfection. The first in the Naked Gun trilogy starts off with a bang as Dectective Frank Drebrin must clear his friend Nordberg (O.J. Simpson)who is under suspicion of dealing heroine. THings get even more confused when the Queen of England arrives on her tour of America. A non stop array of gags and slapstick keeps the film moving and keeps the audience laughing. There is some crude humor, but it is kept in check and better than most comedies that come out these days. Overall this film is very enjoyable to watch and one of the best comedies ever made. "},{"Title":"The greatest comedy ever!","Date":"26 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Leslie Nielson stars in The Naked Gun as Frank Drebin of Police Squad. This film is the jewel atop the crown of comedy, this film beats everything into the dust. Forget Airplane, Hot Shots, Scary Movie, this film is the spoof king! First there is the great cast with Leslie Nielson playing the dumb but straight role,George Kennedy provides good laughs as Franks buddy Ed, and I must say I enjoyed O.J Simpson as Nordberg. Then there's the phenomenal script, which starts out with Drebin kicking the crap out of terrorist to Nordberg being shot, burned, caked, toasted, bitten, and stabbed on a ship, but the big plot fills in with the attempt of assassinating the Queen of England (Reggie Jackson makes a cameo here)But the dumb jokes and one liners is the icing on this cake. Examples Everything will be alright Mrs. Nordberg, your husband will be fine. Unless he turns into a mindless vegetable. Drebin being hit with a pillow and he screams as though it's alive. Don't worry Mrs. Nordberg, nothing will stop me from solving this crime. There is no time to waste! Now lets go get a bite to eat. The whole student driver sequence, the love video with Frank and his girlfriend, and the villain giving a demonstration with the Queens death with his secretary. Examples over. Best movie I've seen in a long time. After reading this, get up, go out, and get a copy of The Naked Gun! Perfect, 10 out of 10. Enjoy! "},{"Title":"Featuring OJ Simpson In His First Dramatic Role","Date":"13 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" There are movies that are a series of sketches put together on the strength of a simple plot. The Naked Gun is one of those movies. The plot? Terrorists want to assassinate the Queen of England while she's visiting Los Angeles. The sketches? They all work. Ingredients for a wonderful movie, all met by the zany Zucker brothers, who also produced the Airplane! movies in the early 1980s. Based on the cult TV show Police Squad!, in which only 6 episodes were made, The Naked Gun follows Officer Frank Drebin (Leslie Neilson) around LA while he does what he does. What he actually does is difficult to explain, but he does it all well enough to be the hero by the end of the movie. Among the sketches in the movie is perhaps my favorite series of events, when the Queen visits a baseball game. Why the Queen of England visits Dodger Stadium to watch the big Seattle Mariners-California Angels game, that's anyone's guess. But between the 7 announcers at the beginning of the game, to Enrico Palazzo singing the national anthem to the umpire frisking all of the players during the game, it is my favorite 20 minute stretch of any movie. Hilarious! The rest of the movie is filled with wonderful moments of comedy, never taking itself too seriously. The film also boasts OJ Simpson in his first dramatic role, and he does well playing a beat up, almost dead guy. He played the part well, wonder what ever happened to that up-and-coming actor? "},{"Title":"The best of the bunch!","Date":"4 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This is exactly how to do a parody! Over the years, there have been many imitations, but few can match the sharp wit and pitch-perfect delivery of David Zucker and the rest of the team of writers (Jim Abrahams, Jerry Zucker and Pat Proft). The film is filled with hilarious gags that aspiring comedy writers and directors can learn from. This is not a hit-or-miss comedy. Either the jokes are funny or hilarious. There are very few bad apples in this bunch. First of all, the casting of Leslie Nielsen was genius. It's a shame that we don't see much of him anymore. His timing and delivery are impeccable. Nielsen started out as a serious actor, which I think makes his performance even funnier. If Zucker were to cast a Jim Carrey type in the role, he would try too hard to milk out the comedy in each scene. What makes Nielsen so funny is that he doesn't seem like he's trying to be funny, and as I say time and time again that's how you're supposed to do comedy! It must be done with a straight face! My favorite gag is the one in which Nielsen hangs off the ledge of a building and grabs onto a statue's penis to stop himself from falling down. That scene had me laughing so hard that I was running out of breath! I literally laughed for about 5 minutes straight! Yes, it's that funny! I like the sequels, but the original Naked Gun is the best of the bunch. A must-see for comedy fans! "},{"Title":"Incredibly funny comedy","Date":"12 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  What makes The Naked Gun so funny is it's small moments; things like when Leslie Nielson knocks a fisherman of the pier when parking his car, when he and Priscilla Presley come out of a movie laughing, only for the audience to see that the movie they just left was 'Platoon', the part at the baseball game where a fan shouts It's Enrico Pallazzo!; those are the really funny moments in The Naked Gun. That's not to say the bigger gags, such as the part where Detective Nordberg is shot or the thing with the fish don't work, but it's the film's attention to detail that is most definitely it's main asset.The Naked Gun opens with an utterly hilarious sequence which sees a police siren, obviously atop of a police car parade through all sorts of areas that it isn't supposed to, all done to a backdrop of very farcical music. From this point on, you know you're going to be in for a lot of silliness, and if it's silliness you want, The Naked Gun is definitely your film. The plot of the movie is largely irrelevant, and serves only as a means to spoof several clichés of the police thriller genre; which is all the plot should serve as in a gag based comedy such as this.Leslie Nielson is the perfect man for this sort of film, as he has proved over and over; even when he's stood doing nothing he looks silly; he has a look that is made for comedy, and this is his finest hour. This movie is also the finest hour for the ZAZ team; unlike with the messy and largely unfunny Airplane!, they've managed to get almost everything spot on here. The jokes are funny; for every one that doesn't work, there's twenty that do, the lead man is on top form and the situation is silly enough to provide lots of room for gags, and that room is filled as far as is possible.If you're more a fan of intelligent comedy, then I recommend checking out The Naked Gun anyway because I very much doubt that anyone can sit through this movie without laughing. Forget Airplane!, THIS is the finest ZAZ comedy. "},{"Title":"Still to be bettered - sublime spoof from the makers of Airplane - 90%","Date":"11 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I first saw this film some ten years ago and have been grateful for every opportunity to see it again since. Sadly, most TV networks seem content to show the two lesser sequels than the original so last night was a rare treat. Personally, this film was the one that got me excited every time I read the word spoof with regards to a movie. Though if anyone has seen the Scary Movie franchise, you'll know that I've been let down ever since.The Naked Gun From The Files Of Police Squad (to give it it's full title) is a feature-length version of the classic TV show Police Squad. Leslie Nielsen plays bumbling cop Frank Drebin, a brilliant mix of Karl Malden and Inspector Clouseau. This time, he must solve the attempted murder of his colleague Nordberg (O.J. Simpson) while protecting Queen Elizabeth II on her visit to LA. This is humour at a machine-gun frequency - not a single scene or line is passed up if a gag presents itself. And there are plenty that do.The strength of this film is the wonder that Nielsen is as straight-faced as you could wish. He is a comic director's dream; able to play for laughs while maintaining this dignified air about him. During my last movie write-up (which was for Liar Liar), I described Jim Carrey as a master of slapstick. If that's true then Nielsen is a comic god. When he's not accidentally blowing things up, his po-faced one-liners are fantastic. And it's not just Nielsen either. It is unfortunate that I saw George Kennedy in this film before I watched Cool Hand Luke as I couldn't take that film seriously at all! Kennedy is an excellent partner of Nielsen as both of them play off each other so well. Together with a script that rarely fails and a director that doesn't miss a beat, The Naked Gun could hardly fail.It's not the best film ever made but it is one of the best comedies that I have ever seen. It gets better each time you watch it as you pick up sight gags you missed last time and hear lines that you swear weren't there before. It takes on so many targets that you think it can't possibly win. But it does, spoofing every cop show of that era perfectly. Even today, The Naked Gun is a marvellous piece of film-making and if you don't laugh at it at some point then you're hollow inside. You have no soul! "}{"Title":"funny as hell","Date":"8 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I found the Naked Gun so funny when i first watched, literally to the point where i couldn't breathe because i was laughing so much. I recently bought it on DVD and forgot how funny it was. i love the start when Nordberg gets shot and his foot lands in a trap and he burns his hand, then falls in a cake. It's so hilariously stupid. Leslie Neilson does a great job in making this movie work, and the co stars help with making this film very funny. I recommend this too any one with a goofy sense of humour, like me, and just loves to sit back and have a good laugh. I'd give this movie a ten outta ten because it kept me laughing from start to finish. I also laugh at the giant condoms! That was so funny! I think this movie is excellent!  "},{"Title":"What A Show!","Date":"2 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  *Possible Spoilers*        The Naked Gun is one of the funniest movies ever. From the producers of  Airplane, this film is a hilarious look at Police work. Nielsen is great as Frank  Drebin. The film has a number of silly things happen in it. Especially whenDrebin disguises himself as an umpire. I also love it when everytime Frankparks his car, he hits something. That's great. The scene where Frank breaksinto Ludwigs office and finds all sorts of interesting things in there. This is a  great comedy. If you liked Airplane you're gonna like this. ***1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"Lowbrow comedy at it's finest.","Date":"14 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Lowbrow comedy at it's finest.  Many people underestimate how hard it is too make good lowbrow humour, the amount of unfunny spoof films is a testament of that.Leslie Neilsen is perfect for the lead role of Lt Frank Drebin & is ably supported by the rest of the cast.The final third of the film at the baseball game include some of the funniest scenes committed to film. 8/10. "},{"Title":"Forget the overrated crap that was airplane! THIS is the funniest movie ever made!","Date":"4 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie was based on the short-lived underrated TV Series 'Police squad' which gets re-run on paramount quite often -The story- The Queen of England is in LA and the job to look after security goes to a division of the L.A.P.D known as 'Police squad' headed by the bumbling and incompetent Det. Frank Drebin (Leslie Nielsen) who stumbles on the plot to assassinate the Queen by bad guy Ricardo Montalban.The script is full of one-liners and Nielsen is hilarious as he mesess up time and time again - while finding time to fall in love with Pricilla PresleyCo-Starring- George Kennedy and O.J Simpson before (ahem!) his downfallMuch better than the sequels- The Naked Gun 2 1/2 The Smell of Fear & The Naked Gun 33 1/3 the Final Insult which weren't bad - but they just had a quick,cheap cash-in feelFinal note- In the banqueting hall they call The Queen 'her royal highness' she is in fact 'her majesty'My rating 9/10 (a comedy classic) "},{"Title":"It's. Not. Funny.","Date":"18 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  MINOR SPOILERSThis movie has had the status of classic bestowed upon it, which i find frankly ludicrous. How can a film which features a scene of barely disguised sadism right at the start, (which involves an ordinary cop being burned, shot and humiliated), takes in many sexist jokes, then finally takes pleasure in an act of unintentional cannibalism be funny? Leslie Nielsen doesn't act in this movie, he merely remains stubbornly wooden, then falls down when the script requires it. The real problem about this comedy is that it doesn't care about its characters. Even farces, such as this, should treat their protagonists with a modicum of respect, and not to do so makes laughing at them seems cruel, rather like kicking a puppy who can't walk properly yet. This is crude junk, a smear on film history, and is a waste of your time. Watch it if you want to feel depressed. "},{"Title":"The Naked Gun is one of the funniest movies ever!!!!","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Minor SpoilersI just laugh at this movie ever time I see it which I have seen this alot! Everything is so funny. I don`t know what part is funnier whether its when Nielson is in Ricardo`s room playing with the rare pen and the fish or when he is at the press conference or when he is up on the siding of the building or could it be the beginning of the film or could it be the great baseball game? Like I said this movie is so funny.There are two sequels to the Naked Gun but to ME this is the best of the three. If you need a good laugh or cheer someone up this is the movie to watch! "},{"Title":"One of the funniest films every.","Date":"10 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This film is one of my favourite comedies.  Leslie Nielson is great as Frank Drebbin, and most of the other members of the cast are great too.  There are louds of gags in this, and most are very very funny.  The plot, sense and taste all take second place to the comedy.  Anyone with a sense of humour will love this. "},{"Title":"A TOP NOTCH COMEDY FROM A T. V. SHOW","Date":"1 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Leslie Neilsen is great as he reprises his television role as LT. Frank Drebban from Police Squad this time he must try to foil a plan to kill Queen Elizabeth 2 at a local Braves game. But he must first get through his feelings for a cop lover played hilariously by Presilla Presley. O. J Simpson has a small role as an idiot cop named Norbert. I give this film 3 stars out of a possible 5.   "},{"Title":"One of the best Comic movies ever","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Naked Gun is definetly one of the best movies of the genre, ZAZ are the best bunch of guys in writing those screenplays, I must have watched this film at least 20 times and each time my finger pushes play it's continous laughter till the last photogram. Leslie Nielsen (Frank), George Kennedy (Ed), And O.J.Simpson (Nordberg) all get thumb up, I,m still waiting for the 44 and 1/444.Carlo "},{"Title":"Nielsen/Sellers???","Date":"5 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Classic comedy by makers of Airplane.  Nielsen is so good as Lt. Drebin. Great spoof of cheesy detective films and romance ones too (see life size condom scene).  So many great parts.  My favorite when Hocken says there is a 10 % chance of there being a 50/50 chance of Nordberg recovering.  This is truly great comedy, reminiscent of Peter Sellers as the bumbling Inspector Clouseau.  I'm split between Sellers and Nielsen and the Pink Panthers and Naked Guns, as to which are better.  Who cares, their all great. "}{"Title":"one of my favorite films","Date":"26 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The Naked Gun is hilarious.  It's the kind of movie that you can watch over and over again and still laugh hysterically.  Montalban is brilliant, and overall I think the movie is much funnier than the TV show(Police Squad). It includes some interesting foreshadowing with O.J. Simpson playing Nordberg, a cop who gets nearly shot to death while prowling around in an all black costume at night.  This movie is far funnier than any of the Saturday Night Live spin-offs or anything by Adam Sandler, Mike Meyers or Chris Farley(RIP).  "},{"Title":"the funniest in the series, and one of the funniest movies of all time!","Date":"21 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  the naked gun is beyond hilarious. it's got to be the funniest movie of the 80's! and one of the funniest movies of all time. just about every gag in this movie works. the baseball game at the end is just classic. this movie is non-stop funny. some of the funniest scenes you'll ever see. it's non-stop pure fun. the timing of the jokes are just great. for a great beyond hilarious time watch this movie. i give this movie ***1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"One of the funniest films I have ever seen.","Date":"6 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is one of my favorite comedies of all time. Leslie Nielson stars as Lt. Frank Drebin, a cop who doesn't play by the rules. Hell, he doesn't follow ANY rules. This movie has great Airplane-style gags and Drebin doesn't waste any time screwing things up. Too bad the sequels aren't quite as good. "},{"Title":"Funny Movie","Date":"19 August 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I Think The Naked gun was one of the funniest movies ever. I think Leslie Nielsen was funny and it was the Zucker Brothers best movie since AIRPLANE. If they ever make a sequel to the Naked Gun Installment, I would most definetly see it.  "},{"Title":"Wildly inconsistent collection of gags, a handful of them hilarious.","Date":"10 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Bad joke. Bad joke. Worse joke. Bad joke. Good joke. Great joke. Great joke. Bad joke. Worse joke. And repeat. That's the template for this admirably relentless collection of spoof gags and non-sequiturs (I know it says non-sequiturs on Wikipedia, but I thought of it first, honest I did), which rose from the ashes of cancelled TV show Police Squad. Leslie Nielsen is Frank Drebin, the incompetent cop trying to thwart the assassination of the Queen, who's on a state visit to L.A. Ricardo Montalbian - a leading man for Esther Williams in his early days - is the crimelord, while George Kennedy plays Nielsen's sidekick. We begin with a particularly unfunny fight scene, but the film soon gets into its stride via a hilarious credits sequence and O.J. Simpson's slapstick dunking, before reaching a peak around the midway point, with Nielsen's dressing down by the mayor, the dockyard shoot-out (I can't hear you! Don't fire the gun while you're talking!) and the banquet stop-and-search. The film draws on slapstick, satire and spoofery to similarly variable ends, aided by a cast that's ever-game, if only as good as the material. As I've said before, spoofing is generally the preserve of the lazy, but at least Zucker and co are selective, and largely parody deserving targets. "},{"Title":"Stupid Comedy as an Art Form One of the funniest films ever made","Date":"11 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  THE NAKED GUN FROM THE FILES OF POLICE SQUAD! (1988) **** Leslie Nielsen, Priscilla Presley, Ricardo Montalban, George Kennedy, OJ Simpson.  Classic ZAZ comedy adaptation of the cult tv parody Police Squad! with Nielsen born to play dumb as a fox  Lt. Frank Drebin, the constantly bungling American cousin to French Inspector Clouseau, out to prevent an assassination attempt on the visiting Queen of England.  Classic slapstick and sight-gags aplenty "},{"Title":"Ha ha very funny (no really, I'm not being sarcastic!)","Date":"3 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I haven't seen Airplnae, but this film is probably the satire ever! It has great sight gags, and the one-liner jokes are hilarious. So what if it is overacted by Leslie Nielson, it was still very funny. I especially liked when the cop goes into the hospital to see that guy who fell into the water. Hilarious. ZAZ has done it again. And i barely ever find American humour funny ('cept Scary Movie 3, Shriek If You know What I did last fiday13th and Rat Race). Overall, best film ever (kidding, but still extremely good) If every other comedy film was put together, it still would not equal up to this. (cept Airplane, but like is said, i haven't seen it.) "},{"Title":"The Ultimate Spoof Film","Date":"21 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The Naked Gun From The Files of Police Squad! (1988) D David Zucker. Leslie Nielsen, Priscilla Presley, Ricardo Montalban, George Kennedy, OJ Simpson, Susan Beaubian, Nancy Marchand. The incompetent cop from the POLICE SQUAD TV series (Nielsen) sets out to foil a plot to assassinate Queen Elizabeth. The ultimate spoof film, with a gag literally every five seconds. Not nearly as funny as one might expect, but certainly worth a repeat viewing. It practically restarted Leslie Nielsen's career as a spoof leading man. RATING 7 out of 10. Rated PG-13 for sexual innuendoes, slapstick violence, and profanity. "},{"Title":"Good slapstick comedy.","Date":"1 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The opening scene quickly warns you what you are getting into. But it is not necessarily a bad thing. THE NAKED GUN is a very good slap stick comedy that holds its own. With Leslie Nielson and Ricardo Montalban, you do not have to worry about bad acting. NAKED GUN has plenty of high moments to keep you entertained even if it drags along a story.Lt. Frank Drebin returns from his vacation in Beirut to find that there was an attempted murder on one of his fellow POLICE SQUAD officers. While investigating, POLICE SQUAD gets the duty of protecting the Queen while she is staying in Los Angeles.Comedy is everywhere with the best being Drebin's 'Star Spangled Banner.' Unfortunately, the jokes die out and THE NAKED GUN gets dull and tedious near the end. THE NAKED GUN hopefully stays a trilogy. It will never be memorable, but it is a good rent. "},{"Title":"From the makers of Airplane!..no, not the wright brothers, the zucker's..","Date":"19 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Based on the very short lived (six episodes) tv show the Naked Gun, Leslie Nielsen stars as Lt Frank Drebin who bumbles his way into an assassination attempt on the queen of England..of course there are plenty of laughs along the way...Not up to Airplane! standards but some funny moments.There are also some not so funny ones.. on a scale of one to ten..7 "}{"Title":"Humor at it's best","Date":"7 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  What can I say? This is humor at it's best.Never before have I seen a movie with so many corny, offbeat, humor and jokes. They came early and often, and after you watch this movie and don't come out laughing or smiling, then something is wrong.This is slapstick comedy at its best "},{"Title":"If the world was like this human's would be extinct.","Date":"8 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This swill was one of the worst things I have ever seen. I was expecting a truly classic comedy but turns out it was the biggest piece of unrealistic trash. I just cannot get over the fact that the characters were all incompetent. Now occasionally in a real world setting you will get a couple of dumb-asses but if the world was like this it would have exploded already. Leslie Nielsen's character seems like a rip-off of Mr Magoo, at least Magoo was original.I just don't think I will ever get this style of comedy. I just don't think it is funny, interesting or anything new. I swear I did want to like it though but just couldn't. "},{"Title":"Zany and Outrageous","Date":"14 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Zucker, Abrahams and Zucker have produced another zany and outrageous comedy. This time we follow the misadventures of cop Frank Drebin (Leslie Nielsen), a character portrayed in the TV series Police Squad. Hence the full title of the movie The Naked Gun - from the Files of Police Squad.This 'Z.A.Z.' film has its moments, but few are absolutely hilarious as were the many fine comedy moments in both Top Secret and Flying High. Look out for the scene where Drebin searches his partner's jacket by mistake, the definite highlight. Worth a look anyway, The Naked Gun will almost certainly raise a chuckle or two.Sunday, November 17, 1991 - Video "},{"Title":"The Naked Gun","Date":"13 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Based on the short-lived TV series Police Squad, and from the geniuses that created Airplane! comes this brilliant spy spoof comedy that made an even bigger star of the once serious character actor. Basically Lieutenant Frank Drebin (Leslie Nielsen) is the clumsy and not all intelligent police detective working in the division of Los Angeles Police Department. When his colleague and best friend Nordberg (O.J. Simpson) is shot and recovering in hospital, the underground investigation leads him to suspect businessman Vincent Ludwig (Star Trek II The Wrath of Khan's Ricardo Montalban) is up to something. He is planning to brainwash someone to assassinate Queen Elizabeth II (Jeannette Charles) visiting the United States, and he gets his personal assistant Jane Spencer (Priscilla Presley) to distract him from the case. Eventually, after many stupid mishaps and embarrassing accidents, Frank comes to the conclusion that the assassination attempt will take place at a major league baseball game the Queen will be attending. In the end, Frank stops the brainwashed player, Ludwig gets what he deserves, and Jane admits that she loves him for real, all just in time for Nordberg arriving fully recovered. Also starring George Kennedy as Ed Hocken, Nancy Marchand as Mayor, Raye Birk as Pahpshmir, Susan Beaubian as Mrs. Nordberg, Ed Williams as Ted Olsen, 'Weird Al' Yankovic as 'Weird Al' and Lawrence Tierney as Angels Manager. Nielsen is fantastic as the bumbling spy who says and does the stupidest things, but you can't help but love him, from the opening police siren with catchy theme music and onwards, the scripting is witty, and the slapstick, sight and gross out gags are hilarious, it certainly deserves it place in the book 1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die, a superb comedy. Detective Frank Drebin was number 47 on The World's Greatest Comedy Characters, and the film was number 14 on The 50 Greatest Comedy Films. Outstanding! "},{"Title":"Nothing wrong with a little slapstick--but that's all this is","Date":"25 June 2005","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Theatrical expansion of the failed TV show Police Squad! managed to catch on with laugh-hungry audiences of the late '80's and became a surprise success. The plot is really secondary to the sketches as eternally stupid police lieutenant Frank Drebin acts as bodyguard to the Queen of England on her visit to the US. Leslie Nielsen has 'befuddled' down to an expert science, but this comedy, although way out there at times for the sake of a gag, is weak in spots and pretty much follows the same skit-like pattern of its second cousin, Airplane! A few big laughs, but it totally fizzles out before the finale. Followed by two sequels, the last of which even managed to succeed this original in terms of outrageousness, appealing to that silly side of our collective humor while keeping the brain in neutral. "},{"Title":"funny","Date":"5 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is the beginning of one of the best and definetely the funniest trilogy out there.Leslie Nielsen is very funny and good as Frank Drebin, a cop who messes up everything all the time but still manages to succeed every time.This movie is really dumb, but in the good sense of the word, if there is such a thing. The gags are really funny and yes you do laugh a lot, but the lack of value of this movie made me not give it more than a 6 out of 10. "}]