[{"Title":"Shirley MacLaine & Shabana Azmi in a Terrific Drama","Date":"22 July 2007","Score":"17 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" Shirley MacLaine's Golden Globe winning performance was matched by India's gorgeous star actress, Shabana Azmi's as Sushila Sen. MacLaine's part is that of a reputably in high demand local piano teacher who takes younger piano prodigies to the brink of their entrance into public performances. Then, the big name men piano professors get a stronghold on them. Madame Sousatzka remains in the shadows as the one who truly molded them into great musical performers.It's interesting that India's Shabana Azmi is hardly even mentioned as a best supporting actress though her part was to be the mother of one such piano prodigy who Sousatzka molded. A mother who baked & baked to earn the money for her son's piano lessons.The plot, director, acting, actors, music, sets, lighting, editing & costumes are all very well done. In a world where every other word has to be bleeped because it's cursing, this film is refreshing and suitable to hold the interest of refined adults & children, especially ones interested in musical careers. "},{"Title":"Undiscovered gem","Date":"6 August 2002","Score":"13 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Shirley MacLaine once said as a joke in an interview that not more than ten people saw the movie! Well, I am lucky to claim that I was one of the ten and rate it as my top ten movie of all time! The acting is flawless!I own the LD copy of the movie and am hoping to see the DVD format being available soon. This is such a gem that it would be a shame if it's not released on DVD format to share with the world of what great movies are made of! One final word to describe this movie Beautiful  "},{"Title":"A wonderful movie from the heart.","Date":"21 July 2004","Score":"17 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  John Schlesinger became famous as a polemic and very socially oriented director, but this is his Masterpiece of all times. It is not a monumental movie and it is not a box-office smashing hit.No. This is a far superior work of artistry, worked and reworked from the guts and above all, from the heart.The story is very skillfully developed and has plot twists and turns as the classical masterpieces interpreted in this movie.Yes, because it is a tale of two cultures the Western and the Eastern. The western side is taken by a (Russian?) piano teacher, living in London (masterfully played by a magnificent Shirley MacLaine) and the Eastern is represented by a would-be and reticent Hindi piano student.Not only does Schlesinger tell us the story of the two and their passions and strives in life, but also gives us a whole palette of undertones in quite different social worlds.Despite its length (slightly over two hours) the movie has never a dull moment or a static conversation. Emotions are fully and honestly expressed by all involved and never for a moment, one can feel he is watching a movie here.Quite the contrary. All the characters play their parts so much to the hilt, that it sucks us in and doesn't let loose until the end credits roll.I am not an emotional person generally, and many tearjerkers only make me crack up, so academic they are, but when I watched this movie for the first time in New York City at the Carnegie Odeon Movie Theater, I must admit I came out in tears and had to make an effort not to be noticed for that.Not that it is particularly sad, quite the contrary. Despite some very dramatic moments, it is truly a wonderful comedy. No the sadness comes out from the realism contained in the lives of the characters, in which we all could find similarities.The dreams, the passions, the disappointments, the crime and punishment and finally, the absolute redemption are all very important factors in this excellent movie.The music world is only a mask to show us a much deeper view on society as such. But the film is conducted by Schlesinger (the old fox) as an orchestra conductor, directing a symphony by Beethoven.His baton is light but never loses out on a note. His conducting is comparable to the mastery of Herbert von Karajan. The only difference is that he waltzes with a camera.If you want to discover a different movie from the same-o, same-o, then this is an absolute must see.I personally laughed, cried, got concerned and was worried, was uncomfortable, then immediately relieved by pleasant surprises throughout the entire movie, but above all, it made me think about the similarities with my own world and this is probably why I learned to love this tiny masterpiece.I just own the VHS version, but would like to plea the producers of the movie (Universal was the distributor, but the movie was a Cineplex/Odeon production) and all those who are involved in DVD production to finally decide to release a pristine copy, with a decent digital sound and a crisp image.Of all the movies around, this one surely would merit an extra effort to digitalize it and therefore preserve it for posterity.I can only recommend it. This movie is for all, although some scenes may be a bit difficult to understand by younger audiences, without an adult presence. But in reality, this is a naive suggestion, since it has to be watched by the entire family on a quiet movie evening around the living room.You need some concentration though, to watch it. It is not a popcorn and beer movie. This is a movie for those who love to think.  "},{"Title":"A Sports movie about music","Date":"29 June 2006","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" Madame Sousatzka is one of those coming of age to win the big competition films; albeit, the kid doesn't come of age (that will be his next step) and there is no competition. And the lovable, eccentric coach is the maddening, overbearing piano teacher, Madame Sousatzka. Sushila and Manek Sen, an immigrant Indian family, moves to London. Sushila, the mother, supports her son, Manek, by cooking pastries for an upscale department store out of her cramped kitchen. Manek is a raw child prodigy of the piano. For years, Sushila has been funding Manek's studies by selling off her family heirlooms. They hook up with Madame Sousatzka, one of the top piano teachers in London. She has issues, however. She smothers her students. She has an art for art's sake philosophy, and she doesn't believe that her students should seek commerce for their skills. And she tries to hide her students from the world. Through flashbacks, she relives her failed career through her students.I just finished watching this film for the second time--the first since 1988. It holds up really well. Shirley MacLaine, who plays the title role, gives one of her best performances. She is neither showy nor mannered, in a role that was too easy to devolve into both. Navin Chowdhry (Manek) seems like a natural at the piano. His part calls for him to be cocky and nervous, all at the same time. And he does it quite well. And the supporting roles from Twiggey to Peggy Ashcroft seem to hit the right chords. There is a lot of great music in it. And the direction and the pace of the film are swift. I think if the film would have spent too much time talking about music, I would've been bored. As it is directed, I was captured by all the pieces played.Finally, I couldn't help but notice that Ruth Praweer Jhabvala adapted this piece. (I, in fact, researched this film to find out who wrote it.) It's the work between A Room with a View and Howard's End. It really shows off her style of writing. There is this great sense of time and space of modern day London here, as there was in early twentieth century London in Howard's End. And dangerous intimacies seem to be a subject she likes tackling in all three films.Overall, Madame Sousatzka is well worth the two hours. "},{"Title":"For lovers of classical piano","Date":"9 March 2000","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  I can see how this movie would not be for everyone. However, it worked beautifully for me. It was a wonderful contrast of a renowned piano teacher who becomes too attached to her young prodigy. The story was a wonderful juxtaposition of classical performances, along with a study of the people involved. The story develops simultaneously with the evolution of the main charactors, and the acting was first rate. You don't have to love classical piano to enjoy this, but it probably helps. It is a fine story with many layers and I give it a thumbs up. "},{"Title":"Very thoughtful","Date":"13 September 2000","Score":"12 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  This movie was an extremely enjoyable experience.  I loved every minute of it, even though the story itself is not much to talk about.  Its really a slice of life, centering on a piano teacher and her star pupil.  The pupil gets involved in the lives of the teachers' neighbors and that's the movie.  It might sound boring but it is not. The characters are all sweet and kind to one another, for the most part, and have a real affection for each other too. A birthday party for Madame is a standout scene. Shirley MacLaine does not rely on her usual mannerisms and delivers a powerful performance as Madame Sousatzka.  The rest of the cast is great, too, especially Twiggy as the beautiful Jenny and Peggy Ashcroft as the landlord Lady Emily.  This is the ideal movie for a Sunday morning or when you want to be entertained by some good music surrounded by a good story.  "},{"Title":"AAA+++ for the acting of McLaine and also the mother of the boy and the boy himself too, and everyone else in this  movie .","Date":"8 February 2003","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  This movie was wonderfully written, produced and directed. A+.  Easily a 3 star movie,  esp if you are one of the many music persons who also play an instrument. However, I was a bit bewildered about the contribution of Twiggy and the boy's kissing her.  MacLaine was outstanding!! "},{"Title":"great performance by McClain--amateur at best by Naveen Chowdry","Date":"26 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" Elina Sousatska (McClain) is a high end eccentric piano teacher. She becomes too attached to her pupils and doesn't want to let them get on with their careers. In this story she takes as a new pupil an Indian British 15 year old Manek Sen (Naveen Chowdry). McClain does an excellent character study you realize she is also a lonely old woman with emotional fears and interests in her pupils that even she doesn't recognize.I like classical music still I find that movies like this take a topic like classical music and exaggerate its importance as though it were the holy grail of human genius and intellectual/emotional achievement. These movies indicate that only a handful of people have what it takes to succeed and the whole world watches them in awe. The reality is of course different, like Olympic athletes (and every other endeavor) the ego and drive is the real key (not some extremely rare genius). None of that selfish overly competitive mania is ever hinted at.Also Naveen Chowdry is a dreadful actor at first I thought he was not a professional actor...but an actual child pianist..but learned on the INTERNET differently.Truthfully I watched it because I had just watched Sunday Bloody Sunday and was so impressed with it I wanted to see more by the director Schlesinger. I found this movie on Netflix Streaming. It was made 17 years later than Sunday Bloody Sunday and is no where near as good.The movie tends to be a bit cloy and corny with things like the house-mates. Chowdry is a terrible actor. The advertisements are intrusive you know things like Coca Cola signs etc... and the visual symbols are too obvious.Still an OK watch because of McClain.RECOMMEND "},{"Title":"A movie for anyone who loves music","Date":"6 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" Madame Sousatska is a story of the collision of worlds British vs. Indian, art vs. business, artist vs. non-artist, and most importantly, adult vs. child.Manek Sen (Navin Chowdhry) is the bright, gifted child of a poor Indian immigrant, Shushita (Shabana Azmi). Shushita, a rich and powerful woman until her divorce, gets by providing Indian food to department stores in London. Realizing that Manek has real talent, and may be able to have a career as a concert pianist, she pushes him to work on his music. Ultimately, Manek comes to the attention of Irina Sousatska (Shirley MacLaine), one of the best teachers in London. She agrees to take Manek on as a student, and vows to teach him about life while she's at it, which puts her at odds with Shushita. Coming to her flat in a crumbling house in London, Manek enters her world, and meets the people who share the house with her. He develops a particular fondness for Jenny (Twiggy), a model dating Ronnie Blum (Leigh Lawson), a concert promoter who takes an interest in booking Manek for a concert appearance with a symphony orchestra. Madame Sousatska is dead set against this since her own concert career was derailed when she was pushed to perform in public before she was ready. When Manek decides to go ahead with the concert, she refuses to teach him anymore, but when Manek triumphs, she wants to help guide him. Will he continue to work with her, or go on to work with Leo Milev (Robert Rietty)? It's an interesting premise, handled deftly. Madame Sousatska claims that life and art are all wound up together and can't be separated, and the movie does a good job of showing this. Particularly well handled is Madame Sousatska's back story, which is told through a series of short flashbacks, presenting only the information pertinent to the plot, rather than her whole life story. Manek is shown having a hard time reconciling being a teenager with being an artist in training. And Shushita is shown as not quite accepting that she is not the most important thing in Manek's life.The acting was first rate. Chowdhry does an excellent job in creating the character of Manek, showing all of the facets to the youth. Twiggy gives a sweet performance as a likable woman longing for a man who treats her badly, and not realizing just how deep Manek's emotions for her run. Lawson is perfect as the smarmy concert promoter. Azmi's Shushita is annoyingly self-absorbed, and clearly more interested in exploiting her son than in raising him. MacLaine sparkles as Sousatska, although she can't seem to decide which accent she is going to use for her character, and her continual switching between them is distracting. Still, it's a solid performance that more than carries the movie.This a lovely movie, a treat for the ears as well as the eyes. And it shows that devotion to one's art, while it does have its rewards, also has its costs. "},{"Title":"I love it","Date":"16 May 2006","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" To me this movie was excellent. It showed how much work you must go through to be the best and also inspired me to keep practicing the piano. I think any aspiring musician should watch this movie.The main character was very dedicated and it was a bit cheezy during parts. I think that the girl he fell for should have been younger, such as another girl taking piano. I was a little confused about the moving old woman and why she had to move. i think it was nice hearing all those old classics, because i enjoy classical music very much. It shows very much artistry and it is now one of my favourite movies. It helps motivate me. I love it. "}{"Title":"Shirley MacLaine is Madame Sousatzka","Date":"12 November 2011","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" Madame Sousatzka is overall a well-made and enjoyable film which gives the audience an interesting glimpse into the world of piano music. The film is mainly about music, and as expected, the music is an integral part of it, and it is beautiful. Just like a film of this sort would require, Madame Sousatzka has a very good score which contributes to its musical and dramatic tone, and also a serene, subtle narrative style which complements the story, the characters and the overall atmosphere. The biggest triumph of the writers, however, is the main character of piano teacher Madame Sousatzka, which is memorable. The film tells her story by mainly focusing on the lessons she gives to the young son of an Indian immigrant, and there we see who she is. She is strict, demanding, uncompromising, but she is also loving, caring and kind.All of it is handled perfectly by one of my favourite actresses, Shirley MacLaine. This is her show all the way, and she is excellent in a heartbreaking and unforgettable performance. She skillfully creates a tough yet vulnerable persona and plays Sousatzka's strength, inner pain, and her struggle with her lonely present and her twisted past with great conviction. We know everything about this faded but assertive lady, one that we can meet everyday in our neighbourhood, just because of this portrayal. Her facial expressions are amazing, and throughout the film they really enhance the impact she makes here. This colourful character lets her be imperious, motherly, humorous, funny, unlikable, moving and sympathetic throughout it, and in some instances, she can be all of the above at the same time. A great, great performance.MacLaine is supported by several good actors giving good support. Another favourite of mine, Shabana Azmi, is very good in a much smaller part as the loving but greedy Bengali mom. Her Bengali accent and mannerisms (which most non-Indians would never really take notice of) are spot on, and she comes across as a lively and vivacious character. Navin Chowdhry is pretty good as the student. The film is quiet and even though it is a bit slow in pace, it is entertaining and makes for an interesting watch. Obviously for me, it is MacLaine's performance which makes it so recommendable. Madame Sousatzka is not the greatest movie you will see, it is definitely not a film that would be enjoyed by everyone, and even though I personally had bigger expectations from it, it is overall a fine, artistic and well-made picture. "},{"Title":"A very touching Film","Date":"26 January 2006","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" Sweet hearted at it's core ..the relationships of how people care and become important to each other unfolds at the right pace in this story. It is acted so well that although not an exciting picture it seems to flow quickly through the story. There is an interesting sub plot as to what kind of love is going on between the mother...who is absolutely beautiful The other tenant...Twiggy....who is very sexy and who is a young boys...well actually old boys to...dream girl. And of course Shirley Mac.... who mentors and is so very attached to him ....that I was trying to figure out what was up with the way they viewed this young man. Really lovely music to... "},{"Title":"Too Bad","Date":"15 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Too bad there wasn't made a Madame Sousatzka II and a Madame Sousatzka III with successive students.    This film does more for any plausible immortality than her laughable, daffy & wild reincarnation baubles. Sousatzka is one hell of a story, and an A+  piece of direction by John Schlesinger.   They should have made it at least twice.  MacLaine and the director were absolutely the very best.  Doubtless her best film maybe incl the Apt.  "},{"Title":"learning the beauty of music","Date":"3 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" Shirley Maclaine portrays an aging piano tutor with some very strict ideas about the purity of her service and the pitfalls of ambition, in an original coming-of-age drama set against the highbrow world of classical music instruction. As an eccentric (what else?) Russian émigré in an offbeat London household, Maclaine plays the role of a fussy perfectionist to perfection, showering her naive new pupil (a gifted Anglo-Indian prodigy with more talent than wisdom) with stern maternal affection, and guarding him against the crass, commercial ambitions of his mother. Not even the clumsy expository flashbacks or a romantic subplot involving Twiggy can dim the luster of Ruth Prawer Jhabvala's perceptive screenplay, which in between selections from Beethoven and Chopin explores the widening gap between art and commerce, in both music and life. Director John Schlesinger doesn't need to add much more than a series of slow camera pans over candle-lit rooms, but he manages to generate more tension than otherwise might be expected from the piano recital climax, during which the young student is forced to choose between a lifelong vocation and a lucrative career. "},{"Title":"Madame Sousatzka- She Believed in Music ***","Date":"17 October 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" Shirley MacLaine gave an effective, splendid performance in this film dealing with an imperious music teacher and the relationship she developed with an Indian student.Taking place in England, Mme. Sousatzka is a difficult woman trying to live life through her Indian student. Life, as we know it, has passed the Madame by. Flashbacks show a difficult mother. Once Sousatzka becomes your teacher, she totally throws herself into the lives of those she taught. You are taught not only to play but feel music as well throughout your body.We have a very interesting cast in this film. The late Dame Peggy Ashcroft appears as the landlady and of all people, Twiggy portrays a tenant in the rooming-house where Sousatzka lives with the group while teaching music. Again, we see the decline of a neighborhood and those wanting to buy Ashcroft out.Music was certainly one of the many things in Shirley MacLaine's long career. Remember her in What A Way to Go? and The Turning Point? Too bad that Shirley didn't garner another Oscar nomination for her performance here. The make-up artist working on her did a fabulous job. There were actually some scenes that I thought she resembled Carol Burnett's Norma Desmond of 'Sunset' fame. This is a strong character study of a woman whose life has passed her by. Dedicated to the teaching of music, she allowed herself to be totally immersed in it. "}]