[{"Title":"Ask her who the hell is Ivan! Who the hell is Ivan?","Date":"4 November 2003","Score":"60 out of 70 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" There are some movies that, no matter how good the translation, are just impossible for a particular audience to get. This is why I think most of the American audience wasn't be able to get into WOMEN ON THE VERGE OF A NERVOUS BREAKDOWN. After directing the rather weak and disappointing drama/thriller LAW OF DESIRE, Spanish director Pedro Almodovar returned to screens in his full glory with this wonderful Academy Award-nominated screwball comedy.Pepa (Almodovar regular Carmen Maura) works as an actress for TV commercials and dubbing of foreign films. Her lover Ivan (Fernando Guillen), who shares the same job, decides to leave her one day for unknown reasons, leading Pepa to assume he left with his wife Lucia (Julieta Serrano), who was recently released from the mental hospital. But after a while, Pepa realizes Lucia thinks the exact opposite, and that Ivan left for an unknown third woman. While on her quest to find this third woman, Pepa has to deal with her nervous friend Candela (Maria Barranco) who recently found out her boyfriend is a wanted terrorist and Carlos, (Antonio Banderas) Ivan's son whose annoying fiancé ends up getting accidentally knocked off by a rather lethal gazpacho.Going any further with this film's plot would be unfair since most of the humor is delivered from it's many twists and turns. Almodovar was able to write a script so sharp with so many colorful characters and situations that the entire thing goes down with pure laughter. But is everyone laughing?That brings me to the answer as to why many people didn't find this funny at all. If you don't speak or understand Spanish, (or some other language that comes from Latin) you won't be able to get this film as much as others. There is a reason why so many American comedians are never able to make it overseas Humor is simply not international. The rumored but thankfully never completed American remake of this would have never worked. The performances for example To people who understand the language, you can tell when the characters are being ironic, sarcastic, goofy, or serious. I don't think you can do that very well when English is your first language. So the users that have been complaining about flat performances might be already explained.Almodovar has been accused of being a feminist, and this movie might be the main reason. I don't quite agree with that because WOMEN doesn't really leave strong message. If it does, I know few people who would actually care for it because this movie is hilarious. Every single character in these 90 minutes of absurdity gets well-balanced and get enough amount of time to shine The MAMBO TAXI driver for example, turns out to be one of the funniest elements. The scenes all by themselves are already OK, but the frequency that they happen make them somehow even funnier. And the first-rate acting gets a big plus in my book. Everyone here is perfect (including a very scary way Almodovar coaches a good performance out of Antonio Banderas) with the true stand-out being Carmen Maura as over-the-top neurotic Pepa. It is a shame this was Maura's last collaboration with Almodovar.But WOMAN's style is also not to be ignored Most of the movie is set inside Pepa's apartment, which is put to good use. It is an amazing then-futuristic-looking retro set that with it's sitcom-like camp and artificial looking painted backgrounds becomes almost a character itself. Cinematographer Jose Luis Alcaine's camera is always up to interesting moves There is the tracking shot of Pepa's feet as she walks in circles waiting for her call, or the reflection take from the answering machine. The work with colors is equally stunning, with the main colors being yellow and blue, and Pepa's red dress over coloring the environments around her for most of the time. You could freeze frame almost every interior shot of WOMEN... and stare at it for a while.I can't really recommend this movie enough, as much as hard it is to review comedies. Reviewing a comedy is a tough call since it depends on weather you found the material funny or not. I have seen this over ten times and I always laugh at certain moments which I don't want to spoil. Let's just say the Jehovah's testimony and the TV commercial are the parts that always get me. I certainly did enjoy WOMEN... more than any other comedy I have ever seen.(5/5) "},{"Title":"Outstanding in Spanish, however...","Date":"18 July 2003","Score":"47 out of 57 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I have seen several Almodovar films and this is far and away my favorite. The acting is marvelous in the original Spanish, especially Maria Barranco as Candela, and a young Antonio Banderas in his pre-US fame days. However, if you obtain the DVD version of this movie, resist the temptation to use the English-dubbed soundtrack. Sadly, the English version is just not funny. The readings are flat and uninspired, and the translation is not always accurate; too literal in some cases, just missing the point in others. It appears that the English dialog was written more for a close match with the lip movements than for precise translation. Instead, use the Castilian Spanish audio track and savor the beautiful performances. If you don't understand the language, read the English subtitles, which are more appropriately translated, and still enjoy the original.  "},{"Title":"Almodovar at full throttle","Date":"20 March 2000","Score":"29 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Funny, outrageous, ridiculous, colorful and fascinating film by Almodovar--his most popular film in America (so far).  The story defies description but, basically, it's about three women (an actress, a psychopath and one on the run from the law) who are all affected by one man.  THe story starts slow, picks up speed and is barreling out of control by the end. Well-acted, beautiful to look at and never a dull moment.  Just see it! You won't be disappointed.  Love the cabdriver and his cab! "},{"Title":"Very funny farce","Date":"21 January 2001","Score":"22 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Wickedly funny movie of actress who gets dumped by her lover, and how she responds. Full of zany characters and richly applied satire, and some great plot twists. Very offbeat and comical, your time will be well rewarded. This is an excellent movie for Americans to get acquainted, if you're not familiar already, with foreign films or directors. Directed by Pedro Almodovar. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Quite Possibly, the Greatest Screwball Comedy","Date":"31 August 2006","Score":"15 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" MUJERES AL BORDE DE UN ATAQUE DE NERVIOS is, from its classic opening title sequence in which Lola Beltran belts out her powerhouse ranchera ballad Soy infeliz to a montage of pictures taken from women's fashion catalogues to its appropriate closing with La Lupe (a gay icon herself in Latin America) singing her diatribe, Puro Teatro, a perfect parenthesis that encapsulates a gay man's wet dream the assortment of strong femininity, filmed to the beat of a potboiler, seen through the eyes of Douglas Sirk, and the heart and essence of farce taken to its limits. Seeing Almodovar's comedic masterpiece is not enough it has to be savored like the fine wine it's become as it approaches its twentieth year from when it first exploded into theatres and rocked Spanish cinema to its core. Quite frankly, this is the greatest screwball comedy ever filmed, and for a genre created in the United States, this one trumps even Preston Sturges in sheer craziness that just builds upon momentum until it veers out of control.As a matter of fact, television audiences who follow the satirical Desperate Housewives should make an effort to see Almodovar's WOMEN ON THE VERGE OF A NERVOUS BREAKDOWN and appreciate the genius run amok during the approximate 90 minutes it takes to tell its frantic story. It's the only real way to appreciate what goes on ABC's hit show. From the moment our heroine, Pepa (Carmen Maura, in a role that has defined her career) awakens from her slumber and frantically runs to the phone to get that hungrily awaited phone call from Ivan (Fernando Guillen) who has abandoned her and faints in the middle of dubbing Joan Crawford as Vienna in JOHNNY GUITAR, as she crosses paths with the scared Candela (Maria Barranco), the lunatic Lucia (Julietta Serrano), anal Marisa (Rossy de Palma), and feminist Paulina (Kiti Manver) during the course of two days, we're in the same league as the five women of Housewives. They might even serve as parenthetical bookmarks due to the twin nature of women in the throes of despair pushed to the extreme. This is, as a matter of fact, what THE WOMEN would have looked like had it been filmed fifty years later. Less stagy than Cukor's film but no less effective even when it pokes good fun at artifice, camp, and itself, WOMEN ON THE VERGE OF A NERVOUS BREAKDOWN is smart, witty, ferociously funny and oddly touching -- a tough thing to do in comedies. It marked the movie which brought Pedro Almodovar to international fame, such that MATADOR was re-released in order to bring its equally bizarre story to the public who had discovered a wunderkind in the avant-garde director. For years, plans for an American remake floated about and actresses names were on a continuous shuffle. Thankfully, the idea has not come through and audiences can enjoy this very Spanish, very quirky movie in its original form and see why the term Almodovarian exists in cinema today. This is what started it all, proper. "},{"Title":"Tight as a drum","Date":"13 June 2006","Score":"13 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" What I like most about this movie is the economy of it's writing and directing. There really isn't a wasted moment, nothing extraneous and that is what keeps the pace crackling and makes the movie watchable in every moment. It also has one of the GREAT ensembles ever. Carmen Maura as Pepa keeps herself on that verge for an hour and a half without ever really falling off the edge, it is a beautifully modulated performance. Maria Barranco as Candela is another performance that teeters on the edge of falling off into an emotional rubble but somehow manages to keep it together. Those two are delightful in every moment they are on screen. We can't forget Julieta Serrano as Lucia, the one truly crazy, post-breakdown woman in the story who brings a quality of self-awareness to her role that makes it a bit heartbreaking. She knows she is nuts and can't do a damn thing about it. And then there is VERY strangely attractive Rossy de Palma as Marisa, a virgin who needs nothing so much as she just needs to get laid to mellow her out. These women are all superlative, but Guillermo Montesinos as the Taxi Driver nearly steals the movie out from everyone and gives certainly the best male performance in the film. You have to see him to believe him. "},{"Title":"Almodovar sets his standard for dark humour","Date":"8 March 2000","Score":"15 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Truly wonderful and insightful romp which alternates between tragedy and farce seamlessly without ever missing a beat.  Excellent performances by the entire cast contribute mightily as does a first-class camp score.  This was the first Almodovar film I ever saw, and it made it a requisite for me to see each new one as it comes out.  The man is a genius! "},{"Title":"Film genius!","Date":"23 December 2001","Score":"11 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is in my opinion the greatest Almodovar film ever!  Its funny and serious, but mainly farscical, but its brilliant.  Carmen Maura steals the show as a woman close to the edge, but her performance is fully backed up by all the rest of the cast.  Antonio Banderas performance is excellent as a geeky young man, with his girlfriend and mother also shining.  It combines all the elements of American comedy of the sixties but brings it back at us with a touch of latin spirit.  This film in my opinion is a gem, for anyone who wants to laugh!   "},{"Title":"Absurdism brought beautifully to the screen","Date":"18 September 2003","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Women on the Verge of a Nervous Breakdown is the first in hopefully what will be a long line of Almodovar films, I just watched it today at a free film screening when I was supposed to be seeing Fellini's 8 1/2 until the tape messed up. This was a very fine substitute.The film contains all the elements of an absurdist play by the likes of Beckett, Stoppard or Ionesco. From its bizarre and essentially alienating dialogue, to its disjointed plot brought somewhat together by the end, it is an absolute delight to see such films around today.All the characters are wonderfully developed and, like in a play, the narrative is light in plot but heavy in characters. It makes you think, not about the story it is telling since the story itself is ludicrous, and not about what is said for the same reason, but just about the way the characters interact with each other and how this can be applied to everyday life. There are also some wonderful performances contained within. Each of the actors and actresses are so gutsy and alive inside this strange para-universe that Almodovar has created. It really is a treat to watch, with the persistently wry and often wildly ironic humour extracted to its full potential by the deadpan mock seriousness plastered across each character's face. It gives us a good laugh, not just at the film itself but at ourselves and the elements of us we can see in it. Plus the mambo cab is a dead-set winner.After seeing this film, I am currently desperate to see another Almodovar. From this one piece I can see he is definitely a director worth celebrating and admiring and I will try to encourage many others to discover him for themselves. ****1/2 / ***** "},{"Title":"Beware of the Gazpacho","Date":"6 August 2005","Score":"10 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Mujeres al borde de un ataque de nervios, or Women On The Verge Of A Nervous Breakdown is one of Pedro Almodovar's funniest films in which a young woman's world is falling apart at the seams.Pepa Marco (Carmen Maura)discovers that her lover Ivan (Fernando Guillen) has left her (Leaving a message on her answering machine). She also finds out that she's pregnant. It seems that things can't possibly get any worse.But of course, she's wrong.Trying to figure out why her lover left her, she contacts his ex-wife Lucia (Julieta Serrano), who is a bit unbalanced herself. She also finds out that Ivan and Lucia had a son name Carlos (Antonio Banderas)who, along with his fiancé Marissa (Rossy de Palma)visit Pepa to sublease her apartment. Then there is her friend Candela (Marisa Barranco), who is on the run when she finds out her lover is a terrorist who is planning to hijack a plane bound for Stockholm, and that she fears that the police will be after her.Soon, Pepa has some serious problems. Lucia is convinced that Ivan is still involved with her, and the police show up at her door. The only thing she can do is offer her guests a nice cup of gazpacho. Trouble is, she had spiked the spicy concoction with sleeping pills (Which had already put Marissa to sleep). To make matters worse, Lucia takes off after Ivan after learning that he is at the airport with his new love, about to take off to Stockholm! Will Pepa get to her former love in time to stop Lucia from killing him? Great entry in Almodovar's filmography and its as spicy as the drugged gazpacho! "}{"Title":"My brief review of the film","Date":"19 August 2005","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" An interesting Spanish comedy, the film's humour is derived mostly from the events being so absurd. Some aspects are overly ridiculous, but it is still very entertaining stuff, executed in a lively manner with an appropriately fast pace and suitable music choices. It is constantly interesting on a visual level, with vibrant colours, creative camera angles, and a lot of framing and close-up shots. The action is a bit frantic and the plot is a little too convoluted, but the film maintains an almost fantasy-like atmosphere, in which it feels like anything is possible, and this quality makes it an enjoyable, unique watch. It is hard to say if Almodóvar is trying to say anything at all here, as there are some ideas raised about consequences that are not explored in much depth. Still, the originality of it all keeps it afloat, and it is certainly quite an unusual (in a positive sense) cinematic experience. "},{"Title":"I have never seen anything like this before.","Date":"16 December 2005","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" What does spiked gazpacho, a suitcase, and a crazy woman with a gun have in common? Not much, at first glance, unless you are in the head of director Pedro Almodovar. In his film Mujeres al borde de un ataque de nervios, Pedro mixes apparently unconnected objects and events that make no sense until the film is over. His direction and distinct style combined with good actors makes a movie as unforgettable as it is foreign. The basic plot deals with one day in the life of Pepa Marcos, played by Carmen Maura. During the day, we meet her lover, Ivan, who has a son, Carlos, whose girlfriend is Marisa, but like his father, Carlos is not loyal to Marisa but would rather kiss whoever walk in front of him, like Candela, Pepa's friend. All of the opposing motives create and tense mood, but besides everything is seems that Pepa knows what is going on and only worries about Ivan. The main subject is the destructive cycle of machismo and the women that are trapped by it. There are three girls and have fallen in love with one man that really doesn't love any of them, but only as temporary lovers. The tragedy is that the women don't realize this except Pepa who ends her relationships with Ivan. Even though she doesn't love Ivan anymore, we see with her conversation with Marisa, that she has not given up her love for machismo, but that she wants the telephone repairman. In my opinion, what makes this film good is the direction by Almodovar. I have never seen a style so distinct and interesting like his. The settings are familiar, but at the same time the colors create another world, like the world of Oz. One scene that captures this is when Pepa talks with Lucia on the phone and we can only see their faces and bright backgrounds. This is just a small example, but the attention to detail is the most important job to a director, and Almodovar has done it well. I recommend the move to anyone that wants to try something new, even though it was filmed in 1988. I think that anyone can relate to at least one role, especially because of the great acting. The film could give us a new look on our concept of love while keeping an open mind. "},{"Title":"Terrific earlier Almodóvar","Date":"1 October 2004","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The title, 'Women on the Verge of a Nervous Breakdown', tells exactly what this movie is about. A couple of women who are on the verge of a nervous breakdown. The film has the form of a soap opera although it combines many genres; in the end it is just a terrific comedy.One of the women is Pepa (Carmen Maura), an actress. An actor, Iván (Fernando Guillén), was her lover but now he has left her. Before he leaves town she needs to speak to him and that is one of her goals the entire film. Another woman is Candela (María Barranco). She is almost losing it because her boyfriend is an arrested terrorist. She fears her name will be mentioned and she will be arrested. We also meet Iván's ex-wife Lucía who is a little mad with Pepa since she was her ex-husband's lover. Iván's son Carlos (a young Antonio Banderas) visits Pepa's apartment together with his wife because they are interested in renting it. Other women including a lawyer called Paulina Morales (Kiti Manver), a couple of police officers and a cabdriver are also central characters.Somehow all these characters with their own story lines come together somewhere in the movie. In the beginning it is a little hard to keep track, although director Pedro Almodóvar keeps things pretty organized with his soap opera approach. The film is comedy all the time but it has dramatic moments, thriller moments, action moments including a chase, crime moments, and even a western moment in a sublime touch when two women are face to face, both with a drink, instead of guns, in their hand.Director Pedro Almodóvar, who has made the critically acclaimed 'Todo Sobre Mi Madre' ('All About My Mother') and 'Hable con Ella' ('Talk to Her'), here already shows us how gifted he is as a writer and as a director. He knows that comedy can be found in all things, including sad things like lost love and suicide. Instead of trying to create funny moments he just gives us a couple of characters in a room and trusts that their way of living is funny enough for an audience to like it. As with the two movies I mentioned earlier 'Mujeres al Borde de un Ataque de Nervios' is a terrific example.  "},{"Title":"Her only crime was falling in love and being afraid. I'd do the same.","Date":"8 September 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" With the Toronto Film Festival going on this weekend, it is appropriate that this is my second venture into Pedro Almodóvar's films, as it won the People's Choice Award at that festival in 1989.Almodóvar wrote and directed this very funny film that is a far cry from Matador. Antonio Banderas is back, this time with a Lyle Lovette haircut, as the son of a philandering husband (Fernando Guillén), who also cheats on his girlfriends.Carmen Maura (Volver0 leads a superb cast as the girlfriend that just got dumped. She is hilarious as she appears to be losing it. In comes her girlfriend (María Barranco), who is afraid of being arrested for harboring Shiite terrorists (this is 1998!). Add Banderas and his mother to the mix, and you have one laugh after another.It even had a great line reminiscent of A woman needs a man, like a fish needs a bicycle.Ana (Ana Leza, who was married to Banderas before Melanie Griffith came along) I'm fed up. I'm gonna get myself some quick cash, buy myself his bike and split. With a bike, who needs a man? Pepa (Carmen Maura) Learning mechanics is easier than learning male psychology. You can figure out a bike, but you can never figure out a man.It is almost misogynistic to say the movie was very funny as all the women were hysterical, but it was. "},{"Title":"Almodovar at his best","Date":"17 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" You cannot not like this film. It should be forbidden by law. Even more if one knows Spain and the Spanish! The dialogues are exhilaratingly absurd, the happenings don't make any sense, but why should they? At the end of the day, that is how women are, and that is how Almodovar tries to portray them - hysterical, jealous, irrational at many times. Men are in the second plan here, and that is also to put men in their place. It is a joyful look into women's heads while crazed by love, and without all the deep thinking feel a lot of directors try to put into their films just to make them serious. This film proves that seriousness have nothing to do with greatness. The only time he fails is when he makes his ode to Fellini too obvious in the beginning of the film - a man walking through the women of his life, with winds silently blowing in the background in a b&w image... I've seen it all before. But apart from that, everything about it was just wonderful. "},{"Title":"Outrageously wacky, colorful fun","Date":"20 January 2004","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is a treat for the eyes and a feast of fun for the mind.  I watched transfixed as one outrageously implausible event followed another, the frantic action bathed in those primary colors that are a trademark of Almodovar's visual style.  Pedro Almodovar can make plastic look sexy.  I would watch his movies even if they had no plot, just for the sheer pleasure of his compositions and audacious color sense.  But add a fascinating plot--like a bad dream that's fun, if you can imagine such a thing--and some downright brilliant acting, and you've got me voting Women on the Verge of a Nervous Breakdown a solid ten out of ten.Definitely one of the funniest films I've ever seen.    "},{"Title":"One of the Funniest European Films of the Past Fifty Years","Date":"6 May 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Pepa is having a crisis. Her lover is leaving her and now her doctor tells her she is pregnant. Her best friend may be wanted by the police for her association with a Shiite terrorist. And now her lover's psychotic wife is knocking at the door. Can she catch up with her lover, protect her friend, arrange a new romance for her lover's son, dodge the police, and disarm her lover's wife in time to foil an international terrorist plot? Well... maybe after she serves her guests some gazpacho.In any other hands WOMEN ON THE VERGE OF A NERVOUS BREAKDOWN would collapse into mere frantic farce, but Almodovar directs Carmen Marua and an ensemble cast to a brilliant series of plausible performances that allows the viewer to buy into the story, improbabilities and all--and the result is a hilarious, touching, and fascinating film that is considerably more than the sum of its parts. This is certainly comedy at its most sophisticated, splashed with social satire and spangled with a touch of symbolism for those inclined to seek it.A number of motifs run through the film--recorded voices, telephones, and the color red are but a few examples--but Almodovar doesn't force his audience to deconstruct his film in order to enjoy it, and WOMEN ON THE VERGE is easily one of the funniest European films of the past fifty years. Those who expect farce plain and simple or who like their movies to tie up into a neat package by the time the credits roll may be disappointed--but if you can make a leap of faith and meet the film on its own terms you'll find it sly, witty, often laugh-out-loud funny... and it will leave you with a feel-good afterglow too. Strongly, strongly recommended.Gary F. Taylor, aka GFT, Amazon Reviewer "},{"Title":"Another brilliant film from Almodovar...","Date":"4 May 2003","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Almodovar is one of those great foreign directors that makes us all think...why isn't  American cinema this good anymore?  Witty, honest, quirky, profound, truthful and  dramatic, a film from Almodovar is always a unique and refreshing experience.  The way  he's evolved as a director over the past three decades is fascinating--compare, for  example, Women on the Verge of a Nervous Breakdown, All About My Mother, and  his newest film, Talk to Her.  He's been all over the map, and the gorgeously slow  camera movements along with the brutally honest script featured in Talk to Her seem  to come from an entirely different source than the same director who made the hectic  comedy Women on the Verge...  He's gone from hilarious frenetic slapstick to a certain  gay simplicity in All About... to the stunning emotional array in Talk to Her.  Yet  what's interesting is that his career hasn't progressed from bad to good, or vice versa,  as so many others has; his films have always been original and lovely, yet when  compared, they all have startling differences in genre and pace.     Anyway, I highly recommend this movie, or anything Almodovar has ever made...he's  one of the world's great directors, and his movies shouldn't be missed.  Hiscommunication with his actors and his artistic grasp on his projects really become  noticeable, and watching Almodovar films is like an instruction course for those  interested  in becoming filmmakers.  See it. ..  "},{"Title":"In the land of Almodóvar's women","Date":"4 August 2007","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I don't think Pedro Almodóvar used to make better films than the ones he makes now; I believe he's always crafted very good movies. But maybe some elements or characteristics of his older pieces are not as present in his actual work, Mujeres al borde de un ataque de nervios made me aware of this. For example, the day that the women of this film experience is unlikely to occur in an Almodóvar work today.Mostly I mean the level of craziness and the absurd. His last film, Volver, finds a lot of women living 'at the verge of a nervous breakdown' (as the title of this movie translates in English), and although they are about to loose their minds at times, they don't find the same taxi driver three times when they stop a cab in different parts of a big city on a same day&#133; That's delirious!But what's even more delirious is that Almodóvar's writing, with a perfect eye for understanding the female conscience, seems completely real but is cut off by situations like the one I've just mentioned; and that's a beautiful contrast. It's like watching a middle shot of Pepa (Carmen Maura) talking on the phone that suddenly changes to a close-up of her fast walking red high heels; it's like hearing things a woman in a difficult situation would think, but listening to the woman saying them out loud. I don't know if Almodóvar would want to explain what Mujeres&#133; is about; maybe he'd prefer that you watch it without reading anything about it. I could just tell you it involves a woman (Pepa) having an affair with a man that left his sick wife and his nerdy son, who's involved with an ugly desperate woman that goes with him to visit an apartment to buy and the apartment is Pepa's, who at the moment is being visited by a girlfriend who's scared because her ex-boyfriend turned out to be a terrorist&#133;Don't say that you would have preferred I hadn't told you anything.This is one of Almodóvar's first works, but don't forget this is the man who afterwards made semi-autobiographical pictures with risky images and character dramas with ruthless and pathetic characters. As a director, Almodóvar makes all his films look practically the same (the cinematography of the ever efficient Jose Luis Alcaine), although here the score is from a thrilling (Bernardo Bonezzi), before Alberto Iglesias started collaborating with Pedro. Which takes us to the differentiating factor in an Almodóvar film the screenplay, in this movie as always highlighted by the classic credits screenplay and direction. Better than anything else, we find Almodóvar the writer, capable of creating (in this piece) wonderful characters speaking all the same time in a small room where you can understand everything and you don't stop laughing.And therefore the performances shine; here by means of a unique and impossible to replace Carmen Maura, a beautifully over the top Julieta Serrano, a hilarious María Barranco and an unrecognizable Antonio Banderas, who shows here that he was probably something like an actor during a time of his life; Almodóvar allowed me to see that. "},{"Title":"Brilliant, perceptive, and wry comedy by Aldomovar","Date":"4 September 2001","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Twelve years before he directed Todo Sobre Mi Madre, Almodovar directed this piece of quiet brilliance about the co-dependencies of women and men.  All aspects of sexuality and sensuality are explored in a kind of dimensional space not of this planet.  Freed from conventional constraints, Aldomovar takes us into the frustrations and insecurities of the inner psyche. Perspective is the key we are assured, but how do the women keep perspective when the game is constantly changing,and there are no other constants except change.  Very enjoyable. "}{"Title":"Entry","Date":"26 April 2006","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" In all the world of film, the most admirable achievement is a film that is entered well. It is the hardest thing in the world to do when you have something interesting to offer. Its why genres exist, to make the entry automatic for lesser filmmakers. Almodovar is one of several Spanish-speaking filmmakers who are carrying the future right now. Some of his films are sublime. Talk to Her is so lovely and deep I feel he has secretly infected my marrow with an already lucid version of myself.The actual movie of Breakdown is pretty trivial part screwball, part what some call surreal but is really a goof on itself. (Not a parody, mind you. That's for dopes.) So once you get into it, its just a meal.But the entry into this is so wonderful, so imaginative it will exhaust you.Our heroine is a voice-over actress who dubs Spanish dialog for non-Spanish films. Her lover is as well, and they play lovers on-screen. Except it isn't them, exactly. And it isn't love, exactly. And they aren't playing, exactly.(She also does commercials and this is how she is seen by the public. One is shown. Now this IS a parody, but it is presented as if it were not, mixing parody in with the real, confounding the screwball nature of the thing.)The entry into this film plays on the not exactly natures to slowly and gently (but with some viewer confusion) slide us from a space where we are watching a movie, to a space where we are in the midst of adding the meaning to an existing movie that isn't fully formed.This man deserves celebration, attention. He deserves to be entered.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 3 Worth watching. "},{"Title":"just as good as Laurel and Hardy","Date":"4 August 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Confused relationships are a pretty common theme to make a film about. Starting right back in the 19-Thirties with the magnificent American Laurel & Hardy.Being Spanish from 1988, and therefore quite different in its style and approach, this film surely touches on an equal level.Great acting in a stylish film. Presenting us with a slightly surrealistic touch that lifts 'Mujeres al borde de un ataque de nervios' ways above the common level its story suggests. Making it to a really great black comedy.Mentioning Laurel and Hardy is justified here they, too, were absolute masters in lifting up a common story to a level that easily survives any passing of time. I have no doubt this Spanish film will do the same. "},{"Title":"an incredible amount of charm","Date":"21 January 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" excerpt, full review at my location.Director Pedro Almodovar shot to international fame in 1988 when Women On The Verge Of A Nervous Breakdown was released. It was nominated for an Oscar and won numerous other awards, as well as smashing box office records in Spain. It is a stylish black comedy that oozes visual flair and a sharp sense of humour from start to finish. It is easy to see why this film was so successful and why Pedro Almodovar has become such a cult icon. Women On The Verge Of A Nervous Breakdown, although slightly dated, has an incredible amount of charm, a great sense of visual style and a quirky wit that makes it a very enjoyable movie. If you are new to Almodovar, then this is the best film to introduce you to him. Women On The Verge Of A Nervous Breakdown is undeniably a grand landmark in Spanish film. "},{"Title":"Crazy Women, Immoral Men","Date":"8 March 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Women on the Verge of a Nervous Breakdown is a chaotic screwball comedy that examines the nature of gender its roles, implications, consequences, and cultural stereotypes. Specifically, the theme of the film seems to demonize the machismo mentality of womanizers. In contrast, it succors the women who fall prey to the pseudo-charms of womanizers.From the very beginning, we are introduced to Ivan a man with an attractive yet evasive personality. He is seen walking alongside a group of women, wooing them with trite compliments in what appears to be a television commercial, or pseudo-dream-world. This scene is very aware of itself it's an expository and visual catalogue that sets up not only the quality of Ivan's non-committal character, but also establishes a tone that looks down upon the men of the world who play women. Ironically, the film is directed by a male Pedro Almodóvar. I felt as though he was trying to explore the reasons behind women's emotionally nebulous states of mind; not in a way that criticized women for being so confusing to men, but rather in a way that was criticizing men for being so immoral to women. He took the male stereotype of manliness, exaggerated it within the character of Ivan, and then sought to examine the harmful consequences of what Ivan-like personalities can cause upon naïve, sensitive women. In other words, Almodóvar seems to suggest that men view women as crazy because they are unable to view themselves as behaving immorally towards them. Though the argument can hold true from the opposite perspective, I think Almodóvar was fair to place men in the negative light it acting as a critique upon his own manliness rather than pointing the blame upon women. Since he's a man, he can't really be accused of being chauvinistic.The women in the film are having, as the title suggests, nervous breakdowns due to immoral men&#151; two of which whose lives are negatively affected by Ivan's womanizing (Pepa and lunatic Lucia). Pepa's and Lucia's maudlin behavior consequently affects (for worst) the lives of those around them. For example, Pepa wasn't being charitable towards her suicidal friend, Candela, because she was too wrapped up in her own agitated mind concerning Ivan. These women are shown doing absurd things in order to justify their hurt feelings from poor relationships burning beds, overdosing on sleeping pills, attempting suicide, holding each other at gun point, etc. As I questioned why they were doing all of these crazy things, my mind always came back to the same answer all of their behavior was a reaction to a man's infidelity and non-commitment.Granted that the women in the story had freewill and did not have to react so irrationally, it didn't help much that their emotions were being toyed with by ambivalent men. A more refined theme can now be extracted from the film poor relationships spring from poor morality, and poor morality comes because of greed. Consider Antonio Bandera's character. He's in a relationship with a somewhat controlling woman, who, when she gets drugged up, he leaves her for Candela because she's new, fresh. This idea plays off the difficulty of transient relationships they start of fiery and passionate, but blow out too soon because of boredom and non-commitment. When given the chance to behave immorally, Bandera's character leaps at the chance. He selfishly desires the feelings of love, but not the work it takes to establish a real loving and lasting relationship.Almodóvar exaggerates the film aesthetic-look to help convey these themes. Pastel colored walls, flamboyant costumes/dress, extensive set-design of plants, and over-the-top acting/stunts creates an atmosphere of hyper-stress and confusion. All these elements act as outward physical manifestations of the inner-turmoil he's trying to express regarding male-female relationships. Relationships are chaotic and screwball. They often create stress and confusion. In normal relationships outside the movies, the tensions that Almodóvar presents in his film regarding male and females are often experienced in more subtle ways. Instead of committing suicide over troubled relationships, we might gossip with the person next to us as to why we don't like whomever (though, indeed, many suicides have resulted from poor relationships). Almodóvar merely exaggerates common problems existent in these types of relationships in order to provoke how we feel inside when being tortured by a man or woman. In context of the movie, though, I feel that women will identify this film as a work of justice; one that slams upon men who ought to know better. For men, this film is a learning tool of why not to give mixed signals, let alone behave immorally&#151;by doing so they only confuse the female species even further. I wonder what this film would have been like if directed by a woman I'll assume the opposite would hold true of degrading women rather than men. "},{"Title":"She is catching him all package!!!","Date":"18 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Mujeres al borde de un ataque de nervios or in English Women on the verge of a nervous breakdown is one of the best comedies that i have ever seen. Almodovar show us a funny and very entertained comedy about women (Is not a chick flick).Although of motorcycles and women i don't know much, i know how Almodovar makes it fun. The movie told us the story of Pepa (I said it again Carmen Maura is a good actress) and how she lives in one day with policemen, a fugitive, the son of his lover, a mad woman (The wife of Pepa's lover), a lawyer, a broken phone and much, much more crazy stuff. That makes Mujeres al borde de un ataque de nervios one of my favorite Almodovar films (In this list i have Todo sobre mi madre and ¡Atame!) All the scenes have a kind of cozy characteristics, the scenario is unique and the performances (All the cast is incredible) with its music (I love all the music of any Almodovar film that i have ever seen) are of another world. If you want to have a real, excellent and funny comedy, you must see Mujeres al borde de un ataque de nervios. This movie is unique and is too one of the most important works not only of Carmen Maura and Almodovar, is too one of the best films of Spain that i have ever seen.*Sorry for the mistakes, well...if there any. "},{"Title":"Light-hearted and Entertaining","Date":"13 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The film Women on the Verge of a Nervous Breakdown deals with several women who meet each other through different situations. Directed by the legendary Pedro Almodóvar, this is a well-told, humorous, and entertaining story. The protagonist, Pepa, played Carmen Maura, is only one of an incredibly talented cast, including Antonio Banderas (as Carlos), Rossy de Palmas (as Marisa), and María Barranco (as Candela). The drama and humor of the script create a dramatic and comedic film that's original and different than many I have seen.We meet Pepa at the beginning of the story as a woman who has gone a little crazy as the result of the end of a relationship with Iván, a womanizer. As a very well-known actress, it's obvious that Pepa has been successful in her career, but in her love life, less so than she would prefer. The audience learns that she is trying to rent out her apartment and move to another. By coincidence, she meets her ex-lover's son and also his girlfriend- they are interested in renting the apartment. At the same time, Pepa busy with (and worried about) her friend Candela, Lucía (Iván's ex-wife), and also Iván's new lover, Paulina. The plot becomes very intertwined and was a little confusing for me, but in the end everything works out.All of the women in this movie appear to be dependent on men. Even though they may not have a lover/boyfriend/husband at the moment, like Pepa and at first Candela, they are preoccupied with men and relationships. The men are the cause of being on the verge of a nervous breakdown, as the title describes the women. We meet three women who have been in a relationship with Iván Lucía, Pepa, and Paulina. All three of them are still obsessed with him, even though now only Paulina is in a relationship with him. It seems weird that all of these women have a dependency on a man who does not want anything to do with them anymore. But the movie deals a lot with this theme.Even though the plot confused me a little (mostly because of the history of all the relationships between the characters), I enjoyed the movie because of the acting. The actors portray the characters very convincingly. Also, the music is lively and animates the movie. The exaggerated music and acting give the story a comical aspect, as though it is partly real but also largely fiction. For example, when Pepa lights a match, she throws it on the bed without realizing it, and the whole bed starts on fire. She proceeds to extinguish the fire and then leaves the bed as it is, very burnt and definitely in no condition to be used. Another instance is when Marisa drinks the gazpacho that is full of sleeping pills and almost instantly passes out into a deep sleep until the end of the movie. The others simply drag her to a chair and lay her down, without thinking to seek medical attention. In both cases the characters seem aware of the strangeness of the situation but are not overly worried about it. This creates a quirkiness that makes the movie more entertaining.Women on the Verge of a Nervous Breakdown deals with the serious issues in relationships between women and men and how they affect each other, but it takes a more cynical approach and makes light of them. It is a movie that should be watched not as an intellectual one, but as something entertaining. I would recommend it to those who want to watch a light, humorous story about women, men, and the drama involved in relationships. "},{"Title":"A really good surprise from the spanish.","Date":"27 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Although it is a quite old film it contains many interesting points that make the film enjoyable till today.First of all the cinematography seems modern although kitsch.Carmen Maura is a good actress and her breakdown is natural.Jullieta Serano,in her 60's style,seems more modern than ever,especially in the mid 90's and her dellirium is quite believable.Antonio looks like a knerd and Rosy looks nice around her nose.What I liked more and makes me enjoy every time I watch it is that despite the breakdown all mujeres get happy.What I don't like about Pedro is that he uses some tricks from his past movies.Anyway Puro Teatro is a great song.A very good film! "},{"Title":"Very funny screwball comedy","Date":"24 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Almodovar takes the old '30's screwball comedies with their hard to believe coincidences and outrageous characters and completely turns it on its ear. I laughed out loud all the way through, and the cast is hilarious.  I am not real familiar with Almodovar's films, although I intend to be, I give this an 8. "},{"Title":"Stop reading--MIRALO!","Date":"1 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is fantastic in both senses of the word.  Far fetched and technicolor it speeds along, through plot turns and tumbles.The wit is poignant, the characters are crazy.  Somehow Almodovar takes all these elements and blends them into a wonderful and heartfelt film that is both relevant and stylistically exciting.  A show to add to the must see list. "},{"Title":"Almodóvar at his best","Date":"17 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Pedro Almodóvar is to Spain what Altman, Allen, Mamet, Levinson, Lynch, Scorsese, Stone, et al, are to the U. S., all rolled into one. This movie contains many of the ensemble group in other movies he's made, and Banderas well before his U. S. popularity. In addition to enjoying the comedy (clever without being distracting to the plot), the story itself, and likable, interesting characters - I enjoyed the Madrid locations shown. In fact, during the mid-1990's, I had an office for several months, with Spanish joint venture partners, in the building where the femininst woman lawyer, whom the Carmen Maura character visits, has her office. These scenes were actually shot in this building, not on a set, and I got to see the specific office in which they were filmed. Carmen Maura is a thoroughly charming presence, with the kind of beauty which is natural rather than manufactured. An engrossing film, for its humor, story, and filming, in one of the world's truly magnificent locales. "}{"Title":"A great movie for all audiences","Date":"20 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Mujeres all Borde De um Ataque De Nervios, or, simply Mujeres, is a movie that offers the audience a glimpse into the mind of the woman (emocionally and intellectually). It is very exciting, a little suspenseful, and funny all at the same time. Pedro Almodovar directed the film in 1988 and it was nominated for the best foreign movie at he Oscars. The movie did not win the Oscar, but it was a huge success in the United States and world-wide. The protagonist, Pepa, is played by Carmen Maura, a very talented actress. Carmen Maura has starred in other movies by Pedro Almodovar as well. He likes to use the same actors and actresses in his movies, for example, Antonio Banderas who is in this movie as the son (insecure and stuttering) of the first lover of Ivan, Lucia. The movie takes place in Madrid during the 1980's. The culture then was recuperating from the dictatorship of Franco. Under Franco the women had little rights they couldn't work, they couldn't take birth control pills, everyone (even men) couldn't be homosexual publicly, and many others. Because of this, after Franco the culture became much more liberal and this movie reflects this movement. For example, Ivan has sex with many women and it seems to be that almost all the characters are having sex with someone outside of marriage, Pepa, a woman, has a very famous and respectable job, Candela as well, religion seems to be inexistent and drugs and sleeping pills are easily accessible. These sorts of things were prohibited under Franco. For the whole course of the movie Pepa, the lover of Ivan, is trying to get ah-old of him so that they can speak, but she cannot find him and it seems that he is avoiding her. Pepa's search for Ivan drives her crazy (because she cannot control her emotions). Candela, one of Pepa's friends and a model, has become frantic herself because she had sex with a terrorist that the police have recently detained. Candela is worried that the terrorists are going to inform the police that she allowed them to stay with her. So, Candela goes to Pepa's apartment for help, but Ivan's son and his fiancé interrupt them. In my opinion, Carmen Maura does a great job in the movie as Pepa. She is very convincing and natural; she plays the role perfectly. Antonio Banderas is good also, but I feel that he was a little inexperienced. The music in the movie is good, especially the mango music in the scenes inside the taxi. All in all, I think that Almodovar made a movie of suspense and excitement. The film showed me a side of women that I didn't know existed; it was a little enlightening for me. I liked the movie because it was suspenseful, the acting is great, it is directed well, and I learned something by watching it. I want my friends to see it because some of them think that women are weaker than men. I think they can learn from watching this movie. "},{"Title":"One of the best and funniest movies I've ever seen! A masterpiece","Date":"18 April 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  One really needs to speak Spanish, and even more precisely, Castilian to get all the nuances, tones, inflections, subtext and jokes of this movie. It is a masterpiece, but subtitles cannot do this film justice. Pedro Almodovar is a genius of intuitive and creative direction. He is a sublime sociologist and ironic historian of the Spain post-Franco. He writes his own scripts which shows the scope of his cinematographic qualities. I know this film almost by heart. I need to specially mention Maria Barranco's creation of Candela SUPERB and hilarious!  The rest of the cast are incredible, from Rossy de Palma to a top-form Carmen Maura. Antonio Banderas does not have the best lines since this movie is really about Mujeres (Women), but he still manages a good performance. "},{"Title":"Almodovar  successful comedy  with his customary nutty characters , twisted  situations  and  eccentric events","Date":"14 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Offbeat crazy comedy with hilarious results and turns out to be pretty funny . Almodóvar comedy starred by Spanish star cast plenty of likable humour and disconcerting plots . A film dubber woman called Pepa (Carmen Maura) is on the verge of a nervous breakdown when his lover named Ivan (Fernando Guillen) leaves her, and she tries to contact him to find out why he left her . In the opening scene Pepa (Carmen Maura) and Ivan (Fernando Guillen Cuervo) are dubbing to Spanish Johnny Guitar (1954). Pepa takes on Ivan's wife (Julieta Serrano) who is zealous because of his husband left her for her . Meanwhile , her clueless friend called Candela (María Barranco , though Victoria Abril turned down the role) appears in her flat . Candela who is as unsettling as she is afraid the police are looking for her because of her boyfriend seems to be a dangerous Islamic terrorist . There also meets Carlos (Antonio Banderas) , Ivan'son , and his girlfriend (Rossy De Palma) and amazing happenings take place . Pedro Almodóvar brings us a very mixed bag of outlandish characters , rapid dialogs , and absurd situations on a luxury flat . As a pregnant woman becomes involved into loving triangles , terrorists , revenger wives and faces the greatest danger, which we carry within ourselves . Enjoyable though silly film full of good taste , offbeat characters , embarrassing mood-pieces , fun scenes , sympathetic humor and sense of style but not totally satisfactory , including conventional as well as undiluted pitfalls . The picture deals with troubled people , off-the-wall comedy , absurdities , terrorism , jealousy and many other things . The movie is pretty well and turns out to be a superior comedy to Almodovar's previous and subsequent entries . The result is an amusing but sometimes absurd comedy ,including profanities , colorful frames and a crazy strings of plots . There are many references to Pedro Almodóvar's universe throughout the film . Pedro Almodóvar and Carmen Maura's personal relationship was seriously damaged during the shooting, which Maura even defined as a living hell. It took 18 years for them to work again . On Carmen Maura , Almodóvar told  ¨If you divide the stages of my career and labelled them with the names of the people I've worked with, there's definitely a stage in my filmmaking that would be called The Carmen Maura Years, and those films were all in the 80s - although I did work with her again on Volver (2006). At the time, I felt she was absolutely the best vehicle I could find to tell my stories. She was the actress who had the best intuition, to connect with what I wanted from her. She could be very funny and very dramatic at the same time, so it was the perfect combination for me¨ . Nice interpretations by all star-studded cast as Maria Barranco , Fernando Guillen , Rossy De Palma , Julieta Serrano and full of familiar faces as Chus Lampreave as a caretaker , Witness Jehová , and other delightfully played roles such as Kiti Mánver , Guillermo Montesinos as Cabman , Eduardo Calvo , Loles León , Joaquin Climent , Lambordero , Ana Leza , among others . And a Hollywood/Spain super star  Antonio Banderas . In fact , this movie marks Antonio Banderas's 3th collaboration with Pedro Almodóvar , after Labyrinth of passions and Matador , subsequently they made  Atame , The skin I live in , I'm so excited , among others hits . As usual in most of Pedro Almodóvar's movies, there is a small role for Agustín Almodóvar, his brother and producer of the film, who plays a building employee . Atmospheric musical score by early deceased Bernardo Bonezzi , Almodovar's ordinary ; including known songs by Chavela Vargas . Colorful and luxurious cinematography by Jose Luis Alcaine . The motion picture was realized in his peculiar style by Pedro Almodovar ; he often uses symbolism and metaphorical techniques to portray circular story lines though here he directs a special comedy , including his ordinary touches . Almodovar directs throughout with splendid zip and he usually portrays strong female characters and transsexuals and along his career getting some important international prizes . His first feature film, Pepi, Luci, Bom (1980), was made in 16 mm and blown-up to 35 mm for public release . In 1987, he and his brother Agustín Almodóvar established their own production company  El Deseo, S. A. The Almodóvar phenomenon has reached all over the world , making his films very popular in many countries . Oscar-winning Spanish director Pedro Almodovar subsequently made successes such as Labyrinth of passions , Law of desire , Women on the verge of a nervous breakdown , Bad education , All about my mother , Talk to her , Broken embraces , The Skin I Live In and many others . The latest from acclaimed Spanish director , Pedro Almodovar's I'm So Excited (Los Amantes Pasajeros) competing for the inaugural best European comedy honor during the upcoming 26th edition of the European Film Awards . "},{"Title":"Spanish Soap Opera","Date":"22 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Apparently one of the best foreign language films of 1988 as it was nominated for both the Golden Globe and Oscar, as well as a slew of other awards nominations. This is my first time experiencing Pedro Almodóvar and what an excellent director he is, one of Spain's best ever. He gives us this magnificent work of comedy, a comedic soap opera almost, that has real smarts in it -- no idiocy here, just real people living and falling apart in quite a humorous way. Quite interesting to see such a young and upcoming star named Antonio Banderas. He was on the rise in Spain but here he got introduced to the world... sort of, as not everyone is always interested in foreign films. But he'd hit America eventually and this is a great glimpse into him pre-Hollywood. Overall just a fantastic film that I look forward to seeing again one day!7.9 / 10 stars--Zoooma, a Kat Pirate Screener "},{"Title":"Greatl comedy!!","Date":"1 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The title released Almodóvar name worldwide, today remains one of his most acclaimed films. After directing some of their stories underground as Laberinto de pasiones (1982) o Entre tinieblas (1983), Almodovar line again ¿Qué he hecho yo para merecer esto? (1984), a type of comedy of manners with good scripts, and full of great intrepretaciones scenes that verge on surrealism. The actress Carmen Maura and Maria Barranco are the best in the film, though we must not forget the roles to Julieta Serrano and Fernando Guillen-Cuervo. This title is highly recommended for fans who want to view and retrieve the kitsch/pop Almodovar, the most colorful and most natural to tell stories. "},{"Title":"Funny, silly, smart inventive farce","Date":"24 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Great fun, as Almodovar's visual sophistication continues to expand from film to film, and his ability to create a subtle mix of the campy, the surreal, and real emotion grows ever stronger. Full of odd and silly twists and turns, and populated by absurd but still very human characters. It's also a film with a theme - the amazing strength and resilience of women. So why not a 10 star rating for a film a lot of smart people consider a flat-out masterpiece?. Maybe I need to re-see it a third time, but on recent round of working my way through all of Almodovar's films it felt paper thin. I enjoyed it, but it didn't feel like a film that would stick with me, or effect me. In some ways, I found the far more flawed 'Matador' has more unforgettable images, moments and challenging power. That said, this is still very worth your time. "},{"Title":"A great film, 'more real than reality'","Date":"17 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Women on the Verge of a Nervous Breakdown is a prime example of the Spanish cultural rebellion against the control of Francisco Franco, which began a short time after his death. It's typical of Almodóvar's movies to have current Spanish culture as a background. Other typical aspects of Almodóvar's films that are present in Women on the Verge&#133; are irreverent humor and a different plot.The very original plot of this film begins with a scene of birds, including chickens, on the terrace of Pepa's (the protagonist's) apartment. She talks in the background about her desire to save the birds and also to save her relationship with Ivan; but she doesn't have much success with the latter. We next see a note from Ivan, in which he breaks up with Pepa. Then we are thrown into Pepa's black and white dream of Ivan. In the dream, Ivan confesses his undying love for Pepa. When she awakens, everything is in color, and she has to go to work. We discover that Pepa and Ivan work together, dubbing films. They don't talk at that time, but soon after there is an important development with Pepa's health which necessitates that she talk to Ivan immediately. The rest of the film is about Pepa's attempts to find Ivan, as well as neurotic friends, Islamic terrorists, and uninvited guests.This strange plot at first doesn't seem to have any deep significance, but there are really some important messages. First, there is a very firm feminist sentiment; this movie shows the power of a woman on the verge. By the end Pepa can accomplish anything she sets her mind to. She is an independent woman who ends up deciding to do something very difficult without help for the rest of her life, and shows that other women can also be independent, although perhaps they have to go a little crazy first. Furthermore, there is the main general message, which is the simple fact that there are ridiculous, difficult, crazy things and happenings that surround us every day, and we need to learn to survive, and eventually to prosper, in this environment permanently, like the character Pepa.Technically, the acting, especially Carmen Maura, is surprisingly convincing given the strange plot. The audience can sympathize easily with the characters and their everyday problems. Also the use of color, which seems to be a typical focus of Almodóvar, has impact because, like the plot, it is a little more 'real than reality', like the transition from the dream to the reality of the movie, which is full of brilliant colors. The rest of the technical aspects, like camera work and photography, didn't have a huge impact. They were certainly competent, just nothing special. It is the same with the music; with the exception of the Mambo in the taxi, the music in the background remains strictly in the background.The fact that the technical aspects of the movie aren't emphasized isn't a problem, because the script and the plot are emphasized in their place. These tow last aspects are the main reasons that I recommend to everyone to watch this movie. It is a different sort of film with the strangeness of real life, but with a twist that only Almodóvar can achieve. "},{"Title":"My favorite film","Date":"4 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I saw this film about 1988 for first, in the cinema, when I was only 8 years. I think I have never seen another film that could make me feels so thinks in only 90 minutes, in a really crazy argument, that seems reality, due to the naturalness of the scenes and the actors, and the adapted development of the movie. The film is clear at any moment (more surely yo can understand all the first time you see it), but the movie deceives the spectator in certain way, due to the complicated argument I spoke before. The first time I saw the film, I really thought I was in the verge of a nervous breakdown in the last 20 or 30 minutes of the film. I think in this movie all is perfect, from music (really brilliant and genuine work of Bernardo Bonezzi)to scenery and photography. I strongly recommend this movie. "},{"Title":"A Quintessential Almodóvar Masterpiece","Date":"2 May 2015","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Hitchcock has Psycho, Godard has Breathless, Buñuel has Belle de Jour, and Almodóvar has Women on the Verge of a Nervous Breakdown. A knuckles-to-the-face romp that has a big bite and a big heart, Women on the Verge of a Nervous Breakdown sets its sights on Pepa (Carmen Maura), a fashionable but depressed voice-over actress. Her career has been mostly successful, but in just the past week, her life has turned into a housewife's dream of a soap opera. Her lover has left her, she's pregnant, she faints at the slightest source of drama, she nearly overdoses on sleeping pills, and her friend (María Barranco) is dating a terrorist. If that doesn't sound like Almodóvar, then you must not associate Steven Spielberg with E.T. and all-American families thrown into otherworldly situations.Almodóvar isn't in the mood to bump us around; he'd rather charm us, in the same way Doris Day vehicles did when soap commercials were still around. For Almodóvar, the '80s were a time to figure things out, drape his colorful images and themes onto unusual projects, and hope they'd stick. Usually, they'd be so outrageous that they'd be inevitably smacked in the face with the dreaded NC-17 rating. By Women on the Verge of a Nervous Breakdown, it seems as if he's bored with outright camp, in the same way John Waters was in the days of Cry-Baby.As one of cinema's most confident directors, Almodóvar restrains his inner wildness and lets the zippiness of the film speak for itself. In return, it becomes his calling card. Audiences don't want to be left in shock, after all; they want to have a good time. And I dare you to not be entertained by Women on the Verge of a Nervous Breakdown. There are only highly saturated colors, faux, pop-arty sets, six emotions, and women (save for Antonio Banderas and Fernando Cuervo). There are no subtleties to be found in the film, and it's all the better for it. It's a 1930s women picture on acid. It's such a madcap comedy that anything regarding realism would ruin its potent screwball scent. The conversations are so witty and so rapid-fire that they only exist in a blink-and-you'll miss it ideology. When the dialogue is serious, it has all the seriousness of a Lichtenstein painting. When the dialogue is funny, it would prefer to derive its laughs from the melodramatic turmoil of the film's leading characters.Almodóvar jumps all over the place, defining comedy, drama, romance, pulp, and action in a single swipe. In any other case, the film would be a lost cause in terms of identity, never knowing what it wants to be. Yet Almodóvar makes Women on the Verge of a Nervous Breakdown singular. It's so broadly drawn in the first place that any case of camp seems to be begged for. Hell, if an elephant decided to join in on the complicated situation in Pepa's nutty apartment, it wouldn't come as a surprise. Yes, the film is a comedy; but it's so Almodóvar it deserves its own unique genre, off on some weird, cartoonish planet. Read more reviews at petersonreviews.com "},{"Title":"Great absurd comedy","Date":"7 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" pepa is a dubber and she has just been abandoned by her lover, but does not know why. In addition, her best friend is in love with an Iraqui terrorist (the film was made in 198something) and is frightened about what has happened to see, and moreover, the son of Pepa's lover has also come to her house to know her. All this will make Pepa out of her nerves in a very very funny way. This is possibly the best Almodovar comedy, with very good dialogs and a very pleasant acting of Carmen Maura, really superb in her paper. Absurd and weird as all the movies from Almodovar's universe, the film is fresh and funny. The nomination to Oscar's in best foreign language film is totally deserved. This was the best example of the great talent of Almodovar, early in the 80's he was already a good director. It is also curious to see very young Banderas and Bardem playing little parts in the movie. This is a very good comedy ideal to laugh a while. If you are not used or you don't like Almodovar universe, maybe you cannot like the movie, of course! "}{"Title":"Aye Carumba! If only Pepa could just get the opportunity to dump Ivan but she just keeps missing him.","Date":"16 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Women on the Verge of A Nervous Breakdown - Almodovar's twist on a spanish screwball comedy. Carmen Maura as Pepa who is Ivans mistress but he dumped her by leaving a message on an answering machine. What's a girl to do? And what about Ivan's wacko wife on the motorbike? The cast is made up of Almodovar's favourites including a very young Antonio Banderas. Watch and Laugh but please have the class to watch the subtitled version. Dubbing is for wussies! "},{"Title":"Awesome, Estupendo!!!","Date":"5 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  As you may know the movie is completely in Spanish with English subtitles. As I know Spanish, I didn't have a problem with that but just so you guys would know because the translations are not always that accurate. Now apart from all that, the movie was awesome. Antonio Banderas looks really cute. The movie was absolutely hilarious. There were parts where I couldn't stop laughing for almost three minutes after. The plot is basically about this girl named Pepa who fell in love with some player named Ivan. Throughout the movie she deals with his ex wife, his new lover, and his son (Antonio Banderas). The side story with Pepa's best friend is absolutely hilarious. I believe it's an awesome movie. A few bad works here and there more in the translation than in Spanish. But no deep love scenes that I recall. Right now it would probably be rated PG-13 and not R.Anyways this movie is a must see for any Antonio Banderas fan or just anyone in the mood for a good laugh. I fully recommend this movie. It has a slow start but when it picks up, it picks up. "},{"Title":"Interesting","Date":"28 September 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A woman's lover leaves her, and she tries to contact him to find out why he has left. She confronts his wife and son, who are as clueless as she. Meanwhile her girlfriend is afraid the police are looking for her because of her boyfriend's criminal activities.What I have to say about this film is really a side note. I could talk about the film as a whole, and how it strikes me as a sophisticated soap opera. But that is not what I found interesting.I found it interesting that the film kept saying Shiite terrorist rather than Muslim terrorist. This makes me wonder if people in other countries are more knowledgeable with regard to different faiths. Most likely, yes. But it is my impression that few people in America know the difference between Shiite and Sunni, and even fewer knew before 2001. "},{"Title":"Women on the Verge of a Nervous Breakdown","Date":"11 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" From director Pedro Almodóvar (All About My Mother, Talk to Her, Volver), this sounded like a good title that I found in the book 1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die, and it was rated highly by critics, so I was glad to watch this Spanish film. Basically Pepa Marcos (Carmen Maura) is a TV actress suffering depression and taking sleeping pills after her boyfriend Iván (Fernando Guillén-Cuervo) has left her, both of them dubbed for foreign films, angry she has ripped the phone out, but she wants desperately to contact him to tell him something. Iván's son Carlos (Antonio Banderas), born from his previous lover Lucía (Julieta Serrano), with his snobby fiancée Marisa (Rossy de Palma) are apartment hunting, he does not know where his father is, and meanwhile her friend Candela (María Barranco) unsuccessfully attempts suicide jumping from a balcony. Candela explains that she was unknowingly allowing a Shiite terrorist into her home, she was having an affair with him as well, she is also worried that police are looking for her because of the criminal activities, so to help the situation they go to a lawyer Carlos recommends, Paulina Morales (Kiti Mánver). Pepa is told by Carlos that Lucía has been in a mental hospital because of Iván's infidelity and has only recently been released, she is no loner interested in talking to him, and later the police trace a call Carlos made, but they and a phone repair man are knocked out when they are served spiked gazpacho. Pepa works out that Paulina is Iván's new lover, and that the flight she and he will fly on is the one terrorists plan to hijack, and Lucía still crazy rushes to the airport to kill Iván, Pepa chases after her and arriving in time stops the murder attempt. Iván is prepared to listen to whatever it was she was desperate to tell him, even prepared to leave Paulina for another chance with her, but Pepa refuses and leaves him for good, and returning home she and Marisa share a moment of tranquillity on the balcony, and Pepa reveals the big secret, she is pregnant. Maura gives a good performance trying to handle emotional stuff and awkward situations, and young Banderas speaking in his own language is funny as the nerdy looking friend's fiancé, the story is just about straight forward to follow, I think I give good praise because there are a good amount of laughs from the antics of the characters, it is a great fun comedy. It was nominated the Oscar for Best Foreign Language Film, it was nominated the BAFTA for Best Film not in the English Language, and it was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Foreign Language Film. Very good! "},{"Title":"The story of love (or rather lack of affection) between Ivan and Pepa, both are voice actors who dub foreign films, a lifelong couple who recently broke up.","Date":"9 July 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" No doubt that this was the first great masterpiece of Pedro Almodóvar. This film is a delicious and irresistible sitcom that revolves around the loneliness of women in a crazy world dominated by men who cheat and lie. With a creative script, colorful scenes, superbly written characters, hilarious dialogs and an excellent pace, Almodovar took us to Madrid around 80's where many women were abandoned by their partners through excellent and hilarious scenes. In my opinion, this film successfully intersects tragedy with comedy. Women on the Verge of a Nervous Breakdown tells the story of love (or rather lack of affection) between Ivan and Pepa, both are voice actors who dub foreign films, a lifelong couple who recently broke up. No director portrays women better than Almodovar. This amazing comedy really shows what he is capable of. I've seen this film dozens of times and I can not find a single fault. It always seems as fresh, funny and endearing than before. It's one of those comedies that make you laugh every time you see them. All the actors are excellent in their characters, from the sublime to the delirious Carmen Maura, Maria Barranco, to Julieta Serrano, Rossy De Palma, Antonio Banderas and Chus Lampreave. It might not be a masterpiece, but it is an absolute joy, an absolute delight "},{"Title":"Crazy Comic Masterpiece & Essential 80s","Date":"9 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The tiny subplot referencing Shiite terrorists is not funny in this 21st century but if you can forgive that, this is an 80s treasure in any language. Great performances from all the women, with Carmen Maura in the lead. Women on the Verge is one of Almodovar's best and most beloved, bursting with good energy, bright colors and sad love songs, it's a celebration of life and movies and an 89-minute trip to big city Spain. The narrative is a bit complicated and fast-paced, and American viewers are unlikely to catch everything on first viewing, but relax and have fun. You'll probably want to see this classic 80s comedy more than once. "},{"Title":"Despite the subtitles, this film is well worth viewing!","Date":"20 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I just love this movie, and have seen it several times. First , dealing with the subtitles. I don't recall having any problems following along with the movie. The translation appears fluent. The movie is never dull. There aren't places where the movie drags, or the dialog gets stilted and boring. The combination of plot and characters remains fresh and exciting throughout. Never ceasing to amuse;its' characters stumble through one comic mishap after another. The scenes are vivid and , at times, almost surreal. Women on the Verge of a Nervous Breakdown may well give you enough laughs to keep you from having one! Enjoy! ) "},{"Title":"Dubbed intentions","Date":"4 June 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Every true artist trusts, to more or less extent, in his intuition. There are those whose magic lies almost entirely in the choices they make out of intuition. It's marvelous to be able to trust someone's intuition (even more when our own intuition works). Than we have those who start over a rational basis, and only after creating a safe net on which they can trust do they put something of their deep feelings over it. I think this second definition suits the vast majority of creative minds. For a long time i thought Almodóvar belonged to the first kind of director. After seeing this film i definitely place him in the second kind. For an uninformed viewer, such as i was when i got into the world of Almodóvar's films, he can look as if there was no specially recognizable structure underneath what you get. My recent viewings of some of his films convinced me otherwise, this one specially. This is a film in which (unlike his other films) the mechanics of the story has to do with how facts unfold. It's comedy alright, and it builds a world of linked coincidences and facts that always come to be important, further in the story.So we have a narrative made of coincidences, circular stories, and intersections. The first 5 or 6 minutes of the film (including the initial credits) are specially marvelous in the way we get to see this. We have a pop montage of magazine cuts, pieces of lives, faces, coloured bits. This introduces us to the pace of the film, which is frantic in comedy sense (this shows through the story, not the editing). Than we have an introduction to our central character, around which everything revolves she dubs films, which means she lends her voice to other bodies. She was (we come to understand) the lover of a man who does the same. And we get a marvelous piece of film, in which we follow our voice off dubbing, and the film she is dubbing, already with the translated line. She is dubbing alone, the male voice is silent. This is exquisite work. A fantastic scene. It got me into the mood, i thought. This because we are deceived by this first scene. Next to this, it turns to a comedy environment (tracking American screwball comedies, this is assumed by Almodóvar).The major cinematic concerns in every film by Pedro Almodóvar is on working narrative in ways that are new, seductive, and visual. All his films (specially those of the 80') were pure experiments, completely different from the previous one. There, Pedro was more attached to a certain mood, a certain psychedelic way of living, certainly derived to his experience inside the Movida, Madrid's underground of the 70'. Nevertheless he was already trying build new cinematic narrative forms. There is a certain aspect that happens in all of his films, despite the differences between them he likes the idea of having actors whose characters perform. Actresses playing actresses, characters pretending to be something else. His narrative mood has really much to do with this. Here he is very intelligent in the depiction of this aspect. The first scene i mentioned establishes this, the mad mother who pretends to be sane in order to fulfill her madness does it, and the film has an unfolding moment in a scene where everybody is acting and lying to the police. Near the beginning, the mad woman (who pretends to live 20 years before her time) says to her father You lie so well, dad! That's why i like you. Almodóvar wrote the script...The flaw here is that everything is mechanic. This development through circular coincidences, and a hidden plot that comes to unfold and reveal us the truth is not exactly in line with the best visual efforts of Almodóvar. I think he knows that, he even stated that this script was a lot easier to write than that of, for example, Kika (a lot more implicit in its narrative content). So, narratively, this IS Almodóvar, but not his best. But it has beautiful strokes, underlined intentions, and i will take those first minutes with me wherever i go.My opinion 4/5http//www.7eyes.wordpress.com "},{"Title":"Not Almodovar's best, but worth seeing nonetheless","Date":"28 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Seen hot on the heels of the wonderful Talk To Her, this movie is not Almodovar's best, but it is fun and does have its moments.Keep away if pure farce leaves you cold, because pure farce it is, lacking subtlety and sophistication.  Yet underneath the surface there are hints of genius.  Worth seeing, to be sure. "},{"Title":"Capitalizes too much on language for non Spanish speakers to enjoy.","Date":"9 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I can understand what this whole movie is going for, the bare camera shots, the excessive colors and the excessive drama. It all seems like it could be quite fun, when looked from aback. Unfortunately the glue that would tie this all together is the wit, and there is obviously a good amount of wit, unfortunately its not particularly interesting in English subs, much of the conversations come off as trying too hard to be funny. This is just how I feel about it, and I think there is a good chance the issue is that i'm not a native language speaker. The worst I can say about a movie is that its boring, unfortunately this approaches that description, I am however leaving some leeway because I think it is my own fault for not speaking native Spanish. "}{"Title":"Madness","Date":"15 March 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Pedro Almodóvar's films are always about crazy or half-crazy women meddling themselves in uncommon events of everyday life but this one breaks the record. Three more or less crack-brained women (plus a fourth one who will spent most of time in the movie deeply asleep for having drunk gazpacho with a lot of sedative drugs) cause a big mess the most of it taking place in a Madrid luxury apartment and the whole thing because the ex-husband of one of them (she has recently come off a lunatic asylum or clinic) and lover of another one has recently left the latter. This comedy, full of burlesque episodes and scenes has also as characters two police officers who end up by falling deeply asleep because they have also drunk the ill-fated gazpacho, the son of the jilter and his girlfriend (the one deeply asleep as above referred). This comedy is funny and makes the most of a series of incredible plot coincidences such as for instance the awkward blond taxi driver who is always there by chance any time anyone needs a taxi and the circumstance of the son coming to the apartment of the jilted woman because she has advertised it to be rent in an estate agency. Since they didn't know each other this leads also to a funny situation. A passable movie indeed and funny enough. "},{"Title":"Another woman with another problem - Las mujeres al borde de un ataque de nervios","Date":"15 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Women on the Verge of a Nervous Breakdown (Spain 1988), is a movie about the confusion of a woman named Pepa. The movie has interesting characters, an amusing plot, and a fascinating theme. The director of the movie is Pedro Almovódar. The main actors are Carmen Maura (the primary protagonist Pepa), Antonio Banderas (Carlos), Julieta Serrano (Lucía), Fernando Guillén (Iván), and María Barranco (Candela).Women on the Verge of a Nervous Breakdown is the story of three women with their own individual problems. At the beginning, Pepa is sleeping and she is late for her job; finally, she awakens and goes in to work. Here the audience hears that she is looking for a man by the name of Iván; throughout the movie Pepa looks for Iván, her prior lover. At the end, she realizes that she does not love Iván anymore. Nevertheless, other characters in the movie have problems of their own. Candela, a friend of Pepa, had sexual relations with a terrorist, and she is worried that she will have problems with the police because of that association. She goes to Pepa's apartment to seek advice. The last important woman is Lucía, a prior lover of Iván also. At the end, she tries to kill Iván in the airport, but she is unsuccessful.One central theme exists in the movie. In reality, the theme is a question Is a woman dependent or independent? At the beginning of the movie, it seems that Pepa is a dependent woman because she uses drugs for sleeping, and she is not happy because of Iván. She has her own apartment and a good job, but she is fixated on Iván. But, at the end, we can see a change in Pepa. Now, she does not need Iván to survive. At this time, I believe that she is a completely independent woman.The actions of the movie are quite amusing. For example, Lucía tries to kill the cabdriver, Pepa, and the girlfriend of the motorcyclist with a pistol, riding on the back of the motorcyclist's bike. In terms of the camera and of the photography, not many specific examples exist in the movie. Nevertheless, when Candela jumps from the terrace, the angle of the camera increases the tension of the scene. In terms of the music, there is a song near the end of the movie that shows that Lucía is extremely crazy (when she is on the motorcycle).In my opinion, I believe that Mujeres is a good movie because it has excellent actors and an amusing plot. I would recommend it to my friends, because I like it and it is a foreign film that is interesting (a rare combination). Also, it is a movie which has a good theme. It is not my favorite movie that I have seen, but I like it and I would recommend it to anyone. "},{"Title":"Bizarre and funny","Date":"3 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is an odd comedy that can be quite humorous and entertaining.  It contains a lot of neat and strange touches.  I've seen this film on a number of occasions and it was an enjoyable experience each time.  Hard to believe that's Antonio Banderas in there, but it is! "},{"Title":"Amusing farce","Date":"3 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Pepa is being dumped by her lover and assumes he has gone back to his wife.  She is desperate to speak to him one last time and it is driving her crazy.  Meanwhile her close friend has been unknowingly harbouring Shiite terrorists and fears the police.  Everything comes to a head in a mix of coincidence and spiked drinks.I wasn't sure what the tone of this film would be as I started to watch it, but quickly got the idea that this was a farce through and through.  There isn't a set narrative that runs through the film &#150; there is more a series of events or happenings which are amusing in their nature and delivery.  While the film was not laugh out loud funny that often, it was still pretty funny for most of the film.  The humour is more of an exaggerated affair rather than sharp specific jokes, but it works better for this I think.The cast do pretty well.  Maura stands out in the lead as she has to exaggerate the character for farce, but not make her so much larger than life/events that the audience can't connect with her.  Maura walks this line well.  She is so much the main character than she dominates the whole film, but has good support all around her.  Banderas has a small role (and his girlfriend has a huge nose!) and other faces provide good support which suits the farcical nature of the film.It's lack of plot and exaggerated events may put many off but, if you can get into the mood for this type of comedy, it is pretty enjoyable and punchy due to it's short running time. "},{"Title":"Sometimes slow, but lots of fun","Date":"4 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Although this isn't my favourite Almodóvar picture, it does contain all of the ingredients that can make his films so enjoyable.  In particular, this movie has several unusual characters and unlikely situations that provide a large number of laughs.  Things are also helped by a solid story that successfully ties all the oddball events together.  The film does have quite a few flaws, as the jokes are hit-and-miss, and there are some slow spots, but this is a fun film in general.  I wouldn't say that it's worthy of all of the awards that it won a decade ago, but it's still well worth your time. "},{"Title":"Confused.","Date":"4 September 2006","Score":"6 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I am a huge fun of Almodovar and Women... was the last out of all his movies I saw - I have seen all of them now. I am very happy that this one was the last as if it was first I wouldn't go any further. Early Almodovar, very square and obvious and so annoying that I couldn't get through all of this movie. Characters supposedly perfectly created - were absolutely unbearable - something too much and something else missing.At some point I developed feeling of compassion towards men in this movie. Cant believe that Almodovar was accused of being feminist after making Women.. I am very happy that later movies were better and I am looking forward to his new production to get rid of the bad taste after Women.... P.S. I am not American) "},{"Title":"Kitsch.","Date":"3 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This truly took perseverence, but it ended up being entertaining in exploitative kitschy way. This film belongs to that class of movies which ask us to find people's emotional hangups amusing. There was nothing actually funny about this movie - i certainly didn't laugh - but it was quite fun and amusing in general.I certainly wouldn't call it relaxing or pleasant. Its bright colours and gaudy interior-design screams 1980's, which most people have an aversion to these days (me included). For that reason, this film is very hard on the eyes. Almodovar has found some of the ugliest women i've ever seen to star in this movie (except for one gorgeous one, the model), which added an extra unpleasantness to the goings-on. There is nothing subtle at all about this, which is not what i like in my films - and this is supposed to be one of Almodovar's quieter, more relaxed films! Perhaps this was just not the Almodovar for me - perhaps anything out of the reach of the 80's would suit me better.Fans of Antonio Banderas may be the main ones this appeals to, since he has a fairly main part in it, early in his career. "},{"Title":"Que?!","Date":"4 November 2003","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I know that Almodovar is practically a god of cinema to many people, but I just don't 'get' this film.    Of course, it is very obviously a farce with a rather bitter satirical, and feminist, edge. But I find it impossible to identify with characters whose portrayal seems so completely rooted in something opaquely Spanish and - to me at least - untranslatable. The subtitles convey only the flattest of dialogue; the acting - whatever may be its qualities for a Spanish audience - is largely impenetrable, without any detectable tone beyond the intermittently neurotic; and - possibly the greatest drawback of all - every single woman looks like a grotesque transvestite in drag!    Not being familiar with the reality of Spanish culture, I'm afraid that the tone of this film, whereby it - presumably - seeks to present its own incongruous but knowing distortion of an everyday reality, remains a complete mystery to me I've no idea how to 'read' it, and it consequently leaves me cold.     Curiously, the director himself seems to have intuited that his film might not travel well Although on one level the introductory studio scenes of voice-dubbing seem to be a (quite clever) comment on the 'out-of-synch' relationship at the centre of the movie, I can't help thinking they also serve as an admission and a warning that universal incomprehension might prevail amongst a foreign audience, to an even greater degree than the motivating farcical misunderstandings of the plot prevail in the drama!     I don't normally like or see the need of re-makes of foreign films, but in this instance I know I'd really benefit from a skilful transposition of the drama into a culture that I can actually comprehend.     But having said this, I must admit that seemingly the entire known world is far more intimate with the subtleties of modern Spanish culture than I am, despite what certain reviewers on this site consider to be the untranslateable 'Spanishness' of it all!      Perhaps I'm just being stupid, but 'Women on the verge of a nervous breakdown' doesn't really make a lot of sense to me. That is not really to criticise the film. It was obviously intended first-and-foremost for a Spanish audience, not an international one. This is perfectly fine by me,  and is at least a healthy sign that Spanish cinema is resisting that dreaded international, Anglo-American homogenisation, which so dilutes local cultures.      Naturally, the downside of such a successfully 'national' cinema can be that it won't 'play' everywhere abroad. But it must certainly cheer the Spanish film industry, as much as it disappoints me, that apparently the only place in the known universe where Almodovar's early movie won't 'play' is my front room!     (One serious piece of carping, however Though I hope I do not by any means demand a mere superficial perfection of form as any actor's qualification to appear, did the 'mujeres' really have to be so aggressively repugnant of aspect?!!) "},{"Title":"Jon Monsarrat review  so-so foreign comedy","Date":"30 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Women on the Verge of a Nervous Breakdown is a worthwhile comedy that I enjoyed viewed, despite its low budget production values. Maybe it's my fault for not being Spanish, but I'm sure I missed plenty in the cultural translation. Little innuendos or behaviors that were meant to be comic but I wasn't sure if they were meant to be serious or straight. You know, like someone's odd clothing. That makes me wonder how American comedies come across to people in other nations.Shortly I figured out that yes, things were supposed to be wacky. But there was some real pain in the film, and in general it did not hit the heights of wacky pioneered by British comedy.Who should see this film-- women trying to get over their lying cheating no good ex-boyfriend-- Antonio Banderas fans-- comedy lovers, but don't expect a romance, and only on a rainy dayI'll give Women on the Verge of a Nervous Breakdown a take-it-or-leave-it 6 out of 10. Get Heartbreakers instead. "},{"Title":"movie","Date":"7 December 2009","Score":"0 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Some parts were weird but good acting.It was funny and had a excellent story line.It was entertaining and had lots of drama.you can relate to the characters and their problems.I also liked the way it was directed.It was good for a foreign film.Some parts were weird but good acting.It was funny and had a excellent story line.It was entertaining and had lots of drama.you can relate to the characters and their problems.I also liked the way it was directed.It was good for a foreign film. "}{"Title":"not for 21 year old heterosexual males","Date":"30 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" after sitting in Spanish class everyday listening to my teacher speak in a foreign language, this movie is the final straw. and if you already have two sisters, then this movie is like getting a smack in the face added on to your ass kicking. its about some Spanish women and it chronicles specifically how they are all clinically insane. if i ever met them, i would not tell them my real name, and pretend like i got killed around them so there would be no possibility of them ever contacting me. ever. this movie is as painful as it is disturbing. if you like really batty Spanish women that crawl under your skin, and force you to shield your eyes from their obtrusively large eyes, then check this movie out. if you like your life to make at least a shred of sense, then please, do not watch this movie. i gave it a two because antonio banderas was in it, and he was the old school bad ass el mariachi, and deserves some points. otherwise, the women in this movie very nearly made me puke. but thats just me. "}]