[{"Title":"Great!","Date":"16 February 2003","Score":"23 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" If you can forgive the less-than-ideal acting by some of the other cast, Peter O'Toole once again shows why he's one of the greatest actors in the English speaking world.  From the scene where he's trying to hang himself while arguing with his mother, to where he meets his ghost-Dad, O'Toole is hilarious as the bumbling, scheming drunk Irish fool who is desperate to keep the family castle in family hands.  "},{"Title":"Glue can't hold everything, but it does its share...","Date":"8 May 2000","Score":"21 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Peter O'Toole is hysterical in this film, and quite easily, is the glue that holds it together (contrary to popular opinion). While this film suffers its share of problems, (such as a few holes in the plot, a little shoddy acting here and there) it makes me laugh as few other movies have.  O'Toole's drunken wisdom and fights with his drunken, ghost-talking mother are great. Steve Guttenberg does fine, Daryl Hannah is okay.  The Irish country side is lovelyand haunting (incidentally, the movie was filmed in a castle in Limerick,Ireland, where Frank McCourt, author of Angela's Ashes grew up); the set ofthe castle itself is the stuff that fairy tales are made of. The effort that the staff makes to haunt the cynical guests is great, in particular the Lady Godiva/Broggan Banshee fiasco.While the whole spouse-swapping aspect of the movie is a little hazy, Beverly D'Angelo and Liam Neeson are grand.  The entire plot is somewhat goofy, as are some of the transitions to get from Point A to Point B, but it is the humor that keeps it alive.  It received terrible reviews, but it's absolutely worth a viewing if you're ever in the mood for something a little absurd that will make you chuckle. "},{"Title":"Amazing","Date":"1 May 2008","Score":"17 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" What the hell, its quirky, and yeah OK not always highly acted, but I utterly love this movie, it is hilarious, and Peter O'Toole is magical, truly a must for sitting down and watching on a cold wet evening. Set in Ireland, it does prove to be a little on the stereotypical side towards the Irish but again, who cares, Whiting Bisque etc. Some of the effects are a little on the dodgy side, but with Peter O'Toole acting as brilliantly as ever they seem unimportant. I saw this movie when I was 10 or so and always loved it, remember the scenes with the nuns gave me a few nightmares as a child. Funny to rewatch and see how silly things seem now in adulthood. "},{"Title":"A charming haunter with Peter O'Toole in VERY High Spirits!","Date":"4 September 2001","Score":"17 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I agree with Claire Walkden.  High Spirits is just the tonic for a blustery afternoon or an evening by the fireplace.The setting is authentic and O'Toole is at the top of his form.  The wonderful mother (who tipples) is married to a ghost, AND SHE STEALS EVERY SCENE SHE'S IN!People who don't like this film are trying too hard to make it into Shakespeare.  This is not Macbeth.  High Spirits is to be taken with a grain of salt and enjoyed.Liam Neeson and Beverly D'Angelo are wonderful together!  Just the difference in their height is hysterical.Some of the jokes are a bit labored and I could have done without the ghost-buster, but he was very funny with his fried hair!Not a great film, but a genuinely funny one and O'Toole is priceless! "},{"Title":"The ghost-ess with the most-ess.","Date":"20 April 2004","Score":"14 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  High Spirits turned out to be a pretty good comedy. Peter Plunkett (Peter O'Toole), and his gang of merry Irishmen are facing foreclosure on their grand castle resort. The old fashioned castle needs a clever advertising gimmick to entice visitors. After talking with his looney, but sincere old mother who always claims that she talks to his dead father and the rest of the poor spirits looming around the dark castle, Plunkett decides that the castle ought to be haunted. And so, the guests are invited to stay among the spirits of the Plunkett family. Of course, Plunkett doesn't believe in the existence of ghosts, especially when he hasn't seen any for himself, despite his mother's attempts to convince him that they're everywhere. No, Plunkett's plan involves a few crappy props and some cheap scare tactics to thrill their small group of American guests.But Plunkett and the gang (nor their furious guests) would ever have imagined real ghosts showing up. And this is where the movie really starts to get funny because everyone, after their various confrontations with the undead and all the strange things that start to happen in the castle, start to become so neurotic as they try to figure out what's going on.The movie is a romantic comedy, of course, though it could've worked simply as a story of the funny occurences in the haunted castle as Plunkett and his frantic guests scurry about trying to deal with the situation any way that they can. Guttenberg is Jack, a sorry guy who's married to a real dull lady (Beverly D'Angelo) that really can't stand to know him, especially when he drags her out to some stupid castle. Jack actually starts to fall in love with one of the ghosts, a Plunkett ancestry named Mary (Daryl Hannah), a sickley looking young girl who died by the knife of her husband (Liam Neesom). The ghosts keep playing out the murder over and over again, and Jack, accidently intervening in one of the reenactments, somehow frees Mary from the murder. And so, now she's in love with Jack. But how does a ghost and a human end up together (and they have to end up together...after all it's a Hollywood love story)? Well, that's why you have to watch the movie.Everyone in the movie is fantastic because, though some may start out to be quite annoying (such as the self-declared professional parasychologist or the cynical Sharon (D'Angelo)), they eventually come to be very entertaining as the movie goes along. I especially like the goofy interaction between Meg Tilly as the nympho and Peter Gallagher as the soon-to-be Priest. Peter O'Toole is wonderful. He is also the last to realize what the heck is going on.It's definitely a comedy worth watching. "},{"Title":"It is genuinely funny, the script is witty and the actors superb.","Date":"13 October 2000","Score":"15 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Maybe I have a warped sense of humour (or just a very British one) but I laugh every time I see this film, and I've seen it well over a 100 times over the years. It is genuinely funny, the script is witty and the actors superb. This is one of my all time favourite rainy day films. No matter how times I watch it there are still little things I'd not noticed or things I'd forgotten happen. I strongly suggest getting this film out next time it's raining and you're stuck indoors, and if anyone from the BBC is reading, please put it on next bank holiday!! "},{"Title":"Very Funny and Entertaining Movie","Date":"31 March 2010","Score":"9 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is just another fine movie ranked far below what it deserves.Reviews of High Spirits by some movie critics are prime proof of the theory that professional movie critics often don't what they're talking about. Being quickly panned by British critics, and then dissed by their American colleagues, leads me to believe that many critics write negative reviews based on the opinions of others. In recent years, many critics seem especially to have hidden agendas, or have an axe to grind, or are pandering to special interest groups, which render their reviews worthless. Often, these critics appear to have never seen the movie they are condemning, or, worst still, are ignoring the cinematography and entertainment value based on their own petty bias. In High Spirits, some critics complained that the plot is thin, flighty and lacks realism?!?! But this is a comedy (and a very good one at that), not a serious theatrical work like as play by Shakespeare or some other artsy-f**tsy piece for the pseudo-intellectual snobs. While not perfect, it is certainly not the complete waste of time that some of these so-called critics claim it to be.The fact is, folks, this movie is very entertaining, a real joy, from the story, to the acting, to the sets, to the special effects, etc., etc. just a pleasure (albeit a guilty one) of movie entertainment. The entire cast give an exuberant, high spirited performance (pun intended) which is sure to tickle your funny bone. Peter O'Toole is hilarious as the penny-less, hereditary keeper of the castle who is about to lose it all. But Liz Smith is a riot, playing Peter's tipsy, widowed mother who still interacts (read has sexual relations) with her dead husband and communicates with other deceased family members. Liz Smith is a thief - she steals just about every scene in which she appears. A horny Steve Guttenberg, an unfaithful Beverly D'Angelo, a rapidly decaying Daryl Hannah and a flatulent Liam Neeson give excellent performances. The pious Peter Gallagher and temptress Jennifer Tilly are terrific in supporting roles as are the remainder of the cast, who are mainly from Dublin's Abbey Theatre, except for Connie Booth (who played the housekeeper Polly Shearman in Fawlty Towers), who is an American.Please ignore the critics on this one, folks, they are way off. This is a very funny movie, with a few semi-scary moments, that I can highly recommend to you. If you want classical drama, watch Hamlet or Otello, but if you want hardy chuckles, watch High Spirits. I'm sure you won't be disappointed.Rating 8/10 stars "},{"Title":"I finally found the title of the folk song early in the film","Date":"2 March 2014","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" After all this time.. I finally found the name and the lyrics to the folk song the lady sings in the performance hall early in the film.. I won't spoil any other details, but this information was almost impossible to find and is not listed on the OST even on Amazon until now..The song was written by Thomas Moore and is entitled  Oft In The Stilly Night  and here are the lyrics for all who want to and need to know like I did..When I remember, All friends link'd together, I've seen around me, Fall like leaves in winter; I feel like one, Who treads alone Some banquet-hall deserted, Whose lights are fled, Whose garlands dead, And all but he departed! Thus, in the stilly night, Ere Slumber's chain hath bound me, Fond Memory brings the light Of other days around me.This version was paraphrased for this particular rendition as the original has twice the amt of words, but it is none the less one of the most lovely and enchanting tracks int he entire film.. This movie is one I tend to watch not only periodically, but oft times more than twice in a row.. such a classic.. Bless you Peter O'Toole.. We miss you.. Rest well..Namaste...Q. "},{"Title":"A overly under-rated movie spoilers","Date":"27 January 2010","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is without a doubt one of my all time favorite movies!! I love every eccentric cheap second of it and couldn't ask for anything more, I've actually memorized it!! The story begins with Peter Plunkett (Peter O'Toole) about to have his home/castle/hotel taken away by a family rival named Jim Brogen who wants to open it as a theme park called Irish World in Malibu, CA. Fearing the loss of his home and place of employment he gathers his fellow workers and drunken mom (Liz Smith who I would love to have drink with) to conspire a way to get tourists to come stay at his hotel by masking it as a haunted castle which of course it's not although mum says otherwise. Of the many colorful guests that are staying there is Jack Crawford (Steve Gutenberg) and his wife Sharon (Beverly D'Angelo) who are having extreme issues with their marriage and are coming to Castle Plunkett in an attempt at a second honeymoon which Sharon wants no part of. Among the other guests are a parapsychologist (an expert in ghosts) and his family set to disprove the haunting, a not yet affirmed priest (peter Gallagher) and a sex crazed chick (Jennifer Tilly). Shortly after arriving the guests discover Plunkett's gimmick and prepare to leave but not before they learn that Sharon was sent by her father Jim Brogen to spy on Plunkett thus using her and Jack's trip as an excuse.Jack then gets drunk and stumbles onto a ghostly murder taking place and somehow manages to stop it. Soon after he falls for the murdered specter named Mary Plunkett (Daryl Hannah) and her killer husband Martin Brogen(Liam Neeson)who stabbed her on their wedding night wrongly believing that she loved someone else.Later weird things start happening to the guests and the very real ghosts of the castle begin to make their presences known especially Martin who won't give up on trying to seduce Sharon. (funniest parts of the movie if you ask me).On Halloween night things come to ahead and Jack and Mary get it on which afterwords puts him up the the ultimate test of love. Sharon unknowingly gives up her life for Mary and takes her place to be with Martin.By the end everyone is happily ever after. Honestly Liam Neeson was my favorite character of the whole thing and Peter O'Toole was brilliant. I believe this is somewhat based off a much older movie but for the life of me i can't remember the title any who, watch it on a rainy day and i promise you won't regret it. "},{"Title":"Addictive movie","Date":"12 January 2014","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Well, this is one of my all time favorites! It has not a complex story line, it's easy to watch, and easy to fall in love with the scenarios, the ambiance and the cast. Speaking of the castle, this movie earns great marks for it the decoration of the sets it's brilliant, and gives a wonderful mood, and the outdoors are really beautiful. Daryl fits the part very well, although sometimes she looks like having too much make up on. With a hand full of good actors, a gorgeous soundtrack and sets that my dreams are made of, i can say that i watch this movie countless times (pretty sure more than 1000 times)and I recommend to be seen on a rainy afternoon, with dimmed lights and the fireplace on! "}{"Title":"Light Entertaining Comedy","Date":"15 December 2013","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I thoroughly enjoyed this movie. Peter O'Toole is wonderful as are the remainder of the actors. This movie is part of my DVD collection.It's a screwball comedy about what people will do to try to save their livelihood, marriages, etc. Some of the situations that the characters find themselves in are a bit corny; however, they are still funny. It's also somewhat of a ghostly movie. I thoroughly enjoyed the ending.If you've ever lived in England, Ireland, or Scotland, the characters in this movie will remind you warmly of those people.It is a movie that you can sit down with the family and some popcorn and enjoy. "},{"Title":"When a Funny Spirit Makes a Movie !","Date":"22 February 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is so entertaining from both theatrical or cinematic point of view. It's a very rare time to witness the comic part of director (Neil Jordan) the guy who'll direct later a chain of very serious and cheerless films in the 1990s like for instances (The Crying Game (1992), Interview with the Vampire (1994), Michael Collins (1996), or The End of the Affair (1999). So to perfect such a fantastic romantic comedy as cheery, tumultuous and simple as this, is something really wired and historical for him.Actually it's more like an old ghost story collides with any wacky comedy from the 1930s' cinema, yet achieving a real originality that makes it one of the 1980s' nicest flicks. The cast was perfect. Forget that (Darryl Hannah) was at her worst, because even that can't take from the movie's high light personality. The wonderful showy efforts of (Peter O'Toole) accord with this atmosphere and harmonize with it. He was loose as the defeated miserable drunken Peter Plunkett, adding a tasty flavor to the character's bitterly sarcastic way, being definitely a treat to watch apart since there is no such hilarious precedent in (O'Toole)'s antecedent career. Also, I refuse to accept the dim-witted remarks about him here as he was playing himself. Because aside from that as something I don't buy, he was too good in his role to be a miserable defeated actor by all means.The comedy is swift, the pace is crazy, and the sets are so inspiring. There is a certain delight and bright sense all the time in the movie's image. The sexiness is over-the-top with mega-gorgeous babes  (Beverly D'Angelo) was outrageously sexy, (Jennifer Tilly) isn't bad herself, and even an extra by the name of (Hilary Reynolds), who played near to silent maid, fascinated me utterly. It even managed to have a genuine tender message as well about real love and how it brings life to everyone and everything around. I liked the frisky end where every soul met its fair match. Makes you wish  if life was like this ! There are sensitive bits or so droll ones to cartonnish extent that push me to rethink  who was exactly the man that directed the list of movies that I've mentioned previously ? (Jordan) himself has always maintained that the release version of this movie is very different from the one he shot, insisting that his version is still locked away in a vault. According to long experience with (Jordan)'s other works (in fact all of them !) I say keep it in the vault, this one is so satisfying as it is. Thanks to the funny spirit whoever made it like this anyway. Because when it comes to an entertaining movie, I find nothing to ask more than what this one has. "},{"Title":"Harmless Ghostly Fun!","Date":"7 September 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I loved this film when i was young..I'm 30 now...and yeah its a little saggy in places but i still love it...again it appears that the version released was not the directors vision intended..it seems a lot of my favourite films..Blade Runner, Legend..were trashed in the editing suite before being released..well hey-ho High Spirits is harmless ghostly fun and its worth a look if just to catch a goof LIVE on camera, SPOILER ALERT..In the final scene where both the living  and the dead come together to dance in the main hall..Beverly d'Angelo's character accidentally knocks Daryl Hannahs champagne glass which is in Daryl's hand and she spills most of it on the floor..(watch Daryl's professional yet comical facial reaction)..it's blink and you may miss it!..Great fun "},{"Title":"spoof of horror movies","Date":"27 December 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This tongue in cheek horror movie contains elements of romantic comedy. The failed proprietor of a run down castle in Ireland attempts to save the property by inventing a haunting aura for tourists. The phoney props do not work and the tourists revolt. This uprising annoys the ghosts actually inhabiting the castle who stage a genuine haunting for Hallowe'en. Some serious horror is mixed into a fantasy plot ending with two mixed couples, one an eighteenth century ghost the other an American tourist. There are well done elements of romance, of comedy horror spoof, of physical comedy, of nostalgic Ireland and of genuine horror creating a well acted mix which pleases throughout.v "},{"Title":"Everything is improbable, and also non-stop laughs!","Date":"13 June 2001","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  When family patriarch Peter Plunket is notified that the American who holds the mortgage on his family castle is going to foreclose to move it to America as part of a theme park, he desperately decides to try this himself by advertising that the castle is haunted.  The rich mortgage holder sends his daughter and son-in-law (who's relationship is strained anyway) to investigate this claim, and determine his chances of successfully paying the mortgage.  After attempts to fake hauntings fail miserably, it turns out there really are ghosts, and they aren't happy!  Peter O'Toole should have gotten an Oscar as Peter Plunket, and the supporting cast includes some top performers. "},{"Title":"Not A Bad Movie","Date":"12 February 2001","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"    I never got to see this in the theaters, but luckily I remembered it when it came time to rescue it from the local discount video bin. A small Irish family led by whimsically-talented Peter O'Toole conjure up some fake ghosts to lure some tourists and save their ancestral castle from Americans. The ghosts of their ancestors are offended by the fake ghosts so they lend their expertese to save the castle. The humor and the jokes are very good, but some of the hauntings, specifically the nuns, are better than others. Skinny and gawky Liam Neeson and Darryl Hannah, rather skinny and gawky herself, interestingly act out and stick to playing two ghosts stuck in a place memory as Steve Guttenberg plays a husband stuck in an unhappy marriage with sexy Beverly D'Angelo. Most of the movie circles around them and some questionable spernatural phenomenon. There's some holes in the plot as Hannah the ghost ends up in D'Angelo's body, but looks like herself ? Peter Gallagher and Jennifer Tilly share a barely seen sub-plot as Martin Ferrero plays a ghost-hunter/harried husband. All in all, this isn't a bad movie. It's rather enjoyable but the only Irish countryside we do do get to see is rather dismal and depressing. "},{"Title":"Good movie, could've been A LOT better.","Date":"2 October 1999","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I liked this movie.  It had its funny moments, it had its semi-serious moments.  I liked the ghosts the best.  Especially Liam Neeson's character Martin.  Him and Peter O'Toole were the best things about this movie. They definitively could've cast Steve Guttenburg and Daryll Hannah's characters better.  The best part is Liam Neeson and Beverly D'Angelo in the shower...I love that part.   "},{"Title":"Excellent, but a little over the top","Date":"12 April 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie was excellent, but some parts were a little over the top. Peter O'Toole as Peter Plunkett in the movie was absolutely brilliant. NO ONE could have done it better than him. He made everything just come together. Steve Guttenberg was good, but sometimes his acting was a little over the top as was Daryl Hannah's. But the ghosts and the acting of the others were excellent. Not to mention a hilarious and spellbinding plot. I have to admit that some of the scenes were a little ridiculous and not needed. For example the love scene between Steve and Daryl was really not needed. Maybe just a little part of the scene would have been alright. Other than the little things, this movie was excellent. "},{"Title":"No classic, but a good fun movie","Date":"2 November 2008","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Peter Plunkett owns a castle that is about to be repossessed. Unwilling to submit to this fate, he (played by Peter O'Toole in a wonderful performance) decides to run a haunted castle experience, with the haunting carried out by his staff. The only trouble is, there are real ghosts in the castle, who really do haunt the castle and its American guests. Things are even more complicated when one of the guests (Steve Gutenberg) falls in love with one of the ghosts and her ghostly husband is attracted to his wife (Beverly D'Angelo).High Spirits is a fun, romantic comedy in the setting of a haunted castle that uses elements of the ghost story for humorous effect. And in my view, does it quite ably. This is not a great movie by any means, but it is very funny and has a good cast-including Peter O'Toole, Darryl Hannah, Steve Gutenberg, Peter Gallagher, Jennifer Tilley and Connie Booth (of Fawlty Towers)-who give solid if not stellar performances.There are a lot of gags and entertaining special effects which result in a hilarious spoof on the traditional ghost story. Is this movie destined to be one of the great classics? No. Is it entertaining and fun? Absolutely. I recommend it for a good, fun, mindless comedy with some really funny lines. "},{"Title":"Sure not Blithe Spirit but quite funny!","Date":"30 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Daryl Hannah is dynamite, as are Beverly D'Angelo and Jennifer Tilly. A lot of diaphanous-see-thru dress material here! Peter O'Toole plays a proper Irish Drunk with great abandon. Steve Guttenberg is married to Beverly, but she falls in love with a ghost and so does he. It's a typical fake haunted house story at first with a romantic twist. Poor old Peter, not realizing that the castle really is quite haunted, tries to attract stupid American tourists to the old place, with fake ghosts and gimmicks. The real ghosts then interact with the living. (Peter's Mum has visits with her husband's ghost!) A good old-fashioned fairy tale ending where upon 4 people find true love as happily-ever-after ghosts and humans. It's complicated. A true guilty pleasure. Of course it was a bomb with the critics and box office. It looks and sounds much better on Blu-Ray as a double feature with Vampire's Kiss a stinker Nicolas Cage film. Not available on it's own. First seen on free TV where it was truly cut to pieces and edited for time. "}{"Title":"Spooks Gone Wild!","Date":"10 November 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The proprietor of a run-down British castle unleashes the long dormant ghosts of his odd family when he creates a phony facade of spirits. Veteran star Peter O'Toole gives a charming performance as the owner with the wonderfully eccentric Liz Smith as his dotty mother, the only person aware of the ghosts. That is until snooty Beverly D'Angelo arrives with the intention of claiming it. Her neglected husband (Steve Guttenberg) begins to see a ghostly murder repeated over and over, and his interference changes the course of history at the castle. Harmless fun, this popcorn film is a modern day Canterville Ghost that has plenty of laughs, a lot of romance, and a few scares. Handsome Peter Gallagher (as a priest who has not taken his final vows) and vinegary voiced Jennifer Tilly appear in smaller roles that serve no purpose although the flying bed that Tilly is on ended up on the original poster.I discovered Liz Smith (no relation to the famous New York columnist) in the late 80's when she made a slew of British produced movies released to American audiences, and fell absolutely in love with her. She reminded me of a slightly classier Hermoine Baddley. Gorgeous Darryl Hannah and rugged Liam Neeson are excellent as the ghosts who surprisingly find love with the mortals haunting their ancestral home. D'Angelo, one of the wonders of the 80's (because I always wonder what happened to her until I investigated after seeing this movie again!), is beautiful, snooty, imperious, funny, and riveting. The only acting disappointment for me was Guttenberg whose acting style seems oddly out of place from the rest of the cast. While this will be greatly compared to other supernatural comedies such as Beetlejuice and Hocus Pocus (as well as the disastrous Haunted Honeymoon), it is still fun on its own merits. "},{"Title":"Funny, romantic, sexy...what more can I say?","Date":"21 January 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I love this movie! Its one of my favourites, and I have been trying to get it on video for ages, but its been deleted. Its hardly ever on telly either. Can't stand Steve Guttenburg unfortunately, but I love Liam Neeson! He's really sexy in his role as the ghostly Martin, pursuing the stubborn Sharon.OK, so its not exactly Gone With the Wind, and I'm sure it won't be to everyone's taste, but I personally think its really good, and funny. I love the way it looks as though it is on stage, much like a British pantomime. My favourite bit is undoubtedly the shower scene, but I also like it when Martin is chasing Sharon through the woods in the bus! "},{"Title":"Jennifer Tilly & Peter Gallager steal the show.","Date":"18 November 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is one of the funnier ghost films ever made.  My only complaint is that the movie should have focused more on Jennifer Tilly and Peter Gallager's characters, the sexy bimbo and the priest-in-training that fall in love. Those two absolutely steal the movie away from Darryl Hannah and Steve Guttenberg.  All the supporting cast was great.  I love all the stars and they form a great ensemble.  The special effects are pretty cool.  Over all it is a nice movie to watch if you are ever in the mood for an eccentric love story. "},{"Title":"Laugh A Minute","Date":"2 November 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I have saw this film so many times i can quote the scenes, i find it hilarious even after all this time, and its really not that hard to understand. I hate it when people make such drastic decisions on movies, just because they do not understand them, those kind of people are either narrow minded or very slow on the up take.Liam Neeson played an absolutely great role, he was so great that i have just realised who he is, i think i may be a bit so in that instance, lol.Does anyone have my opinion on Jennifer Tilly, she always seems to play the same kind of man eating, dumb blonde role (though she is not blonde all the time).ALL MOVIES HAVE MISTAKES, ITS HUMAN NATURE! "},{"Title":"It hasn't aged too well, let's be honest","Date":"16 November 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" HIGH SPIRITS is one in a plethora of '80s-era comedy spook shows, accompanied by the likes of HAUNTED HONEYMOON, GHOSTBUSTERS, and THE 'BURBS. This is the least of those mentioned, purely because it's not particularly funny. If you like watching actors overact like crazy and run around like headless chickens all over the set then maybe this film is for you, but I prefer a little more restraint in my comedies. HIGH SPIRITS is an odyssey of dated effects work, slapstick gags, and a convoluted ghost romance plot that doesn't really go anywhere.The plot is straightforward stuff indeed, with the owner of an ailing hotel in Ireland (Peter O'Toole, phoning it in) deciding to turn his business into a haunted castle in order to drum up some trade. The story then follows the misadventures of a busload of American tourists who soon discover that the castle is populated by some very real ghosts that don't take kindly to their trespassers.As is usual with these '80s comedies, the cast is an involved bunch and one of the best things about the story. I'm no fan of Daryl Hannah, but Liam Neeson is fun in an early role as a ghost, and Steve Guttenberg is a dependable lead type. Beverly D'Angelo is very funny as his wife, but it's people like Martin Ferrero, Connie Booth, Peter Gallagher, and Jennifer Tilly who are among the funniest members of the supporting cast. A shame they're not utilised to better advantage. "},{"Title":"This movie at times can put you in high spirits, but it also brings you down.","Date":"2 August 2009","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This movie has a rather standard plot of some old 1970's horror films that I have seen over the years, that of the old house, old building, in this case the old castle where some sort of tragic event took place and the participants of this event are doomed to keep repeating it in the afterlife. And as is the case with those horror movies the event that took place in this movie is the murder of a woman by her jealous husband. This movie is not a horror movie by an stretch of the imagination, it is a comedy. I think some people are visiting the castle and staying there when all the ghost stuff starts happening. It has its moments when it is rather funny as Peter O'Toole is the best member of the cast as far as being funny, then the movie gets right down into being a sort of romance movie. Then the movie ends in a rather unrealistic way, leaving you to think what is up with that. There is also a sex scene that gets rather intense for a PG-13 rated movie so you may want to think twice about letting the kids see this one. I read this movie is not really what the director wanted and it shows as the movie at times plays out in a disjointed fashion. Still, there are laughs to be had and the plot is somewhat good if nothing we have not seen before. "},{"Title":"cute and funny...","Date":"5 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" ...and surprisingly not hampered by two of the worst actors ever, Daryl Hannah, and Steve Gutenberg. Peter O'Toole and Beverly d'Angelo give great performances and Jennifer Tilly, Liam Neeson and Peter Gallagher all show up for five minutes, which combined with the well chosen setting, fairly witty dialogue and charming concept, tip my vote from five to six stars. By no means a brilliant movie, either as comedy or horror, but not a bad rental, especially around Halloween time and if, like me, you enjoy ghost stories of every variety.  "},{"Title":"A spectrum of acting, but great sets","Date":"9 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Irish folk music and the old castle were the biggest stars in this movie, even though they weren't credited. The worst of actors and actresses in Hollywood (Hannah, Gutenberg, D'Angelo, Tilly) couldn't taint the mysterious and haunting air this movie's sets had.Outside the weak Hollywood actors, some big British and Irish stars upheld their half Liz Smith, Liam Neeson and of course Peter O'Toole. There aren't any words that could describe how O'Toole transcends his charm and dismissive demeanor across the screen. I give this movie a 10 out of 5 stars for Mr. O'Toole and that fantastic castle alone. If you are looking for something charming, quirky, and even a little mysterious, High Spirits will be perfect. Just be aware that Jennifer Tilly and Beverly D'Angelo star.  "},{"Title":"my fave","Date":"6 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I think this was a great movie. It's been my favorite for many years now. Growing up with a showbiz background, I can spot bad things pretty easily..and this was not one of them. the cast was great, especially Daryl Hannah. I love this film and it has yet to be beat. So there. "},{"Title":"A guilty pleasure","Date":"21 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Anyone who sits down to watch this movie expecting Oscar material will be sorely disappointed.  But for some mindless fun, High Spirits is a good choice.The acting may be trite and the effects hokey, but I've seen far worse in many of the large box office films in theaters today. (And Liam Neeson makes one of the sexiest ghosts I've ever seen.)Bottom line movie snobs should skip High Spirits.  "}{"Title":"Low. Low. Low.","Date":"30 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Silly little film that only Peter O'Toole's most loyal fans will enjoy. O'Toole's mansion is about to be repossessed so he decides to create revenue by opening it to the public and having his servants scare people by pretending to be ghosts. It is as stupid as it sounds. Ho-hum outing for O'Toole as he has done very little cinematically in the past 20 years (with the exception of the excellent The Last Emperor). This from the maker of The Crying Game? Turkey (0 stars out of 5). "},{"Title":"Very good movie","Date":"12 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I personly Loved this movie. this was steve gutenburgs finest since police academy one of my faverite movies of the 80's it's funny magical and come on how many of us wished to be in that castle with Darly Hamman and I personly thoght that this was a better film than say the remake of house on haunted hill "},{"Title":"A Strange Attempt At Showcasing Ireland... Fairly Bland","Date":"26 August 2010","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" An Irish castle is about to be foreclosed on and sold to an American developer, but the head of the household (Peter O'Toole) devises a plan to present the castle as haunted and lure in tourists. But when the spirits of his ancestors catch wind of the foreclosure, they take matters in to their own hands.This film is Peter O'Toole. If you like him, like his accent or whatever about him, you might like this film... but beyond that, it's a bit of a flop. Steve Guttenberg is here after his career peaked, Daryl Hannah described as beautiful but looking nasty, Peter Gallagher in a humorous but small role and Liam Neeson in makeup not really allowing his talent to shine.As a comedy, the film does not have much to offer. As a horror film, it has even less. It may be sort of a romantic comedy, but not really... the story just does not go anywhere. I find most of the supporting cast annoying or unnecessary, and it strikes me as an excuse to cast Irish actors and bring some revenue to Ireland... but this film even fails as a tourism promotion.I won't say I entirely disliked it. It was watchable, and even though I think the plot was a bit inconsistent at times (can ghosts touch people or not?) it was an interesting idea. Probably not original... probably not even a little bit. But still sort of fun in an 80s way.I had never heard of this film before my girlfriend pulled it out of a box of old VHS tapes... and now I'm not surprised. It was a good time sharing a childhood memory with her, but I can see why the film has been forgotten. So many more films have been made since, quite a film of them better, that it's not likely you will go out of your way to see this one and I don't encourage you to do so. "},{"Title":"believe in the possibility","Date":"21 April 2004","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  At the time of its release in 1988, High Spirits, Neil Jordan's first American-financed film, prompted something of a panic amongst those who had allowed themselves to believe in the possibility of an Irish film industry. After his first three films, Neil Jordan was comfortably in the vanguard of Irish film-makers, the early promise of Angel having been apparently confirmed by The Company of Wolves and Mona Lisa. High Spirits however, attracted almost uniformly negative reviews, and together with Jordan's next film We're No Angels, was taken as signalling not just the beginning of the end of Neil Jordan's career, but as dealing a blow to the confidence of a nascent national film industry. The thinking went If Jordan can't make a decent picture in Hollywood, who can? In the forgive and forget revisionism of the post-Crying Game era, however, High Spirits has been reconsidered as a regrettable but ultimately pardonable aberration. That said, the film unquestionably ranks at the bottom of the Jordan canon, featuring the worst acting and dialogue of any of his films, delivered by a cast clearly chosen with an eye to the American market. Hence the inclusion of such semi- A-List stars Steve Guttenberg and Darryl Hannah neither of whom seem sure where to pitch their performances in the context of a predominantly Irish cast hence Guttenberg offers a mix of Police Academy tomfoolery with Cocoon innocence whereas Darryl Hannah exhibits a range of very 20th century facial tics in portraying an 18th century lass. Some of the Irish cast members - Donal McCann, Ray McAnally and in particular Liam Neeson - acquit themselves with more dignity but it is nonetheless an Irish actor - Peter O'Toole - who delivers what is, even by the generally low standards of the film, the hammiest performance, all louche glances, theatrical sighs and imprecations to heaven for assistance. There's little point in dwelling on the tacky dialogue beyond expressing bewilderment that it could have come from the same person who had previously and who has since displayed such a gift for using ordinary language to explore political and emotional issues of quite extraordinary complexity (witness Mona Lisa, Crying Game & Michael Collins).In its defence it has been argued that the film was taken out of Jordan's hands at the editing stage and completed by the studiowho imposed a feel good style on the picture and muted the more disturbing elements. There is some evidence within the film to support this. Thus it is possible to uncover some potentially interesting submerged themes, if one is prepared to dig deep enough Sharon, it emerges is a direct blood line descendent of Martin's but the incestuous element in their relationship is glossed over. There is also the beginnings of a discussion of the inevitable differences between the tourist portrayal of Ireland as land of myth and mystery and the reality of everyday existence here. But this too is submerged into what becomes a portrayal of Ireland out of the Bord Failte textbook (although the characterisation of the Irish as willing to go to any lengths to gull Americans out of their money somewhat undermines this). Further evidence of interference in the editing lies in the incomprehensibility of the narrative. At time there is no narrative, just a sequence of increasingly bizarre unconnected events. When the film finally reaches its end, there's no sense of closure, rather one feels that the filmmakers simply got bored and went home. Given all the foregoing it seems doubtful that even had Jordan retained full creative control in postproduction, that he could have rendered this sow's ear into a silk purse. As such the most interesting question about High Spirits remains how such a dumb film could have come from a manifestly intelligent and gifted filmmaker  "},{"Title":"Low spirits...low returns","Date":"30 April 2006","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Writer-director Neil Jordan (on a roll after the critically-acclaimed Mona Lisa) nearly took his name off the credits of this low-level whimsy, saying the final result had been altered by outsiders. Perhaps they were hoping to find (or save) the center of Jordan's muddled plot, but in the end it's still a wash-out. Jaw-droppingly poor, heavy-handed comedy has tourists in an ancient Irish castle mixing it up with the ghostly apparitions residing there. The cast (including Peter O'Toole, Steve Guttenberg, Daryl Hannah, Liam Neeson, Beverly D'Angelo and Jennifer Tilly--a highly uneven troupe if there ever was one!) cannot get a grip on their characters and flounder (they should've threaten to remove their names as well). Romantic and comic shenanigans lands with a big thud. NO STARS from **** "},{"Title":"More positive aspects than you might expect from a mess","Date":"21 January 2005","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Peter Plunkett (Peter O'Toole) is about to lose his family castle in Ireland if he doesn't raise some money quickly. While talking to his mother about the problem, she mentions all of the ghosts of the castle. That sparks an idea--to market Castle Plunkett to tourists as a hotel that's the most haunted destination in the world, or the western hemisphere, or some such. When the first group of tourists arrives, Plunkett's crew puts forward a slapdash effort to feign hauntings, but it turns out that the castle may be really haunted after all.Yowza, what a mess this film is! I had a quick sinking feeling during the credits when writer/director Neil Jordan's name came up. Although I've only seen four of his films so far, I can only remember liking one of them, We're No Angels--and this is coming from a reviewer who likes the great majority of films that he sees. Still I was prepared to give it a generous chance. After all, I love horror comedies from Ghostbusters to Young Frankenstein, Killer Klowns from Outer Space, and Cannibal--The Musical.There are a host of problems with High Spirits * The film isn't very funny. Granted, comedies need not make you laugh out loud to succeed. At it's best, High Spirits can be cute, and I did smile a bit. But a lot of the film was an almost embarrassing attempt at humor.* Jordan apparently directed the actors to amp it up as if this were a stage performance. Everyone severely overacts, turning into super-hams and frequently yelling their lines. It's even worse when a whole gaggle of actors does this at the same time, which happens frequently here. I know I've complained elsewhere about mumbling and whispering in recent films, but I'll take that any day over this kind of overacting. This flaw is especially strange given that many members of the cast have been great in other films.* Even though it should be fairly straightforward, the plot frequently confused me. Why the family would still be making payments on the castle was never clear to me. I didn't get where the tourists came from all of a sudden. It didn't seem to be the case that this small group of tourists would help the hotel/castle raise the money it needed within a few weeks. Also, a large number of events seemed random. I didn't know why they were happening, and I didn't really care. Which brings me to the next problem * There didn't seem to be any ground rules laid down for the film's world, and any that were laid down seemed to be frequently contradicted. At times, the film plays like there wasn't even a script, but Jordan had access to a nifty old castle in Ireland, so on the fly, they just made up what they thought would be wacky set-pieces.Remarkably, there were also a number of things that the film did right* The first section of the film, featuring the castle's bunch of rag tags trying to pull off a haunted house for the bunch of rag tag tourists, had a lot of potential. Even if it wouldn't have been hilarious, it could have been a charming comedy in the classical literary sense of comedy, if High Spirits would have stuck with this material, toned down the overacting, and made an attempt at a logical script.* Some of the ghost material and haunted house effects were enjoyable. Again, they weren't funny, but there was also potential here to make an effective haunted house film, even if lighter in mood. The crypt zombie-ghosts were great, but only showed up for a minute or two.* The castle and grounds were fantastic. They could have easily provided a setting for a film as good as Roger Corman's Vincent Price films. There were a couple nice bits of cinematography showing off the castle and grounds, as well.* The love stories at the end almost started working for me. Again, this might have been a more effective direction on which to focus the majority of the film. The minor characters dropped out at this point (and really, the cast was too big, because most of them were wasted), the overacting was toned-down, and the non-sequitur plot elements dropped out.My final verdict? The positive elements brought the film up to a 5 out of 10. I wanted to like it a lot more than I did. I can't recommend it, but it is perhaps worth watching on cable or renting at least once for die-hard fans of horror comedies. "},{"Title":"This one didn't raise my spirits much","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Another in a long line of ghostly comedies which does little to frighten, and even less to amuse. Getting to eyeball Miss Hannah and the breathy Jen Tilley was a treat, but not enough of one to recommend this dismal film. I wonder if Jennifer will ever make a decent picture...but what a sweet, panting voice she has.  "},{"Title":"Strange, loud fiasco.","Date":"28 June 2001","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Despite some atmospheric moments, some OK special effects and likable performances by Peter O'Toole and Steve Guttenberg (Daryl Hannah is too soft; Beverly D'Angelo is disappointing), this film is a fiasco. It suffers from special effects overkill, and the plot, which potentially contains some interesting developments, makes little sense. I think I'll have forgotten all about this film by tomorrow...    (*1/2) "},{"Title":"Embarassing","Date":"7 December 2001","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is - in my opinion -  one of the worst pictures produced - EVER!The plot is terribly stupid, the whole purpose of the movie is that of a poor frame for childish special effects. The whole thing is so terribly embarassing, that I think it is a must-see. Almost every aspect of filmmaking (script, casting, photography, special effects, and.. and..) is so horribly bad! I really wonder why this one never got the turkey. "},{"Title":"funhouse without the fun","Date":"17 October 2014","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Peter Plunkett (Peter O'Toole) is the drunk owner of a rundown Irish castle turned hotel. He needs to come up with the money in three weeks or else he will be foreclosed and the castle moved to Malibu. With his annoying mother's stories of ghosts, he gets his ragtag group of workers to haunt the castle for the arriving Yank tourists. Among the Americans are Jack (Steve Guttenberg) and wife Sharon Crawford (Beverly D'Angelo), Brother Tony (Peter Gallagher) before he takes his vows, Miranda (Jennifer Tilly) who has swore off men, Malcolm (Martin Ferrero) and his loud annoying family. The haunting efforts are amateurish but then the real ghosts show up. Sharon's father holds the mortgage and she's eager to disprove the ghosts. On the other hand, Jack falls for the beautiful ghost Mary (Daryl Hannah). Mary was killed by her husband Martin Brogan (Liam Neeson) and they are both forced to relive the moment. A drunken Jack breaks the moment.This could have been a fun little British romp about a bunch of local misfits trying to make a haunted castle. It has the potential to do that but the more Hollywood it gets, the less fun it becomes. The movie concentrates too much on the Americans. The more wacky the movie tries to be, the less funny it actually is. It's a funhouse without the fun. This is written and directed by Neil Jordan. It's possibly the low point of his career. Broad comedy isn't his thing. "}{"Title":"What's the Original?","Date":"24 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I have never seen High Spirits before, but as soon as I started watching it, the plot seemed very familiar in spots. Is there anyplace that tells the origin of movie plots? I remember watching a movie called the clock which was later remade into a movie with Robert Wager(can't remember the name of the newer film), but no one ever mentioned that it was a remake, but the plots were almost identical. Don't filmmakers have to give credit to originals? I'm sure I have seen this movie before in a much earlier version (1940's - 1950's?). I couldn't find out anything previous to the 1988 version researching online. Does any one know what the name of the earlier movie is, or the date it was made? Or maybe I'm just going crazy! Please let me know if you know anything about the original story. Thanks "},{"Title":"info on where the film was made","Date":"7 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" hi all i am looking to find out the location of the film high spirits where it was made.Is there anyone out there that knows a lot bout the film where it was made what county etc. If you could contact me on my website michaelnoonan07.com@hotmail.com it would be great to know because if the film was made in limerick i would like to know. can the film still be bought 2day or is it still on the market to buy and where would i be able to get my hands on it as it can't be got in extra vision.Why i ask is because i am from limerick and i saw the film years ago and a friend said it to me and i would like to see it again because it was awhile since i see it and i want to get a couple of copy's of it for a few people "},{"Title":"Not bad, one of my girlhood favorites.","Date":"13 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The plot of 'High Spirits' was good but I think Steve Guttenberg and Daryl Hannah's roles could have been casted better. The rest of the cast was great, including Peter O'Toole who was FABULOUS as Peter Plunket. No other could have done better.The only scene of the movie I dislike is the heavy-dutie sex scene between 'Mary' and 'Jack'. I think the movie could have done without it. Maybe the producers could have cut it shorter or left something to the imagination. "},{"Title":"Weak spirits.","Date":"18 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I watched this by mistake; the t.v. channel that aired it years ago announced it as Castle Freak.I didn't like this movie because of it's cheesy scenes. This movie is an okay manner to entertain children who like ghosts and spirits. I wouldn't recommend this one to avid Horror fans, it's in my opinion a movie for children. Heck, even the music is like taken from Disney.Peter O'Toole delivers a great performance and that may be the best thing about the movie. The man is great, too bad that his talent was wasted in this movie. Don't watch this even if it airs on cable. "},{"Title":"Do Blonde Ghosts Have More Fun?","Date":"20 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  One reason to see this movie is to watch Peter Gallagher and Liam Neeson in very early, unusual roles (for them). Another reason is to hear Peter O'Toole say, Why are chunks of masonry floating about? Other than that, there isn't anything compelling about this film, unless you think the premise of having relations with ghosts is compelling. They can't even be consistent about when you can actually feel ghosts and when they go right through you, even though they say ghosts are tangible only on Halloween. Save your money/time and watch The Ghost and Mr.Chicken. "},{"Title":"Oh no... what's this?!","Date":"30 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie sucks! I can't believe I spent almost 2 hours on this. It has a stupid plot, bad acting, poor special effects, and a lame score that would be better used in Ren & Stimpy. I can't understand how someone can like this one.I made a mistake  I watched this movie one day before Halloween. I mean, only good horror movies deserve to be watched in Halloween eve.Avoid this one at all costs. It's not scary, not even funny, not even a movie. "},{"Title":"We kind of enjoyed this stuff back in the 80s.","Date":"13 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I saw this film as a child and I actually somewhat enjoyed it, mainly because my hormones were beginning to rage and I rather liked Daryl Hannah as a fragile, medieval maiden. But I also hated the humour. Even by 80s standard, this just isn't funny. The film is trying to compensate with noise, but none of the gags are even remotely funny, not to mention none of it makes any sense at all. When the film starts throwing nonsense at you for no apparent reason, it generates contempt. When joke after stupid joke fails to work, it generates contempt. When characters turn out to be dull, one-dimensional cardboard cutouts, it generates contempt. So by the time the 'twist' in the plot comes about, the audience is already exhausted and filled with contempt. And then one realizes that the 'twist', telegraphed from the very start of the film, brings nothing new. It's the same old moronic gags and a love story that goes nowhere. It is a shame to see a potentially good idea for a film, a pretty good cast, and a decent budget squandered like this. Why did we put up with Steve Guttenberg back in the 80s anyway? He's just awful. Frankly, I don't know how to judge this film. It does remind me of my childhood and the wonderful 80s which are gone forever. I'd give it ten stars for nostalgia, but judged on quality, I say it deserves around three stars. The actors, by the way, did a great job. It's not their fault. The script was terribly flawed, and that is the fundamental problem. "},{"Title":"Chunks of Masonery floating about......","Date":"17 September 2012","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" When Peter Plunkett's Irish castle turned hotel is about to be repossessed, he decides to spice up the attraction a by having his staff haunt the castle.The trouble begins when a bus load of American tourists arrive - along with some real ghosts.Among the tourists are married couple Jack and Sharon. Sharon's father holds the mortgage on Castle Plunkett, so she's hoping to debunk the ghosts.Jack, on the other hand, after meeting pretty ghost Mary, is very eager to believe.Can there be love between a human and ghost? The thing with this film is not to pat too much attention to the problems, or you will begin to hate the movie. Guttenberg delivers his normal schtick in this, albeit a little bit more adult this time around.For the eighties, this really had quite an impressive cast. O'Toole must have been method acting in this because in some scenes he really does appear to be under the influence.The rest of the cast are average, but Kudos to Hannah for having one of the worst Irish accents I have ever heard on screen, No wonder Neeson has spent 200 years killing her.The effects are okay, and its quite reminiscent of a dodgy carry on film, in the fact that the humour is a little bit seaside saucy.Other than that it's very disjointed, edited badly, and really makes little sense. "},{"Title":"No respectable ghost would live in California. Really unfunny comedy.","Date":"14 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" High Spirits is set in Ireland where Peter Plunkett (Peter O'Toole) is told he has two weeks left to pay the mortgage on his ancestral Castle turned hotel, unfortunately the hotel isn't very popular & in an attempt to muster business Peter advertises it as an authentic haunted Castle complete with real ghosts. Peter's attempt's at fooling his guests into thinking the Castle is haunted fail miserably, however all is not lost as then the real ghosts take over. Much hilarity ensues, not...This English American co-production was written & directed by Neil Jordan & quite frankly I think High Spirits is a pretty bad film. The script is a muddled mess, there are sporadic moments of supposed comedy, there's an awful romance between American tourist Steve Guttenberg & ghost Daryl Hannah, there's stupid drama & it tries to chuck some horror into the mix as well. None of it works, it never comes together as one coherent piece & the fact that it's so unfunny, childish, predictable & rather boring doesn't help my love for it. The character's are clichd, the ghosts are underused & did I mention that it wasn't funny yet? So here we have a film that tries to be a horror comedy but fails on both counts, High Spirits is not a film I look back on with any fondness. At all.Director Jordan has apparently gone on record as saying that he had no input over the editing process & what was released was substantially different to his original cut, to be honest that sounds like an excuse for making such a bad film as he still directed the scenes which ended up on screen, it was still his script this mess came from & quite frankly how much difference could there have been? Was there hours of unused footage? Would any of it been any funnier if there was? I imagine the studio probably tweaked it a bit but maybe because Jordan's original cut was even worse, I just don't believe this 'it would have been brilliant if the studio had left it alone' rubbish., anyway I guess we'll never find out either way... I must admit the film looks quite nice with good sets although the special effects vary between impressive & poor. On a side note did anyone else notice the white horse Guttenberg lands in front of when he falls out of the tree hit by lightening (don't ask)? I'm positive you can see the horse's penis dangling between it's legs, not that I specifically look out for these things you understand...Technically High Spirits is fine with decent production values. Looking at the cast list it's pretty impressive although no one covers themselves in glory, O'Toole is good but that's it. Gutteneberg tries to act all emotional, oh dear...High Spirits is a comedy that simply isn't funny & it's story is a mess that doesn't entertain, I don't know what else to say other than I didn't like it. Could have been better, much better. Watch Ghostbusters (1984) instead to see how a proper supernatural comedy should be done. "}]