[{"Title":"Zombie massacre!","Date":"27 August 2006","Score":"15 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I still remember how I got into this movie. The VHS cover was very cheesy but at the same time it was intriguing. I remember avoiding this one until it was the last VHS on my local video store Horror shelf. When I rented it in the early 90's, I wasn't a bit disappointed but I forgot about it pretty soon.Years after, I watched it on DVD and the memories are still fresh! This movie isn't better than the original but still has it's own good moments. Thom Matthews reprises his lead role and delivers a great performance. The direction is pretty good for the movie's standards and I must admit that this is a visually stunning low budgeter.The ending is among the best of any zombie flicks for it's unique cheesiness and non-stop action.Watch this sequel only for fun purposes, do not watch it as a straight Horror movie because it might disappoint you. "},{"Title":"'Return of the Living Dead Part II'","Date":"23 April 2004","Score":"17 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  In this sequel to 'The Return of the Living Dead', three neighborhood kids stumble upon one of those army drums and accidently release the gas that revives the dead. What follows is basically the same horror mayhem as its predecessor.  Zombies rise from the graveyard and remarkably manage to eat the brains of everyone except for the few people within which the movie revolves around. The two movies are pretty much similar in terms of content, but what is lacking this time around is freshness.The first movie took a satirical approach to George Romero's 'Night of the Living Dead', and it worked in terms of humor and creepy fun. In this film, which is basically a carbon copy of the first, it is not quite as much fun. Rather, it seems to be more silly than funny.  The script strains for humor throughout the movie, particularly in a scene in which the movie mocks Michael Jackson's 'Thriller' video. But its flaws don't really matter because this is not the kind of movie to be taken seriously.  I guess that it can be a decent movie to watch on a Halloween night.Rating (5/10) "},{"Title":"Not much here, pretty stupid actually...","Date":"9 April 2002","Score":"12 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" ...I hate to say it, but this movie is nothing compared to the original, seriously. Thom Mathews and James Karen are back, playing different roles of course, as grave robbers, and there are also a bunch of young middle school kids, a teenage girl and another guy fleeing in terror from more brain-munching zombies, resurrected from their peaceful slumber yet again by the weird chemical from the original. This is missing the great punk/rock/metal soundtrack, humor, punk rock characters, and gore from the original, so basically it falls flat and never goes anywhere. I was getting really bored. If you want a rehash, this is your dish I guess, but otherwise this movie flat out blows. Watch the first one again.  "},{"Title":"More of a comedy this time around.","Date":"25 March 2003","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This was an ok sequel to the original.  Though I liked the first one much better.  This time around one of those drums from the first one falls off a truck and these kids open it, once again awakening the living dead.  This time around though, it is definitely more of a comedy than a horror.  The first one had quite a bit of comedy in it, but in the end I would say it was more horror...this one has very little horror in it.  A kid, his sister, and I think a TV or cable repairman must try to escape the living dead.  There is also an old guy who was a doctor.  There are also two grave robbers who are the exact two guys who released the chemicals in the first one and a girlfriend of the younger guy.  Once again the zombies are seemingly indestructible, but this time a weakness is found in the form of electricity.  So the conclusion to this one occurs at an electrical plant.  The kid must face down the bully who released the chemical too.  Would have been a better movie if it was more horror oriented, but it is still worth a look.  The slimey zombie from the first one also makes a brief appearance. "},{"Title":"munch,munch...mmmm human brains!!","Date":"14 March 2002","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film is Awesome!!! the zombies are creepy, and the film maintains that night of the living dead feel to it....not too campy, just right....and the electrocuted zombies is a classic scene!!!I Really enjoy this film, this gorefest seems to hold its own with horror fans, and although it has a (part 2) attached,...it isnt really a sequel per se, its more of another telling of zombies attacking people!this film is horror at its best! its campy, its fun, its Zombie time! "},{"Title":"Funny Zombie Cult Movie","Date":"14 January 2015","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" While transporting drums of the dangerous Trioxin gas, one of them falls from the army truck into a river. In the morning, the boy Jesse Wilson (Michael Kenworthy) is bullied by the older Billy (Thor Van Lingen) and Johnny (Jason Hogan) and he hides himself under a bridge nearby the cemetery. The two bullies find Jesse and they see the barrel. Then the bullies lock Jesse in a mausoleum and they decide to open the barrel, releasing the Trioxin and breathing the toxic gas. Meanwhile the grave robber Ed (James Karen) hires Joey (Thom Mathews) to help him to pillage the graves and they go to the cemetery in a van with Joey's girlfriend Brenda (Suzanne Snyder). Ed and Joey go to the mausoleum and Jesse is released and runs home. His sister Lucy Wilson (Marsha Dietlein) tells him to do the homework. Then the cable guy Tom Essex (Dana Ashbrook) arrives to fix the television and he recognizes Lucy from the high- school. Soon the Trioxin awakes the dead in the cemetery and the town is crowded with hordes of zombies. Ed, Joey and Brenda run to Jesse's house and team up with Lucy and Tom trying to survive to the brain eaters. Return of the Living Dead Part II is a funny zombie cult movie. This sequel is a comedy with action, with good special effects and creepy zombies. There are the usual stupid attitudes from the characters but it is highly entertaining. My vote is six.Title (Brazil) A Volta dos Mortos Vivos - Parte 2 (The Return of the Living Dead Part II) "},{"Title":"Was this rated G?","Date":"25 December 2004","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" What was the point of the movie titled return of the living dead part 2? It doesn't really make sense that there would still be any barrels of that toxic stuff after the huge bomb in the first movie wiped everything out. Why did the people even bother trying to live when they realize that the ghoulish things don't even respond to anything but aerobic videos and 80s music. It was really embarrassing to see the thriller Michael Jackson semi-cameo thing at the end. Who's lame idea was it to have electricity stop the wandering wormbags, wow, what a terribly finish to a ,well, awful try at impressing the kids. Six year old's can't get into R-rated movies. Please don't rent this and ruin your night. "},{"Title":"An inferior sequel, but still a lot of fun","Date":"15 February 2010","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Horror and Comedy have been blended together in so many films, especially in the 1980 and 90s. Sam Raimi did it with his 'Evil Dead' films and Peter Jackson, who has achieved blockbuster success in recent years, with his earlier work. This is really tricky though because if the balance between the two is off then it could fail in one or more areas. One example of this is 'House II The Second Story,' which lacks that balance and the silly humor takes over. Had this been the case with 1985s 'The Return of the Living Dead' it probably wouldn't have turned out as well as it did, but thankfully it ended up being a genre classic. Can the same be said for this first of four sequels? Pros Cast does a good job. A decent score and pretty cool soundtrack. Fast-paced. Excellent special and make-up effects. Some of the humor works. Like the first film, you get the feeling this was a labor of love. Writer/director Widerhorn adds some stylish touches and neat ideas. Has a fair share of camp value.Cons Some of the humor is just too silly and falls flat. Lacks the inventiveness of the original. The first one has humor too, but still managed to have some good chills, something sorely missing here. Even less plot this time.Final thoughts The first 'Return of the Living Dead' was a tough act to follow and though the makers of this first sequel tried hard, they didn't even equal it. Does that mean it's not worth a shot? No way because there's still a lot of good here and the movie is fun to watch. It's also the only sequel to the original that comes close to capturing it's essence.My rating 3.5/5 "},{"Title":"Army intelligence","Date":"31 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A careless Army officer whilst driving his cargo to a new location, (unknown to him) accidentally looses one of his canisters. A few days later a few children stumble across it. They open it unleashing a mysterious fog, which engulfs the nearby cemetery. This action revives the dead creating Zombies. Naturally they go for a walk searching for their favourite snack, Brains.A fantastic B-grade film, with all the charm and grace of a true black Comedy. Humorous in the sickest of ways. And at least the army didn't react in the same way as they did in the first. I love this film (though not to the extent of Re-animator). Deserves a 8/10.  "},{"Title":"Run ! Here Comes The Sequel !","Date":"31 March 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"      Did we really need a sequel ? We have nearly the same plot, some of the same actors, definitely some of the same lines and practically the same actors. Yet, right when Thom Matthews was about to be type-cast in horror movies, he said, Sure, I'll do it. Later, you know he screaming,  They drove up to my house and dumped a truck load of money on my front porch......   I mean, what are the odds that two idiots who look exactly alike will befall the same fate ? Admittedly, Thom and James Karen could make a very funny comedy team, but not in the same roles saying the same things like some asinine Martin and Lewis series. That said, this movie is a lot funnier than the first. Phillip Bruns replaces Don Calfa and has some very funny lines. A sub-plot involves juvenile delinquency and acceptance as the zombies horse around, steal the scenes and get in the way. One in particular in a dark suit and a few others just keep returning in other scenes as if that wasn't really obvious. I guess there was a shortage in extras. Mitch Pileggi of the X-Files has a very obvious role and I'm sure I recognized the zombie on the hospital phone as from an old episode of the original Twilight Zone. If I had written the script, I would have tossed in a vampire to spar with the zombies because he sure would have been immune to that bite of their's. "}{"Title":"Waste of Time!","Date":"5 October 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I don't think I have seen a supposed 'horror' movie this cheesy in years, compared to the first 'Night of the Living Dead' I would have to say this movie must have cost under $25k to make....acting was horrible and annoying, effects were about as scary as my five year old's scream mask, and the overall movie was just a comedy show....its no wonder this was only $1.95 on my pay per view channel, wow! We cannot use the excuse that this is an 80's film as I have seen some awesome horror flicks from back then but this film must have been found in the garbage or something....don't waste your time or money on this.Dawn of the Dead is still the best cult classic out there I think. "},{"Title":"Completely and Totally Inane, but Wildly Entertaining","Date":"17 April 2000","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw this on the Sci-Fi Channel yesterday, and I was meaning to rent it for a while, so I was glad I'd get a chance to see it. And despite how amazingly mindless this was, it was so entertaining, and kept my interest the whole duration of the film.Young Jesse is going to be initiated into some club, led by bully and tough-guy Billy. They find a drum of toxic gas at the graveyard, and open it up, only for Billy to be covered in the stuff, and Jesse locked in the mortuary. Meanwhile, teenaged Johnny is leaving his ditzy girlfriend Brenda for a night to help out Ed, who needs to get the heads of some buried bodies for some museum or science lab, I don't remember. They find Jesse, who then escapes home, where his older teenage sister Lucy berates him for being out, and locks him in the room when the cable guy, teenaged Tom, shows up. This is all just the setup of characters when the gas from the drum escapes out into the graveyard, and even comes in contact with Ed and Johnny. Soon, zombies are rising up for fresh brains, and after the town is evacuated (except for the select few, who don't get away) and sealed off by the army, all hell breaks loose. With the help of Doc, next door to Jesse and Lucy, the handful of likable characters fights to escape and survive, all up to the surprisingly suspenseful climax.This is by far one of the most brainless horror movies, seeing as that it has more comedy than horror, but my God, I could not get over how entertaining this really was. I mean, from start to finish, my interest was held. I liked all the characters, I laughed a few times, I was scared a few times, and really liked this. I recommend this, without a doubt, for anyone looking to just watch something fun and exciting, and not think, for about ninety minutes. Definitely rent, buy, or look out for this on TV. It's a great movie!  "},{"Title":"probably least favorite among the 'Return of' movies; not without some laughs and zombie thrills","Date":"16 July 2006","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Return of the Living Dead Part 2 is too cheesy, self-referential, inane, and almost tries for so much (with more money and more locations/zombies) it falls flat on its face. There are some very good moments though underneath the very broad strokes from the script. The make-up and effects almost try to one-up the first film, even if that too sometimes lacks a certain demented sense of humor not tapped well. The simple story this time follows the same set of cannisters that let out the cork of the story, and once an 'egg hatches', as in the film film, it lets out a wrath via acid-rain and smoke that rises the dead and infects our heroes from the last film (played in performances not as hysterically spot-on as in the first entry by James Karen and Thom Matthews). This time there's also the heroic kid, a couple of screamingly hectic girls, and an odd-ball doctor (among the living that is). There's even a paper-thin sub-plot involving the boy and his soon zombified brother. And, in the end, it all leads to the power station where electricity now comes into play.The soundtrack to the movie actually is one of the better parts of the movie (the original 80's soundtrack that is, not the new one on DVD)- some songs of course very dated, though still quite appropriate in their frozen 80s metal state of mind. There's also quite a good laugh hearing an unexpected Robert Palmer 'Doctor Doctor' song involving the soon-to-be-undead. And sometimes the little gags and puns thrown in, either through dialog of an obvious satirical jab (i.e. zombies stop everything that they do to watch a TV), do work enough to watch it from start to finish without having some good times. But there are downsides that do come with, almost, being too much like a goofy story than delivering genuine scares. The writer/director, Ken Wiederhorn, lacks the real skill of balancing more delirious and crazy moments that build on some laughs based on practically lampooning zombie movies, and doesn't have the same measured control as Dan O'Bannon did with Part 1. Little gags like driving zombies don't work as well as just simple insane looks from the actors- which for the most part is just average and banal (aside from the odd doctor who is just, well, odd).I wouldn't rush to see Return of the Living Dead part 2, unless you're really a zombie-movie fan, or have seen the other 2 (discounting the direct to video sequels), OR want a couple of dumb tongue-in-cheek references to Michael Jackson's Thriller video. Good enough as a very standard zombie movie, but with potential that goes to waste. C+ "},{"Title":"Not nearly as good as the first film.","Date":"3 February 1999","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Honestly, this is a very bad movie.  The first Return of the Living Dead was a great movie, and highly entertaining.  This second part, however, was just plain stupid!  The acting was poor, the script was poor, and there is virtually NO GORE!  I think there are only three or four deaths in this film, and they are all incredibly LAME.  The zombies in this film are supposed to be funny, but I never laughed once.  Stay away from this one, watch the first one instead. "},{"Title":"Ernest meets a Zombie.","Date":"7 September 2004","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Absolutely awful follow-up to a cult classic. This movie lacked everything that made Return of the Living Dead so enjoyable. In that movie, there was suspense, horror, comedy, good effects, restricted content, etc.. this lame sequel had none of that. It was more like an Ernest film with characters constantly looking at each other and fake-screaming, before running off in every direction as if they were in a screwball comedy. Horrible, just horrible. The acting was terrible, the effects were lame, but by far the worst was the constant Home Alone-type action. This movie was made for 5-year olds! Just about as bad as a sequel can possibly get.R.  "},{"Title":"Decent, Funny Sequel!","Date":"27 November 2004","Score":"11 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Second instalment of the Return films, kicks off with three boys setting off a cannister of 245 trioxin gas (as seen in the first), that has a slimy corpse packed inside like a tuna fish, as it turns out, he's the returning Tarman from the original film, with his head mysteriously attached back onto his shoulders! Did somebody actually take the time to sew this poor guys head back on?. Like in the first film, once the gas is out in the open, it spreads over the local cemetery, awakening a throng of rotted cadavers that have definitely been out of the freezer for far to long!, Once free from their graves, they go into a new small town development project & munch on human brains! While a small group of people set out to destroy them before they too join the stiffs! RETURN OF THE LIVING DEAD II, although nowhere near as good as the original Dan O'Bannon directed first film, is still plenty entertaining. Director KEN WIEDRHORN'S script is full of humour & that's all properly displayed here, since just like in the original, the casting directors were able to find some very good acting talent, with each actor making their roles very believable & interesting & not only that, the actors are also able to deliver on the jokes in the script just perfectly. The zombie make-up is beyond disgusting, as we see an army of badly decomposing corpses roam about & eating the brains of the unwary. I'm not sure what the budget was for the film, but if anything it looks to be higher than that of the original film, simply because there are more close ups of the zombie make- up & costumes than what the original exhibited. Returning cast members THOM MATHEWS & JAMES KAREN (Along with JONOTHAN TERRY returning as COL. GLOVER & BRIAN PECK returning to play a series of zombies) are once again re-teamed with each other & as in the original, their chemistry really works, these guys are hilarious & make one of the best (but sadly) unrecognizable comedy duo in the history of cinema! MICHAEL KENWORTHY (What ever happened to this kid anyways?) MARSHA DIELTEN, SUZANNE SNYDER, DANA ASHBROOK & the late PHILIP BRUNS, all turn in great performances & the kid playing the lead bully turned zombie, is perfectly cast in the part & makes for a good villain. If anything it could be argued that while the film is not as good as the first, it is indeed funnier, the original's humour came from it's story & how it's characters dealt with a real zombie invasion, as opposed to the ones they seen in the Romero zombie films, as they quickly found out that the rules on how to kill a zombie, established by Romero, sadly doesn't work on these zombies. The jokes are all told in funny situations & one liners. Perhaps the best moment comes from when JAMES KAREN & THOM MATHEWS (who's dressed to look like Marty Mcfly from BACK TO THE FUTURE!) are sitting down to eat in a mausoleum, after some grave robbing, with Karen warning Mathews to watch his tongue if he likes the job he is currently doing, & Thom gets upset, Like this job! Like this job... I mean it was funny when it was said in the original, but here it's extra funny, simply because in the first, both men had an ordinary job, but here, their stealing body parts & jewelry! Other humorous bits are derived from an badly decaying female EDDIE MURPHYeseque talking severed head, that despite being dead, still retains it's sense of humour & the MICHAEL JACKSON THRILLER ZOMBIE was hilarious! Another thing I liked that they carried over from the first is the fact that the z ombies all have personalities, unlike most zombie flicks, you really believe that these stiffs were really alive at one time. At one point Director Weiderhorn seems to be making a comment on weather or not there's an afterlife or just dying & being re-incarnated as someone else, especially in a scene where Karen & Mathews are driving along in the car & Mathews explaining the feeling he has, that what their going through feels strangely familiar, like they had been there before, both of being sick & as zombies roaming about, but such a case is not really made clear as it is never mentioned or referenced within the context of the rest of the film & despite it's comedy tone, Director Ken Weiderhorn is able to establish some pretty key effective scenes & jump scares, along with a modicum of suspense & better yet, Wiedrhorn never slows down, as his script always as something going on, both funny, gooey, suspenseful, action packed & horrific. Despite the fact that the original played heavy on the violence, Weiderhorn seems to shy away from heavy violence, true the film has violence in it, but it's mostly committed against the rotting stiffs who have various arms, legs, head ripped off or have the zombies faces literally punched in or their eyes & jaws extracted from their bodies (Don't watch this during dinner or after...) Highly recommended to all zombie fans, especially fans of the first, just don't expect it to top the first film & you should find yourself being mildly entertained. Beware the DVD version released by WARNER BROS. they have added dialogue, some of which plays out of sync with the actors! & the original soundtrack has been stripped from the film & replaced by a horrible sounding score & a somewhat interesting narration, a different rock soundtrack used during the closing credits (Which I admit, I liked better than Monster Mash) Stick with the VHS version if you still have a VCR & can find a copy. Followed by more sequels, starting with the more serious minded & darkest entry in the franchise, THE RETURN OF THE LIVING DEAD III*** stars "},{"Title":"What am I supposed to shoot with this? Mice?","Date":"6 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" After seeing Return of the Living Dead, I soon found out about its sequels ROLD II and ROLD III. I went out one night, saw ROLD II and III on a discount shelf at the mall, they were $5 together, so I figured eh, what the hell. I must say, it was money well spent. I started watching this movie and almost immediately got into the storyline. It was so much different than the 1st, but still great. I had 1/2 expected this to be a repeat of the original but I guess I thought wrong. Jesse was funny as hell throughout the movie, always being sneaky, outsmarting Billy. My favorite line had to be when he and his sister Lucy are in their grandparent's house, she takes a shotgun, gives Tom a .45, then gives Jesse a .22 rifle and he says What am I supposed to shoot with this? Mice? I had to pause the movie so I could laugh. Also, Ed and Joey were the complete counterparts of Frank and Freddy of the original, and were just as funny. SOme of my favorite characters of THIS one were Jesse He was just plain funny, enough said....Billy evil little bully, yet once he turned into a zombie, you couldn't help but look for him as he hunted the group of survivors....Ed Grave-robber who was a lot like Frank, in that he was just a LITTLE too into his job. Also like Frank, once he saw the dead return he became a whiny coward, but it was still funny as hell, he was part of the trio which were running and hijacking cars throughout the movie, which included him, Joey and Brenda....Joey A lot like Freddy in the original, new to his job and hung around with Ed, also part of the trio (Joey, Brenda, Ed)....Brenda Joeys girlfriend, she hated everyone except Joey pretty much, last of the trio....Doc Mandel Neighbor from down the street, had a lot of random lines and all that. Was probably the funniest character.....George Crowley (Bily's dad) Although he is the first character killed, very early on, he still left an impression which wasn't shown in the movie. He was all goofy but protective of his family, brandishing a shotgun but being all panicky. He had to have the funniest face when the zombie rose up just before it attacked him, his eyes and mouth just went wide open in the most comical way.....There I go ranting again! "},{"Title":"Zombies are cool.","Date":"28 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Zombies are cool.  More than that, they're dangerously cool.  Sure, one on one, no contest, a zombie ain't near the threat as some of histories other great supernatural baddies, but they're still cool nonetheless.  But, why?Because, in numbers, they are near unstoppable.  Not only that, but they're funny.  Whether you're watching a classic like Night of the Living Dead or a turd like My Boyfriend's Back (hey, it fits), zombies always seem to have an erie underlying familiarity to them that just makes you smile!Return of the Living Dead Part 2 is the sequel to the 1985 cult classic of the same name with a Part 2 tacked onto the end of it.  The movie stars a bunch of nobodies, and if you watch the acting, you know why they're nobodies.  It's just as well anyway, nobody watches these films for the humans.  They're merely glorified snack foods for our main attraction!Skipping the plot breakdown, one thing that is disappointing about Return 2 is that the zombies a little more cartoony looking.  One thing that made the first flick great was the make-up.  Here, we're treated to tired FX, and in some cases, the same zombie baddies over and over again.  Yeah, they can't die, but let's have a little variety!The film is still fun though, and brainless enough to keep you off the radar of any zombies in the neighborhood, while you watch it.I recommend you check this out of you liked Return of the Living Dead or are a hardcore Zombie fan. "},{"Title":"Watch and laugh...in the 80's they made good horror and comedy and sometimes a mix","Date":"26 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Possible Spoilers here I saw this film recently and I thought it was enjoyable and funny. If you want to see a scary horror film I would not advise this one. However, if you like a very campy, funny at times gory film (with slight horror at times) this is the one for you. I like true horror as well but this entertains in comedic value, primarily. If the Three Stooges Made a Horror film this would be it. In some ways it reminded me of 'Killer Klowns from Outer Space.' Suzanne Snyder (Brenda) was a main character both films. I only wish they followed up on what happened to the characters of Ed, Joey and Brenda as they were main characters who simply disappeared from the screen 2/3rds of the way through. Real 'Night of the Living Dead' fans usually don't like these films because they are not horrific enough (I think they are much more entertaining, at least on different levels). The scene where James Karen (Ed) is strangled by a severed hand is so funny I watched it about 5 times (the same for the severed head scene). Watch and laugh!  "},{"Title":"Fairly decent sequel","Date":"7 October 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie does not deserve some of the harsh reviews it has garnered here imo. It is a much better horror film than ROTLD 3 and you can totally write off ROTLD 4+5 which were horrendous and I don't mean so bad they were good, I mean god awful! This movie centers around what looks to be a new suburban area ( so new 1/2 the houses are partially constructed). The hero here is a young boy and his sister. The characters are OK and make no mistake this film in no way approaches the original. However I did like the introduction of electricity as a means of destroying the living dead. It has a certain sci-fi plausibility to it. Electricity essentially fry's the cadavers reanimated cns as well as every other nerve system as well in effect finally eliminating the zombie. Electrical current would also have the effect of dehydrating the reanimated tissue-so like I said sci-fi plausibility. This film is better than average and worth a look if you liked the 1st one. Again, don't expect the same quality though. "}{"Title":"Great sequel","Date":"9 September 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is a fun, campy, and cool sequel to the 80's classic Return of the Livind Dead. This sequel follows a group of teens who must survive after their city becomes over-run with brain eating zombies! It all starts when some kids open a barrel of Tri-oxin that accidentally fell off a Army truck. This film isn't as gory as the original, nor does it feature the charm the first one had. But this is one of the rare times when a horror sequel is actually good. The acting about as good as you'd expect from an 80's horror flick. Thom Matthews and Jim Karen come back from the original to star (they play two new characters though). The zombies are done well and there are some fun scenes and situations. This is just a fun 80's zombie flick. "},{"Title":"Return of the Living BREAD","Date":"24 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Forgiving this comment's title's obvious reference to a parody of Night of the Living Dead, this movie, at least in my eyes, is only good for generating profits, hence changing Dead to bread, a slang term for money.Well, the dead are back, and this time, they seem to all have rubbery looking faces and green goo for blood. I honestly think that this movie is actually WORSE than the third installment in the series. The movie starts off with a pot-smoking army truck driver loosing a few barrels from his truck, and one falling into the river. The story then cuts to a few young boys, two of which are trying to get the youngest to join their club. They go to their clubhouse which turns out to be a crypt. The youngest boy runs away, and goes into a large drainpipe, in which the fallen canister MAGICALLY moved into. The boys open the canister, releasing the ghoul inside. Now, this is where I realized that this movie was going to get worse before it gets better. The ghoul looks like the Tarman from the first film, only not as creepy, a bit more (trying to be) comedic, and with worse make-up and movement. Well, the gas in the canister is released into the air, and in only about 9 seconds, the clear sky gets filled with dark clouds and with a cliché stroke of lightning, it begins to rain. The rain, now with the zombie-gas in it, seeps into the graveyard, and the zombies within start to get out of their graves. Sadly, what was a fairly creepy scene in the first movie is made to be a slapstick comedy scene, with one zombie's hands getting stepped on repeatedly while trying to get out of his grave, and another zombie straightening his tie when he gets out. What insulted me most, though, is that the zombies were no longer the desperate for brains, fast-moving variety which scared us senseless in the first film. No, now they are about as slow moving as those in Night of the Living Dead. Which is a bad thing, as you would know if you were to see the horror of the characters in Part 1 when they discovered that the movie (Night of the Living Dead) lied. Well, the movie continues, and there is a bit more brain eating than the first film, but it's no longer as horrifying as in the first movie. Instead of characters still trying to get away as their brains are eaten, and then twitching while on the ground, they are overcome with surprise (or so I would think) and stop in their tracks. Near the end of the movie, one character is chasing his girlfriend, and when she trips, he comes up to her saying that it's just her, and she says Ok and calms down. Now, here's the clincher He begins to move his mouth towards the top of her head, albeit slowly, and she obviously notices this, and she has this look of grim satisfaction on her face, even after he begins to chomp her skull. You would think having your brains eaten would hurt... The absolute saddest parts of this movie, in my opinion, were the attempts at making a connection with the first movie. Two characters, Joey and Ed, are played by the same actors that played Freddie and Frank respectively in the first film, have a similar relationship as in Part 1. One scene has the characters repeating a joke from the first movie, but with none of the humorFirst film-- Freddie Stupid asshole! Frank Watch your tongue boy, if you like this job! Freddie LIKE THIS JOB?!?!?!This Film-- Joey You're just afraid that some old creep like you is gonna come along and steal your head. Ed Watch your tongue, boy, if you like this job! Joey Like this job? another scene has the characters announcing that they feel like they've done this all before, like in a dream or something.Overall, this movie has cheesy acting, unfunny humor, an odd DOWNGRADE in make-up effects, and no horror to speak of. I can't see why anyone would be able to say this is as good as the first, let alone BETTER than Part 1. I give this film 4 BRAAAAAAAAIIIINSSSS out of 10.P.S. You know how I earlier commented on how I knew the movie would get worse before it got better? Well, it did get worse, but not better. The movie ends with zombie head jabbering in a (VERY fake) southern American accent, even after she gets burnt by a flamethrower. It wasn't funny, it was just sad. "},{"Title":"BRAINS....Part Deux.","Date":"23 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Once again military hi-jinx creates another zombie fiasco as this time around a bunch of neighborhood brats crack open one of the sealed containers containing that lovely green toxin and one slightly hungry brain-craving zombie. Meanwhile back at the cemetery two grave robbers (James Karen and Thom Matthews returning from the 1985 original albeit in new roles) at ground-zero for the buffet. Can the military rescue the survivors and contain the zombie menace&#133;are you kidding?This second installment is the weakest of the current three films (4 and 5 are on the way). At times it is a little too hokey and the makeup and effects aren't as good this time around. It was funny to see Karen and Matthews return again but they end up basically repeating their previous performances. The other actors serve their purpose but none shine or stand out. Region 1 DVD Note As has been stated on the net the Warner DVD has some serious issues with the music score. For whatever reason a new score was added to the English audio track (strangely the audio on the French dub track is the original score) and is really out of place. For most of the film the music wanders around not framing any of the on-screen action. Disappointing and pitiful. In the end RotLD2 is enjoyable but pales in comparison to the original but is in no way a bad film, a little rushed or under developed but not bad. "},{"Title":"A wonderful sequel to a great movie!","Date":"25 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I really love this sequel.  I was especially glad that Thom Matthews and James Karen made an appearance in this movie.  The only thing that would have made this one better would be to have included Linnea Quigley in the fun again.  This movie was full of laughs and gore.  You HAVE to have a sense of humor and an appreciation of blood and gutts to enjoy this movie though. This is not for the squeamish or prudes.  A++ -) "},{"Title":"'80s horror is the greatest thing ever","Date":"26 May 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I don't know what it is that makes the horror films of the 1980s so much fun. Maybe it's the fact that the sophistication of special effects in films probably peaked somewhere around here, before CGI came along in the 90s and took all the fun out of them. Maybe it's the fact that a little humor was necessary after all the brutal and nihilistic horror films of the '70s. Or maybe it's the over-the-top quality that pervaded everything produced in this decade. I don't know. But this movie is a blast. It reminds me more of a Warner Brothers cartoon than a George Romero-style zombie film; because it's a slapstick movie but unlike in other films of this kind from this time period, the humor doesn't come from extreme gross-out moments. It comes from the attention to details such as a zombie needing to put its glasses on when it rises from the grave; or from a zombie walking around with a jar of brains like it's a glass of beer. It comes from the pause between asking a zombie who the president is and his gruff, Harry Truman? I loved it. If you have any sense of giddiness when you are channel surfing and come across one of the '80s beloved horror comedies, you will too. "},{"Title":"I liked it a lot","Date":"12 January 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I enjopyed this tremendously. It was one of the first zombie films I saw, and first of the Return series. A mix of horror and comedy can so easily be done wrong so this time out, Director Weiderhorn decided to go all out on pure entertainment-almost a light-hearted comedy on the undead. Some jokes fall flat (severed hand giving the finger, probably lifted from Evil Dead 2) but the fun of the film will draw most in and bring back nostalgic memories of the 1980s. The opening credits have recieved a lot of crap as they don't set up the plot the same way the first Return's did. But I like the song (Julian Cope's Spacehopper) and it really caught my attention and got me in a silly mood. The song is probably this film's equivilant of the first's PartyTime sequence.Some might call it lame, but they're just being too cynical. This is a good sequel in most respects and a lot of fun to watch. Like the first, it's dated in many respects but it's still a  load of fun.  "},{"Title":"Awful, just awful","Date":"14 May 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I rented all three Return of the Living Dead movies and watched them the same night.  The first one wasn't bad and the third one was excellent, but this film was just awful.  It was a virtual remake of the first film and even used some of the same characters.  It tried to be funny but didn't even come close.  I had a hard time staying awake through this borefest and strongly encourage all to avoid this film.  Watch the first and third instead. "},{"Title":"another good zombie movie!","Date":"6 July 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  this movie is more of a comedy than the first one was. the  first half of the first movie is pretty much comedy,and  the second half turns serious,with a few comic lines. the  second one  is never really serious. the whole movie is just comic horror. this time even the zombies are being silly. in the first one the zombies were not silly they were just plan deadly,but the first  one is  still better than the second one. but this movie has a lot of  funny lines,and the zombies are fun to watch being silly.  but most of the humor comes from the doc,and ed the grave robber. i give return of the living dead part II *** outof **** "},{"Title":"Brains! Brains!","Date":"10 November 2002","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  How could they ever top the truly ridiculous Return of the Living Dead? Easy, they did it with this even more ridiculous film.Once again, military gas becomes airborne and it revives the living dead who are only interested in one thing-feasting on human brains. Fans of the original film will know what to expect-absolute stupidity.Whilst the film is intentionally funny, there is also a bit of gore as well because the no. 1 food for zombies is human brain and we get to see them munch on brains a few times.The zombies are ridiculous but the people being chased by them are even more ridiculous and the climax is just crazy.A great film that was followed by the serious Return Of The Living Dead 3. "},{"Title":"Not funny. Not scary. Not campy. Not good.","Date":"22 May 2007","Score":"10 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Caught this on HBO the other night. It's about some kids living in a quintessential suburban cul de sac blight that meet the slow witted slow moving zombie menace brought about by banned government tests. Let's just say it was really really hard to sit through the whole thing.Okay, if you want to make a campy zombie movie go for it but at least be clever or funny. This is neither.Okay, then what about scary? Nothing scary. These zombies couldn't catch a grandmother with a broken hip.After the first ten minutes or so you'll be asking yourself, What was the intent of the film makers? Not to scare me. Not to make me laugh. Not to put an effort into production values. Not to find capable actors. Not to make socio-political allegory. Not to... well you get the point. Stay away from this one. "}{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"23 July 2004","Score":"17 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This lame sequel has nothing to do with the first film except for the presence of the chemical 245 Trioxin which, at films beginning, rolls off of an army truck and lands in a ditch outside of a planned suburban community. Soon, obnoxious children are munching on their mommy's brains and the military is evacuating the neighborhood. Except they forgot about an annoying, aerobics obsessed teenage girl, her little brother and her potential boyfriend. Or maybe they didn't forget, and just wanted to see them all die as much as I did. James Karen and Thom Mathews are back, but they're given little to do and end up trying to reprise their witty roles from the first film, an attempt which falls sadly flat. I was terribly disappointed in this sequel to the hilarious and innovative first film. Not even the presence of Brian Peck (Scuz from the first film) dressed up as a Michael Jackson zombie, could save this film for me. It's slow, it's dull, the acting is awful, the characters are unlikable and the premise is weak. It could have been so much better. Stick with the first film and skip this flop. "},{"Title":"More brains...","Date":"19 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The first time around I was confused with this sequel, as they had cast and characters from the first movie (and died in the first movie) return to the sequel, but you don't have to go long before realize this is a spoof on the first movie.The story is straight forward and very easy to follow. And it doesn't require much brains, pardon the pun, to enjoy.Hilarious and memorable characters fill Return of the Living Dead Part II. And there are some great zombies too. I especially love the Michael Jackson zombie; it just kills me every time.Part two is a comedy, unlike part one which was more of a serious movie, so keep that in mind as it might not appeal to you. But personally then I thought that it not taking itself serious and making fun of the first movie was just hilarious.I do believe that Return of the Living Dead Part II has as much a place in the movie collection of zombie fans everywhere as the first movie does. "},{"Title":"Everything Dreadful About 80's Sequels...","Date":"13 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" When I was a kid I had the poster to this movie on my wall. Not just that, I also had a 4x3 foot cardboard stand from the local video shop that stood proudly in the corner of my room.I also had a miniature cardboard display next to a 5 foot RoboCop, a 4 foot Crocodile Dundee and a 6 foot Robin Williams from Good Morning Vietnam.Liking this movie was a given, I had stacks of Fangoria magazines piled next to my graphic novels that were cushioned next go my porn collection. Comics, gore, porn.... everything a growing teenage boy needs, but why is it that I can't remember anything from this movie, yet I could recite lines from the original verbatim?25 years on I got the Blu-Ray of the first 3 ROTLD movies and decided to spend a whole Sunday watching them back to back with hot winter food and alcohol, but 5 minutes into this....effort, it all came flooding back. It's appalling.I'd like to say it's like a lifeless corpse of a movie in some ironic attempt at thematic humour but it's just a pale imitation, a copy bereft of charm or wit, a typical studio failure to replicate an original premise that had vibrancy, heart and soul. From the awful staged sequences of the badly directed kids 'fighting' at the beginning.Cringe-worthy music that sounded like it was taken from a TV movie sound library.Shocking editing, as the 'gas' creeping through the graveyard is blatantly shot on 2 completely different film stocks and it just looks woefully poor. Yes, the original movie suffered from certain budget restraints and I could write a list of deficiencies as long as my arm but that makes it all the more memorable and charming and re-watchable. All of these years later, watching Return Of The Living Dead again, just hours ago was fun filled, laugh a minute entertainment. This film is everything the first movie isn't and everything we dread about sequels.I have no idea what Ken Weiderhorn thought he was doing but pissing on the legacy of a great concept. I switched this film off 15 minutes.I guess I must have done the same when I was a kid, before tearing the poster off my wall and ripping the cardboard stand to pieces.All of these things, utterly forgettable. "},{"Title":"Underrated zombie film","Date":"27 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Joining up with friends in a cemetery, a kid's discovery of a long-lost barrel of military-test chemicals finds that the release of the chemicals brings the dead to life and stalking their home-town forcing them to hold off the creatures as they find a way of stopping them.This here was a pretty descent sequel with some fun stuff about it. Among the better features here is the really exciting and enjoyable opening here, which features some nice action and some creepy visuals together for a fun time here as the sprawl through the cemetery and being chased by the bullies where he gets backed inside the mausoleum where he encounters the dead bodies in their caskets and leads into the fantastic resurrection scenes as the billowing cloud slowly works out from the drainage pipe into the cemetery where the gnarled hands break free from the heaving earth in the middle of the pouring rain. The later scene where he confronts the tar-man in the tunnel before the bigger mass-grave exhumation filled with hilarious gags and cheesy music makes for a great blend of suspense and cheesy action, which leads nicely into the race to get out of the cemetery as the swarming hordes of zombies overrun the graveyard in a really enjoyable time here. Even the suburbia scenes here are quite fun with them initially driving around and meeting with the two, the house attack which leads to their hilarious escape attempts and finally sneaking through the neighborhood to escape in the car which has some really fun and enjoyable moments here. Likewise, the film has a really enjoyable and exciting finale here with the soldiers confronting the zombies in a massive shootout before they begin chasing the group through the streets in several different attack scenes while they lead the creatures to the power-plant which has some fantastic action in the mass swarming on the truck that locks them inside, the eventual escape and chasing around the facility both inside the truck and out on foot before utilizing a comically cheesy yet oddly creative and effective disposal method of the zombies that really ends this on a high note. Along with the great zombie make-up and fun cheese, these here make for a really fun time here against the film's few flaws. The film's main problem here is the convoluted and clumsy mid-section here, built entirely around the absolutely tired ploy of nobody believing anything he says here without any reason why which continually leads them into encounters with the zombies when a fair bit of smartness would've prevented endless running around. That would've avoided the time-wasting scenes in the hospital, dealing with the infected friends and their adventures through town which are just unnecessary here and ruin the flow of the film. The other problem here is the rather overbearing sense of cheese here from the jokes, the goofy situations and non-threatening nature of the zombies in their actions here. While it makes the film fun, this one does come off more of a cheesy version of the genre.Rated R Graphic Violence, Language, children-in-jeopardy and questionable child activities. "},{"Title":"Passable first sequel but nowhere near as good as the first Return of the Living Dead","Date":"24 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The first Return of the Living Dead was and still is a hugely enjoyable film, that's clever, immensely fun and very scary, and is and always will be the best of the five films in this particular series, the only film to be above good standard. This first sequel is nowhere near as good, but it's passable stuff and is one of the better sequels in the series (certainly much better than the horrendous Necropolis and Rave to the Grave).Visually, Return of the Living Dead Part II is not a stunner but it hardly looks amateurish either. It's shot with style, the lighting does evoke a spooky atmosphere and the effects are above average. The soundtrack is haunting and has a charming 80s feel, while not quite being as good as that of the original it doesn't date the film like it did with Necropolis and Rave to the Grave. James Karen and Thom Andrews return, and do great jobs carrying the film, Karen in particular is hysterical. The zombies are at least well-utilised, and while not very threatening at least exude some personality.On the other hand, while the production values are mostly good the zombie make-up is very much mixed, some of it is okay (while never on the same level of the make-up in the first film, it's never as pathetic as Rave to the Grave) but at other times the zombies look like Thriller-rejects. There is a lot of bad acting here in a film where Karen and Andrews give the only good performances, Suzanne Snyder is particularly annoying as Brenda, one of the series' most obnoxious characters. The characters in general here are very bland, and there's little engaging or endearing about them. The direction is sometimes efficient but sometimes rather languid, while the story is basically just a very predictable and sometimes repetitive re-hash of the first film's but with few of the ingredients that made its predecessor work so well. The film's biggest problem is that it has more emphasis on comedy than scares, this may not seem a problem at first but unfortunately the original achieved a much better balance between comedy and scares whereas this doesn't do very well with either. Scares are barely there in fact and the gore gets tiresome, and worse the comedy is incredibly strained in places with some of the better (if not by much) moments being completely unintentional.In conclusion, passable first sequel but its predecessor is so much better. 5/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Not as good as the first, but fun anyway","Date":"22 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Ignoring the loose connections to 'Night of the Living Dead,' the original 'Return of the Living Dead' was also a classic in its own right. It didn't have the darkness, or social commentary of George A Romero's work, but it had a lot of fun, gore, shocks and humour. It was a good B-movie. I guess it was only natural that it would get a sequel.I read online that &#x96; apparently &#x96; the script that eventually went on to become 'Return of the Living Dead Part II' wasn't actually anything to do with the original. It was just a generic zombie movie that was tinkered with to fit the events of the first film &#x96; loosely. And, having watched it, I can believe that. It &#x96; sort of &#x96; follows on from the events of the original, mentioning a few events, but also bringing back a couple of actors who died in the first as new characters in the second &#x96; why, I'm not entirely sure, but they're quite funny. Plus the Censors were going to award 'Return of the Living Dead Part II' a PG13 rating if a single scene was toned down. I can believe that. It's hardly the most frightening or tense horror film ever made. It's not even that gory. But, despite its many flaws, I can't bring myself to hate it.I look at it like 'Slapstick of the Living Dead.' It's &#x96; almost &#x96; a zombie movie for kids. The dialogue is as cheesy as it comes and makes no attempt to be serious, leaving the audience never that scared for the characters or their plight. You also have to be okay with the lead actor being a young boy. Kids get a bad ride when it comes to films and it is unfair to try and make one carry a whole film. The 'star' who plays the boy 'Jessie' is okay. In some ways that's actually a compliment when you consider how bad some child actors are. Hopefully, you shouldn't hate him.That is more than I can say for the soundtrack. I watched this film in the late eighties on VHS and the soundtrack was a million times better. It's been almost completely rescored and even some extra dialogue dubbed in (where the characters don't actually move their lips!). If you can find it on VHS I would recommend that version.Overall, if you've seen the original, don't expect a great sequel. Be prepared for a much lighter tone from the film. And, if you haven't seen the first one, watch it &#x96; it's very good. There's nothing wrong with Part II, just treat it as a Saturday morning type zombie film that you can sort of half watch and half do something else. "},{"Title":"Return of the Living Dead Part II","Date":"12 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The sequel follows on from the first with its very very basic and silly plot but this time it goes for the throat with full on comedy over horror and gory effects. The makeup and effects are again excellent and show what can be done with real hands on skills instead of just using CGI. This follow up is not as bloody and in your face as the first but more of a slapstick horror with icky green/brown pus favoured over ye olde claret. The odd thing in this sequel is they clearly follow the same plot route as the first. The plot is your standard zombie outbreak type of thing with toxic waste causing the usual problems, but it all feels like a reboot because the first film used toxic gas as the problem that causes the dead to rise from their graves. From there on its virtually the same spiel, literately!The use of the same actors in the exact same type of roles, albeit with different names, is strange yet it doesn't seem to matter. The same type of humour and even the same dialog at times make this film feel like a rerun of the first film but with better effects and a lighter tone. Despite the positively evil looking poster art the film isn't very scary at all, its almost a spoof at times, but a very good one.An amusing 'Thriller' mockery moment at the end typifies how silly this franchise has become, but it is quite amusing I must admit. At the end of the day it still a very good horror comedy and doesn't take itself seriously at all which helps. I think the route they decide to take with this franchise after the first film was the right choice otherwise it would have just been seen as a Romero franchise ripoff.The actors are having fun in their roles and the special effects guys are having a blast with all the slimy gruesome gore. Its completely hokey and corny of course, but back in the day these films were fresh and popular and they still hold up today if you ask me. The ultimate popcorn flick and perfect for aspiring monster makeup wannabes.7/10 "},{"Title":"Get that damn screwdriver out of mah head!","Date":"9 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" It's inevitable that this first sequel to the fondly remembered The Return of the Living Dead wouldn't be as much fun. It's mostly a more-of-the-same type of sequel, except that the comedy content is increased. Perhaps writer / director Ken Wiederhorn (Shock Waves, Eyes of a Stranger) realized that they couldn't top the original, so decided to take things in a goofier direction. The result is a number of gags that vary in quality. Sometimes the movie is amiable and funny, sometimes it's just silly and tiresome. But the actors give it 100% (especially returnees James Karen and Thom Mathews), and Part II does have some good energy and pacing. Certainly the zombies are made to look more cartoon like than stylized.The Army is transporting several barrels of that wonderful chemical Trioxin when some of them get mislaid. Curious kids look inside one, unleashing the deadly Trioxin which contaminates all of the corpses in a nearby cemetery. Among those who will have to save the day are plucky child Jesse (Michael Kenworthy, The Blob '88), his older sister Lucy (Marsha Dietlein), and cable TV installer Tom Essex (Dana Ashbrook, 'Twin Peaks'). Meanwhile, grave robbers Ed (Mr. Karen) and Joey (Mr. Mathews) buy themselves trouble by attempting to purloin human skulls.The cast of familiar faces also includes Suzanne Snyder (Killer Klowns from Outer Space) as Joey's shrill, annoying girlfriend Brenda, original Morty Seinfeld actor Philip Bruns as the drink-loving Doc Mandel, and Mitch Pileggi (Shocker, 'The X-Files') as Sarge. Other returnees from the first film include Jonathan Terry (who seems to be playing the same role here), Allan Trautman (who appears much too briefly as a less impressive looking Tarman), and Brian Scuz Peck, who plays a featured zombie here.Dopey dialogue abounds, and there are some notable gags Brenda punches in the face of a zombie, another one trying to rise from its grave keeps getting stepped on, and a third getting blown in half, only to try to reunite its upper and lower body. The characters are generally a lot less interesting this time around, so the viewer may be more likely to root for the zombies.Not bad - it does deliver some modest chuckles - but The Return of the Living Dead would have been a tough act to follow anyway.Six out of 10. "},{"Title":"Damn kids they have no respect for the dead.","Date":"13 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Much-hated sequel to the '80s classic Return of the Living Dead is better than most people give it credit for being. It's not on the level of the first movie but it's still a fun and enjoyable horror-comedy. The plot is pretty much irrelevant but here goes a container with a zombie in it falls off the back of an army truck. Some kids mess with it and release a toxic gas that reanimates the dead.James Karen and Thom Mathews return, playing different characters than in the last movie. They're a treat to watch, just like last time. Karen is especially funny and gets many of the movie's best lines. The main part this time around is a kid played by Michael Kenworthy. He's pretty good in what appears to have been his biggest role. The rest of the cast is fine. It's a fun movie that doesn't take itself seriously at all. I'm surprised it's hated as much as it is but the first movie was terrific so any sequel to it was bound to fall up short by comparison. Could've been a lot worse, though. "},{"Title":"One of the guiltiest of guilty pleasures . . .","Date":"10 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I have a modest affection for a movie like this. The script is as dumb as a box of rocks but the movie sets out to be a stupid horror comedy and successfully stays the course. The title identifies it as a sequel to 'The Return of the Living Dead', one of my all-time favorite guilty pleasures. This movie doesn't rise to be it's equal but I give it points for trying.The story is pretty much in the title but I'll go into it as much as I can. In a small community a couple of kids start playing with a large metal drum that fell off of a military truck next to the town cemetery. Out of the drum pours a strange gas, which seeps into the ground and soon living dead rise and go looking for human brains. You can pretty well guess the rest.The characters are pretty cartoonish. We meet the kid who woke the dead, his sister, a cable installer and my favorite, a fun-loving graverobber (played by the always dependable James Karen), his reluctant assistant, and a jovial doctor. Karen breaks open crypts at the mausoleum and steals their jewelry having fun the whole way.The movie seems less inspired by George Romero's 'Night of the Living Dead' and more by Michael Jackson's 'Thriller' video (to which there is a nod). The living dead are all rotting decay and dripping flesh stumbling around like drunks at a frat party (I loved the scene where twenty of them pile into a convertible and zoom around town looking for brains.Look, this is not great cinema. I love serious films; in fact I thrive on them. But once in a while I like a little junk food cinema. This is one of those horror films that doesn't take itself seriously and doesn't really even try to be a good movie. ROTLDP2 is a good time killer and never pretends to be anything else. "}{"Title":"Fun but way worse than the first one","Date":"22 May 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" As one would expect, the sequel is way worse than the first movie. Because the infection occurs in the same way as in The Return Of The Living Dead, there is no surprise effect. It still is a fun movie and can be enjoyed if you don't have high expectations about sequels.I found two main problems besides the plot the acting and the make-ups. The actors, specially the kids, are not good at all. Brenda (Suzanne Snyder), for example, doesn't look scared at all, despite the fact that she scream the whole movie. In the other hand, most of the living dead look like old people or are just painted blue or green (except on some close up scenes). That could have been much better if they followed the example of their first movie.If you liked the first movie (and I don't see how one could unlike it), you should watch this one too. Just don't expect it to be a very good movie. "},{"Title":"Get that damned screwdriver out of my head! ","Date":"19 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I feel like we've been here before. You... Me... Them! That's what Thom Mathews Joey says and that how I felt about this film. Thom Mathews and 'James Karen nearly duplicate their roles from Return of the Living Dead as a pair who are sickened by zombie gas. In both films they have the exchange, Listen kid, if you like this job... Like this job? Like this job! They only changes were their names, they were Freddy & Frank, now their Ed & Joey. Only this time they are not funny at all. James Karen even becomes a full fledged zombie who attacks a soldier and eats brains! But he was not convincing for me or scary at all. Thom has another girlfriend, Suzanne Synder (Brenda), in this one who is basically playing the same helpless role Beverly Randolph (Tina)played in the first one. The so-called hero in this one is played by a young Dana Ashbrook in the role of Tom.In one of the most disturbing scenes for me is where the zombies are attacking a pet store and killing all the helpless animals, Tom gets mad and hits a zombie with the ambulance he is driving with and figures out the only way to kill these bastards is by electrocution.Which leads to the grand finale. It is said that The blue electrocution lines in the final sequence were all hand-drawn frame by frame and cost over $50,000.Near the very end of this electrocution scene, a Michael Jackson impersonator zombie can be seen - a direct reference to his Thriller music video. This zombie is played by actor Brian Peck, the only person to have had a role in the first 3 movies in the 'Return of the Living Dead' franchise. Playing the role of 'Scuz' in the first, many of the closeup zombies in the second ('Pussface', ''Thriller', 'Jaw', 'Eye-Pop', 'Zombie on Car Roof') and finally 'Ballistics Technician' in the third. The only other actors I recognized were Philip Bruns ( Of Flashdance and Seinfeld fame)who played the Drunk Doctor.He was so so. And Mitch Pileggi (Skinner of the X-Files fame) playing a kill crazy sergeant. I wish they would have had more of him. Anyways, I feel this sequel was OK but not great. Gonna go see the 3rd one now and see if that's better. Bye! "},{"Title":"Lazy, boring re-hash","Date":"4 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" If you're a fan of the cult horror film Return of the Living Dead (1985), then chances are you've watched this lazy sequel, only to be left wondering where the last 90 minutes of your life have gone. The plot surrounds another lost toxic barrel, containing the chemical gas that will awake the living dead. An obnoxious child witnesses the birth of the zombies after the gas is accidentally released, and the town is soon overrun by seemingly indestructible, brain-eating zombies. A couple of gravediggers robbing the dead are caught up in the midst of the zombie outbreak, and with the boy and his family, try desperately to survive the onslaught.If the plot sounds extremely dull and familiar, it's because it is. The first film was a very amusing, and often quite clever little movie, bursting with ideas and scenes of pure lunacy brought to life by a cast who look like they're genuinely having fun. Part II obviously knows this, and rather than trying to expand on the originals quirky charm and develop the universe, director Ken Wiederhorn, who ended his relatively short career in television, chose to simply re-hash the first, involving similar scenes and situations, and even bringing back some of the actors. What the film becomes is almost pure comedy, aiming at a teenage audience (although the humour is for infants), and lacking the fun horror and gore from the first. There's nothing that even comes close to the limbless female zombie demanding braaaiinnnss! from the first.What we do get is a wise-cracking severed head with the voice of a finger-snapping black woman, a little boy hero who I was praying to be brutally murdered, and a zombie dressed as Michael Jackson doing the Thriller dance (yes, really). It's such a desperate, pathetic attempt to humour an audience that was most likely getting into each other's pants in the back row, and I fail to see how this would amuse anyone apart from those who are entertained by jangling keys. Even James Karen and Thom Mathews, who were very funny in the first, look uncomfortable with the crap they are given to work with. It's just one boring, cringe- inducing 90 minutes, made worse by the fact that this is a missed opportunity, given the quirky charm of the first. One fellow IMDb reviewer put it better than I can, so I quote - not funny, not campy, not scary, not good.www.the-wrath-of-blog.blogspot.com "},{"Title":"Funny sequel","Date":"8 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The sequel Return of the Living Dead Part II is just has as funny as the first Return of the Living Dead, the jokes are humorous, the acting is good from everyone, Thom Matthews and James Karen play similar roles to the first film except their grave diggers instead of working at a warehouse and their names are Ed and Joey instead of Frank and Freddy, they still say the lines Watch your tongue if you like this job. Like this job!?The zombies are funny with the things they do like the zombie hand, the zombie make up is just as good as the first and the Tarman looks cool and creepy. Return of The Living Dead Part II is a great sequel that focuses on humour than horror so don't expect many scary scenes. Watch this for some zombie fun. "},{"Title":"So bad it's good","Date":"16 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie is a perfect example of the bad horror movie genre. It doesn't take itself too seriously, like its sequel Return of the Living Dead 3 does, and instead has fun with the premise. The jokes almost always hit, the plot moves quickly enough and the characters are extremely likable. Return of the Living Dead 2 knew what it was - a bad horror movie and it had fun being one.If you're looking for a jump out of your seats type of movie, this isn't it. If you're looking for a Shaun of the Dead-esquire romp of zombies, brains and guts, you've found the perfect movie. Enjoy it with a lot of beer and some loud friends.7/10 "},{"Title":"Even more BRAINS!!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"13 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" So This movie has a low rating on IMDb, but I don't know why. I admit its not as good as the first, it's not even a really good tie in with the first, but it is the same recipe.Thom Matthews and James Karen, although portraying different people, are almost carbon copies of the guys they played on the original movie. To me it doesn't get much better than the two of them, dying and whining and crying and moaning - hilarious!! The Zombies are great and the story was fast paced and kept me entertained the entire time. I watch this one every few years and it never gets old. Eighties films often get lost or forgotten, or have so many of the same style that they become unimportant, but I think this one is as unique as the first one was and is a very fun film to watch.I do hate the fact that the music was changed, the new soundtrack wasn't god-awful or anything but the original was so much better. Thats the only flaw I have with the film. "},{"Title":"One of my favorite movies.","Date":"7 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is one of my favorite zombie movies of all time. I saw it for the first time as a kid so I have some sentimental childhood memories attached to it. It has everything I want from a zombie movie The zombies are rotted, buried corpses from a graveyard, just like I think zombies should be like, the humor is great(Like the zombie getting his hand stepped on and then on the head and when Doc is talking in the walkie-talkie and a zombie replies. Great stuff) and the dialog has plenty of funny lines. One of my favorites has to be when Joey is saying It's like all this happened before, like we been her before, you, me.. Them! I think this sequel is very loyal to the original film, it brought back a lot of the things that made part 1 great. Like the rock music, the graveyard sequences, the comedy elements and of course the brain-eating. Unlike the other sequels that had barley any of this stuff. The effects are great to, the make up on the zombies are great and the part were one of them is blown in half with a shotgun is a very memorable and funny scene. If like old-school zombies and want a movie with a 80's/retro feeling then watch this one. "},{"Title":"I Don't Care If They're Dead,I'll Kill Them Aways","Date":"31 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Return of the living Dead Part two was a pure funny and horror movie that I seen from a zombie movie.The characters were the one who made this film a comedy movie,without them this would be nothing but a piece of s**t.It may have gotten us dead but since they had great funny people for their role,it became a sensational movie for a zombie sequel.The two parts I really loved from the movie was a head Ed got and I quoteGet that damn screwdriver off of my head.And the hand seen that they tossed them got the Doc,s balls and then tossed it out the widow and gave them the middle finger.Those two parts that really made me laugh got me to see this movie to see those parts again to cheer me up.And the plot were the kid is always right make me see the movies because when they see it for themselves then they were wrong which is a bit funny.This classical movie will live on and on. "},{"Title":"Very funny parody of Night of the Living dead","Date":"12 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film made me laugh so much. The ludicrous clichéd plot and the brains thing really reminded me of the Simpsons. Night of the living dead was really a bad movie because it tried to be serious but as this is comedy it is quite good. The film has all the clichéd starts to zombie films. A kid finds an army barrel with stuff that makes the dead rise. the dead want brains and I loved the bit where he asked who's the president?. That head at the end was amusing too. Awwww come on guys? I laughed a lot. Very funny if you hate stupid zombie movies. I like that this movie had a team of survivors who knew what to do in a situation. they had a plan and got that bully at the end too. I don't know why they had to be electrocuted and how an arm can survive on its own but that adds to the ludicrousness of this movie. "},{"Title":"Doesn't have the same humor of the first film but is it entertaining enough.","Date":"25 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" When a chemical canister was accidentally dropped from a moving truck in a small California town. Then three pre-teens discover the chemical canister and that canister could bring back the dead back to life and the only few people are left behind in the town. They decide to fight the zombies before they take over the small town.Written & Directed by Ken Wiederhorn (Shock Waves) made an entertaining sequel, which is less violent and less gory that the original but this feels more like a remake than a sequel. James Karen & Thom Mathews reprise their role somewhat different from the original film. Robert Elswit did the cinematography on this one, which he's best know for his cinematography work in Paul Thomas Anderson's Boogie Nights, Hard Eight, Mangolia and Punch-Drunk Love. Look for Mitch Pileggi (Wes Craven's Shocker and T.V.'s The X-Files) in a bit part. (***/*****). "}{"Title":"Dead funny (sorry bad pun)","Date":"18 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  this is movie is absolutly redonkeylous! hahaha I love it.the zombie make up is good,  the acting is horrible but so funny,  and its just a fun movie that doesnt make you think or anything.its jus a great, gulity pleasure popcorn flick. I recomend this movie to anyone  looking to watch a funny horror movie then this is your flick. more... BRAINS hahaha  so good***/**** "},{"Title":"Where is the dvd to this film?","Date":"21 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Well thats stupid you have Return of the living dead 1 and 3 but not 2. Thats very disapointing that this movie has no companies that wants to make the dvd edition.  This sucks this is the best of the three Returns.  Please, Please come out with the dvd edition soon.  This will be a major seller.p.s. come out with this on dvd.  SOON!!! "},{"Title":"good, for a sequel.","Date":"21 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Although I was expecting a awful movie, I liked this. The plot is simple, but effective, the acting was fairly decent, and the make-up effects were really good. There is also loads of tongue-in-cheek humor, adding to the films respectability. Don't expect the thing or Aliens in terms of being a classic, but it is still a enjoyable blend of horror and comedy. 3 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"disappointing","Date":"4 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  (I'm French excuse my bad English) Compared to the first this is very disappointing ! Lifeless and not fun at all. I just note 5 to give not a too bad note to a genre I'm fan of. What a pity ! The first was good from beginning to end, the actors were very true, the atmosphere was fun and pleasant and the music was great.  "},{"Title":"Excellent sequel done in the same fashion as the first.","Date":"15 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Let's just put it this way.  If you liked the first, I don't see any reason why you wouldn't find the second one entertaining.  It has a little more comedy but still keeps its horror label in my opinion.  I would liken it to Chud 2 but with more gore and violence. I highly recommend it if you are a sucker for a good 80's horror flick and not someone who demands a powerful movie that withstands the test of time. "},{"Title":"Sick and funny","Date":"12 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Return of the Living Dead Part 2 tells the story of a couple of bullies who make the stupid mistake of opening an army canister.  When a fog spreads all over the graveyard, the dead awakens and creates problems for everyone else. I just laughed at this film.  Why?  Because of the zombies themselves. They kept screaming BRRRAAAAAAAAAIINNNSSS!!!!!!  This was one sick effort...and one of the better sick efforts out there.  I wonder how the other parts in this series will turn out.  Until then, I'll be waiting.... ***stars.  (Lorimar) "},{"Title":"Most Intentionally Cheesy Movie of all Time","Date":"22 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  SPOILERS INCLUDED!- Return of the Living Dead II is not your typical horror film. It starts off as such, preparing the viewer for typical white-knuckle suspense, but turns into the laugh-fest that it is with the first zombie-a hypothyroid-eyed slime man who murmers BRAINS! intently. From here on, you have many memorable scenes, such as the zombies rising from the graveyard and Joey's girlfriend letting him eat her head because she loves him(!). This movie plays like nothing you've ever scene, at least in the horror genre. There's enough gore to please even the campiest ghoul-flick fan, and enough wit(such as the Michael Jackson reference at the end) to satisfy viewers looking for a unique experience. And that is doubtless what you will get here. Some of the plot and script makes absolutely NO sense, mind you, and the realism is next to none, so if that bothers you, avaoid. Otherwise, strap yourself in the chair and turn out the lights for the cheesiest experience of your life! "},{"Title":"Campy horror that's hard to beat.","Date":"19 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The first time I saw this film, the sense of being trapped in a world where zombies were trying to eat my brains overwhelmed me. The film gave  me a feel for what it might feel like to be dead (Why do you eat brains?---Because it hurts to be dead!).I think the primary element that infuses a sense of desperation and futility are the nuclear bombs that the President can use in just such an emergency. I mean, what else could you use to rid the world of voracious, unstoppable, brain-eating zombies?This movie has many unique elements that sets this film apart from others out there. It takes the viewer into a plane of existence many are curious about; the macabre, and all that we as members of the living don't understand...the world of the dead.Check this movie out and be prepared...Return of the Living Dead probes deep into places we don't like to talk about. And the special effects? They just make for better visuals for the virtual tour into the dark hole some call death. This movie is slick and creepy and, best of all, it's disturbing. "},{"Title":"good zombie flick, you should buy this movie or rent it, it is hard to find so look hard.","Date":"29 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  this movie is cool, it is funny and has horror and that is good. i like the actor who played the kid, he was the remake of the blob, which also came out the same year as this movie, funny horror movies, they don't make them like they used too. "},{"Title":"A very clever sequel","Date":"15 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"    This is the first movie in the RETURN OF series that I've seen. I was about 10 at the time and I just loved this movie. I've recently seen it again back to back with the first movie.   The movie was done in a way that you don't have to see the first movie to understand it, but you enjoy it more if you did.        The story here wasn't as great as the one in the first movie, but it's still an excellent horror tale. Some little touches, like the 2 resurrected characters from the first film and the Michael Jackson joke make this movie an original classic.   Zombies kick ass! And eat brains! Braaaaaaaainssss!  "}{"Title":"There goes the living dead, and the neighbourhood...","Date":"1 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Note I saw this picture for the first time when I was 12, and a decade later I still find it entertaining. When two bullies open an old barrel accidentally dumped by the army, they release a toxic gas that turns the living into zombies and the dead into the un-dead. Spoof on the George Romero-type horror movie mixes in comedy with fair results. It should be exciting and funny enough for the average joe. Young Michael Kenworthy is more than hero enough for kids who should happen to watch this when their parents are out (but beware, the gore is plentiful). James Karen as a gravedigger and veteran comedian Philip Bruns as Doc are both a hoot. "},{"Title":"Children's movie","Date":"12 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I just saw this movie and i got to tell you that this is not worth watching. But i have to add to this that when i was going to see it, I didn't realize that it was supposed to be a comedy/horror. So if you like movies that are just stupid and whit lousy gore then maybe you'll enjoy it. But i didn't. First of all this movie isn't that old and should have no excuse fore the poor gore effects. Im a huge fan of shocking gore, and this movie didn't have a bit of it. I know that its a low budget film, but others have managed to make a lot out off a low budget. If you like this genre of horror/splatter/comedy then watch Braindead or Bad taste instead.The movie takes place in a small us town, and a couple of kids open a container whit poison acids witch helps raise the dead. The acting is poor, the directing is poor and the gore is poor. The only thing that is a bit funny in the movie, is cut off head!Excuse my spelling please!!! "},{"Title":"One of the Best Zombie Films Ever!","Date":"9 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie is simply awesome! Now this is the way zombie movies should be made. It has action, tension and a bit of horror. Romero's dead movies are good but can get a bit boring at times but Return Of The Living Dead Part Two has thrills throughout and yes it's a comedy nearing dangerously close to the border line of spoof (the Michael Jackson thriller zombie scene). The make-up is fantastic especially the zombie that comes out of the water tunnel (same zombie from the basement in the first one?). This is more of a remake than a sequel, it improves on the first one and i'm glad to see in this one the zombies don't sprint! And does Joey's girlfriend get some kind of sexual pleasure from letting him eat her brains? Bizarre! Shame that Part 3 took away the comedy because that one really sucked! C'mon, let's have a Part 4 like this one...more of the same pleeeeeeeease!!! 10/10 "},{"Title":"no Don Calfa, no Linnea Quigley, and no Dan O'Bannon","Date":"28 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  may contain spoiling commentsStrikes one, two, and three for this bad sequel. Everything that is remotely interesting was done better in the original, from the Tarman and two idiots down to the jokes. With the exception of the scene where the zombies come out of their graves, the humor was painful. In one scene early on, the zombies have the repairman right where they want him and then when the TV turns on, the twenty or so zombies let him get away while they watch aerobics. The main cool aspect of the zombies in the first film was that they were the flip side of Romero zombies. They ran, they talked, and they fooled dispatchers. No such fun in this movie. As for our heros, I would not have minded if they were all eaten. The little kid lives through the whole movie? Returning cast members James Karen and Thom Matthews add little, while Clu Gulager and Miguel A. Nunez Jr. are missed. "},{"Title":"dinosaurs aren't the only creatures with brains the size of a pea","Date":"15 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Not too far into viewing Return of the Living Dead Part II, maybe only ten minutes, I began to make a mental list of the truly terrible zombie movies I'd seen in my life  Burial Ground...Zombie Lake...Night of the Zombies...House of 1,000 Corpses (not really a zombie movie, but it was directed by one).  Then, not too much later, I began to make a mental list of terrible sequels to generally decent horror movies, in particular the soulless retreads put out just to make a buck; first in my mind was The Texas Chainsaw Massacre 2, followed by The Hills Have Eyes, Part 2.  And then, getting back to watching RotLDII, I knew, only maybe 30 minutes in, that this would be awarded with a high position on BOTH lists.Okay, the story a military pothead transporting a truck of that nasty poison gas that caused the zombie plague in the FIRST film, loses two barrels, a trio of woefully untalented kids come along and let loose the gas, thereby waking up the dead in a local cemetery.  Did I mention that James Karen and Thom Mathews (who were both incinerated in the FIRST film) are hanging around said cemetery, lopping heads off of corpses and even reciting some dialogue from the FIRST film (the like this job?? exchange is just embarrassing here)?  Oh, for fun.  Anyway (*yawn*), the poorly made-up dead rise as a way-too-resourceful kid (Michael Kenworthy) tries to tell his dumb-as-bricks sister and a TV repairman (who, like everyone else here, over-enunciate every syllable of dialogue and every facial expression) about the threat, which leads them to a drunkard doctor's home (this guy seems to be a stand-in for Don Calfa's mortician in the FIRST film), after which they scuff up his classic car and head to the hospital and....  Oh, why bother with the rest?  You get the idea Scream, scream.  Yummy brains.  Munch, munch.Yes, RotLDII is one of the worst movies I've ever seen, and I am both a fan of zombies AND well-done sequels.  The makeup is absolutely pathetic, the gore is generally lax, the acting and dialogue flat, and the attempts at comedy fail miserably (a jab at Michael Jackson has not aged well).  Everything about the movie is bottom-drawer, from the amateur-hour performances (which consist primarily of a LOT of screaming and yelling) to the made-for-TV musical score, to the inept direction and lame one-liners (That's why you're dead, jerk!  A big mouth and no brains!).  In a way, I regret writing this review because negative reviews tend to provoke curiosity in skeptics, but anything I write can't come close to the actual EXPERIENCE of sitting and watching this trashfest, jaw dropped in stark disbelief of how bad a horror movie can really be.  Writer-director Ken Wiederhorn seemed to have absolutely no confidence in his script or even the basic idea for this film, and it shows (he has even stated that he has no feelings for the horror genre).  But keep in mind he did direct and cowrite Shock Waves, a 1977 underwater Nazi zombie movie that's far superior to this rubbish.  Seek that out instead.Zero/10 "},{"Title":"A Cheap Sequel","Date":"28 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Return of the Living Dead Part II IS a cheap sequel, if you can even call it that.  It makes no sense, and the overall atmosphere is poking fun at the original, The Return of the Living Dead.  It's characters are hollow, and it's zombies look fake.  Thom Mathews's girlfriend in this one plays an unrealistic jerk who would actually let her boyfriend eat her brains. Girls If your boyfriend wanted to eat your brains, would you let him?  The movie's plot is also hollow, under poor, if even childish direction.  If zombies did exist, they would act like they acted in the original, not like they acted in the cheap sequel.  James Karen and Thom Mathews, who were brilliant in the original, seemed tired and childlike.  I imagine it must hurt for two great actors to waste their talent and act like whining babies. As much as this sequel tries to copy the success of the original, and insult it at the same time, it fails everywhere you look.  And the result is trailer park trash.   "},{"Title":"Silly sequel. Lacking the freshness of the original.","Date":"9 February 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" My Take Too repetitive to match up to the original.Much of the guffaws in the original are lost in this sequel, in favor of off-the-wall humor, but still, it's fun it a simple way. The humor is abundant and the make-up is fine. Unfortunately, it could have been funnier. James Karen and Thom Matthews come back from the original, with different roles, and they're the mostly the source of all the hilarity. The new story has a kid discovering the barrel of gas that reanimates the dead, and a group of bullies pushes him to open it. Now the gas is released and spread through out the cemetery and the town.Don't expect it to be better than the original. Like all sequels, it could be better of on the back of the rental shelf on your local video store. Rating * out of 5. "},{"Title":"       Don't bother with this movie, unless you really want to waste $2.00 and 2 hours.","Date":"24 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I didn't see Return of the Living Dead, but somehow I doubt that really matters....I rented this movie expecting another mediocre rip-off of Night of the Living Dead, for instance Dawn of the Dead and Children of the Dead. What I got was much worse.  There was none of the original zombie lore present in this movie (e.g. what the zombies are capable of, how to kill them, etc.). Its attempts at humor fail miserably, but this may be because it was aimed at 12-year-old's.  I should have gotten a clue when it seemed that all the adults (even the doctor) in the movie were morons.  Be that as it may, other films have done humor in horror much better; for instance, the (original) Texas Chain-Saw Massacre is a riot.This is the worst horror movie I have ever seen, and I have seen many bad horror movies -- I'm even sort of a fan of bad horror movies.  This one, however, was atrocious.  I cannot believe there are 5 of these movies.Don't bother with this movie, unless you really want to waste $2.00 and 2 hours. "},{"Title":"Revenge of the 80's The unnecessary sequel!","Date":"11 June 2004","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Return of the Living Dead II (1988) was a worthless and unnecessary sequel to the classic Return of the Living Dead. I have no love for crappy sequels and the 80's was filled with them. This is your typical 80's flick filled with dated humor, bad acting and very little gore. The makers were probably aiming for a P.G.-13 film but this was when the R-rating was box office gold (especially for the horror film genre). Like all of these unnecessary sequels, it's too cute for it's own good and it shoots it's self in both feet in doing so. But it does have a couple of chuckles (and I do mean a couple). Not bad if it's on cable or satellite T.V. but I wouldn't go out of my way to watch it.Not recommended. "},{"Title":"Return of the same plot","Date":"15 June 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" They pretty much copy a lot of things from the first movie. We have Thom Mathews and James Karen playing the exact same characters (only with different names), they get infected and recite lines from the first movies.There's even a scene where Thom's character attacks his girlfriend in a church. Just like the flippin' first movie!Another thing I hated about this film was that half and hour into the film when all Hell breaks loose, we have the main characters SCREAMING and SCREAMING and SCREAMING and SCREAMING and SCREAMING! OH SHUT UP! As if Americans weren't loud and annoying already!The worst character in the film is Brenda. She whines and complains about EVERYTHING! And she's a ginger!The zombie make up is dreadful. None of them look convincing. The make up effects in the first movie weren't the greatest, but they were better looking than the ones in this film.And the movie was just simply boring and uninteresting. The first movie was real campy fun. This one tries to follow the formula, but fails.And the whole electrocuting the zombies to kill them at the end was just stupid. Also, the first movie showed us that you couldn't kill the zombies at all.I've watched the documentary on the Return of the Living Dead Blu-ray, which was more entertaining than this film. And everyone said that the script was lousy and the writer/director didn't give a crap about the film what so ever and only made this film for the dough. And I thought Michael Bay didn't care.Overall, just a boring, uninteresting sequel that decays just like the living dead. I can see why this only got a 0% on Rotten Tomatoes.And yes, the Michael Jackson zombie was just stupid. Even the writer/director didn't want to film it. "}{"Title":"A Fun, Silly Sequel","Date":"1 April 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Curious kids unearth the barrels that helped revive the dead of the first film, which proves the second time is an undead charm.In a great many ways, this is not only a sequel to the first film, but something of a humorous riff on it. Which is even more interesting given that the first film was itself a humorous riff on Night of the Living Dead. The joke of having two of the actors return -- and even repeat some of their lines -- was just brilliant.We get a few choices moments -- your brains are spicy -- and the addition of Dana Ashbrook (who does not get enough screen time). While it never reaches the level of the original... it is world's apart from the garbage that is part four or part five. "},{"Title":"Diminishing Returns of the Living Dead","Date":"22 August 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" More brains? Not exactly. This light-hearted -- if a bit dim-witted -- sequel to the 1985 cult classic Return of the Living Dead has a hard time fitting the mold it so desperately crams itself into. Like a young child trying on his father's clothing, Return of the Living Dead Part II can't help but come up looking small by comparison. Its attempt at the sort of humor that jived so well in the original falls mostly flat, save for some shock-induced laughter derived from hearing a young child curse so much in one film. It's the sort of thing that happens when you swap the genius of Dan O'Bannon for the guy who directed Meatballs 2.To its credit, the film is host to some pretty gnarly guts and gore, the sort of stuff that would make George Romero proud. It also helps that the cast is mostly likable, featuring mildly familiar faces of the time such as Suzanne Snyder, Thom Matthews and James Karen (the latter two returning from the first film as different characters) as well as perfectly able newcomers such as Marsha Dietlein as the prototypical girl-next-door genre-standard and Michael Kenworthy as the foul-mouthed rugrat. The film isn't particularly well-written and kind of meanders around without a point, but is worth following to the end thanks to its cast and characters.In spite of its flaws, Return of the Living Dead Part II is a relatively entertaining affair that is best taken with expectations lowered and tongue planted firmly in cheek. While it's not a patch on the original, it's at least light-years beyond the fourth and fifth installments. Fans of '80s horror will find themselves enjoying it in spite of their better judgment while the rest will leave it for dead. "},{"Title":"Fun but weak sequel!","Date":"27 March 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" An army truck containing barrels of toxic chemicals called Trioxen passes by a small California town, one of the barrels accidentally falls into the ditch near the cemetery. A Young boy named Jesse (Michael Kenworthy) joins a club with tough school kid Bill (Thor Vin Lindgren) with buddy Johnny (Jason Hogan) sneak into the graveyard where they accidentally break open the barrel of gas for they bring the dead back to life. These creatures are very intelligent, smart and very fast for they crave on human brains to survive but what can stop these monstrous beings? Comical sequel to an awesome cult 1985 horror comedy favorite which was fantastic. It delivers some self-parody and in-jokes that made the original what it was but yet goes more to the comical stuff then horror as this one co-stars James Karen and Thom Matthews reprising their roles but as different grave diggers. There is a couple of sexy chicks like Susanne Sydner and Marsha Dietlein guaranteed to please any horror movie loving guy, i also like some of the humor like the screw-driver zombie which is a nod to Romero's Dawn of the Dead. Of course there's even some gore and gooey zombie effects but the film kind of feels like a rehash of the brilliant original, at least the third movie from Brian Yuzna does something different for once but this is still worth watching. "},{"Title":"Funny, but not as good as the first one","Date":"20 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Writer-director Dan O'Bannon's first film in this series Return Of The Living Dead is one of those rare horror films that successfully merged horror and comedy. One did not overshadow the other. In my review for that film I did focus on the humour aspect of the film but that is not to draw attention away from the fact that it also delivers in the horror department too. Unfortunately, the makers of the sequel seemed to only see the comedy aspect of the film and that's what they went for in this film. ROTLD 2 is far funnier than the first film but it fails to successfully merged the humour with the horror. Its a shame too since the first was so entertaining at what it did and this one just kinda flounders. Blame director Ken Wiederhorn for the script which fails to successfully continue that which was started. "},{"Title":"Well.... OK.  I guess.... sort of.","Date":"4 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Not much going on here. Blood and brains to be sure, but something's missing. Kind of nice to see Thom Matthews and James Karen more or less reprise their roles from the original -- Watch your tongue boy, if you like this job! Like this job?!? -- but the laughs are few and far between, and the scares are few. More campy than funny, with Forrest J. Ackerman doing a cameo and a Michael Jackson look-alike, and little if any of the comic energy that made the original so compelling. Like so many sequels, this is little more than a zombie, feeding off a superior original. And unlike the original, this film doesn't stand up for multiple viewings. I've seen the original perhaps twenty times, and loved it every time. In fact, I think I'll watch it the moment I log off. Part II; saw it, forgot it, don't make the same mistake. "},{"Title":"OK zombie movie","Date":"23 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film was OK but i have seen way better zombie movies like Dawn Of The Dead the movies about the army and they are transporting some drums with zombies in them and then some of the drums fell off back of the truck and some kids find them and lat one of them out and thats when the movie gets good.This movie has some flaws like how the 2 actors Thom Mathews and James Karen who were in the first Return of the living dead movie and in the movie they died and turned into zombies and then in the end of the first film the army bombed the part of the city were they were and they died but they are in the 2nd movie as different people which annoyed me because they should be dead and why are they back in the 2nd film there would have been hundreds of other actors to play there roles.The original film was way better then this one in many ways and the gore in this film is good and the zombie makeup is good in this movie.Overall this movie was OK and i recommend it to watch if u are a fan of zombie movies and my rating is 5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Harmlessly bad Film","Date":"15 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Hey, how's it going,I just saw Return of the Living Dead a month or so ago.  I regarded it as a completely horrible film that was so bad I couldn't stop watching.  Now, I've come to learn that it is regarded by many as a classic horror film. Well, okay then.And I just caught Return of the Living Dead 2 on cable.  I must admit the only reason I watched was because I saw the same two idiot characters from the first flick, this time around as grave robbers.  So, I watched wandering what the hell was going on.  Would they address the fact that these two guys died in the first film and are alive and well in the second?  Then one of them says the great line about how he had a feeling that they'd been here before.  I thought maybe the film was going to explain that and maybe it was a bizarro world or it was all a dream those characters from the first film had.  So I watched thinking this and was quite disappointed in what I saw only because I found the plot I made up more interesting than the one in the film.  I would say it is worse than the original, but that ain't saying much.Note I can't believe this, but I remember watching this film at my babysitters so many years ago and being frightened to death of it.  God I was a dumb kid.Kelly "},{"Title":"Enjoyable, but not up to par with part 1","Date":"25 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Return of the living dead was a masterpiece of horror which combined comedy and horror. Part 2 attempted to do the same but fails miserably. If you are looking for a laugh out loud comedy this is it. If you are looking for a great zombie movie rent Part 1. Part 2 fails to do what part 1 did. ROTLD was able to make a sort of comedy zombie film but still is scary as hell. Part 2 goes overboard on the comedy and doesnt even add one bit of suspensful horror. I will admit part 2 is fun to watch because of all the laughs but, when i first saw it i was looking for a great sequal to the greatest horror movie ever made and all i got was about an hour and a half of heavy pun and jokes. After the movie ended i just kind of wondered why they took a classic that was a satrical take on night of the living dead and then take part 2 and make it a satrical take on Return of the living dead. Once again works as a comedy not as a horror movie. ***out of *****  "},{"Title":"Really bad, but funny in parts.. very eighties","Date":"26 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a really bad film, but in a good way.  Its very silly, it certainly doesn't take itself seriously at all-which is a very good thing considering.  The second installment pretty much just rehashes the first, with basically lots of dead people running around screaming Brains.  There are a few quite disgusting but amusing scenes throughout to keep the viewer entertained.  It was also interesting to see Dana Ashbrook in a pre Twin Peaks film, he seemed to improve a lot in the few years leading up to Twin Peaks.  The little kid was really annoying though - if you are going to use a little kid as the main lead, they should at least be likeable.  If you like films like Re-animator, Fright Night and House, you will like this.  There is no actual storyline as such, its just a bunch of people running around graveyards and a deserted town screaming.  Strangely enough it is very watchable, but then I grew up watching films like this on a regular basis.  If you are looking to be scared, look elsewhere.  But if you are in the mood for something braindead, stupid yet funny.   Look no further. "},{"Title":"All in all fun....but a let down sequel!","Date":"18 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  O.K O.K......so it doesn't even approach the quality and energy of the first film. I hold a special place in my heart for Return 2 because it was one of the first horror films I saw in the theatre.  It does make me wanna cry in certain scenes, but the Doc character really wins the audience over. Unfortunately the ending is no where near as fantastic as in Return of the Living Dead and the acting is also lacking. All in all it's fun for what it is, but ultimately a let down sequel to one of the best zombie movies around! "}{"Title":"Comedy or Horror?","Date":"22 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is a very odd one. I couldn't tell if it was supposed to be a comedy or a horror film. There are many funny scenes of the zombies stumbling around the graveyard. One of the zombies has trouble with the others stepping on his hand or head. Check out the end for the Michael Jackson 'Thriller' zombie. Doc is by far the greatest of the characters and is the movies comedic relief. Ed and Joe are the exact same charachters as Frank and Freddy from the first one. Only in this one they play grave robbers, not employees at medical research supply store. "},{"Title":"Not THAT bad","Date":"20 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Sure, Return of the Living Dead part 2 is nowhere near as good as the original, but it's still watchable.  Maybe because me and this film go way back.  I saw this when I was four years old at the movie theaters.  I remember because when the 'Tarman' (the slimy zombie from the first film), appeared the power in the theater went out and I was so freaked.  Well, I'm getting off topic now.  I suggest you buy this movie since it is the sequel to the hilarious, and very scary original.  Before they stop making it.  "},{"Title":"It sucks alright but in a good way","Date":"14 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The movie is much like the 1st one but not as funny or as good.It contains a lot of scenes like the original, (i.e. the boy friend zombie) except its a little different.The acting is bad, the gore ridiculous but it does really seem all that bad when it comes down to it. If you're a fan of the 1st then this is for you, but if you're looking for a scary movie then see a George Romero zombie film. "},{"Title":"Derivative, but fun.","Date":"25 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  While not one of the best walking dead flicks ever made, Return of the Living Dead Part II is far from being one of the worst.Although the film tries to recreate the bafoonish behavior that made the first film so fun, here these characters (including the zombies) just seem kind of stupid.But for some reason (I'm sorry dear readers, I actually can't remember why) I have a fun time every time I see this. It's dated just enough that I always feel transported back to the old days of the 80's, where Freddy, Jason, and occasionally, Mr. Myers himself lurked around every 7-11 store. And way before Scream was even a glimmer in some marketing executive's eye.Also of note Phillip Bruns turns in a fun performance as a screwy doctor who loves his car. "},{"Title":"A Disney Film gone bad","Date":"16 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film reminded me of a Disney Kids movie with gore.  Sure there isn't as much as many other zombie movies out there.  It just had a childish atmosphere to it.  There were a couple cool effects.  One thing I noticed is that when zombies were killed, there was no goo.  No blood or anything, just dryness.  It was a switch from many other zombie movies out there (dead alive).  I enjoyed it though,  I liked the Michael Jackson zombie getting fried.  And I also liked the comic book in the movie Masterman (He's building a masterblast!) "},{"Title":"Doesn't quite scrape the bottom of the barrel but it definitely has less brains than the first film.","Date":"6 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Remember that pesky barrel of chemical that caused all the trouble in The Return Of The Living Dead? Well, the army are moving some more of that stuff away from any populated areas but make the mistake of dropping one off the back of a truck into . . . . a populated area. It's found by young Jesse Wilson (Michael Kenworthy) and we don't have to wait too long until the dead are waking up once again. It's up to a bunch of paper-thin characters to save the day and/or their own skin.With amusing little turns from James Karen and Thom Mathews (playing slightly different characters this time but with almost exactly the same developing story arcs) and some nice callbacks to the first movie, this sequel should please fans of Dan O'Bannon's modern zombie classic but it doesn't do much else.With the horror never that scary or even gruesome and the comedy hardly ever drawing out any laughs this movie would get by if the characters were decent enough. They're not. Kenworthy's character, for starters, is a smartmouthed little brat who constantly seems to make any dire situation worse with his inability to stop and think about things. Then we have the amusing and inebriated Doc Mandel (Philip Bruns) who never gives the impression that he's in any danger at all. Thor Van Lingen is an unlikeable bully type so he pops up as a recurring menace but hardly makes for a truly memorable baddie. Suzanne Snyder is mildly irritating. At least Dana Ashbrook and Marsha Dietlein don't do too badly and give us SOMEBODY to try and give a damn about.Some neat visual FX gags raise a giggle or two but other stuff (like the Michael Jackson gag) just raises a deserved groan. Far from the worst horror comedy or worst zombie movie ever made but it definitely pales in comparison to it's great predecessor. The next movie may have gone in a completely different direction but at least it managed to get back to something approaching a quality product.See this if you like Boy Eats Girl, Return of the Living Dead Rave to the Grave, Zombies! Zombies! Zombies! "},{"Title":"Lame sequel","Date":"16 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I'm not a big fan of the original Return of the Living Dead. While there was a time when I may have considered the picture a classic, a recent viewing left me wondering what I saw in it in the first place. Still, watching the original again did get me wondering about the numerous sequels that followed. This first sequel (or second part if you believe the title) is pretty much the original with little kids. It also shares a number of the problems I had with the original. Once again the characters are annoying, making little room for sympathy. Much of the dialog is also annoying and unrealistic. However, the biggest fault lies with the story. There are some noticeable plot holes, logic problems, and general lack of creative spark hurts the proceedings. Same goes for the directing, which is competent, but uninspired. The director didn't seem to put a great deal of effort into the film. You shouldn't either. 3/10 "},{"Title":"An exact sequel","Date":"29 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I'm not really sure why this is rated R, the zombies are more cartoonish in this one, with much less gore, none of it realistic, and there no profanity or nudity or anything like that.The music in the graveyard scene when the smoke seeps into the ground has to be some of the worst music ever done ever.Now about these actors. There were a bunch of young actors in this movie, and I wish every last one of them was eaten by a zombie, but unfortunately that didn't happen. Also, the same two idiots who played the medical supply factory employees are in this one too, but they work for them graveyard AND the same exact stuff happens to them, and they even repeat some of the same dialogue, I thought that was pretty funny.This was a pretty bad movie, but titanic sucked more. "},{"Title":"An empty-headed farce.","Date":"25 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" After the army thinks that they've collected all the containers that hold the zombies and its devastating gas, one of them falls off the back of a army truck into a creek. The next day a couple of kids; Jesse and the bully Billy discover the container. Jesse thinks it's to dangerous to fiddle around with, but Billy and one of his buddies return to crack it open. In doing so they release the gas that moves over a nearby graveyard and in no matter of time the dead are up and walking again, while snacking on unexpected people. So it's up to Jesse, his sister and a cable installer who bump into a couple of grave robbers and one of their girlfriend's to combat the threat with the help of the local doctor.First thing that will probably hit you when you're watching this flick is; Haven't we been down this path before, but better? Oh yes, most definitely. Return of the Living Dead Part II keeps basically the same set-up and plenty of deja vu scenarios. The only difference is the location of this madness is staged in a small town. But saying that its not a patch of the original, which blended the black comedy and horror quite well. On this occasion it's plain weak and pointless! The broad humour doesn't pay off with the constant slapstick gags getting worst and stale after each one. Simply it tries to be funny, but it's just so blatantly dumb that you just can't stop rolling your eyes in disbelief. Even the comedy duo of Thom Mathews and James Karen return to play the same act they did in the first, but as different characters. But it just didn't quite translate here with the comic-book humour being plain juvenile and drawn-out. The script followed the same fate as well. It's rather a witless experience that throws around pure drivel with the cast either yelling or screaming it out. These nonsensical characters had no redeeming qualities, well maybe the clueless doctor gave me a laugh at times, but the rest of these senseless twats seemed like they were there just to annoy you rather create some fun. Especially when you got a twit of a young kid in the lead role! The performances are just gawd awful. While, the cliché story is a simple rehash, but does labour in spots and it feels rather lacklustre as a whole. Things just seem to fit in place too much. The suspense is gone that's if you're looking for any because it's replaced by stupidity. The irritably, encroaching score is incredibly cheesy with an erratic rock soundtrack that makes its way strangely into the latter half of the film. What made the film more bearable though, had to be the impressively colourful, but gooey makeup effects of the zombies. They were the life of the party and far more interesting than the bland living characters. Actually, the set-designs and technical side I thought was well-handled for a low-budgeted production. The film looked great, but everything else is not-so. I like horror-comedies, but this one is failure in both fields.This uninspired effort by director / writer Ken Wiederhorn (who made the FAR better Shock Waves) is as hokey as you can get. I don't hate it, because I enjoyed it to some degree&#133; oh my! But more often it seems way off the mark. "},{"Title":"2 Words...Freakin' Awesome!!!","Date":"24 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Only 1 word comes to mind when trying to sum up the nature of this beast, AWESOME!!! This comedic-horror gem fits perfectly for all generations. This movie hits you hard with every angle necessary for an excellent film. Stunning directing, amazing editing, and top-class acting. The zombies need for brains and only brains, shows the genious work done by director Ken Wiederhorn. This is a must see for all fans that find themselves in the horror and comedy section everytime they go to the movie store. 9/10 even though 8/10 might be a little more realistic.  "}{"Title":"* * out of 4.","Date":"2 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The dead are raised yet again by a group of kids fooling around with a mysterious gas that accidently fell off a military truck. Film has some scary and funny moments and good performances by James Karen and Thom Matthews, but comes nowhere near the intensity of the original and also lacks its style and good special effects.Rated R; Graphic Violence and Profanity.  "},{"Title":"UH OH","Date":"27 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is quite possibly the most boring Zombie film that I've ever seen. I honestly wanted every single one of the main characters to die a most painful death. I've not seen the first installment but I have seen the third and am happy to say that that one is much much better. I don't know if this film is supposed to be funny but it does have its moments. The stand-out is, of course, Tarman who is about as scary as a man in a slimy green suit!...Just a minute!!!... "},{"Title":"silly, confused film","Date":"23 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This isn't a very good film.  Why can't film makers take horror movies seriously?  As bad as this film is I didn't have too hard a time sitting through it.  The same cannot be said for Part 3 which is just terrible. In this film the dead are brought back to life again.  In the Return series, unlike in the Night of the Living Dead, the zombies can't be killed.  Or can they?  This series just doesn't make sense.  What starts off as a pretty good suspenseful film quickly turns into a comedy and a bad one at that.  The acting is terrible but I think it was meant to be that way, regardless it doesn't help.  The first zombie we see is great, very scary and well introduced but he is quickly done away with and never seen from again.  The rest of the zombies are boring as they prance around town. This movie is supposed to be funny, it is not.  I would assume it is supposed to be scary, it is not.  The weird thing is it is still okay to watch.  I don't recommend the film but you could rent worse (like Part 3).  If you want a living dead film stick to the Romero entries in the genre (I haven't seen the first ROTLD film so I can't recommend it but it's supposed to be good).  This film rates a 3 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Amazingly they manage to almost match the first in quality!","Date":"24 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A brilliantly funny and fun spoof of Night of the Living Dead, just as the first one was but this is also sidestepping over into looking a bit more like the eighties brand of horror movie with some eighties in-jokes which are so well timed even though they might have been groan inducing if anywhere else are really funny because of where they are placed. The plot isn't a whole lot different than the first with the zombie running around after peoples brains but now it seems they may have found how to kill the zombies but I won't spoil it. All in all a good sequel to a great film with just about as many laughs and it helps to have a seemingly quite larger budget to work with as well as advances in effects. Great fun viewing, much recommended to anyone who likes horror. 8/10 Not quite as original as the original but since that there was less to be original about within the genre. "},{"Title":"Good for a fifth sequel","Date":"10 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I consider this as the fifth installment of Romero's zombie series since I consider ROTLD as the 4th(Don't flame me for this comment ok.) !!!SOME SPOILERS!!! 3 kids open one of the canisters full of toxic waste, causing it to spread all over a cemetary.The dead rise up and trap a band of survivors in a suburban neighborhood. Good story, effects, humor, and music. **** out of *****. "},{"Title":"This movie just sucks","Date":"22 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is one of the worst comedy/horror movie I have ever  seen. with a name like return of the living dead 2 I wasn't expecting much in the first place but even those expectations were too high. The evil dead trilogy did it right on how to mix comedy and horror but this movie fails horribly. There is one scene in particular where a zombies head is in a bag and it's moving around. So the man un-zips the bag picks the head up and starts screaming then he points at it and puts his finger into the heads mouth, just dumb things like that. Worst movie I've seen in a long time. Rent it if you want to see how not to do a comedy/horror flick.    "},{"Title":"Totally brainless and not in a good way","Date":"1 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A chemical gas spills out near a cemetery in a small town and the dead start rising and there's only a handful of people left there that have to fend for themselves.A terribly lame followup to the hugely successful Return of the Living Dead. Terrible acting says a lot but also the script is bad, the zombie action dull and the campy approach is way off. The effects are much worse than before and simply put; the is much inferior stuff than the original.The direction here is bad and O'Bannon's satiric wit is sorely missed. Tom Matthews and James Karen reprise their original roles (so to speak) and that's good for a couple of laughs early on but then...no, the film's got nothing.Disappointing to say the least. "},{"Title":"Guys, That Was Really Necessary?","Date":"26 May 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" It is called of Return of the Living Dead - Part II which means that this is a sequel, right? WRONG! This is a cheap copy of the 1985 film Return of the Living Dead and it brought back to live two of the actors of the original film James Karen and Thom Matthews, now playing the same characters and undergoing the same situations of the first film but they have different character's names. It's all downhill and the story if you already watched the first film it's basically the same Smalltown had the bad luck of resurrect dead people after an chemical weapon of the U.S. Army got accidentally forgotten in the city. And a group of teenagers and funny old doctors must to escape from this zombies who can only say BRAIN every time they see a non dead person. Wait...but there's a catch! There's something a little different here, something that makes this movie worth watching. The little kid that discovered (once again accidentally) the barrel with the chemical dispersive that liberated all the dead people. Jesse is this boy (played by Michael Kenworthy) and he's actually more smart than his thug friends (one of them becomes an zombie) and he's got some of the best scenes in the movie (when he tries to escape from his older sister after being locked in the bedroom; or when he shoots the zombie at the hospital). Well, since James Karen and Thom Matthews reprise almost the same role it's almost unfair to say that they're bad but they got worse here. Karen non stop crying figure (Oh my God, Oh My God, where we gonna do? quotes) may get some viewers tired or annoyed. If you find this thing funny that's OK, sometimes it is. Why I can't understand is why he jumped on board of this train wreck? He's such a great actor in films like Nixon, Mulholland Drive and The Pursuit of Happiness and I think he didn't needed to make this movie (only in case of money problems). But he was better in the first film. The most annoying aspect of this film is the female characters, all of them are boring, can't stop shouting and screaming, don't get enough balls to fight against zombies (Jessie's sister has some good moments when she picks some guns in their grandparents's house). Philip Bruns is the funniest person in this movie (playing the Doc) and he delivered some of the greater scenes and quotes of this film (You didn't do that after he sees Karen's character pick something to hit him in the head and after something hits his head he says Oh yes you did! and falls on the floor). Great funny scene.The main problem is that it's not an horror film at all, and even for a comedy it's pretty bad, laughable because it's a bad movie and not because some things are really funny. Shaun of the Dead is definitely the best horror comedy film ever on the similar subject. Period. Both elements work very well in the British film and here director Ken Wiederhorn made an stupid movie with no scary moments at all and punchline after punchline. The technical aspects of this film is way better than the first I must say. The visual effects and the makeup are really nice (although the zombies of this movie aren't more scarier than the first but they look better), and the interesting and darker cinematography is made by Robert Elswit (future cinematographer of director Paul Thomas Anderson, winning a Oscar for his work in There Will Be Blood). Besides that and some funny moments this a bad movie. See it if you like zombies or appreciate a trashy film with lots of fake blood and laughable quotes. 2/10 "},{"Title":"A Hand and a Head - But No Brains!","Date":"21 February 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" No doubt this sequel lacks the innovativeness, less-direct humor, and budget of its precursor; however, it is bad but not wholly so. This time we have an army guy listening to music loudly who inadvertently allows a cannister to roll off his truck. Three kids come across it, open it up, and then the mayhem ensues - at least in theory. James Karen and Thom Matthews are back from the first film - though for obvious reasons in slightly different roles. this time around they are grave robbers. The film really becomes nothing more than the zombies quickly and inexplicably materializing, crying out for brains, and then chasing the few people who are not zombies. Laughs are what are sought and fought for far more than in the original. The original had lots of humor but also lots of scares. This one does not. It seems to go for whatever laugh it thinks it might be able to get. We have a talking head with some atrocious dialog, a Michael Jackson zombie doing a bizarre and electrifying moon dance sequence, a hand that gropes everyone in a car, and the list goes on and on. Some of these are, to be honest, just silly nonsense. Some are ridiculous and lame. Some are funny - though these were much more intermittent than one would have liked. The hand in the car scene was very funny. James Karen is always good. Thank God for Phil Bruns whose portrayal of Doc Mandel saved this film from being an exercise in futility and tedium for me. he had me laughing - what limited times there were - almost every time he was on camera. Unfortunately, the rest of the cast was uninspired and uninspiring casting. The film lacked the budget of the first and it shows. The story is just threadbare here. Basically, there is no plot. Return of the Living Dead Part II has a few moments of fun but really nothing else to offer. "},{"Title":"Not perfect, but not bad","Date":"3 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I saw this about 20 years back when it was released on video, and just caught it recently on HBO. It's pretty hokey, but I find this tongue-in-cheek piece more enjoyable than today's brand of sadistic-horror films. Of course, any horror movie with a juvenile as the main protagonist might be a little watered down, but this installment of the ROTLD series is still worth catching. The zombie make-up is a little dated by today's standards, and I kept wondering why they were so slow! In the first film, they ran after victims and were pretty fast. Good comic relief from James Karen (essentially playing the role he played in the first film) and Philip Bruns as Doc Mandel (kind of a drunken version of Back to the Future's Doc character). Not as intense as recent zombie offerings like Dawn of the Dead or 28 Days Later, but worth a look, "}{"Title":"The worst zombie movie.","Date":"21 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" If Dawn of the Dead is the pinnacle for zombie movies, Return of the Living Dead II is definitely the nadir. The original Return of the Living Dead centered on a chemical that resurrected the dead, forcing them to feed off the brains of the living. It was good, campy, scary fun. The hope of this lame sequel to live up to its predecessor falls way short, leaving it dead in the morgue needing a quick autopsy. The army is trying to get rid of that pesky chemical that brings back the dead. One of the tanks falls out and it is discovered by a few boys. One kicks the canister and the chemical is released--and to no surprise there is a nearby graveyard. At the same time, two repulsive grave robbers, James Karen and Thom Matthews, are infected by the chemical. If you are wondering why you have heard those names before, it is because they played the two medical equipment managers who were exposed to the chemical in the first movie. Just like in the first movie, they slowly become zombies. Director Ken Weiderhorn does not cover this up. In fact, one of them says, I feel like I've gone through this before. True, the first one did not take itself too seriously and went for the laugh just as much as the scare. However, in Part II, it's no scare and all laughs, but the humor is just as dead as the scares. Return of the Living Dead II is dead ... and no emergency surgery could possibly re situate it. It belongs in a body bag that needs to be delivered to the coroner's office--fast. I have just given the last rites, and you have read my autopsy report. Just bury it, or even better just put it in the crematorium. "},{"Title":"Oh no they suck again!","Date":"30 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" After seeing the first Return I thought the nightmare was over. No....no they just made another attempt to destroy all that's good of the zombies. Whatever they are. In the first and now second they like the brains? Why? Why not the rest of the human. They still talk but are not way too smart. How did half the cast return since everyone died in the original? Too much stuff was just screwed up and it was like Airplane II The Sequel where they pretty much make the same movie. Not scary, not funny just another slap in the face to George A. Romero. I think someone should just make it a law that there should never be another Return of the Living Dead movie without getting someone who has some idea what the hell it means to make a zombie movie. "},{"Title":"Zombies for kids","Date":"25 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This has to be the worst example of a zombie movie ever. I cannot believe that they made four or five of these.The entire movie was marred by these screaming girls. They just would not shut up. One even let her dead boyfriend eat her brains. How dumb can you be? This movie had veteran actors like Dana Ashbrook and James Karen, who had to be really hard up for a paycheck to appear in a movie that is as bad as this.If you are looking for good zombie, I suggest staying away from this series. "},{"Title":"I Loved This Sequel !, It Was Hilarious And Extremely Entertaining!","Date":"30 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I loved this sequel!, it was hilarious and extremely entertaining, and it had a great mix of humor and scares!. I loved the original, however i may have enjoyed this one a little more, as i was laughing throughout the whole movie, plus i really liked all the characters!. The opening is truly great, and it was awesome to see Thom Matthews and James Karen returning, plus the kids actually did a decent job!. The zombies were hilarious looking, however there were some pretty funny scenes involving them, stopping to look at a fitness instructor, answering the phone, and lots of others, plus Phillip Bruns is hilarious as the Doc. Sure it may be a watered down version of the original, however for some reason i enjoyed it a tiny bit more then the original, and the finale was great, plus i actually found all the characters to be likable!. I loved this sequel!, it was hilarious and extremely entertaining, and i say it's a must see!. The Direction is great!.Ken Wiederhorn does a great job here, with, excellent camera work, great angles adding some creepy atmosphere(sometimes), and keeping the film at a very fast pace!. There is some gore. We get, Gory corpses,Severed head,severed limbs,gunshot wounds,body split in half,brain smacking,fist through the face with goo coming out,impaling,and brains on the ground, Decent. The Acting is a lot of fun!. Michael Kenworthy actually does good job as the Kid, and didn't get on my nerves once good job!. Thom Mathews gives another memorable performance, here, and he cracked me up! (Matthews rules!)same performance as the 1st but it's more then welcome!. James Karen is extremely hilarious here, and had me laughing throughout the film, and he had great chemistry with Thom Matthews!. Suzanne Snyder was hot and did her job well!. Marsha Dietlein is great as the sister,she was damn hot and i really liked her, she also had good chemistry with Dana Ashbrook!. Dana Ashbrook is good here i liked him. Thor Van Lingen does a good job as the trouble maker Billy and was quite funny actually. Phillip Bruns is great as the Doc!. Rest of the cast are fine. Overall a must see!. **** out of 5 "},{"Title":"Accept it as silly, and you won't feel offended.","Date":"25 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Pretty much the same as the first one, Return of the Living Dead Part II is acceptable for what it is. James Karen actually returns for the sequel, in virtually the same sort of mealy-mouthed role. Still, this movie makes one long for the scene in the original where Linnea Quigley...well, you know. I gotta wonder what the people in the Caribbean who first told stories of zombies would have thought if they'd known that their stories would one day make for entire movie franchises, especially a movie this silly.I should remind you that ROTLDP2 is not meant to be taken seriously. It's totally corny, and it's proud of that. Just accept it as such. "},{"Title":"As a comedy works,as a horror sucks...","Date":"22 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  First of all,I don't like Return of the Living Dead series.The first two movies are only silly zombie/comedies without scares or excess gore,only the third part is okay.No thrills,stupid characters,cheesy zombies and gymnastic-if you like this sort of stuff,you won't be disappointed.However if you want to see a zombie gut-munchers check out Lucio Fulci's Zombie,Gates of Hell,The Beyond or Andrea Bianchi's Burial Ground. "},{"Title":"Return of the Living Dead 2","Date":"13 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" All hell breaks loose when a couple of stupid kids release zombie gas from a military cannister fallen from a truck. Before you know it, rain is dropping zombie pollutants into the graveyard soil, releasing the dead from their slumber to wreak havoc in the desperate search for brain consumption.A handful of characters are selected by the screenplay to combat the zombies with a child named Jesse(Michael Kenworthy)the protagonist who knows the two neighbor bullies that discovered--and opened--the container causing the catastrophic events that ensue. From the previous film, James Karen and Thom Mathews return playing different characters, who were at a mausoleum robbing loot from the dead only to consume the toxic gas changing them slowly into zombies. One of the bullies bothering Jesse, Billy(Thor Van Lingen)gets singled out as a possible source of conflict for our heroes later on as he too has breathed in the deadly toxic chemicals from the zombie container. Suzanne Snyder stars as Thom Mathew's girlfriend Brenda. There's an amusing homage to the first film when Mathews has a feeling of deja vu regarding their unfortunate situation.Nowhere near as gruesome as the first film in the series, this sequel follows a much more comedic tone, with Philip Bruns getting supplied the best zingers as Doc Mandel. While the make-up effects for this film are not up to the previous film's standards, they are still fine enough considering the limited budget. The film is really irresistibly silly with the director really using the dead zombies unfortunate situation of decay for lots of comedy bits. The ending is a bit of a stretch--having our heroes using a power plant as a means to electrocute the zombies--but the film, I felt, is entertaining enough to hold interest. It could've been much, much worse, and, at least, this has a game cast and fun-loving attitude. "},{"Title":"Disposable sequel.","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A funky, campy horror-comedy, in which the horror and the comedy parts don't combine; they collide. You get some decent makeup effects and some straight brain-munching gore, then you get a silly scene (the zombies staring admiringly at a female gymnast on TV) than undermines the whole film. The acting is pretty bad, too (except for the kid and the all-too-cool doctor, the cast showcases only one acting style unending hysteria). Overall, I'd recommend this film only to zombie-movie completists, although it's far less unpleasant to watch than the next chapter of this series. (**) "},{"Title":"If you laughed out loud at this, you must be a Friends fan.","Date":"9 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie has all the symptoms of a typical horror comedy unfunny and Unscary. If you're going to be funny then be that, otherwise just make a regular horror film. You can't have it both ways...Frantic acting in a broad horror comedy always spells trouble, with very rare exceptions such as Bad Taste. The humour is sub-sophomoric, with everyone merely screaming at each other, or making idiotic wise-cracks.So the only thing left in such a horror comedy is to hope that it's at least somewhat interesting to watch. TROTLD2 is mildly watchable, but pretty much dull. The production values are solid, but this forgettable fluff is far more suited to a horror movie newcomer than to someone as jaded as I am. "},{"Title":"Miles ahead of the Original","Date":"1 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Actually, **** out of four.This one has it all. A good cast with funny performances from 1980s horror film recognizables like James Karen (Part I, Invaders from Mars), Thom Mathews (Part I, F-13 Part VI), and Suzanne Snyder (Killer Klowns, Night of Creeps). Philip Bruns (Silent Night Bloody Night), as Doc Mandel, is fun as well. Snyder is her usual crazy, goofy self while Karen and Mathews are like some Laurel and Hardy ish team which helps the film out dearly, working well together once again. Also, Dana Ashbrook and Michael Kenworthy both appeared in other horror films in 1988, Waxwork and The Blob, respectively.The story is pretty basic and that's fine cuz we don't need twist endings or extensive plot devices here, just some good laughs, good direction by Ken Wiederhorn (Shock Waves) and well designed zombies by Kenny Myers. Memorable zombies for that matter.As for the DVD cut, if you know how to switch back and forth b/w the french language track whenever there's no dialogue for a while, do it cuz it contains the original J. Peter Robinson score, which is excellent and one of the main reasons why this movie has a fan base to begin with. Maybe WB will issue out a version that has the original on the English language track! Ironically, even Wiederhorn's commentary track mentions that the new score for the DVD is sub-par. Frankly, it sucks compared to the original. Despite this cut, I still have high regard for this film and will be on the lookout for a better version one day (we can all hope, right?) It's interesting to note that Robinson and D.P. Robert Elswit have gone on to major Hollywood productions and it's easy to see why judging by their work here.This is a surprise sleeper from 1988, probably the best year out of the 1980s for horror films (Killer Klowns, The Blob, ROTLD II, Halloween 4, F-13 Part VII, The Brain, Pumpkinhead, Phantasm II, Nightmare 4, Child's Play, just to name a few). With horror films like these, I'm glad I was 7 yrs. old in 1988, lol!! This one is miles ahead of the original only cuz the tone seems darker and much more serious in the original, even though it's essentially a spoof. This one is just that- a horror comedy!! (almost in league with Shaun of the Dead for horror comedy stature). Some light comedy, some light, yet entertaining horror.Highly recommended! * * * * "}{"Title":"A throughly disappointing horror/comedy sequel.","Date":"17 September 2008","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Sequels rarely live up to their predecessors in terms of quality, but it's not often that they manage to screw up quite as badly in every department as Return of The Living Dead Pt II whereas the original was a brilliantly anarchic, occasionally scary, black comedy with excellent effects and a cool punk soundtrack, the sequel is a rather lame teen comedy/horror with embarrassingly silly slapstick humour, OTT performances from all involved, and weak effects (dodgy rubber masks, and badly made animatronic body parts)&#151;all accompanied by a dire selection of nasty 80s rock tunes.Thom Matthews and James Karen&#151;Frank and Freddy from the first film&#151;return for more zombie action in Part II as completely new characters, Ed and Joey, a couple of bumbling grave-robbers who, along with Joey's girlfriend Brenda, must run for their lives when troublesome chemical agent Trioxin-245 escapes from a missing army canister and brings the dead back to life.After seeking refuge at the nearby home of teen cutie Lucy Wilson and her young brother Jesse, Ed and Joey become terribly ill (having been exposed to the deadly top-secret gas), and so the frightened duo set out to find help (accompanied by Brenda, Lucy, Jesse, a TV installation guy, and a drunk doctor). To their dismay, however, they discover that the town has been evacuated by the army, and is now completely over-run by reanimated corpses hungry for brains.The silly script features some truly awful comedic moments, plenty of hysterical screaming from all involved, and, after many tedious and pointless chase scenes, finally finishes with a very silly showdown between the survivors and the zombies at a power plant, where the flesh-eaters are ultimately destroyed via electricity.If you really enjoyed the first film, and are looking for more of the same, take my advice skip this movie, and move straight onto Pt. 3, which is a whole lot of gory fun. "},{"Title":"It`s Not A Comedy","Date":"1 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It`s strange but a lot of people seem to be under the impression that this is a  comedy horror  but due to rather poor production values involving writing , directing and acting I cant help thinking the producers started the film off as a run of a mill horror film , realised it was going nowhere and rather cheekily decided to camp it up at the end . There`s nothing at the start of RETURN OF THE LIVING DEAD PART 2 to indicate it`s out of the ordinary ( It`s rather cliched with kids in a graveyard and the usual stereotypes ) , and sticking in a Michael Jackson cameo right at the very end seems rather crass . Sorry guys you`re not fooling me into thinking this was originally a comedy horror movie   "},{"Title":"More of the same again.","Date":"5 November 2011","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Confession time; I never was really fond of the first The Return of the Living Dead in the first place. I know I'm a minority on this but the humor was very childish and simplistic to me, as was the script, while the movie itself seemed to think that it was being a very clever one. Can't really say they improved any of this in this first sequel.I can see how this movie got mostly catered toward teenagers at the time and perhaps I would had liked this and the first movie better if I had grown up with it in the '80's. This is a problem I often have with popular '80's movies that are made for youngsters; I just don't get what's the appeal of them. This is of course not the case with just any movie but this does seem often the case with movies that are being regarded as cult-classics now days.But luckily I'm not all on my own this time. Generally speaking Return of the Living Dead Part II is not a very well liked movie, which does seem a bit surprising to me, since I just can't really see how this movie is worse than the original. As a matter of fact; I honestly liked this movie a bit better than the first one, simply because I didn't felt as annoyed with it this time.It's obviously not a great movie. It takes a far too simplistic and cliché ridden approach with things for that. The story is pretty much non-existent. Things just happen in this movie and most stuff seems very random. It doesn't follow a clear main plot line, which makes it feel like this movie is just going on and going on forever, even though the movie in fact is only about 85 minutes short. I was just pretty much fed up with all of it about an hour in already. I just couldn't care less about anything that was happening and I never got into any of the characters. I don't even remember any of their names and was actually more annoyed by most of them. The little kid is annoying (I hate it when they don't let children act like real children) but so was the screaming and shouting girl, as well as the old guy who was supposed to be funny but just never really made me laugh.The effects are also only half successful in this. At times all of the zombie and gore effects are fantastic and quite convincing looking, while at others it's just way too fake. It's very uneven, just like the entire movie basically.It's harmless and silly enough to still entertaining plenty of people I guess, just don't mistake it for a good movie as well.5/10 http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Brains! I want your brains! Entertaining enough comedy/horror.","Date":"9 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Return of the Living Dead Part II starts on a dark night as the rain pours down. A jeep stops, stencilled on the jeep's bonnet in white letters are the words 'DEPARTMENT OF ARMY TOXIC AND HAZARDOUS WASTE'. The driver gives a signal & a convoy of Army trucks start to appear in the distance. In the back of these trucks are the barrels containing the green gas that re-animates the dead from the original Return of the Living Dead (1985). One of the trucks runs over a big pothole & three of the barrels fall from the back, one of which rolls down an embankment & into a river. A young boy named Jesse Wilson (Micheal Kenworthy) is having difficulty with two local bullies, Billy (Thor Van Lingen) & his mate Johnny (Jason Hogan). After a scuffle Jesse tries to outrun them & hides in a small drainage outlet next to the local graveyard. Inside the three teenagers find the barrel, Jesse is locked into a nearby crypt in the graveyard while Billy & Johnny break the barrel open releasing the green gas which drifts over to the graveyard & with the help of the rain starts to contaminate the ground. The dead begin to rise... Meanwhile two grave-robbers named Joey (Thom Mathews) & Ed (James Karen) are stealing rings, watches & heads from various corpses. They hear noises & are attacked by zombies, together with Joey's girlfriend Brenda (Suzanne Snyder) they run for their lives to a nearby uncompleted housing development where Jesse is being looked after by his sister Lucy (Marsha Dietlein) while their parents are away, with a horde of brain eating zombies not far behind. Along with a cable T.V. repair guy named Tom Essex (Dana Ashbrook) the five decide to seek out the only other person on the estate with a car, Doc Mandel (Philip Bruns). All seven leave the estate & head into town where they find everyone has been evacuated by the Army who now shoot anyone on sight. It's up to the small group of survivors to send the dead back to their graves once & for all, or they'll lose their brains trying...Written & directed by Ken Wiederhorn I thought Return of the Living Dead Part II was an entertaining enough comedy horror. The script is a little silly & goes for all out slapstick comedy at times which I thought didn't sit that well with the stronger horror elements, while none of it is particularly laugh-out-loud stuff I did find myself quietly smiling on occasion. On reflection maybe Return of the Living Dead Part II tries a little bit too hard to be funny, having a zombie try to grab hold of it's legs that are still walking around after he has been shotgun blasted in half, zombies stepping on other zombies hands as they rise from their graves, the Micheal Jackson cameo in a nod to his zombie filled song/music video Thriller (1983), the talking decapitated head with a funny voice, a scene where Doc Mendel recognises one of the living dead & comments hey look, it's Harvey... It wasn't my fault Harvey we ran out of type O! (a one-liner which I thought was pretty funny actually), the severed hand grabbing Doc Mendel's privates & more besides. Not all of it works, but as I said I did find some of it mildly amusing. Return of the Living Dead Part II moves along at a nice pace & runs just over 80 minutes, at least it isn't boring & generally something was happening to maintain my interest in an otherwise lightweight & somewhat overly simplistic story. There is a decent amount of horror on show here as well, the cool slimy zombie from the original named 'Tarman' (Allan Trautman) makes a reappearance, there is brain eating, shotgun blasting, decapitating & limb ripping fun for all even though it's not particularly graphic. Return of the Living Dead Part II is technically well made & has a certain polish throughout, it isn't going to win any awards for excellence but I've seen worse. I quite liked the music but bear in mind the version I'm reviewing is the original one & not the recent one issued on DVD with the altered soundtrack, I can't imagine watching this with different music. Now, I must admit that I have a problem with both the casting & acting in Return of the Living Dead Part II, why cast Mathews & Karen who were in the original as virtually the same characters? Some of their dialogue is exactly the same, the things they do & have happen to them will also seem somewhat familiar to anyone who's seen the original. To make matters worse Karen puts in one of the most awful performances ever, constantly whining & shouting to an extent where he became very annoying. Kenworthy as Jesse can't act & comes across as a little brat but Dietlein as his sister Lucy is pretty hot actually. Doc Mandel is funny & almost saves the film on his own, almost. Overall I quite liked Return of the Living Dead Part II, it's fairly well made & features both comedy & horror, some of which works some of which don't. Having said that the annoying characters & actor's don't help, it's very silly in places & is probably an acquired taste. Personally I think it's worth watching, but maybe as a rental or on T.V. for free for those who haven't seen it before rather than a purchase, the choice is yours... "},{"Title":"The weakest in the series, but still entertaining 80's horror.","Date":"13 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Rapidly written and quickly paced sequel to the unexpected comedy-horror hit by Dan O'Bannon. Return of the Living Dead was a sweet film that at the same time spoofed and paid tribute to the classic George A. Romero movies, while this second entry is a lot less ambitious. Wiederhorn clearly didn't put too much thought in writing the screenplay, as the zombie-plague is caused exactly the same way as in the original. A barrel stuffed with experimental flumes rolls off a military truck and ends up in the sewers of a remote American town. The military commander simply complains oh no&#133;not again and that concludes it. Yet you shouldn't bother too much about the repetitiveness as the rest of the movie is highly amusing nonsense, complete with good graphical gore and glorious OTT acting. Most of the gags are painfully unfunny (like zombies that get distracted by an aerobic video&#133;) but the comical aspect largely lies in the little jokes. The early cemetery-sequence, in which the simultaneous resurrection of the undead causes traffic problems, is still the best part of the movie as far as I'm concerned. This part two is not as fun as part one and not as creative as part 3 (which was directed by Brian Yuzna) but still it's a remarkably better film than most low-budget 80's productions and it'll sure keep you entertained for as long as it lasts. Ken Wiederhorn previously directed the flamboyant Shock Waves which also features ugly corpses walking around&#133;only in a different format. "}]