[{"Title":"Jason meets his match... again.","Date":"19 January 2005","Score":"29 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Jason has met his match before, going down two-nil to Tommy Jarvis. However, this one is different! Her name is Carrie, but for some reason she uses the name Tina Shepard.Camp Crystal Lake has been operating peacefully for years, ever since Tommy Jarvis chained Jason to the bottom of the lake. But, you see, in horror movies, any peace is bound to be interrupted eventually. Enter Tina Shephard. Years ago the Shephard family was on vacation at Crystal Lake, when Tina's father drowned under some bizarre circumstances. At the age of 17, Tina and her mother return to Crystal Lake with Tina's psychiatrist, Dr. Crews. Dr. Crews isn't what he seems, he is obviously more interested in exploiting Tina's psychic abilities rather than helping her. This isn't very important, because it isn't very long before Tina accidentally releases Jason from what should have been his watery-grave...Yeah, this is your average slasher movie. All the characters are obvious stereotypes. Except for the sci-fi nerd sporting a mullet. I can honestly say I've never seen that before. Tina Shephard is basically a re-work of Carrie from... 'Carrie', but she is the films saving grace. Jason against a psychic made for a nice showdown. Other than that, I'm still wondering why people keeping going to Crystal Lake, only to be surprised when maniac wearing a hockey mask tries to kill them.Apparently this was heavily censored. Kane Hodder makes a good Jason, and there are kills aplenty, but not much gore. Oh well, it had a nice musical score if that makes up for anything...Not too bad entry in the series - 5/10 "},{"Title":"A bit more imaginative than others in this series.","Date":"9 July 2003","Score":"18 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The popular, money-making slasher series continues with Lar Park Lincoln (the best leading actress in the Friday films) as Tina Shepherd, a pretty teen with telekinetic abilities who accidentally uses her powers to release Jason (Kane Hodder) from his underwater grave. He lurks around (with exposed spine) and sets his sights on a group of young people who rent a cabin for a birthday party. To justify some of the murders, many of the characters, like shrink Terry Kiser (who plots to exploit Tina) and Susan Jennifer Sullivan (great blonde bitch) obviously deserve to die.Gore-wise we have a decapitation, a hand thrust through a chest, a party horn stuck in an eyeball, an axe to the face (twice), a drowning, a body thrown out a window and, the best murder, well I won't ruin it by saying it involves a sleeping bag and a tree, but it's a hoot.The make-up FX are great, the women look good (and several of them have nude scenes) and there's a surprise ending you may not expect, but still not much plot. Kane Hodder went on to become the only actor who played Jason to receive a little fame for this thankless role. This was the number one box office draw at movie theaters the week it debuted. "},{"Title":"Best In The Series!!","Date":"11 May 2006","Score":"26 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I've always been fascinated by the Friday THE 13TH films. Sequel after sequel, unknown cast after unknown cast, limited budget after limited budget, they still manage to be pretty good horror movies. And incredibly, this sixth sequel tops the series . In fact, it's one of the best horror movies of the 1980s.Again resurrected from his watery grave (didn't he open his eyes at the very end of the last one? Nah, I guess not), the zombified Jason is ready to hack and slash his way through another group of innocent (though quite naughty) teens. But this time ol' maggot head may have met his match in the form of Tina Shepard, a teen gifted with the ability to move objects with her mind. She is, it turns out, our only hope to stop the monster.The fun concept of Friday THE 13TH PART VII THE NEW BLOOD paves the way for legitimate chills and thrills. This fierce, spine-bearing Jason is a much more frightening being than before as he paces through the woods, chases skinny dippers and employs weapons of terror I have never seen before (what was that thing with the spinning blade?). This is a serious frightfest that in no way tries to carry on the humorous overtone of its immediate predecessor. Director John Carl Buechler deserves a lot of credit for respecting continuity and sticking to the formula while squeezing out another great film from the well-worn slasher-in-the-woods concept.The film would work well enough without the heroine of Tina. The pretty blonde (played by Lar Park-Lincoln) is just icing on the cake, helping to create (dare I say it?) one of the most memorable horror movie finales of all-time. The showdown, complete with telepathically-propelled lamps and electrical wires, also showcases some very impressive special effects (how many Friday films can you say that about?). Of course we all know who will prevail in this clash of good and evil, but we also know it's just a matter of time before Jason pulls another Lazarus.Even if you're not a fan of the series or think it's too campy, you'll be pleasantly surprised. Give Friday THE 13TH PART VII THE NEW BLOOD a whirl. Jason would have wanted it that way. "},{"Title":"Jason Vs. Carrie...sort of","Date":"11 February 2006","Score":"13 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Weepy Tina Shepard arrives at Crystal Lake with her mom and her doctor. Tina is a wreck of a girl - plagued by a powerful telekinetic ability, Tina killed her drunken and abusive father in a fit of rage many years ago and has been trying to deal with her guilt ever since. Unfortunately, her sadistic doctor wants only to exploit Tina's powers and drives Tina to the breaking point with his cruelty. In yet another emotional fit, Tina attempts to raise her dead father from the depths of Crystal Lake, but instead raises the rotting carcass of Jason Voorhees instead, who emerges with his hockey mask intact and his bloodlust stronger than ever. Jason immediately heads into the woods and starts killing, gradually working his way to the house next door to Tina's, filled with vacuous partying teens. Tina, who is also precognitive, tries to warn those around her of impending death, but no one will believe the stressed out girl. Finally, Tina must battle Jason herself is she hopes to save her new boyfriend and herself from death.This is Kane Hodder's first outing as Jason Voorhees and its a really great one. Jason is a hulking killing machine of pure, cold rage and the deaths the accrue have never been more vicious or grimly satisfying. The now-famous sleeping bag bludgeon makes its first appearance in this 6th installment, and its one of my favorites - really nasty and brutally hilarious. Lar Park Lincoln is great as Tina - perhaps a bit too weepy, but almost as angry as Jason and erupting in great displays of rage, both verbal and telekinetic. Lincoln did a lot of her own stunts in this one too, which is always impressive. The make-up effects in this movie are my absolute favorite. Jason is a wet, rotting cadaver, his spinal cord clearly visible through the shredded remains of his clothes, his ribcage poking out, his flesh dark with rot. The unmasking scene is a truly shocking and wow! inspiring awesome moment, as Jason's face is revealed to be little more than an animated skull - but animated it truly is! Beneath the hideous make-up, Hodder impressively expresses the evil wrath of Jason with one empty eye socket and half a mouthful of teeth. The telekinetic effects are a lot of fun as Tina throws every weapon at her disposal at Jason a couch, a jar full of nails, a light fixture and finally a can of gasoline and the flames from the basement furnace. It was great to see someone give Jason a run for his money instead of just screaming and running away. All in all, one of the better sequels to follow the original Friday the 13th. 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Series is winding down.","Date":"12 August 2014","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I really don't remember much from this film, so it is evident that this movie didn't stand out much in the series, which is winding down by this time. Jason Voorhees is like a case of the bad plague, always returning and menacing people over and over again. This time around, he was inadvertently released from his watery prison in Camp Crystal Lake by a guilt-ridden teenage psychic and begins another rampage on a group of unsuspecting teens at the camp.It's more of the screams, stalking, mangling with some campy and amateurish acting. There is nothing you really haven't seen before in the previous Friday the 13th entries, save for the psychic girl who uses her powers to fight against Jason, which I thought was a pretty clever plot device.The script is pretty basic but for a movie at 88 minutes, there is really no room for boring fillers and you might find yourself at least mildly entertained if you don't mind watching the usual Jason chases teens stuff.Grade C "},{"Title":"Has some ideas, but the film in a hole doesn't work.","Date":"17 October 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Often considered to be Carrie vs. Jason, Friday the 13th Part 7 The New Blood may very well be considered one of the most popular in the series. It is however, looked down upon by hardcore fans of the series, and I can somewhat see why.A New Blood introduced an extremely cheesy supernatural aspect behind the main heroine character. This can be looked at through several different view points; while one person can see this as an opportunity to develop a character, another person would see this as a cheap way to kill of Jason. I personally think that this supernatural Carrie element added onto the main character, which is a good idea considering that sympathetic characters have never been Friday the 13th's positive points.Another factor of the movie that is commonly looked down on is the fact that this movie is virtually lacking in any gore at all. A New Blood was attacked by the censor boards more than any other film in the entire series, which was the films biggest downfall. Almost all the gore in this movie was taken out. Not only does this take away from the film, but it just makes the viewer feel sad and annoyed that the great gore effects that where there before have been taken away. No uncut copy of A New Blood ever has (or will) be released.Overall, this movie had some interesting ideas when it comes to character development and storyline, but overall, it is nothing but Part 6 done over again. It is recommended, but I doubt anybody who can be considered die hard fans would think much of it.A pretty mediocre edition into the series.FOR IN DEPTH HORROR MOVIE REVIEWS, CHECK OUT MY YOUTUBE CHANNEL HORRORREVIEWS123. "},{"Title":"the goreiest, if the MPAA didn't cut out the goods","Date":"4 February 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This is my favourite Friday the 13th in the series. It is definitely the goreiest, well would've been if the MPAA didn't edit out the good gore content. Apart from that, a really good slasher. Jason looks his best in the film, and no wonder he has the taste for blood. A solid story, with good plot and the stupidest ending, the original ending was cut because it was too similar to part one and three, another ending I saw was Tina's dad, more rotted, that shouldve been the ending, because you can see he was in the lake more, then just a lil bit of mud on his face. but it was funny. Another funny thing is seeing Terry Kiser (Burnie) at a cabin at a lake, you could say another Weekend at Burnies, when he dies once, but isn't seen walking around and thought not to be dead, we have Jason doing that, walking, stop, tilting head, kill, walk, stop, hide, kill. That is all that is needed in a slasher, and some girls running around topless screaming for help. If you want to survive, don't scream, don't have sex, get drunk and do drugs, run to your car and drive away, but be careful, Jason might be behind or in your car. "},{"Title":"The best Friday the 13th sequel - ever!","Date":"2 June 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Not only as Friday the 13th VII the New Blood, in my opinion the best Friday sequel ever, it is also one of the best horror slasher films ever, and my personal favourite horror film. This time round, Jason meets his match in the form of teenage girl Tina Shepard who is a very unique young woman with the power of telekinesis. Set sometime after Part VI, The New Blood is placed back at Crystal Lake, where some holiday homes now exist. Tina, along with her mother Amanda, and doctor, Dr. Crews, return to Crystal Lake to try and help Tina with what Crews tells her is a major problem (her telekinesis) and believes that she is best helped at the place where a tragic incident happened to Tina some years ago, where her uncontrollable powers may have been responsible for her father's death.Arriving at the family holiday home at Crystal Lake, Tina meets Nick and a bunch of other teens who are staying at the house next door for a surprise birthday party for Nick's cousin. Tina meets the other teens, and the trouble starts there! Crews is an awful man who only wants to exploit Tina for her power, and a short while into the film, Jason is raised from his watery grave by Tina's immense power! Tina also has uncontrollable visions, and sees Nick's cousin being killed (by Jason) which indeed happens. Eventually, Jason makes his way to the houses to slash his way through all the teens, and sadly, Amanda Shepard, who Dr. Crews uses as a human shield. Thankfully, the awful Crews meets a gruesome demise. Naturally, as with all Friday films, the death scenes are all censored.The glamorous Lar Park Lincoln plays Tina Shepard, and gives a terrific performance of this heroine unlike any other Jason has ever fought! Lar does a terrific job, displaying great emotion when it comes to her portrayal of Tina. It was a smart move to give the heroine some added ability, and she makes for one of the most capable and intelligent of all horror heroines. Kevin Spirtas as great as hottie Nick, and he and Lar have a great on-screen chemistry together. It's also fortunate for Kevin Spirtas fans that the New Blood follows the rather new (at the time) horror convention of having both the hero and heroine survive. It's a shame Tina and Nick never got to feature in a sequel.Famous voice actress / director Susan Blu is wonderful as Tina's mother, and although she may seem weak due to her inability to stand up to Dr. Crews, she is nevertheless a fantastic mother, always looking out for Tina, though in my opinion it would have been better if she survived. Terry Kiser gives a great performance of the wicked Dr. Crews, just seeing him on screen sends a shiver down my spine. Kane Hodder, the much-heralded Jason, makes his Jason debut in this film also. Jennifer Banko also makes her screen debut as young Tina in the flashback.As for the horde of teens, there are perhaps more in this film than in most of the others. Susan Jennifer Sullivan gives a somewhat over the top performance as Mean Girl of 1988 Melissa, though she is rather good. Heidi Kozak (who goes on to have a recurring role in Dr. Quinn Medicine Woman some years later) is good as Sandra, Diana Barrows is terrific as the meek Maddy, who gets more story than most of the other teens, and also the most pent-up death scene. Diane Almedia plays Kate, and although she doesn't get much screen time, has a strong personality. As far as the rest of the teens go, none of them are of particular note.The special effects in The New Blood are amazing, considering it was a low budget film and the year was 1988. Director John Carl Beuchler did a fantastic job of directing this film, and I sincerely hope that one day an uncut version will be available on DVD. However, it is certainly Lar Park Lincoln that carries the film, and even without the spectacular show down with Jason, she does an amazing job of portraying a tormented, powerful young woman who ends up being one of the best heroines in all horror films. "},{"Title":"Okay, this is where things began to get weird.","Date":"14 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Another Jason movie, ah yes,takes place years after Tommy Jarvis, and it seems like he's gone, guess again, a girl with telekinetic powers tries to get her dad back, but because she wasn't aware of her power, and didn't know how to control it properly, she accidentally brings Jason back, and oh no he's at it again. Well there's something you don't get everyday, man. Why did they put someone like that in? Someone who is like Carrie, please, Jason does typical murders, while she figures out how to control her powers, and tries to find out who is this Jsaon person. And the way she fights him is kind of pathetic, she just throws stuff at him and rips off his mask, can't she do something better, like smash him or send him flying to space? But then again that would be too weird, and it wasn't that exciting either. But I'll stop there. It did have everything else you'd expect in a slasher film, but I wish they could have done something else instead of a telekinetic person. Watch it if you're into it, or if you would still watch it even though it's like that. "},{"Title":"Introducing Kane Hodder as a bigger and better Jason Vorhees!!","Date":"19 August 2014","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The Friday saga continues stronger than ever now that the twisted minds of angst-ridden teenagers have become fine-tuned to the popular slasher genre and its stylish display of murder and bloodletting. A long two year wait after the previous Jason Lives only perpetuated this seventh chapter to new heights with a larger budget and some new ideas and of course, it introduces the towering figure of Kane Hodder who is without a doubt the most menacing Jason Vorhees to ever grace the screen.Writers try a new tactic (hence, The New Blood) by giving the pretty and sympathetic lead heroin telekinetic powers to fight off Jason, She is tormented and ostracized by her peers which makes audiences happier to see them meet their grisly endings at the hands of a scarier than ever zombie-like Jason. Throw in a self-centered psychiatrist, concerned Mommy and hunky new boyfriend and you have a somewhat structured storyline to guide you through ninety minutes of senseless violence and death. You can also thank the producers for further pleasing fans by providing Jason with a variety of weapons and tools including his trusty trademark machete. Our very large and versatile body count includes Tent spike through neck, tent spike hurled and stuck in back, torso fisting, the notorious girl in sleeping bag smashed off of tree (personal favorite), ax to the face, garden sickle slashing, jaw crushing, party horn through the eye, chef's knife into gut, knife through neck, girl tossed out window, impaling by pruner, circular saw to the gut, ax through girl's head.Believe it or not, the blood and kill scenes are kept to a minimum to retain the theatrical R rating. Director, John Carl Buechler never ceases to insult the intelligence of the audience not to mention the actors, who play some of the dumbest characters in movie history, and the action is laughable and unconvincing. Nevertheless, Kane Hodder's make-up and sheer presence make this worthwhile. Followed by Jason Takes Manhattan "}{"Title":"A Ho-Hum Entry","Date":"30 June 2014","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The New Blood is the second worst installment in the Paramount era Friday the 13th movies - edged out, ever-so-slightly by Jason Takes Manhattan.I'm always perplexed by how many fans embrace this entry. Truthfully, Kane Hodder's portrayal of Jason Voorhees, and the Jason make up design are the best things about part 7. From the lackluster sound design, insipid script (which seemingly can't even rip off The Final Chapter well), forgettable characters, turtle pacing, and practically non-existent gore effects, almost everything about this entry is pi$$ poor! Maybe, if the movie was available uncut (something that will unfortunately never exist), that would boost my rating and enjoyment slightly. But as it stands, the sleeping bag kill sequence remains one of the only highlights in this dismal Friday.Be sure to check out our Friday the 13th Fan Podcast here http//tgif13.podbean.com "},{"Title":"The new blood...","Date":"11 May 2014","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Ever since homicidal maniac Jason Voorhees got trapped in chains at the bottom of Crystal Lake, the nearby summer camp has operated without a Hitch... without a murder. But one of this season's happy campers isn't there to have a good time.Tina Shepherd can see the future and levitate objects. Her doctor knows just how dangerous telekinesis can be, but he's out to exploit her, not help her. And now it's too late. Tina has accidentally unchained Jason Voorhees from the bottom of his watery grave and the bloodbath is underway.Tina's special powers are her only hope for survival. But what chance does a teenage girl have against an axe-wielding killer.This film starred Kane Hodder, Lar Park Lincoln & Susan Blu.This 7th entry in the Friday the 13th saga is another poor one in my opinion. It's not a very good plot and has a bunch of 1 dimensional characters hat you jut don't care about. Not recommended but check it out if you want to watch the full series.**/***** Poor "},{"Title":"There's a legend around here...","Date":"14 April 2014","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Jason is stuck at the bottom of Crystal Lake after the events of the last movie. Luckily for him there's a telekinetic girl (Lar Park-Lincoln) who cries a lot and has Carrie fits. She inadvertently frees Jason, thinking he's her dead father! Jason immediately starts killing people, naturally. The series was clearly trying to move in a new direction here with more of a focus on the paranormal and supernatural. Terry Kiser from Weekend at Bernie's plays a shrink in this. He's better with comedy. Lar Park-Lincoln's performance consists of crying or being on the verge of crying at all times. My sister used to love this entry in the series because of the angle with the telekinetic girl and the handsome guy who looks like he belongs at a Superman audition.First movie in the series where Kane Hodder plays Jason. He would be the longest-running Jason, playing him for the rest of the series. Frankly, I'm not a big fan of Hodder's Jason. He's too big and bulky, like a football player or pro wrestler. Plus they put him in some kind of suit where you are supposed to be able to see his exposed spine and ribcage. It's incredibly cheesy and just makes Jason cartoonish instead of intimidating.Most of the people Jason kills in this one aren't particularly annoying or bad. The first couple seemed quite nice, actually. The whole vibe to this sequel seems off but it's still a watchable movie. Not the best of the series but far from the worst. There would only be one more decent one after this then it was downhill. "},{"Title":"One of the best sequels","Date":"14 February 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Friday the 13th Part VII is one of best of the sequels because it's different to the previous films even though they are good to watch. Some people have called this film Carrie VS Jason and I can see why, Tina's powers are similar to Carrie's in the fact that her emotions control her power.Kane Hodder stars as Jason for the first time before playing him again in Friday the 13th Part VIII Jason Takes Manhatten, Jason goes to Hell The Final Friday and Jason X.The killings are good and gory in parts and Jason's make up with and without the mask look great and grotesque.A must for Friday the 13th fans. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Jason Vorhees fighting against a young woman with psychic powers","Date":"2 February 2009","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Again Jason Vorhees(Kane Hodder) lurking and killing teens and mask wearing executing an uncountable body-count. The film begins with a flashbacks from previous part ; then Tina Shepard(Park Lincoln) kills accidentally his daddy on the docks on Crystal Lake. Years later she returns with her mother(Susan Blue) and a psychiatrist who wishes to exploit her. Then Tina with her telekinesis(a Carrie-alike)power rises Jason from under lagoon with fateful consequences. Jason does a cruel massacre of young people(the B-star Elizabeth Kaitan, among them) using axe, cleaver and his supernatural force.This seventh following contains horror, suspense, terrifying scenes,grisly killing, shocks and lots of blood .The storyline remains similar happenings and characters as well as predecessors entries and successive chapters. The flick takes accent as the thrills and chills , as well as the guts,gore and blood.Atmospheric and creaking musical score by the usual Harry Manfredini.The motion picture is middling directed by John Carl Buechler, habitual make-up craftsman.Followed by ¨Jason takes Manhattan Part VII(1989), ¨Jason goes to hell¨ The final friday(1993)¨,Jason X(2002, James Isaac)¨, the final chapter is ¨Freddie vs. Jason(2003,Ronni Yu)¨, where again Jason emerges from Crystal Lake and confronting against Freddie Kruger. And in production ¨Friday, the 13th¨ by Marcus Nispel with Jared Padelecki, Danielle Panabaker and produced by Michael Bay. The tale will like to Friday 13 series fans. "},{"Title":"Average","Date":"12 August 2006","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Starts right off with the ending of Part 6 with Jason being chained at the bottom of Camp Crystal Lake (called Lake Forest Green). This happens years later (supposedly) and it's now called Crystal Lake again and everybody has forgotten Jason. A telekinetic girl named Tina (Lar Park Lincoln) goes there with her mom and doctor--she's having trouble controlling her power. There's also a house full of brainless horny teens nearby. Lincoln accidentally revives Jason with her power and he's up and around again...So-so movie. The idea is good (Jason vs. Carrie) but the execution is pretty dull. There are changes from the previous film--that took a more jokey approach to Jason--this one doesn't. And the theme music is back (if used far too often). Also we see, for one of the few times ever, Jason actually MOVING bodies of people he killed! But where exactly does he get all these power tools? I actually laughed when he fired up a grass trimmer and went after somebody. BTW, the body count here is 15--8 girls, 7 guys. We also have the expected gratuitous female nudity.This does have a great ending where Lincoln uses her powers against Jason...but it goes on too long and has a real stupid resolution. Still it moves fairly quick, it has a rare black couple and some good acting (Lincoln is very good and Kevin Blair (now Spirtas) is handsome, hunky and good also). Jason's mask comes off too and the makeup underneath is REAL gruesome and effective.All in all an OK sequel but no great shakes.. I give it a 5. "},{"Title":"Carrie Vs. Jason","Date":"3 August 2006","Score":"11 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Friday the 13th Part VII The New Blood is more of the same to be honest. It adds original ideas to it and throws in a bit more plot structure, but underneath all of that new material is basically the same old Friday the 13th material. Not necessarily a bad thing in this case, because the acting is very good in this instalment. However the Jason formula does hit rock bottom. The thrills, chills and scares are the same old same old. Victim hears a noise, hunts about, then Jason jumps out on them, and they meet their demise. Now, this is the whole trait of the Jason Voorhees franchise, but it can get a little tedious and boring when they play this the whole way through the movie. Gore wise there is a decapitation, a party horn shoved into a head, an axe to the face, which happens twice, a drowning, a hand thrust through a chest, a body thrown out a window and the fantastic scene where Jason whacks somebody in a sleeping bag against a tree. The soundtrack is more tense and chilling in this sequel which is a benefit to the weaker points of the movie. The characters are very clichéd; the spoilt bitchy girl, the ugly girl who wants to be beautiful and popular, etc. These personalities make you want the characters to die. However Maddy, the ugly-turned-beauty girl was one of the few characters I enjoyed watching on screen, and truly felt sorry for. It really seems that popularity and good looks do, indeed, kill. Anyway, the introduction of a telekinetic girl to battle Jason was a bit of a twist. It half works and half doesn't, to be fair. It just doesn't seem to be very appealing, the fact that this girl, Tina, has her telekinetic powers yet takes forever to get rid of Jason. It was also her powers which summoned him up from the lake. So Jason hacks his way through a cabinful of partying teens, celebrating a birthday. The usual stalk-and-slash ensues, and the battle between the heroine then follows. Why is it never a male who has the final battling climax? Anyway as you can see, apart from the obvious additions to distract you from the fact that this is more of the same, Friday the 13th Part VII The New Blood delivers the usual gruesome goods and gratuitous nudity which makes the series so appealing, and is therefore worth checking out. "},{"Title":"Friday the 13th The New Blood (4/10)","Date":"24 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The writers and directors were obviously inspired from a certain Stephen King film adaptation, when moving forward with this film. The central character is a young, innocently shy, awkward girl that possesses telekinetic powers when angry. The premise seemed like it was a setup to be a Carrie vs. Jason type-film to begin with, which is an interesting thought for a fan, but the lack of originality is where it hurts the film. Bottom line, it's not an unbearable film to watch per say but there is just the feeling of having seen the film before when that isn't the case.The entire cast itself was pretty flat, not one interesting character or dialogue was written, and peculiarly, there were some characters in the beginning that were a mystery to how they were relevant to the film. The kill count was enormously high for a typical slasher film, which they had to resort to in desperation of keeping the audience's attention. The New Blood can have its moments and surely there is a big enough fan base that love Friday the 13th movies but they simply ran out of ideas and were quick with this one. "},{"Title":"The Old Blood.","Date":"15 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Friday the 13th, Part 7 The New Blood (1988) Dir John Carl Buechler / Cast Lar Park Lincoln, Kevin Spirtas, Terry Kiser, Susan Blu, Susan Jennifer Sullivan Absolute crap about one power opposing another. Tina Shepherd is travelling to Crystal Lake with her mother to meet Dr. Crews. She has telekinesis, which allows her move objects when her mind is at its emotional peak. She is guilt-ridden when she caused the dock to collapse thus drowning her father when she was young. Crews wishes to exploit this power so in desperation she tries to resurrect her father only to awaken killer Jason. Nobody believes her warnings plus there is a surprise party next door full of mindless teenagers for Jason to slice and dice. Lame plot turns into a predictable gory mess full of characters whose prime functions is to strip, have sex, get stoned, scream, and die horribly. Dreadful directing by John Carl Buechler with special effects so bad that when Tina hurls a plant pot at Jason through her powers we can practically see the line for which it saunters along. Lar Park Lincoln holds her own as Tina whose showdown with Jason is lacking. Terry Kiser plays the obvious Dr. Crews, Kevin Spirtas plays a useless boyfriend, and Susan Blu plays defensive mother. Susan Jennifer Sullivan plays a scheming snotty bitch who is axed in the skull and chucked behind a TV. The film may involve telekinesis but it won't likely move you. Score 2 / 10 "},{"Title":"Jason vs. Carrie","Date":"12 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Friday THE 13th THE NEW BLOOD is just simply amazing, but not as amazing as the remake, Jason X, Jason Takes Manhattan, Freddy vs. Jason or the original Friday the 13th film, released in 1980.It has like a Carrie White vs. Jason Voorhees thing going on. A young woman named Tina has telekinetic powers and we find out that she was responsible for her father's death when she was a little girl. With the help of Dr. Crews and her mother, she goes back to the house that she used to live in to face the evil.Yes, that house is in Camp Crystal Lake. Meanwhile next door, a bunch of teens rented a cabin to host a surprise birthday party. Now, Jason of course, is still alive and at the bottom of the lake thanks to Tommy Jarvis in Part VI, which I have previously reviewed on IMDb.Tina wishes for her father come back from the dead and unknowingly resurrects Jason Voorhees from the lake using her special powers and he starts killing many of the characters off leading to a fiery conclusion between Jason and Tina.I really like the introducing of the storyline which is the telekinesis powers which Tina uses throughout the entire movie. There are some scenes where she uses her powers in rage against Dr. Crews and another teenager, but the best parts are when she uses them to fight Jason. She makes Jason look like an idiot when they start fighting at the end of the film.This Friday THE 13th has much extreme and better kills than JASON LIVES and they are not overly gory (thanks to the studio, Paramount Pictures, cutting out most of the blood and gore) and I think that is really amazing, but they are so imaginative.The characters in this film are some that you feel for in this film, but Tina's mom and Maddy are two characters that come to mind of people that you don't want to see get murdered by Jason. The acting is not bad in this film, as it was in Friday the 13th Part V A New Beginning, but the acting was good in Friday the 13th Part VI Jason Lives and they were fantastic.Jason is more scary-looking than ever as Kane Hodder begins his run as Jason Vorhees and he would play that part for the remaining films until JASON X, which was released in either 2001 or 2002, man. Overall, with Friday THE 13th - Part VII The New Blood, I freaking like this one a little more than the sixth film and the plot of Tina having telekinesis brought some life into this franchise after following that freakshow that was Tommy Jarvis in parts 4-6.Like I said, it is not the best of the six films in the Jason franchise that I like, but I would have expected much better than this film, but I don't hate it at all.6.5 / 10. "}{"Title":"Fairly Original Sequel","Date":"26 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I don't think this film is perfect by any means but I for one really enjoyed the supernatural angle. It must be so difficult to come up with sequels and I think this is the last decent sequel in the series. I know I'm way behind the rest of the planet but I just say most of these films not too long ago (most of the sequels at least).I would give this one a try. Jason fighting telekinetic powers. It at least gives Jason a reason to have to slow down or fight a little harder than normal. Mostly other potential victims or leading ladies might kick him in the balls or manage to get him to fall down stairs to run away for a bit longer before the final moment when they win. "},{"Title":"Carrie vs. Jason","Date":"12 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I'm not a gorehound at all and only occasionally watch slasher flicks, but I'm a huge fan of the Friday the 13th franchise, which started in 1980 with the mega-success of the first film. My appreciation has nothing to do with nostalgia since I didn't become a fan until I was well into adulthood when I saw 1985's Friday the 13th Part V A New Beginning on TV one night in the early 2000s. I think I like these movies because they typically involve young adults in a fun camp-type environment in the woods, which naturally stirs fond youthful memories (not that I'm that old); the presence of a lunatic unstoppable killer &#x97; who increasingly becomes an infernal monster &#x97; just adds an air of danger and suspense to the dramedy and adventure. Add scores of gorgeous females and various filming locations around North America and you have a fabulously entertaining franchise that has yet to end. It's the camp-like settings of most of the series and the unstoppable malevolent force that is Voorhees -- Jason, his mother, or anyone under his diabolic spell -- that especially sets Friday the 13th apart from similar franchises.The first two films are serious in nature with the expected antics of youths on vacation in the woods, but the franchise introduced a campy element with Part III, which pretty much plagues the rest of the series with the exception of maybe Part IV, Part VII and the reboot in 2009. Not that I'm complaining much, as these films are only quasi-believable anyway.Released in 1988, Friday the 13th Part VII The New Blood takes place about ten years after the previous film, making it about 1999, which explains it's title The New Blood Tommy Jarvis is no longer in the picture and there's a new set of youthful blood for Jason to spill. This installment is the second to feature Jason as an inhuman rotting corpse and the F/X of Jason at the end are great. The highlight of Part VII is the inclusion of a Carrie-like heroine with mental powers who squares off against Jason at the end. We also get Terry Kiser as Tina's therapist, Dr. Crews. If you're not familiar with Mr. Kiser, he played the charismatic preacher in 1968's Rachel, Rachel in the mind-blowing Pentecostal service sequence.Although my title blurb describes this segment as Carrie vs. Jason, the movie isn't like 1976's Carrie (or its sequels and remakes) at all. It's the same Friday the 13th formula, but with a protagonist who has Carrie-like abilities.This entry features, by far, the weakest collection of females, at least as far as curvy beauty goes, but I suppose that's a matter of taste. Tina's an interesting character though.As far as locations go, Part VII was shot in Southern Alabama, in and around Mobile.Many people find these films scary and shocking and the first two movies have some slightly chilling aspects, some of the others as well, but &#x97; with the exception of the 2009 reboot &#x97; I don't find these movies particularly scary, although they have loads of jump scares. They're sometimes creepy, sometimes suspenseful, sometimes exciting and always fun & entertaining, but not very scary, for me anyway. In fact, I usually bust out laughing at the inevitable death scenes.BOTTOM LINE Part VII is another retread of the same Friday formula with the distinction of the protagonist having Carrie-like psycho-kinetic powers and, like the previous film, Jason is now totally inhuman -- an infernal monster. In addition, the climax is the best yet, featuring the Carrie vs. Jason fight and a spectacular explosion. Unfortunately Part VII has the least interesting assortment of women in the series. Nevertheless, it's a fairly entertaining installment that thankfully lacks the camp of III, V and VI.IMPORTANT NOTE ABOUT THE ENDING (***SPOILER***) No, the corpse of Tina's Dad was not left in the lake for ten years, the original ending made it clearer that her Dad's body coming out of the lake was a product of Tina's mind powers, although the long chain was real. Of course, this doesn't explain why Jason's corpse was still in the lake early in the film, but we could chalk that up to the curse that was on Crystal Lake and the fact that no one in their right mind would want to visit that part of the lake (anywhere near Camp Blood) by this point in the series.The film runs 88 minutes.GRADE C+ "},{"Title":"Kinda like it","Date":"30 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Apparently this seventh entry of the Friday-franchise was already supposed to be the one where he fights Freddie Krueger, but when those negotiations went nowhere they decided to slap this together. Most people know this as the Jason movie where he fights an off-brand Carrie, but honestly that doesn't come into play that much. Tina is pretty much a final girl like all the others, only occasionally she takes a pause from that to move some light objects around. But even if the gimmick du jour is sorta underused, this is still one of the more entertaining Friday-flicks. John Carl Buechler can film a decent false scare, there's some real suspense thrown in (the girl hiding in the closet, for instance) and by the end Jason has killed a lot of people in moderately cool ways (take notes, part VIII). What more can one really expect from any of this stuff? Take it for what it is, and appreciate that it's not one of the really bad entries. "},{"Title":"Kane Hodder is here!!!!","Date":"27 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Jason's appearance in this film is by far the best of the series. The zombiefied Jason created in part 6 has been taken to new heights in part 7. The new blood is the same film as the final chapter 4 years earlier. The only difference besides Jason's zombie look is the MPAA. This film is bloodless!!!!!! If you haven't seen part 7 since the 80's or 90's watch it now. It is like watching Little Rebecca on Sunnybrook Farm compared to horror of today. In fact besides the great sleeping bag kill, I don't think they show another killing. Everything is cut to shreds and you will find more blood in your next paper cut than in this film. A young Terry Kiser and Lar Park Lincoln steel the show. "},{"Title":"Friday the 13th Part VII The New Blood","Date":"17 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Friday the 13th Part 7 has a Carrie v.s. Jason theme going on. A young woman named Tina has telekinetic powers. She was responsible for her father's death via telekinesis when she was a little girl. With the help of her mom and Dr. Crews, she goes back to the house she used to live in to face old demons. Of course the house is in Crystal Lake. Meanwhile next door, a bunch of teens rented a cabin to host a surprise birthday party. Now Jason of course is still at the bottom of the lake thanks to Tommy Jarvis in part VI. Tina wishing her father to come back from the dead, unknowingly resurrects Jason from the lake using her special powers. He starts killing many of the characters off leading to a fiery conclusion.I really the introduction of a sub storyline which is the telekinesis powers which Tina uses throughout the entire film. There are some really good scenes in which she uses it in a rage against Dr. Crews and another teenager, but the best parts are when she uses them to attack Jason. She makes Jason look like a huge dummy when she starts using the powers against him. This sequel also has much better kills than part 6. They aren't overly gory (thanks to Paramount cutting out most of the gore), but they certainly are imaginative.There are also many characters that you feel for in the film. Tina's mom and Maddy are two characters that come to mind of people you don't want to see get murdered by Jason. The acting isn't horrible in this either. Oh and Jason looks much more grotesque than ever as Kane Hodder begins his reign as Jason Vorhees. Overall, I felt the telekinesis brings some life to the franchise after following Tommy Jarvis around from parts 4-6. I like this one a little more than the sixth.7/10 "},{"Title":"Awesome!","Date":"15 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Now the series is pretty bad except for the 6th movie, but the 7th was a great follow up.It's referred to as Jason vs. Carrie and that's a genius pairing even though it's not Carrie herself. Kane Hodder is amazing as the new and improved rotting super zombie Jason, probably the best Jason there ever was.A movie like this should be bad but it actually has very little flaws. The issue is that so much of the gore was edited out of the film to get the R-rating. If you watch the uncut version the movie is so much better because it probably has the best gore and blood in any Friday movie. I recommend watching that version.Also, the special effects, stunts and makeup on the movie are amazing. Jason's face looks terribly realistic when his mask finally falls off and it's really a great ending. "},{"Title":"Scary Picture!","Date":"16 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Tina Shepard has things that she can moves things in different way and can also look back in to the future. She went with her doctor and her mother to a summer-camp. There she wanted to relax.A few days later comes a group a young kids to the camp called Camp Crystal Lake. One by one disappeared and it will be worrying around the camp.A cliché and a traditional horror-film, but the movie is well-done.The acting is not so good and the directing it is not so good either.It is very beautiful and nice nature and environment, and I are fascinating by the nature. "},{"Title":"This one was the best of the series!","Date":"27 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I think that this one had non-stop action from start to finish. The girls were hot in it, it had great acting and it was funny. Then the best part is that Kane Hodder played Jason and done the best job of all. The look of Jason in this was cool, and it had some great kills. I thought the beginning of the movie recapping all the others was great, then it starts you almost where the last one left off. I love how Tina fought Jason with her mind power, she just beat the crap out of him. Like the other films though, you just know that he isn't going to stay dead. This movie had good music in it too, also some actors that are recognizable. I am not saying the others aren't great, they are all good in their way. This one though takes the cake, I would hope that the rest of the future movies can be this good. "},{"Title":"Another one of my favorite Friday the 13th Movies","Date":"19 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This was the first Friday the 13th film I had ever seen, and its also arguably my favorite. I saw this 4 years before I saw the others, so I didn't think much of it. Then I bought the set and changed my mind. THis was in fact my favorite one. I don't exactly know why I liked this more than the others, just...did. This is similar to part 4 in that there are 2 separate groups, the family and the teens. The main character, Tina, was like Carrie from the movie Carrie. She had powers, was picked on a lot, and used them when emotional. So in a way, this was really like Carrie vs Jason. The acting was actually better in this than some of the previous ones. The camera was better, the special FX weren't 1/2 bad. The story line was pretty good as well, I actually got to know some of the characters rather than just see them splattered on screen. Also this was the first movie with Kane Hodder as Jason. He plays Jason better than anyone. I give this an 8/10. Great movie for Jason fans, guaranteed. "},{"Title":"This intriguing but messy sequel to the Friday the 13th Series is fairly entertaining.","Date":"2 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" An young girl named Tina (Jennifer Banko), who accidentally killed her father (John Ortin) with her telekinesis powers in a moment of rage. An decade has passed, now Tina (Lar Park Lincoln) and her mother (Susan Blu) travel back to their summer home. Where trouble has started in her life. Tina's shrink (Terry Kiser) thinks it's best for Tina to let all out her emotions in this place. While a bunch of young teens are living next door to them. Tina thinks, she could bring her father back to life from the watery grave with her power ! But instead unexpectedly she brings monstrous Jason back to life.Directed by make-up artistJohn Carl Buechler made an lively, sometimes entertaining sequel to the slasher series. This seventh film has several plot holes and a few big continuity story errors from this one. Which it is not the first time from the series has this problem (Which screenwriters seemingly ignore for story in each Friday the 13th film). This one seems fairly oblivious comparing to the others Friday the 13th movies and also the location for this one is different, where Jason died in the end of Part 6. While the picture is amusing at times but the problem seems to be coming for the cutting room floor. While it's flawed, the film is not a total lost... thanks to some good performances from the cast, a few memorable kills and highly unusual premise for the series makes it worthwhile.DVD has an sharp anamorphic Widescreen (1.781) transfer and an strong digitally remastered-Dolby Digital 5.1 Surround Sound. This DVD has no extras, not even the original theatrical trailer. The DVD Box Set from Friday the 13th Series includes an enjoyable commentary track by the director and actorKane Hodder (Who plays Jason in this one), interviews with the cast & crew, trailer and rough deleted footage of alternate kills with commentary by Buechler and Hodder.The new Deluxe Edition. DVD has an new anamorphic Widescreen (1.781) transfer and an terrific Dolby Digital 5.1 Surround Sound. DVD has an new commentary track by the director and actorsHodder and Lincoln. DVD includes three new featurettes and deleted scenes (Some were not seen in the Box Set).This seventh film was rushed into production in the winter of 1988 and release in May 13, 1988. This movie was quickly made. Which Buechler admits in his commentary, he wished he could made the picture better or have more control if it wasn't from anxious studio interference in this one. Which they made him forced to cut or filmed new scenes (also slightly changing the ending), trimming down some character development and cut most of graphic murder sequences for an R-Rating. Buechler's design work on a rotting Jason is the highlight in this one. The most memorable thing for this movie is Hodder, who went to play Jason three more times after this one. Despite logic and story errors, this one went to hugely popular with the Friday the 13th fans. This is mostly for Die Hard fans only. (*** ½/*****). "}{"Title":"One of the better F13th sequels","Date":"26 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Friday the 13th Part VII The New Blood is often unfairly bashed as the worst of the series, which it is far from. This movie is more supernatural based then the others, as it the main character has got the ability to move objects at wish (telekenesis). The problem with this one was that the censors hacked it to bits so there was virtually no gore. I have seen most of the deleted/extended deaths and they were all extremely gory, which is what most people would have been looking for. But that aside, this is an extremely fun movie.The plot isn't anything different. Tina resurrects Jason with her powers. There are a group of sex-crazed, high teens near him. Let the mayhem begin! I'll go through the basics. The acting is bad, the score is the same as ever and the special effects good (as they usually are).This is a great entry into the series and is quite underrated.2½/5. "},{"Title":"A Film To Live By 7","Date":"20 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This is the last Jason movie that tried to be scary and take the character seriously. All of the follow ups to this one either mock Jason or have directors who are to incompetent to make something scary. That is why I have a soft place in my heart for this entry because people tried. I would say also that this is the last one that Paramount put any money into for effects. The next one after The New Blood, is Jason Takes Manhatten and while a good movie is a solid bargain basement affair. Part 7 has great special gore effects even though they have been trimmed. This is because the director of this entry got his start in special makeup. That man is the great John Carl Buelchlar a master director. He puts the blood where it needs to be and he also provided the definitive look for Jason and the actor to portray it. That actor being the great, great Kane The Crystal Lake Problem Solver Hodder. He was born for the role of Jason and the part should never have been unjustly stolen from this pillar of greatness. Kane is king, and long live the king! Down with Ken I Can't Act Kirsinger! "},{"Title":"OK Horror Movie But The Plot Is Crap","Date":"20 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" 7th movie in my Friday The 13th movie marathon.The people that rote the story for this movie obviously ran out of ideas for this movie called Friday the 13th part VII the new blood.The plot for this movie is about how Jason is dead and still chained to a rock at the bottom of the lake and a few years pass and people forget that he is there.And a telekinetic girl named Tina returns to camp crystal lake with her mum and doctor years after she accidentally killed her dad on a dock on crystal lake.And as Tina is standing on the dock she accidentally frees Jason from the lake witch is bad news for her and some young people staying at the house next door.The plot for this movie is crap and this movie is OK but still one of the worst movies in the Friday The 13th series.And the best scenes in this movie are when Tina is trying to kill Jason with her telekinetic powers. Over all this movie is full of problems but i still like it only because i am a fan of this series.My rating for this movie is five out of ten. "},{"Title":"Somebody's got to defend it.","Date":"11 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" It seems pretty pointless to write a commentary on a movie that is closing in on twenty years old, kind of like someone in 1998 writing a review for Halloween. A little late in the ballgame, most would say. However, I felt that I had to comment on this particular edition of Friday the 13th, mostly for the purpose of defending it. Hey, somebody's got to defend it.Friday the 13th VII The New Blood follows your typical FT13 plot, in which some kids get horny, do drugs, get f*cked, and get killed (as if you needed anything else). Of course, what this film NEEDS to be applauded for is the addition of a character with metaphysical abilities, that being our heroine, Tina. Is it fair that Jason gets to be the only one that stretches the bounds of reality? Of course not. And in comes Tina, our troubled telepathic who releases Jason once again from his watery grave, thus allowing us the pleasure to watch him butcher teens.The visuals of this movie are thoroughly enjoyable, being the darker of the FT13 movies since the fourth installment. Gone are the fuzzy screen FT13 movies of yore, and the crisp, clean cinematography runs rampant. It is truly a joy to see Jason stab teenagers in sharp definition. The special effects in this movie are also thoroughly enjoyable, especially the unmasking of Jason, which is the best interpretation of the unmasked Jason (once dead) ever.Plot becomes the main focus of FT13 VII, considering that it is more involved with the lives of the characters versus other films which beg for them to die quick and painful deaths. The relationship between Tina and her psychiatrist, Dr. Crews, is one that actually evokes emotion of injustice among viewers, a rarity in FT13 films (the emotion evoking part I mean), the exception being, once again, The Final Chapter. And seriously, the character of Jason Vorhees has never been more bad ass. Kane Hodder, the only actor to ever play Jason Vorhees thrice, puts Jason at his most intimidating level. This is also the first movie in which the Jason character slightly separates itself from the vengeful son into the more appealing and fascinating embodiment of walking instant death.Those who dump upon FT13 VII should seriously reconsider. The Friday series is one of those rare horror movie franchises that actually improves from sequel to sequel, rather than transgressing. Sure, the earlier Fridays helped to set the ground work for slasher films, but Halloween was the first to do it mainstream, and A Nightmare on Elm Street had a more frightening villain. Jason Vorhees should be appreciated for being the bmf slasher that he is, and VII lets him be that bmf he so desperately needed to be. "},{"Title":"cool movie","Date":"28 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" this movie i think was the best out of the series.it has the best plot i think with the girl having special mental powers she developed over causing her fathers death.Jason had never dealt with someone who could fight him from a distance it was all new to him.but as Jason typicality does he still kept coming.that girl Melissa is the stuck up up one i wont tell you what happens to her but trust me it isn't good.Tina the girl with the metal powers is immediately picked on by almost everyone except for nick and the nerdy girl of the camp.Melissa is jealous of Tina because nick shows her affection and none in return for Melissa.which is just what she deserved. "},{"Title":"This is my personal favorite of the Friday series","Date":"19 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This is sort of a JASON meets CARRIE.  It was nice to see someone besides Tommy give Jason a good fight.  There are few of these in the series.  A neat movie with a neat ending.  I enjoy rewatching this one more than all the rest of the Jason movies.  I hope to see Jason fight Michael Meyers or Leatherface in a theater soon!  hehehe "},{"Title":"Best Horror Film...Period","Date":"21 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This movie is by far the best horror movie ever. Kane Hodder plays Jason with a sense of unholiness, a sense of evil, a sense of darkness no other actor has ever portrayed Jason with, or for that matter any other film character with David Prowses' Darth Vader the only exception. The acting in this film is Shakespearean compared to A Nightmare on Elm Street or Halloween, and Lar Park Lincoln was definately made custom built for the role of Tina. This film has some of the most brutal murder sceens in any movie of the other two members of the Big Three Jason, Michael, and Freddy as well as extremely impresive visual effects. Jasons face close to the end was awsome. The only bad part was the end, but that can be overlooked thanks to a good plot and acting. I feel they could have skipped the next sequel, Jason Takes Manhattan, entirely and have taken Jason straight to Hell. "},{"Title":"No One Can Stop Him","Date":"25 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This was a strange Friday The 13th, it could have been really stupid, but luckly it turned out to be one of the best. Jason looked awesome, best death scenes I had seen in awhile, and alot of blondes. This movie also proves that Jason can not be stopped, he will always come back, might take him a few years, but I bet we can get ready to see alot more of him in 2001. So get prepared for more blood and gore!! "},{"Title":"I love this great horror sequel.","Date":"5 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The best in the series. John Carl Buechler really did a great job on this film. Many say that most 'Friday' fans only love this installment because of Kane Hodder's excellent performance. Not me. Don't get me wrong, Hodder is the best Jason in the whole series, but that's not why I love this film. I think the acting, direction and even the script (still lame, corny, etc. But creative and different) are all above average. I love Susan Blu's Mrs. Shepard and Lar Park-Lincoln's Tina. I hated Dr. Crews, but Terry Kiser did a great job at portraying his character. Kevin Blair as Nick also did a pretty good job. Anthony Barnao as casting director did a excellent job for this film. The acting is almost perfect. I only wish that Friday the 13th - Part 8 continued on the Jason, Tina and Nick story, but instead went for a totally new idea. I love Part 8 Jason Takes Manhattan but it would have been interesting to see what would have followed! The special effects in this film are great and the final confrontation between Jason and Tina is by far the best in the entire series. Very few of the special effects look fake, the ones that do couldn't have been avoided. Well done to everyone involved in this project. I cant express how much I love this wonderful, excellent film.  "},{"Title":"The best F13 ever!","Date":"2 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  You may disagree, but I think this is the best in the series! There is the murders that are cool (A hand through the body, a party horn in the eye), but I think the plot is great! A psychic  trying to kill Jason! Personally, I think Lar Park Lincoln is hot! The rest of the girls were the ones that get killed usually. I hope if Lar is still acting, they do that psychic plot for Freddy vs. Jason! "}{"Title":"Part 7 is scarier then the first 6","Date":"16 March 2015","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Don't get me wrong the first 6 Friday the 13th movies are very scary. But not as scary as this movie. It is one of the scariest movies made before 1989. There are scarier movies. Friday the 13th VIII Jason takes Manhattan is scarier. Jason goes to hell the final Friday is also scarier. But still this is a very scary movie. It as a great story line. Great acting. Great special effects. Jason is a zombie so I consider this horror fantasy. This is very scary movie. See it. It is great. This a great movie great movie great movie. It as lot of suspense. This movie is a most see. Great movie great movie great movie great movie. "},{"Title":"Eerie powered mental patient vs Jason the Juggernaught","Date":"8 July 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Part 7 in the series is a mix of boredom followed by excitement, and ends with the best looking mask-less Jason the series has ever had. The story starts out with a young Tina Shepard at Crystal Lake who has eerie powers that she misuses into, well, murdering her own father, by mistake of course. Fast forward a decade or so and a now voluptuous Tina returns to Camp Crystal lake with her Shrink and mom where the events of her traumatic childhood had taken place. After an enraging moment with her Psychiatrist Tina barges outside of the cabin and mistakenly tries to raise her dead father from the lake only to bring back the badman J.V. himself. Nudity, and violence follow with soon to be dead young pothead sinners who make up the corpses of the film till Tina and Jason match up head to head in an entertaining but cheesy finale.TidbitThis film was intended to be a Jason vs. Freddy match up. But apparently New Line Cinema, the owners of Freddy's soul, and Paramount Pictures, Jason's mommy at the time couldn't work out the details as to who would jack more money from the paying public (I assume). So that deal fell through and in place of the K-man a Psychic powered Tina Sheppard took form. The film starts out with a very cool intro with flashbacks and an announcer going through Jason's past adventures. Apparently the announcer was old Crazy Ralph from the first two films. He does an amazing job and sets up the film really well. The problem though is after this cool introduction the film slows down and becomes somewhat boring until the finale with Tina fighting Jason. The film follows past Friday's formulas of young people partying it up and having sinful, sinful, just sinful relations&#133;&#133;and then getting hacked up into bits. As usual most of the soon to be dead people aren't really that interesting, and the acting as usual is pretty drab. The first half of the film really is quite boring, but luckily is forgiven by the excellent second half. I love the scenes with Tina finally getting fed up and using her powers to actually fight back against the unstoppable. A final mention about the flick is that Jason looks extremely cool throughout the film. He does look like he's been soaking in a lake for years and when his mask comes off you'll giggle like a little girl with mental problems. "},{"Title":"The best movie of the series","Date":"12 March 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I had a Friday the 13th horror fest & watched parts 1-7. Part 1 gets 8 stars, part 2 gets 9 1/2, part 3 gets a 9, part 4 gets a 7,part 5 gets 4 stars, part 6 gets 5 stars & part 7 gets 10 stars. I thought that part 7 was different than all the others & had better kills. I thought that it definitely was the best of the series so it gets 10 out of 10. What made it better than the original was that it had more plot twists than the original & it had more twisted up characters that you had to figure out, & you didn't know where Jason was going to appear next. Also, the acting was bad, & that really characterized the movie & it really made it good. 10 stars. "},{"Title":"Chopped Up","Date":"30 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I still remember the day that I rented F13 part 7 back in 88 or 89 and I know that in general I liked it, and still do like it. Its not special its not unique and its definitely no different than the previous six films(except for the better ones). However the gore in this installment is at the minimal level. In fact there really isn't any gore. I usually mention death scenes when reviewing the F13 films and sadly there's none worth mentioning from The New Blood except Melissa's and that's only because we hate her and want her to die(not literally). Too bad she lived through all but ten minutes of the film though. I guess Robin's death scene is a highlight, as well as the banana sleeping bag) There's plenty of sex and nudity and the body count is still high but its just not creative in its execution and I'm disappointed to find out that a lot of the gore was cut from the film. Paramount needs to release the UNcut versions of these films!! And until they do my vote for this film will always be a 6/10. I really felt cheated after all the chasing and hiding in Maddy's death scene only to have the camera cut away from her actual death. What a let down.Still The New Blood is okay and is one that I do watch occasionally. I like the mother/daughter relationship of Tina and Ms. Shepherd and really love to hate the conniving doctor(played well by Terry Kiser). I still cringe when he holds Tina's mother in place so Jason can stab her. Total sleaze-ball. And then we get ripped off with his death scene too!!! What the hell! Here we go again....In my opinion F13 The New Blood was 'sort of' disappointing but is a saint in that respect when compared to Jason Goes to Hell or Jason X(I love to mention those two)) F137's formula is a dead breed(it is the last one to take place at Crystal Lake) unless you count Jason Goes to Hell which in my opinion does NOT count since its so bizarre. If you're gonna use the same formula for eight years then go ahead and stick with it. It worked this far. 6/10. It would have gotten a seven if it wasn't so chopped up and I tend to like the ones with camp counselors better. "},{"Title":"Well, The Actors Are New...","Date":"13 September 2013","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Part VII begins with a useful recap of the previous films, with a narrator telling us how these are Jason's woods, and that no one can stop him. Film then begins with a young girl named Tina with telekinetic powers accidentally killing her father on Camp Crystal Lake, and then how, years later, she returns there with her mother and psychiatrist to sort out her problems, only Tina, hoping to bring back her father, instead revives Jason Voorhees, still chained in the lake, though now free to resume his killing ways with another group of unfortunate teenagers. Only Tina, using her telekinetic powers, has a chance to stop him...Aside from the novelty of Jason having an equally powerful opponent to contend with, this tepid, contrived sequel has little else going for it, though Kane Hodder is very good as Jason, and film a step up from earlier sequels(which isn't saying much!) "},{"Title":"And We Go Downhill Again","Date":"4 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" After a brilliant Part 6 we now get Friday The 13th Part VII which is not a terrible movie but defiantly another weak movie, just as i thought this series was starting to get better again paramount give this to us instead, the acting is corny and the writing is terrible basically all it was was Jason going around killing people okay okay that's what he does but anywho here's the plot Near the site of Tommy and Jason's final watery fight, young Tina Shepard accidentally killed her father with her developing mental powers. Now seventeen, Tina returns to Crystal Lake with her mother Amanda and her psychologist, Dr. Crews. In the cabin next door, a group of friends has gathered to throw a surprise birthday party for mutual friend Michael. Tina meets Michael's cousin Nick, who introduces himself and helps her when she knocks open her suitcase.Dr. Crews soon has Tina testing her mental abilities, pushing her to the edge with insinuations of guilt over her father's death. That night, Tina senses a presence in the lake and brings up Jason, imprisoned there by Tommy. Tina passes out, but soon tells her mother and the disbelieving Crews of the man in the lake. Nick comes over to invite Tina to the birthday party that night, but the birthday boy Michael and his girlfriend Jane are killed on the way. At the party, Tina sees a vision of Jason killing Michael with a spike and runs home, but Crews calls it a delusion. Nearby, campers Dan and Judy are soon killed by Jason.The next night, after a confrontation with the stuck-up Melissa, Tina's session with Crews goes awry, and she levitates a television at him. Tina confides in Nick her suspicion of Michael's death, while next door, Russell and Sandra are killed when they go for a swim. Dr. Crews goes for a walk and finds Michael's body. At her house, Tina's mother finds that Crews has been antagonizing Tina to increase her telekinesis. When Crews returns, he threatens to have Tina committed and she drives off - only to see a vision of Jason killing her mother. She crashes, and makes her way back to the house on foot. Meanwhile, Maddy leaves the cabin next door and is killed by Jason.Tina runs into Nick on her way home and they find Michael's body. Meanwhile, Jason kills Ben and Kate and cuts the power to the parties' cabin before killing David. Tina and Nick arrive at her house, and next door, Melissa goes out looking for Nick before Jason kills Eddie and Robin. Nick heads to the party cabin, while in the woods Jason kills Amanda Shepard. Nick finds Eddie's body, but Tina has left her house when he returns. Tina soon finds Crews and goes looking for her mother when he says she is gone. Jason dispatches Crews via brush saw, and Tina heads after him.Tina electrocutes Jason, but he rises and chases her into the party cabin. After she telekinetically collapses the porch onto him, she runs back home and finds Nick and Melissa. Melissa opens the door to leave, but Jason is standing there and he splits her head open with an Axe. Tina and Nick run upstairs but she turns around, ready for the final fight of mind over matter. . .Jason was one of the only good things in this movie i only recommend this to die hard horror fans like myself (Like i said about part 5 i only ever watch this if i watch the whole series in one go). "},{"Title":"Guess what? It's rubbish!","Date":"13 June 2014","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Here we go again. The makers of this instalment pretend that events in the previous films have any bearing on the current one by recapping so-called highlights of the last couple before Jason is up and about again, using various sharp implements to kill partying teenagers.This time he finds himself up against a telekinetic girl who envisions the murders and tries to stop him, but not before a lot of boring set-up and bloody deaths involving saws, knives, spikes and, for a bit of variety, party favours. Still no variation in formula on any significant level, just the usual crap. Even the make-up effects aren't up to much this time round; at least the others had a kind of momentum, but this just stumbles around for eighty minutes, throws a couple of trick endings at you, and then falls down and dies. "},{"Title":"Jason really gets his this time around.","Date":"2 November 2011","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Back in 1988, when the attempts to do a Freddy Krueger and Jason Voorhees title fight just weren't paying off, Jason ended up doing battle with a different foe - an unstable teenage girl with psychic visions and telekinetic abilities, and as many fans have pointed out, this may just as well have been sub titled Jason vs. Carrie. This high concept pays off pretty well in a very amusing finale wherein Jason, like never before, is subjected to extended physical punishment. But before we get there, we get mostly the same tried and true formula, as a typical assortment of none too bright young adults meet their maker by coming to the woods intending to party.What helps in this case is the reasonably compelling story of the very troubled Tina (the sexy Lar Park Lincoln, displaying a convincing amount of vulnerability), at war with her own inner demons and with her despicable psychiatrist, Dr. Crews, who's far more interested in her abilities than with her.This would actually be a pretty good story with or without Jason's involvement. But our favourite hockey masked psychopath still adds a great bit of sadistic flair to the proceedings. The kills unfortunately are not everything they could be with the inventive and barbaric murders devised by effects expert / director John Carl Buechler whittled down to practically nothing in order to satisfy the MPAA. As a result, this respectably entertaining entry in the series isn't altogether satisfying, although it definitely has its moments. Lots of people, including this reviewer, do love that sleeping bag kill.Making his debut as Jason after working with Buechler on Prison, Kane Hodder invests Jason with genuine physical menace and a sense of incredible rage. This is a guy aching to do some serious damage. Jason has a great look this time around, face and body alike, with Buechler doing an admirable job of creating a sort of damage continuity. It leads up to an engaging finale where Tina throws everything at Jason that she can.The first entry not entirely scored by Harry Manfredini, it uses some of his earlier compositions as well as new ones from Fred Mollin, the composer for the F13 TV series. Some of the supporting performances are good, with Susan Jennifer Sullivan a perfect bitch as the snooty Melissa who has her eyes on Nick, played by the likable Kevin Spirtas, who understandably prefers the much nicer Tina. Kiser, best known as Bernie in the Weekend at Bernie's films, is superb as the psychiatrist who's just as much a villain as Jason himself.Overall, pretty enjoyable stuff.Seven out of 10. "},{"Title":"Illogical and Dumb","Date":"23 July 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" They should have called this When Jason Met Low Grade Carrie. Tina (Lar Park-Lincoln) returns back to her home in the woods with her mother and her doctor in tow. Tina really doesn't want to be here, but Dr. Crews (Terry Kiser) thinks that it would be therapeutic for her. Seems that when Tina was a little girl, she used her psychic powers to punish her father who was beating up her mother, causing him to drown in the lake. Tina's guilt has caused her to have (All together folks!) emotional issues. But the good doctor's motives are far from professional seems he just wants to document her psychic powers to become (all together folks!)famous! Filled with guilt, Tina sits by the lake and wishes for her father to return. Unfortunately, she raises Jason instead (Last seen taking a LONG bath in Part VI).And so Jason is back. AGAIN.Meanwhile, in the cabin next door, there is your typical group of teens (In other words, horny, drugged out and mean)that are there for a birthday party, waiting for the guest of honor. And of course, they get bumped off in creative ways (My favorite is the sleeping bag!). Soon, only Tina and Nick (Kevin Spirtas)remain to fight off Jason.And this is when things get weird. Tina uses her psychic powers to fight off Jason. And they are weak at best. And the ending? Only one word STUPID!!!! Not the worst of the series, but damn near close. "},{"Title":" Hey, Tina! Is this the way they wear jackets at the mental institution?","Date":"17 September 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Lar Park Lincoln is wonderful as Tina in this malicious horror film. The supporting cast is nice. The costumes are fair. One of the best movies out of the series, Friday The 13th Part 7 The New Blood will definitely send chills up the viewer's spine. 9 out of 10. "}{"Title":"this ones ok","Date":"30 November 1999","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Last time I blamed Tommy for causing the deaths of others after inadvertently raising Jason from 6 feet under.  I must do the same here concerning Tina, the very cute Lincoln as a girl with powers to move things with her mind.  Thinking shes moving her dead father from the same lake where Jason is stuck under water, she ends up snapping the chain attached to the rock holding Jason down and hes back in business.  So like Tommy, shes kinda responsible for the batch of teens who get skewered.  But missing from part 6 and really the rest of the other films, are the inventive murders.  Jasons slams a girl into a tree, stabs a few, throws one outta window, its just a little too dull.  Theres a couple decent ones like the party favor in the eye or the ol' axe to the face, but the rest are standard.  And way too much time is spent on Lincolns character trying to get over her past at the lake and her would be romance with Blair.  Most of Harry Mandredinis great music is stuff from previous films as either he and/or Fred Mollin unfortuntely decided to overuse a lot of banging sounds.  And after being the lead character the last 3 films, Tommy Jarvis was dropped.  Tack on a totally unsatisfying ending (Jasons pulled under a dock and disappears) and you've got only a fair follow up.  At least its more watchable than 8 or 9. "},{"Title":"Not very good","Date":"27 September 2005","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This seventh entry in the series is a letdown, especially after the lively 6th installment. This time around we have a telekinetic girl who proves to be Jason's match but they don't meet until after Jason has already hacked a few teenagers to bits.This proves to be quite the stupid affair. This kills are downright boring (though not the fault of it's director, the MPAA was especially prudish when downsizing the film's gore), it's got no suspense, the humor misses big time (unlike part 6) and the Carrie inspired twist is awfully handled. Couple that with extreme bad acting and a ridiculous finale (even that was taken out of the director's hands) you end up with a disappointing entry in this long running franchise.But not all is bad. Kane Hodder is great as Jason, there's a decent showdown between Carrie and Jason near the end and it's got good production values. If an ultimate cut would surface, leaving all the gore intact this film would easily be a lot better, that is after all what we want from these films. This film reportedly had a lot of gore cut out, some of which can be seen on the Friday Box Set in a rough cut.Hate those blasted MPAA a-holes. "},{"Title":"The weird one.","Date":"1 May 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" So I would say Jason looked the best in this film but this film was strange they tried to add supernatural elements to the series. They suggest that the main character caused Jason to awaken as shown early on in the film. They do try to be creative and it works to some extent but in all honesty it is an okay film this is also the first film that has Jason play the iconic role of Jason and in my opinion is Jason which most people would agree with me when I say that.So the film has a girl arrive at her old home at crystal lake to be examined it is obvious that the doctor is using her and not helping her and just like part four we don't focus on the teens we focus on the main character. So as the film goes on at the end they blow up the house with Jason inside which makes me think is this one cannon since the starts of the the 8th one has Jason underwater like how at the end of part 6.The film is okay the supernatural thing kills it in a bad way and yeah I would give it a try to see what you think. "},{"Title":"Worthy seventh entry in the popular slasher series","Date":"16 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Vicious and relentless psycho Jason Voorhees (beefy stuntman Kane Hodder in his first outing as the hockey-masked fiend) meets his match in the form of psychic teenager Tina Shepard (an appealing portrayal by the fetching Lar Park-Lincoln).Director John Carl Buechler keeps the pace moving along at a snappy rate, stages the murder set pieces with aplomb (the brutal sleeping bag kill rates as the single most nasty highlight), and pulls out all the exciting stops for the lively and thrilling climactic showdown between Tina and Jason. Writers Daryl Haney and Manuel Fidelo get lots of entertaining mileage out of the inspired Jason versus Carrie premise and present a few delightfully hateful characters who one roots to see get offed by Jason. Moreover, the cast have fun with the familiar, yet still enjoyable material Terry Kiser contributes a solid turn as smarmy and self-serving shrink Dr. Crews, Kevin Spirtas makes a likable impression as nice guy Nick, Susan Jennifer Sullivan bitches it up deliciously as the snarky Melissa, Diana Barrows provides plenty of spark as spunky nerdette Maddy, and Elizabeth Kaitan exudes a sweetly ditsy charm as bubbly redhead Robin. Best of all, Hodder brings a sense of burning angry and aggressive physicality to the role of Jason that's both frightening and intimidating. Alas, the ending comes across as downright insulting and frustrating in its jaw-dropping stupidity and almost all of the gore was severely truncated in order to avoid an X rating. Those criticisms aside, this one sizes up as one of the better and more original additions to the hugely successful slice'n'dice franchise. "},{"Title":"Introducing a psychic element...","Date":"28 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Part seven of the bloody Friday the 13th franchise might stand as one of the most important movies in the entire series as it brought the massive hulking actor Kane Hodder into the role of Jason Voorhees.As much as I love all the movies in the franchise, then the telekinesis element was a bitter pill to swallow. Sure it was entertaining enough, and it was as supernatural as the Jason character himself, but still there just was something silly about it.The story takes place after Jason ends up at the bottom of the lake in part 6. A telekinetic-gifted girl accidentally frees the Crystal Lake slasher from his watery grave, unleashing the murdering madman to do what he does best.As for the acting, then they had some nice talents on the cast list, including Lar Park-Lincoln as Tina, Terry Kiser as Dr. Crews and, of course, Kane Hodder as Jason.Friday the 13th Part VII The New Blood takes the physical decay of Jason further and the effects and make-up department really did fantastic jobs, especially when Jason is unmasked. That moment is priceless.True to the series, part VII offers a heap of deaths and some interesting visuals at those scenes. "},{"Title":"Bad news Crews......","Date":"1 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Tina Shepard has the gift of telekinesis. But her gift is also a curse, mainly because she caused the death of her father on the docks of Camp Crystal Lake. Now Tina has returned home with her mother and her conniving doctor, who wants to exploit Tina's powers and become famous. But the teenage residents of Camp Crystal Lake have something more to fear than Tina's powers as she accidentally frees Jason Voorhees from his watery grave. And Jason is really in the mood for a massacre.After the craziness of Jason Lives, Tommy has gone for a Burton, and the makers have upped the stupidness by pitting Jason against a girl with telekinesis. Originally this was the movie where Freddy was supposed to make an appearance,must the studios couldn't come to an arrangement.So here we get a kind of Jason VS Carrie, with a house party at an uncles house next door for good measure. And it's as stupid and as good as you'd expect from a seventh movie where the main focus of the franchise is a 'zombie' in a hockey mask killing all and sundry.It's a lot if fun from beginning to end, the kills, again, are edited within an inch of their life (or death), but they are at least inventive, and the makers add little details, such as Jason standing in a dark corner whilst his game goes for the fridge.There is a silly subplot involving a shouty doctor hiding all of Nancy's proof of Jason killing, and wanting to make a name of himself by showcasing her gift.On the plus side, the camera-work is marvellous, especially from Jason's point of view, and it's pretty clear that the house party next door was an inspiration for the setting of the 2009 remake.But, if your not a fan of Jason, or really cheesy eighties slashers, stay away, the film offers nothing really new for horror.But if your reading this,the chances are that you are a fan of the genre, and the series, and it delivers what Jason fans want, a good silly movie, with a few laughs. "},{"Title":"A whole lot better than you would expect","Date":"27 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Arriving at Crystal Lake to study her powers, a teen with psychic abilities fears she has resurrected Jason Voorhees from his slumber in the lake and is out killing off a party next door, forcing her to race to stop him before he kills them all.This was easily the most enjoyable and underrated efforts of the series. Among the great qualities here is the fun this has in doling out the kills here, with an exceptionally large body count that offers up numerous exciting and creative kills here that still rank among the series' best. The slaughtered pair of hikers camping in the woods are quite nice, and the early attacks on the group offer some of the most bizarre and creative kills possible in the series, and that there's so many fun kills here requires the action to pull them off. Those action scenes are a lot of fun, with the initial resurrection from the lake, a fine series of kills against the hikers in the woods and the stalking down by the lake all bring up the action considerably, and once it moves to the massacre of the group in the house partying away this one really picks up as the one-by-one nature of the kills provides this with a great deal of action. Even the woods chasing here is a great deal of fun, as the constant running around here and the stumbling around on the bodies at his secret hideout gives this quite a few rather exciting scenes, though the true fun of this here comes from the final encounter with Jason. The supernatural powers makes quite an impression here as this one finally puts Jason on the defensive and really unleashes some solid punishment against him, uprooting tree-vines to ensnare him, electrocuting him, dropping him down throughout several floors through to the basement, dumping part of the house onto him and finally setting him on fire all the while featuring all the usual stalking elements featured in such grand finale chases as the battle goes from the woods, throughout both houses, down to the basement and finishes at the docks and wraps up the earlier sequences rather nicely. Again sporting an amazing Jason look of decomposition from the lake-bed, there here gives this a lot to like against the one really irritating plot here. This one has a rather distracting quality here of having her run off into the woods after every situation here, regardless of who's responsible for the troubling matter against her so this wears thin very quickly with every encounter resulting in this action. Otherwise, there's not much wrong here.Rating R Graphic Violence, Graphic Language, Nudity, several sex scenes, and drug use. "},{"Title":"Jason unchained","Date":"8 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" After part 6 of 'Friday the 13th' was a commercial success, probably helped a lot by the great Alice Cooper title song, the inevitable next sequel was released less than 2 years later. The story goes kind of back to basics, with Jason just roaming the forest around Crystal Lake (whereas later sequels would even take him into space). The novelty value of part 7 is contributed by the unusual heroine. Tina (Lar Park-Lincoln) has telekinetic powers, sometimes just moving matches, but in a state of rage, she can even throw a TV at somebody by the power of her mind. After Jason is unchained and leaves the bottom of the lake to kill and kill again, Tina can fight him in surprising ways, for example she tries to strangle him with an electric cable - without using her hands. Tina herself is not one of the typical innocent college girls - she has a dark past, wrestling since many years with the responsibility for killing her father. Even if the budget is visibly low, the acting is quite good, especially for the characters of Tina's mother and the doctor who explores Tina's special powers against her will. A watchable entry in the series. "},{"Title":"Carrie Vs The Terminator","Date":"1 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Jason is back again after his encounter with Tommy Jarvis. This time he's resurrected and cut loose from the chain that Tommy put on him. Through telekinesis by a girl named Tina. She tried to resurrect her dad after she accidentally killed him and she accidentally brought Jason back (telekinesis is a bitch to control apparently). Many of the kills in this movie is censored but fortunately the Blu-Ray has the uncensored scenes (as a bonus feature and the quality is really bad VHS quality but it's there at least). Jason looked awesome, he really looked like he has been through 5 movies (since he wasn't in 1 & 5) and the fight with Tina is awesome. The characters are bad so it's the usual, no one to remember except Jason and I guess Tina. The fight between them is like the guy in the documentary said It's like Carrie Vs The Terminator. The ending is a bit weird as it has Tina's dad being resurrected and killing Jason. This movie is the best in my opinion and you should definitely give it a watch. "},{"Title":"hulking-guy-in-hockey-mask-kills-teens-at-camp-crystal-lake movie","Date":"23 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Friday VII's protagonist, Tina Shepard, is disturbed, from an anguished family past and has psychic powers - sorta similar to Carrie(1976), a far better movie in every way. Writers Daryl Haney and Manuel Fidello include an invasive shrink who's actually on the scene to investigate and possibly manipulate her powers rather than provide therapeutic comfort. The supporting cast are a group of Dumb American Teenagers (TM) that are holidaying nearby.Anyway, blah blah blah - Jason Voorhees comes outta the soggy depths of Camp Crystal Lake (TM) and starts hacking and slashing at nearby humans. Surely enough, the main protagonist/antagonist have a standoff/scarefest thing in the third act, with Jason consumed in flames in what the film makers claimed was the longest on screen fire stunt at that time.The REASON that critics dislike these films is all-too-obvious. The antagonist is seemingly unkillable, also Voorhees is the iconic character from these movies, but is essentially in a non-acting role, hidden behind a mask and prosthetics and never actually speaking.Moreover, the film is completely shot on-location, conveniently doing away with the nasty business of set design; Friday VII only really had one set-piece - a house fire - beyond that it was all cheap suspense music, natural lighting, (or adequate TV drama lighting), and people getting mutilated. The idea of attractive young women being stalked and punished for their sexual transgressions or simply for being alone in the wilderness is a mite too traditional in its consideration of gender roles, and most of the cast get killed off from film to film, making them pretty much expendable from the first reel. Friday VII was directed by John Carl Beuchler, who directed a handful of low budget horror and horror comedy efforts in the late 80s. Beuchlers film Garbage Pail Kids was pulled from cinemas, also TerrorVision, an appallingly bad (though initially quite funny) horror-comedy had a limited release, negative reviews and was considered a commercial failure. IF YOU MAKE A MOVIE like Friday VII and someone gets chucked out of a second story window, you MUST create a match cut to show the character falling from the same window outside the building, not a different one. That sort of error is unforgivable. End of the day Friday VII cost under 3 million, made about 20 million, therefore Friday VIII. The point is to keep the budget low so profits can be made out of little more than a dirty yellow hockey mask and a roman numeral on the poster. "}{"Title":"Jason vs. Carrie","Date":"11 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Friday THE 13th THE NEW BLOOD is just simply amazing, but not as amazing as the remake, Jason X, Jason Takes Manhattan, Freddy vs. Jason or the original Friday the 13th film, released in 1980.It has like a Carrie White vs. Jason Voorhees thing going on.A young woman named Tina has telekinetic powers and we find out that she was responsible for her father's death when she was a little girl. With the help of Dr. Crews and her mother, she goes back to the house that she used to live in to face the evil.Yes, that house is in Camp Crystal Lake. Meanwhile next door, a bunch of teens rented a cabin to host a surprise birthday party. Now, Jason of course, is still alive and at the bottom of the lake thanks to Tommy Jarvis in Part VI, which I have previously reviewed on IMDb.Tina wishes for her father come back from the dead and unknowingly resurrects Jason Voorhees from the lake using her special powers and he starts killing many of the characters off leading to a fiery conclusion between Jason and Tina.I really like the introducing of the storyline which is the telekinesis powers which Tina uses throughout the entire movie. There are some scenes where she uses her powers in rage against Dr. Crews and another teenager, but the best parts are when she uses them to fight Jason. She makes Jason look like an idiot when they start fighting at the end of the film.This Friday THE 13th has much extreme and better kills than JASON LIVES and they are not overly gory (thanks to the studio, Paramount Pictures, cutting out most of the blood and gore) and I think that is really amazing, but they are so imaginative.The characters in this film are some that you feel for in this film, but Tina's mom and Maddy are two characters that come to mind of people that you don't want to see get murdered by Jason. The acting is not bad in this film, as it was in Friday the 13th Part V A New Beginning, but the acting was good in Friday the 13th Part VI Jason Lives and they were fantastic.Jason is more scary-looking than ever as Kane Hodder begins his run as Jason Vorhees and he would play that part for the remaining films until JASON X, which was released in either 2001 or 2002, man.Overall, with Friday THE 13th - Part VII The New Blood, I freaking like this one a little more than the sixth film and the plot of Tina having telekinesis brought some life into this franchise after following that freakshow that was Tommy Jarvis in parts 4-6.Like I said, it is not the best of the six films in the Jason franchise that I like, but I would have expected much better than this film, but I don't hate it at all.6.5 / 10. "},{"Title":"Friday the 13th Part VII The New Blood","Date":"10 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The series with the iconic hockey mask wearing, machete wielding psycho killer has been up and down over the years, in the entire series this was the only one rated the lowest by critics, this didn't stop me watching it though. Basically the film begins a few months after the previous film's conclusion, young Tina Shepard (Jennifer Banko) has an abusive alcoholic father John (John Otrin) who beats her mother Amanda (Susan Blu), and in a moment of rage Tina discovers she has telekinetic abilities, and accidentally causes the death of her father, he drowns and goes to the bottom of Crystal Lake. Ten years later Tina Shepard (Lar Park-Lincoln) is still haunted by the guilt of this horrible memory, she is being taken by her mother to a lakeside residence to be studied (and unknowingly exploited) by her psychiatrist Dr. Crews (Terry Kiser), he experiments and brings out her powers through verbal insults. Tina runs from the cabin upset and runs to the dock by the lake her father was drowned, thinking about him and wishing he was alive. Tina unintentionally wakes undead zombie serial killer Jason Voorhees (Kane Hodder), previously seen beneath the water chained to a rock, she causes the chain around his neck to break, allowing him to rise from his watery grave and go on a killing rampage once again, ignited by the death of his mother, and the victims include vacationing teenagers in a cabin nearby. Jason's killing methods include stabbing in the head, a knife and machete through the bag, someone tied up in a blanket being smashed against a tree, drowning, crushing a skull with his hands, knife to the chest, being thrown out a window, a long spinning saw through the chest, an axe through the head and many more. Tina is tormented now also by Jason violently killing those around her, she sees no choice but to use her telekinetic powers to try and stop him, including forcing Jason's hockey mask to tighten, until it breaks off, to reveal a monstrous decaying and deformed face. The lakeside house is eventually set on fire, and it looks like even the powers of Tina cannot stop Jason, but then all of the sudden her father emerges from the lake and drags the killer back down to the bottom of the lake, he is chained once again and disappears, for now. Also starring Kevin Spirtas as Nick, Susan Jennifer Sullivan as Melissa, Heidi Kozak as Sandra, William Butler as Michael and Staci Greason as Jane. Jason being the menacing killer he is and some of the kills are fine, but the biggest problem is the storyline he is a part of and what goes on when he is not on screen, the telekinetic powers stuff is complete rubbish, and the accidental death of a father is a predictable idea, one of the only positives was seeing Jason's face under the mask again, other than that the whole film is almost entirely awful, a very disappointing horror. Pretty poor! "},{"Title":"Carrie Vs. Jason...Place Your Bets!!!","Date":"11 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The 7th film in the infamous Friday the 13th franchise is very different, but that's a good thing. It's different in the sense that they add the supernatural element of 'telekinesis' to the story arc of Tina Shepard. Tina is a lot like Sissy Spacek from 'Carrie' she can move things with her mind and see into the future. Jason Voorhees has never looked better. He looks like a monster with a cracked hockey mask. Seven years after accidentally killing her dad, Tina is sent to the Crystal Lake cabins for the weekend to receive help from Dr. Crews (played by Terry Kiser from the Weekend at Bernie's movies) When Tina becomes stressed and furious, she unintentionally awakens Jason from his watery grave. Jason begins killing off the teens at the cabin across the lake from Tina. When he kills Tina's mom, it becomes personal and Tina decides to take him on face to face! I highly recommend Friday THE 13TH PART VII THE NEW BLOOD!!! "},{"Title":"Good Friday Sequel!","Date":"4 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Lar Park-Lincoln, Terry Kiser, Kevin Spirtas, Susan Blu and Kane Hodder star in this 1988 horror sequel. Tina (Park-Lincoln) is a teenage girl who is trying to get over the death of her father due to her telekinetic abilities. She and her mother, Amanda (Blu) stay at Crystal Lake to meet with Dr. Crews (Kiser) who's supposed to help her. Tina meets Nick (Spirtas) who's staying with his friends next-door to her. Soon, Tina accidentally resurrects Jason (Hodder) instead of her father. When Jason starts killing people, Tina begins seeing images of their deaths and soon battles the killer with her abilities. This is a good sequel, Hodder is great in his debut as Jason and his look is the best version in my opinion. I recommend this. "},{"Title":"Carrie Versus Jason!!!","Date":"14 September 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" It's always a dream of horror fans, to have 2 horror greats face off. For years, fans waited as FREDDY VS. JASON went through production hell. And speaking personally, I believe it was well worth the wait! In this one, FT13 Part 7, we get CARRIE VS. JASON. A young woman with telekinetic abilities accidentally resurrects Jason and spends the remainder of the running time trying to put him back in his watery grave. Of the later sequels, this one is the most imaginative. The obligatory cadre of young people, who don't amount to much more than cannon fodder, are swiftly and creatively offed by the man in the hockey mask. At times, I think the filmmakers must've been laughing up their sleeves at some of the ridiculous kills. Come on, a party favor in the eye? And where oh where did Jason come across that gas-powered buzz saw thing? And how come no-one else heard it? And was anyone else cheering when Melissa, the stuck-up bitch, was offed?! The telekinetic special effects are top-notch and the five-part finale is one of the best in the whole series. So gather together your own cadre of friends and have a good night of good ole-fashion slasher fun!!! "},{"Title":"Fans seem to consider it one of the worst...I disagree","Date":"18 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" If you read all of my Friday the 13th review (I will be doing all of them this week) you'll notice that for the most part my score on them is around a seven out of ten. My reason for this is many. The Friday the 13th franchise is for horror/slasher fans. Most of us could come back a zillion times to see Jason kill and be stopped again and again. We suspend believe and reality and let continuity in the series slide for the most part. This is one instalment that requires a suspension in the believable because it deals with a girl with psychic powers but if anyone could or should go up against something completely unstoppable like Jason it should be a psychic I think. The film features several scenes that I think are truly iconic and just very well shot. One of which is when Tina (the psychic) see Jason standing on the road just looking at her. Another is the scene where she uses her powers to choke him with the chain already around his neck. I also think the cast in this one had a lot of depth compared to some of the previous ones. You actually sort of get to know the cast of youngsters that are to be Jason's prey in this film. This film also marks the first time Jason is played by Kane Hodder, perhaps his best known portrayer.Lar Park-Lincoln is Tina. Now its true what many reviewers say, she is almost intolerably whiny, and seemingly weak until she's using her powers. But she is supposed to be pretty twisted up over essentially killing her father as a child. She's not the best scream queen but at least she has plenty of emotion to her character. Its unfortunate that the film makers made her look so ridiculous and campy when she was using her powers. Kevin Spirtas is Tina's love interest and the hero Nick. He does well, certainly has the right look for a movie hero although he never really does anything heroic, but rather runs around looking for Tina most of the film. Veteran character actress, director, sound editor and voice over queen Susan Blu plays Tina's mother. She has had a long career doing voice overs for cartoons but she does a great playing the concerned mother in this film. She looks the part and actually gives one of the strongest performances in the film. Also a veteran character Terry Kiser is also good in a campy sort of way as the villainous self involved pompous doctor. Its definitely enjoyable to see him get his end. Susan Jennifer Sullivan in one of her (surprisingly so) only roles. She plays the snotty cheerleader type Melissa and she does well. The rest of the prey for Jason are actually pretty decent but nobody truly stands out against the main cast. Kane Hodder picks up the role of Jason again and truly hones the character and makes him what he is. You think the role of Jason could be played by anybody given how many people have portrayed him but Hodder is dead serious in this role and his supernatural strength is just really something to watch.A director and special effects man takes the lead for this film, John Carl Buechler. His foray into special effects is easy to see as we see a lot of different effects given the psychic angle of things. I think the film makers really tried here with this film. I feel like they wanted to really try and give this one a story, and more depth and for the most part they succeed. You still have the Crystal Lake setting and the unsuspecting campers but a totally different adversary. Some fans have trouble letting go of the same old but I think is the right mix of something new and still keeping the old recipe. A worthy addition to this never ending series. 7.5/10 "},{"Title":"A good concept doesn't make it a good Friday.","Date":"3 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Friday the 13th Part VII The New Blood, is nothing original but nonetheless clever. The idea of having Jason Vorhees(the supernatural evil entity) and Tina Shepard (the gifted telekinetic) battling against each other on a pretty even playing field is a really good concept. However having said that, a good concept doesn't necessarily make this film a strong entry in the franchise. The film did not seem to have a storyline which matched up with the ending of part 6, even though there is some stock footage at the beginning. Camp Crystal Lake is nowhere to be seen, and how Jason ended up in front of Tina's family cottage while chained to a boulder is illogical. Also there is a lack of reason with Dr. Crews, Tina's psychiatrist, intentions and motivations. The escalating climatic battle between both Jason and Tina was good, but more of Tina's abilities should have been used and the battle should have been much more creative and slightly prolonged. Unfortunately the climatic ending was a great disappointment, and it seems as though the writers just thought of the easiest and most predictable ending to go to. The biggest question I have for this ending is, What was Tina's dad still doing at the bottom of the lake, after 10 years?--> Tina and Amanda you've got some explaining to do.-MovieCritic33-6 "},{"Title":"good entertaining Friday movie with new material to the saga","Date":"14 January 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This is the next last of the original paramount Friday movies it also is really good. With a smart pretty leading women, Tina is one off the best characters in the series next to Tommy Jarvis. And her psychic powers packs this Friday movie with excellent special effects and action, her showdown with Jason is pure entertainment yet it doesn't become silly.This movie is much like the earlier installments and almost as good as the first 4 parts, I really like the setting and creepy woods that Jason and his victims are running around a lot here. Though this movie and its 2 former parts ar not as scary or realistic as the first 4 classics so its a good horror movie but doesn't send shivers down your spine really like them. Jason looks really cool here, best make-up and I actually like the fact that despite hes a zombie awaken from dead he kills and moves around more like a strong human, he doesn't use ridiculous strenght, teleporting part 8 or ultra fast walks, he just moves around lurking like he should do. Nick is also a good character/actor you feel sympathy for. The ending is OK with Jason disappearing to his lake, I like it being quick and mysterious, no doubt the company had decided already to do part 8)I like the more serious mood than the humorous but great part 6 had. The murders are toned down graphically in this one compared to earlier fridays but thats OK because its good horror and storyline,(imagine parts 5,6 without the gore that would be boring). I will always love these movies and keep watching them. Keep lurking around Chrystal lake Jason! "},{"Title":"Nice Theory Falls Flat in Practice","Date":"12 December 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Putting Jason up against a slightly less screwed up, blonde version of Carrie probably sounded like an amazing idea when they pitched this movie. Sadly it doesn't come off as well as hoped.Part VI was the film where the producers gave in and made a fun little gorefest, in this film they go back the other way, with not a lot of laughs. The characters in this are slightly more engaging characters than we're used to, well the mains anyway. I actually found myself caring, if only slightly, about both Tina (The Carrie character) and Nick (the love interest).The story here is that Tina is telekinetic and became so angry at her alcoholic father years earlier that she caused a boardwalk at Crystal Lake to collapse and killed him. She returns there years later with a sleazy, self serving therapist and her mother, and her power causes Jason to awaken from the dead again.They have a final showdown where Tina is able to raise her father, looking pretty chipper for a guy who's been dead for a decade, from the dead and he saves the day.This isn't a bad film, seems to be more sex scenes in this one than most of the others. But there are some grating scenes, like the ones where Tina uses her telekinesis. But hey, maybe those scenes will work for someone else, I found them a bit corny.Not bad, there is nudity though. "},{"Title":"This movie sucks. It makes no f*****g sense.","Date":"23 March 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" As I said above, this movie made no sense. It must have been a deliberate attempt to make the film as ridiculous as possible. First issue being, PSYCHO-KINESIS?! what does that have to do with the storyline? It seemed like it was an entirely different storyline than Friday the 13th that just happened to involve Jason. (the idea of the psycho kinetic teen versus an unstoppable killer would make an okay movie by itself, but it fails as a part of a pre-existing series) There were several scenes that made absolutely no sense. Like, when he had just killed that girl in the utility shed, a short walk from the cabins but within minutes, he is at least five miles up the road, where he kills the doctor and Tina's mother with large power tools that seemed to come from nowhere. Then there is the issue of Jason's amazing ability to swing his arms despite the lack of back muscles. Worst of all is definitely the ending, when Tina uses her psycho-kinesis to call her father's corpse up from the lake to pull Jason down with him. (Tina's father drowned in an accident nearly 17 years earlier, yet is somehow still in the water and hasn't decomposed in the slightest) "}{"Title":"You know, Jason being a zombie was cool in Part VI, but this...","Date":"6 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Friday the 13th is considered to be one of the most memorable horror films of the 1980's, next to A Nightmare on Elm Street and Child's Play. By 1986, the series had gone through a lot. Four sequels, two of which were pretty well received (Parts 2 and 4) and two others which didn't get many positive reviews (3 and 5). After a dismal attempt at the box-office with Friday the 13th Part V, Jason fans everywhere embraced Part 6, which is considered to be the best of the sequels. Then in 1988, Paramount decided to bring Jason back for another scare, with an unknown cast of horny teenagers, lots of bloody death scenes, and a director by the name of John Carl Buechler. Now, this is where i get irritated at Paramount. You might remember many of the horror successes Paramount Pictures had; 'Rosemary's Baby', 'Psycho', and, of course, the original 'Friday the 13th'. You may also remember paramount's horror flops, such as 'Friday the 13th Part V', and 'Orca'. You see, the successes Paramount had were led by experienced directors. In the case of Friday part 7, it's different. John Carl Buechler already failed at the box-office with his unsuccessful horror film 'Troll' (1986). Was he really the director Paramount needed to take on Jason, one of the most memorable icons of the slasher genre? The results, as you might see, were disastrous. 'Friday the 13th Part 7' is so dull, so idiotic, so weird, that i almost fell asleep watching it. First thing that sucks about Part 7, is the first half hour of the movie. We get very little character development. All we know is that Tina has telekinesis, she likes a boy, but this bitchy whore will do anything to keep Tina from scoring with the guy, and Jason returns after Tina (stupidly) revives him. Somebody should've mentioned earlier that there was a homicidal maniac chained to the bottom of the lake, and he could be awakened at anytime. but alas, f there had been such a warning, there wouldn't be a movie. Another thing being the music. Harry Manfredini's musical score from the first 6 Fridays enhances the mood in each scene the memorable theme is played. His music added an ominous feeling even when Jason wasn't present. While is score is recycled into Part 7, a majority of the music is done by Fred Mollin. Fred Mollin's score isn't horrible, but it certainly doesn't add any atmosphere or mood during the film, and it is very inferior to Manfredini's score. Manfredini did the vocals for the infamous Chi Chi Ha Ha Ha in the original Fridays. Mollin takes it over this time but his imitation sounds nothing more than Hee hee hee. Also, in the final scene when Jason's mask splits open, the scene is ruined because the musical score SUCKS throughout that entire scene. Also, the now infamous alternate ending in which Tina's dead father rises from the lake was included in the version i saw. It was really pathetic. Tina killed her dad earlier in the film by drowning him in Crystal Lake. The disappointing thing is, is that Mr. Shepard's corpse looks like nothing more than the original Mr. Shepard, except now he's covered in water and his clothes are all dirty, and not even ripped. Compare this to Jason, who's been underwater for about the same number of years Mr. Shepard has been, and he's a deformed walking corpse! Also, it's kind of surprising that Mr. Shepard was able to take down Jason by just pulling him underwater, considering the fact that Mr. Shepard looks like a total pussy, even when he is a corpse. Mr. Shepard also abused Tina and her mom, but from the way he looked and acted in the beginning, Tina's mom could've beaten the crap out of HIM.OVERALL, this film is a ridiculous sequel that all the other F13's should be embarrassed to be related to it (even parts 5 and 8!!) "},{"Title":"Jason finally meets a challenge!","Date":"19 October 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" You know, the main thing about this movie that makes it different than all the others is it has a character named Tina, who has telekinetic powers. She inadvertently revives Jason at the beginning of the film, setting him free to wreak havoc on unsuspecting campers once again.I'm not really sure how they can still be unsuspecting, but whatever. It is nice to see someone actually be able to fight with Jason. For so long, he's been completely unstoppable it was a nice change up to actually see him meet a challenge. It's not a film without its flaws, but if you're in the mood for a Friday film, but are longing for something a little bit different, not the same worn out routine, give this film a shot.It's worth renting if you appreciate films of this sort, if you can catch it on television for free, all the better. Jason won't meet another real challenge until he faces Freddy Krueger in Freddy versus Jason. "},{"Title":"They Tried Something New and it Didn't Entirely Fail.","Date":"19 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The first thing that must be said about this movie is that it's a Friday the 13th Movie. This means that there's bound to be a high body count, senseless gore and gratuitous nudity. Another obvious addendum is a lack of plot and character development. Somehow Jason is going to be resurrected, that's another given, and somehow he's going to die (But not too much, or there wouldn't be four more movies featuring him). But, as a Friday the 13th movie, there's very little in terms of the first three expected points. The body count is decent (not as high as you'd expect but not bad), most of the violence happens off-camera and what takes place on screen is rather tame, and the nudity is kept only to a token skinny-dipper and a token shirtless girl in bed. The other points are all as they are expected to be.I was pleasantly surprised with the acting. It's by no means good acting, but neither is it terrible. I'd actually say it's about average (which is outstanding, given the standard of acting excellence in this series). Lar Park-Lincoln's performance was decent-enough, like a slightly down-graded version of Sissy Spacek in Carrie. Even the worst cast members were decent actors, which kept this movie watchable throughout.And, up until the very end, Jason's makeup and costume, I thought, were pretty well done. His degrading body was subtle, but noticeable. For most of the movie the focus wasn't on his features, which made them pop-out all the more. But, near the end, when the mask comes off, his face just over-does it. It's too blatantly meant to be horrific, when it instead looks like something from Army of Darkness. Subtler was better.The most ridiculous part about this movie, though, is how they kill of Jason. For the last twenty or thirty minutes he was presumably killed by electrocution, strangulation, head crushed, building collapsed upon him, fell through a set of stairs, burned, exploded and shot at. Finally, it took Carrie... I mean Tina's... resurrected father to drown him again. It was simply ridiculous, and ruined whatever slight credibility this movie had built up in my mind thus far. I personally found it insulting, that the director and writers thought that anybody would believe he'd died after each time, and that they would continue to try and fool us again and again and again. It was almost as if they had a dozen ideas of how they wanted to kill him, couldn't agree on anything, and so decided to try them all and see how they each faired.There were a number of small things that bothered me about this film in addition to the above. Where was Jason getting all of these power-tools and new weapons from when there's clearly only the handful of now-empty cabins? Is there always some hapless guy with a machete in the woods whenever Jason's resurrected? Some kind of big cosmic coincidence? The beginning sequence talking about Jason was pointless. People watching this movie are largely, and almost exclusively, people who've seen the prior films, and if not they can certainly guess what's happened before. At any rate, a back-story was not needed. Didn't they change the name to Forrest Green in the last movie? When the father died in the beginning, wouldn't the police (or somebody) have dragged the lake for it so that they could bury him? Wouldn't they have then found Jason (contrary to the newspaper clippings found in the doctor's study)? So why would the father's body still be in the lake? And, let's just say that that's the case, why would his body not be suffering from an advanced stage of decay after a decade of rotting underwater? If there's a killer with a machete slicing into your tent, do you honestly think he won't notice you hiding in your sleeping bag? In the end, I wasn't sure if this was supposed to be a sequel to Friday the 13th or Carrie. For a horror movie it was extremely tame, although it benefited from a good makeup/costume design and average acting. I wouldn't largely recommend this to horror-fans, only Friday the 13th ones. I doubt many other than they would enjoy this movie, and even then I've seen better. "},{"Title":"one of my favorites of the series!!!","Date":"26 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I really liked this one, I thought it had high energy throughout the film. This one doesn't ever get dull once Jason comes out of the lake ,there is a huge body count almost everyone in this film gets whacked, Jason is well rested up and he is ticked off! Kane Hodder is the best Jason there is, even though I love the old Fridays more than the new ones(except for this one) I think the idea of Jason vs Carrie is a pretty cool idea, and it worked out well this one is truly fun and Jason has some really cool kills in this one like the sleeping bag slammed into the tree, knife in the throat, even a death by a weed eater! Well I wouldn't say this one is the best of the series but you can do worse I think part 4 is the best and part 9 is the worst! this one is probably 2nd or 3rd on my list, really a high paced, fun slasher flick enjoy as Jason racks up the body count!!!! "},{"Title":"Better Than Part 6.","Date":"3 October 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Picking up after Part 6, we find Jason still chained to the boulder at the bottom of Crystal Lake. Tina, a teen who can move things with her mind, accidentally frees Jason. Teens throwing a birthday bash are promptly picked off by Jason. Even though the murders and gore in this entry, much like in Part 6, are basically cut-out, this is a good entry, one of my favorites, and I feel this is the last good Friday The 13th film made (so far). Jason is at his best here. He looked menacing in Part 4, but here he looks his best. The mask and costume are much creepier than ever before, and he doesn't come off hokey as he did in Part 6. The location of filming is more atmospheric and unsettling then before also. Too bad many of the murder scenes had to be trimmed. With them in place, this could have been one top-notch sequel. Some of the murders are still good, though. The sleeping bag murder, even though it's trimmed, is one of the best kills in the series. The cast is fine, the story moves fluidly, and there is a big body count. Too bad there are plot holes rampant through the story (did Tina really think her dead dad's body would still be floating around Crystal Lake after a decade? I thought Crystal Lake was now named Forest Green?). A worthy sequel. Features an axe to the head, axe to the face, knife in the gut (Jason finally dropped that machete!), crushed head, etc., etc. Three stars. "},{"Title":"One of the average slasher movies, but still fun","Date":"5 September 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This movie is 100% predictable and it doesn't change anything in the series. Jason is simply awakened by a girl with telekinetic powers, kills everyone in the area and gets killed by the same girl.The movie isn't that bad but what I hated was that Jason keeps changing. In part 2 we see that he was half deformed, part 3 he lost his hair and changed completely, part 4 he became like a monster and now he's like Matt in Resident Evil 2.What makes this movie very good are the deaths. It has three of my favorite deaths in the series, and the best chase scene.It's definitely worth for rental but not if you expect a lot. "},{"Title":"Had that Friday Feeling...","Date":"26 March 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This film had that Friday the 13th feeling in the sense that it had Teenagers getting drunk, taking drugs and having sex before finally being slaughtered by the legend that is Jason Vorhees.But also this film introduced an interesting (Maybe not believable) storyline that added new life to the series. Another exciting part to the movie was the ending explosion which for an 80's film was spectacular.One final point will be Jason's Make-up. In this film Jason looked his best as a Zombie. He really did look great.Good Film, good story, good kills... "},{"Title":"Loved it despite the cheesiness.","Date":"5 August 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I watch part seven of the Friday the 13 series about twice a year. It's absolutely one of my favorites despite all the campiness and stereo-typical actors and deaths.Yes there are loopholes abound in the movie, and it's very likely the writers were out of any real good ideas to add to the myth of Jason Voorhees, but what the hey. I loved how the psychic Tina was able to surprise Jason at every turn. I accepted if someone like Jason could exist, then why not a telekenetic? I got an extreme kick out of watching the frumpy Maddy, deciding to give herself an extreme makeover, to get even with her best friend - Robin (I think). Actually, they were both pretty horsey looking. And both dying to hook up with the stoner of the group, David, for some reason. Well of course when Maddy is looking all fine and done up, she wanders out into the woods, and starts calling Davids name, since for some reason he is out in the woods??? I have to give it to her for one of the highest skirts, and one one of the biggest derriers to be slashed by Jason. She had the best scream-of any of the Jason movies-all while inserting her lost ear-ring into her ear. To top it all off, is the awesome scene where she finds some type of garden shed to hide in, which just gives Jason the right ammo to off her. From the dynamic scream, to the flowy little dress, to crawling in the dirt, to holding her heels while hiding, this was the best death in the film. Just seeing the flash of a sling blade was enough to make it painful.The biggest reason I got a kick out of this chapter, and most of the Jason movies, is the payoff at the end where you see his face. This is by far the best face out of any of the movies. They actually gave him a bit of personality, and he looked schocked and then uber-p***ed at the psychic Tina when she tore of his mask, which was a pretty gross scene in itself. As long as you don't expect an Academy award winning picture, have fun with this one.  "},{"Title":"Easily one of the best in the neverending series.","Date":"11 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Friday the 13th Part 7 The New Blood is perhaps the Friday installment with the most historical significance. Not only was it the first appearance of the now infamous Kane Hodder as Jason, but it was also supposed to be the installment where Jason Vorhees was pitted against Freddy Krueger of the A Nightmare On Elm Street series. But, as things go, New Line couldn't get along with Paramount (who distributed the first eight Friday films, until passing the torch to New Line in 1993 for Jason Goes To Hell). That particular film (Freddy Vs. Jason) wouldn't be seen for another 15 years. Instead, the studio basically deleted Freddy from the story and replaced him with a teenage girl with telepathic powers by the name of Tina. Tina is returning to Camp Crystal Lake with her mother years after getting her father killed by accidentally utilizing her abilities. She is assisted by a psychologist by the name of Dr. Crews, whose intents turn out to be rather mean-spirited. As luck would have it, there is a group of teenagers/young adults partying non-stop next door, and when Tina accidentally awakens Jason from his watery grave, he has his fun, yet again, slashing his way through the crowd. For a series that should be on it's last leg by the seventh installment, The New Blood (and it's predecessor, Jason Lives) does a good job of keeping things fresh and livening up the party a bit more. Special effects wizard John Carl Buechler does a fantastic job at directing, his passion for the material shows through, and even though the movie fell victim to heavy editing, it still stands strong as one of the best in the whole series (aside from parts 1 & 2, it's my favorite). The characters have much more personality than in previous installments, and there are new dynamics added that make the movie all the more interesting. For example, this is the first Friday The 13th where a fully-functional love-story is put into play, and that we actually want to see the hero and the heroine survive the disaster. The Jason make-up is just flat-out gnarly. Yes, as I said before, much of it was cut out, but this is easily the man's best appearance so-far. And it doesn't hurt matters to have stunt-guru Kane Hodder behind the mask. This is the movie that started the Kane/Jason phenomenon, as Hodder would return for three more sequels, and is one of the few actors to have actually spoken out about how proud he is of his work. Overall, it's a great film. It's flaws can be overlooked because A. At the time it was released, these movies were coming out annually, and B. most of the outrageous effects were massacred by the MPAA. But not to worry, there is a Friday the 13th box-set being released by Paramount in the fall (obviously only containing parts 1-8) and not only has Buechler recorded a commentary track, the cut scenes and uncensored clips and expected to surface as well. I suggest this movie to anyone with even a casual interest in the slasher genre.10/10 "},{"Title":"The New Blood","Date":"20 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I rented this flick the other day as a second choice for the 4th film in the franchise. It sounded interesting enough. I wasn't disappointed because I figured this being the seventh installment, there wasn't much room for improvement or innovation. Jason's back...again...to kill a bunch of unsuspecting people...again. So I took what I was given with enjoyment and watched the hulking quasi-amphibious killer get his rocks off. It was exciting to imagine the crowd in the theaters at the release of this movie. I think it was this mindframe that brought a sort of life to a movie whose time had started to pass. But like most things, one must get through the muck in order to get to the heart of the matter. So, with that in mind, on to the gripes... (possible spoilers within. tread carefully.)One, the premise isn't feasible. A telekinetic girl versus a king of slaughterfests. I think, though, that's what made this movie so appealing. I wanted to see how the writers could pull this off.Two, after a while body parts just start appearing. I understand that it was for shock value, or a possible cheap jump scare, but not a well thought out idea.Three, there is barely any blood to be spoken of. A nice subtitle yes and it's understandable to have a subtitle after three or maybe four movies because without it the general public would have no interest in seeing something that has been done. Also, as a footnote, anyone who has spent their time watching Italian horror movies then sees this will be shocked to find a dearth of gore. Don't get me wrong, gore does not make a movie but the flick cuts away many times to avoid splatter.I could go on but I don't want to sound like a nit-picky person. So to counter what I just wrote, I will shed some light on some good aspects of the film.One, the kids don't really fight, which brings a sort of fun think-tank way of approaching Jason's means of killing them.Two, there are two parts of the movie I think are particularly well directed the scene in the toolshed with the chick in the blue dress and the shot later in the film in the house when Jason is walking toward the main characters.There is not much to be said about slasher films. They are usually about a powerful entity with a penchant for blood. Friday the 13th Part VII doesn't fall far from that tree. Slasher films have a deeper meaning if one would want to look closer. In this instance Jason represents the World and the kids represent inexperience and youth. Just goes to show you that the World will cut you apart with a buzzsaw if you're stupid.Check this movie out for a good time. It still delivers despite any real change to the formula. "}{"Title":"An Awesome Jason, Some Awesome Gore, Not the Greatest Film","Date":"19 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  If you love the Jason movies, you will enjoy this movie, but it is definitely a step down in  quality, overall, from the rest of the series.  Jason looks great and new life is really  pumped into the role via Kane Hodder.  There are some extremely great death scenes,  including the infamous sleeping bag bashed against a tree scene.  The suspense of 1  through 4 ain't there and it isn't as funny as 5 or 8.  This one is about on par with Part 6.     Its pretty good, but not the greatest.  Part 6 is actually a little funnier.   "},{"Title":"Lights, Camera, Best Makeup -Spoilers-","Date":"16 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  For a Jason film, I was quite surprised that the makeup, especially on Jason, was outstanding. It might have been the most expensive Jason to date (besides Freddy vs Jason), but I thought it was a very well spent sum that did wonders for the film.When Tina was a child she accidently killed her father, boohoo. So jump a decade and this brings you to about her 19 maybe. Anyways, her doc, Dr. Cruise decides that she isn't making any progress at the hospital and decides to take her to the cabin where it all happened. He thus in returns hopes to make her telekinetic powers even stronger. Well while PO'd at the good doc, Tina goes to the lake and tries to resurrect her father (for some weird and bizarre reason is still at the bottom of this lake????) and accidently resurrects Jason from his watery grave. Well, Jason starts his little slice and dice ceremonies on the kids that borrowed their uncles cabin on the lake. One by one the keep getting the 'final' cut. Sex and drugs. Well, Tinas mother and doctor finally get killed off because of Dr Cruises problem with being a man whenever he is needed to be a man. Tina and her little boyfriend must start the big battle against almighty Jason. She puts a roof on his head, and nothing happens, she throws him through a flight of stairs, nope. Then hangs him and throws him in the basement, nothing. Sets him on fire and then blows up the entire house with him in it. Nada. I mean, this man just won't die. Then Nick tries to shoot him? Come on buddy you just saw him get blown up and you think a little pistol is going to work? He must have been using drugs or something. Finally, Tina summons her father and he pulls him back down to the bottom of Crystal Lake.Now, Tinas father didnt look like he was down there for ten years, he looked like he was just put down the there yesterday or something. What a miracle water supply. They should be selling that stuff and making a fortune on it. Maybe that is why Jason never dies huh? I don't know though. This one is one of my favs though.5.5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Nostalgia trip","Date":"16 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I was recently hit by a big nostalgia trip and having bought the first films of this series on VHS cassette, these had to be seen aswell. They've mostly just been collecting dust in a box but watching them again have me lots of thrills... Normally I'm a bit harsh in my reviews but I really have a soft spot for this series along with the Nightmare on Elm Street series.. These films were important in the task of introducting the horror genre as we know it - wannabe followups like Scream and all the other BS cannot follow this, trust me...if you love horror but for some reason missed these films you are in for a treat!I remember this, part 7, as being the first one where Jason actually found a challenge in one of his victims, the psychic Tina. Unfortunately the uncut version has still not been released of this (and the other) films but rumours promise a boxset for release in 2004 featuring them all, and I cannot wait!It is not movie art, granted, but it is great entertainment, especially if you saw them as a kid.....  "},{"Title":"`Friday the 13th, Part VII The New Blood' is better than many of the other films in the series.","Date":"10 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  BEWARE ---- SPOILERS AHEADFRIDAY THE 13TH, PART VII THE NEW BLOODThe film begins with some nice, creepy music, which sets the stage for an impressive opening montage - complete with creepy narration.The montage segues into seeing Jason in the lake - right where he was left in Part VI. This time, however, he is noticeably wearing different clothing. Meanwhile, a young girl Tina (probably around 8 or 9 years old) runs away from home when she discovers that her father has once again beat her mother.As you know, Tina's telekinetic power is what kills her father. So, the basic concept of the film is that Dr. Crews makes Tina return to Crystal Lake (under his supervision) to face her fears and to deal with the suppressed guilt she has for the death of her father. However, it is obvious that the doctor has other plans in mind. I must say that Tina, Dr. Crews and Tina's mother, Amanda, are all pretty decent for a slasher film.1239 - the first of many sex scenes.Tina, as you would recall, is the one responsible for Jason's return. The entire sequence of the resurgence of Jason is extremely well done. This is also - by far - the best visual presence of Jason. The revealing skeletal bones through his rotting clothes are a very nice touch.1946 -Jane, Mike's girlfriend, is Jason's first kill, is dispatched by being stabbed in the back with a tent spike. That's nothing entirely original but effective nonetheless.This is definitely Jason at his creepiest. He's dark, menacing and he is quite simply, pure evil. John Carl Buechler's direction, as well as the use of proper lighting enhances Kane Hodder's performance as Jason. Unfortunately, Buechler does film Jason as often as possible, which does destroy the possibility of suspense or an effective jump scare.2045 - Second death (Mike `The Birthday Boy') is very well done. A thrown spike into his back is what does him in. I especially like how Jason picks him up from the spear and throws him off to the ground. The brutality of that death is reminiscent of Jason from PART IV.While watching this film, I noticed that the Dr. Crews character is very much like Paul Reiser's character from ALIENS. However, Dr. Crews' character is not fully fleshed out and you never really know why he's doing the bad things he does. Of course, it is obvious that he'll be exploiting her --- but you don't in what he'll gain from that. Does he plan on writing a book? Does he plan on doing the talk and radio show circuits? Is someone just going to pay him a s*** load of money for the information? Perhaps for all three.2655 - Third and one of the best death scenes in the film is a fist through the back and a broken neck. This is where Jason acquires his machete.2759 - Fourth death scene is the best of the film - the infamous `sleeping bag slammed against the tree' scene.I should mention that I do not like the supporting cast. Not only are they not very good, their dialogue is not much better. There is nearly no character development unless you consider booze drinking, pot smoking, self-indulgent, sexually obsessed and shallow characters to be considered character development. This - to me - is a major problem. In some of the previous FRIDAY THE 13TH films, some of the characters were somewhat likeable and a little more fleshed out --- here they're just bodies to be killed.3625 - Mandatory skinny dipping scene3716 - Fifth death scene - Russell, who's Uncle owns the cabin that Mike's party is being held at, gets slashed by a machete from the chin up.3751 - Sixth death scene is a presumed drowning.3857 to 3906 - Excellent shot of Jason dragging the dead body out of the lake.OK - while watching Part VII, I can't help to see the some similarities between Tina and the Tommy Jarvis character (Part 4,5 & 6).1. They both have a history with Jason, which began at childhood.2. Both are responsible for bringing Jason back from the dead.3. Both had spent time in mental hospitals. 4. Both of them know the truth but are not believed. 5. Both have subplots dealing with a love interest. 6. Jason had killed both of their mothers.4606 to 4942 - It's a nice attempt at some suspense and it does have a nice jump scare which inevitably leads to the (seventh) death of Maddy. The buildup is much better than the payoff.5236 - Jason kills victim number 8 by crushing Ben's head.5312 - Ninth death scene is inventive --- but silly. Jason jabs a party horn into Kate's eye.This 'Friday' installment has many, many couples engaging or about to engage in sexual situations. Personally, I feel the writers went a tad overboard. Apparently, the filmmakers did not know what else these characters could do other than having sex. At times, the film borders on parody.The scene where Nick and Tina discover Mike's dead body, which is mangled between some trees, is not very well acted.5727 - 10th death scene - butcher's knife into stomach. Not very exciting but damn, Jason really does look really cool.If the film would've focused more on Tina and the Dr. Crews aspect of the story than with wasting time on the ineffective supporting cast --- the film could've been much better. Also, the film could've benefited from a bigger budget.10042 - 11TH death scene - throat slashed - (not shown, only heard)10438 - 12TH death scene - person thrown out of top window.10655 - 13TH death scene - Tina's mother, Amanda - death by spear.11102 - A weed cutter kills Dr. Crews, the fourteenth victim.Perhaps this is nitpicking but . where the hell is Jason getting all these various weapons from anyway???11226 - The showdown begins between Tina and Jason.Again, I must say that Jason looks quite menacing. I especially like how you don't see Jason's eyes through the eye slots. You just see darkness. This is also - in my opinion - the best Jason performance to date.11653 - 15TH death scene is the bitchy and slutty, Melissa, who is killed by an axe to the head and then thrown to the side. Nicely done.11844 - Jason's face is revealed. EXCELLENT make-up work. Best of the series.12350 - After Tina makes a wish, her father jumps out of the lake, pulling Jason under. Regardless of the explanation --- I just don't like that finale at all.NICK Where's Jason? TINA We took care of him.Oooph. That is just a horrible line to end this movie. Too anticlimactic.OVERALL I loved the makeup effects, Jason's menacing look and performance. I enjoyed the musical score, as well as Tina and Dr. Crews scenes were generally pretty good. The kills - despite the MPAA cuts - were still well handled and are not as choppy as some suggest. However, I did not like the supporting cast, and had the sexual scenes had been removed - perhaps more of the killings could have been shown. The film as it is does seem padded to reach its 88-minute running time with some scenes being overextended, in my opinion. While it is not as gory or as suspenseful as it could (or should) have been, `Friday the 13th, Part VII The New Blood' is better than many of the other films in the series. A really good unrated version could improve this film significantly. **1/2 out of 4 stars. "},{"Title":"One of the best Jason films!","Date":"8 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Picking up years after part 6. A young girl named Tina acidentaly killed her father in the lake with her telicinetic powers. Years later her Doctor and mother take her back to Crystal Lake in hopes that it might help her confront her past. SHe tries to revive her father out of the lake but instead releases Jason who was still chained down there. They lader battle in the films end. Very good entry in the series and Kane Hodder debutes as Jason in this film. One of my personal favorites in the series.8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Surprisingly really good for a F13 movie. Much more intelligent and original than previous entries.","Date":"14 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  FRIDAY THE 13TH PART 7 - THE NEW BLOOD (1988)*SPOILERS*THE GOOD--The telekinetic stuff provided a nice new idea, and made for some interesting plot moves. I liked how they were caused by extreme emotion, it wasn't original or anything but it was portrayed nicely. The final showdown between Jason and the hot psychic girl was pretty impressive, and had lots of range.--The romantic leads generate some really good chemistry in the short space of time they have together. The two leads are more well-rounded than usual F13 leads, especially Tina's character. She had many sides to her and was a very interesting character. --Some great deaths in this one. And some of them were new and fresh as well, just like the telekinesis story. Completely dug the eye gouging, crushed skull, death by sleeping bag, weapon-through-throat and various other axe murders.--Seems like the budget was bigger for this movie. We get better makeup effects on Jason, a gigantic explosion and some cool stunts with fire.THE BAD--During the essential skinny dipping scene&#133;how did Jason go from shore to lake so quickly without sound or movement?--It's not surprising because it's a Friday movie, but the characters do some really stupid things. Walking for ages just to go toilet, camping in the middle of nowhere for no apparent reason, running off into the woods by yourself&#133;stupid, dumb characters are very frustrating.--Every Friday movie does this and it's very annoying. During the part where Jason is just killing everyone around act three, things slow down slightly. The kills are mighty entertaining but something with the pace seems to make the movie stall a bit. RATING7/10 - Great for a F13 film. I liked this one quite a bit, it was more original and intelligent than the previous movies.IF YOU LIKED THIS FILM I RECOMMENDFriday the 13th (3/10) Friday the 13th Part 2 (4/10) Friday the 13th Part 3 (6/10) Friday the 13th Part 4 (6/10) Halloween (7/10) Jason X (5/10) Scream (9/10) "},{"Title":"This Part Is Very Cool","Date":"26 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Why, I find this one very cool is the girl with the telekenetic powers. I like the part when she uses her powers to make Jason's mask come apart and we get to see his hideous face once again, which is so neat. I wish we could see his face more and more but it's the way it is...... "},{"Title":"Bad the the nth degree","Date":"23 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Jason films have been around for years but this is definatly one of the biggest ditches in the franchise.  You know when the movie makers are running out of ideas when there is a psychic as the main charcter.  The thrill is gone.  G-O-N-E.  There are little (if any) surprises in the film and the whole movie feels like a quick way to grab some cash.  The F/X are weak, plot is pointless, and the whole film is just begging for a new and yet another damn sequel.  Rent something else.  If you want my personal recomendation for a Friday night thrill, rent Red Dragon.  Not this.  Thank goodness I only saw this on TV. "},{"Title":"Jason's getting tired. (contains spoilers!)","Date":"8 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Following Friday the 13th part 6 Jason Lives...Part 7 The New Blood picks up with that big loveable hockey masked psycho still chained to a big rock at the bottom of Crystal Lake.  He might have stayed down there too if it weren't for Tina the telekenetic waking him up unintentionally.  You see she was forced to go back to Crystal Lake by her greedy therapist because years earlier she kind of made her Dad fall off a dock and drown in the lake after he hit her mom.  Tina is kind of like a more well adjusted Carrie who can move things with her mind.  Her therapist is a weasely little jerk who wants to use Tina for his own personal and professional gain so he has her and her mom come to Crystal Lake to conjure up emotions of her dad and make things fly around the room.  Anyway, Tina accidentally revives Jason with the original intent of reviving her dad.  So Jason collects himself, checks his mask, pulls the seaweed out of his ears, and with spinal cord visible emerges from the water and starts rubbing out the dorky & horny teens who were dumb enough to camp at Crystal lake.  This is kind of a lame sequel considering the version thats available has most of the gore cut out.  It also doesn't help that Jason just seems to be going through the motions...his kills are some of the most uninspired in the series.  At one point he just throws a girl out a window...that's it!  Another time he goes up to a guy and wacks him in the face with his trusty machete, but his head doesn't fly off.  He even drags a girl under the lake...and drowns her.  To his credit though, Jason does cram a party favor into someone's eye and punches a guy through the back following through the chest, so there's that.  Then of course theres that priceless scene where Jason finds a girl hiding in a sleeping bag and swings her into a nearby tree...once.  He ends up taking the bodies and decorating the forest with them.  This is just weak for Jason.  I think they were trying to save money with this one.  Its still a decent entry, but it suffers greatly from edits and lack of inspiration.  Jason is unmasked at great lengths in the conclusion, but that kind of ruins the mystery of what's behind that old busted ass goalie mask you know?  All this said, I'd rather see him in Crystal Lake than outer space any day!  Also I know its stupid to bring logic into these films, but seriously How many murders at Crystal Lake does it take for people to stop camping there?Trivia - *This is Stuntman/Actor Kane Hodder's first of four appearances as Jason Vorhees and he does a classic job.   "},{"Title":"There's a legend around here, a killer buried but not dead.","Date":"8 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  ~Spoiler~Friday the 13th Part 7 The New Blood has affectionately come to be known as Carrie vs. Jason.  John Carl Buechler is directing the fiend this time and we get the old montage again.  In the opening scenes, a telepathic girl accidentally drowns her father.  Years later, she returns to the very same lake (Crystal Lake) and attempts to resurrect dear old dad.  Instead, she revives the unstoppable killing machine, Jason Voorhees.  You know what comes next.  This is my least favorite of the entire series.  At first I thought it was the absurdity of the plot, then I woke up and realized it was a Jason movie and didn't quite care about the plot anymore.  The reason it sucks is that this edition is, for the most part, goreless.  What was the studio thinking?  That's the reason people watch these movies.  Jason's best handiwork has been left on the cutting room floor and it's very disappointing.  Also, the ending is just plain awful.  Her dad (looking exactly as he did before he died and was left buried underwater) jumps out of the lake and takes Jason below.  Um...did you run out of ideas?  On the plus-side, this is my favorite look for Jason, complete with visible ribs and spinal cord.  This is also the first appearance of Kane Hodder, whose name will become synonymous with Jason Voorhees for some time.  If you've made it this far in the series, I suggest you skip ahead to Jason X.Best kill Without a doubt, the sleeping bag kill. Note for genre buffs The narrator at the beginning is none other than Crazy Ralph from the first two films. "}{"Title":"New blood but old, tired storyline","Date":"1 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Friday the 13th Part VII- The New Blood (1988) Lar Park-Loncoln, Kane Hodder, Kevin Blair, Terry Kiser, Susan Blu, Susan Jennifer Sullivan, D John Carl Buechler. Pretty blonde Lincoln foolishly moves to Crystal Lake (where the teens from the last five sequels were murdered) with her mother and shrink, and with her telekinetic powers, she brings Jason back from his watery grave. The never-ending tales of the hockey-masked killer is getting old, even check out Jason's visible bones and rotten flesh. Running Time 90 minutes and rated R for gore/violence, language and nudity.RATING * ½ (out of ****)   "},{"Title":"CHEESY, BUT I FOUND IT STRANGELY ENTERTAINING!","Date":"22 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  this is the most far out plot for a friday flick (besides JGTH) it deals with telekenesis, the ability to move objects with your mind. however, i found this movie to have some great death sequences and really cool dont go in there, bitch scenes. the ending is somewhat, how do i say this...retarded but it was pretty cool and unexpected. GOD HELP ME, BUT I ACTUALLY ENJOYED THIS MOVIE. "},{"Title":"The best Jason has ever looked.","Date":"5 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This is one of the better sequals.  One reason is that because it is the first appearence of Kane Hodder as Jason and is the on actor to were the costume more than once.  Mostly anyone who knows anythinf about this series will tell you that Kane is the best Jason there ever was.  Although the movie is trying to some like the film Carrie it does a pretty good job of pulling it off. The film is basically about this teenage girl who thinks she killed her dad during a dispute and come to the Crystal Lake with here mom and shrienk to work things out because everytime she gets angry her teleconises goes off the charts which just so happens to wake Jason. Close to were she is staying are a group of teenagers who of course get slaughtered in some pretty grissley scenes.  I must this film is one of the better sequals of the series and is also a good slasher for the genera. "},{"Title":"The best Jason has ever looked.","Date":"5 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This is one of the better sequals.  One reason is that because it is the first appearence of Kane Hodder as Jason and is the one actor to were the costume more than once.  Mostly anyone who knows anythinf about this series will tell you that Kane is the best Jason there ever was.  Although the movie is trying to some like the film Carrie it does a pretty good job of pulling it off. The film is basically about this teenage girl who thinks she killed her dad during a dispute and come to the Crystal Lake with her mom and shrienk to work things out because everytime she gets angry her teleconises goes off the charts which just so happens to wake Jason. Close to were she is staying are a group of teenagers who of course get slaughtered in some pretty grissley scenes.  I must this film is one of the better sequals of the series and is also a good slasher for the genera. "},{"Title":"looks the best","Date":"12 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Friday the 13th part VII is my favorite by far. by sheer looks alone. the jason make up was awesome! you could see his bones and spine and nasty flesh, and his overalls were torn to shreds! (not at all like part VIII where they are in perfect condition) Not only that, but I love continuity. when jasons mask comes off, you could see the ax wound in the left part of his forehead that he got in part III. and the ruined eye and scar all along the left side of his head that Tommy gave! that made me giddy. its that attention to detail that gets big points with me! (one other thing, there was two characters that you were glad Jason creamed. the nasty doctor and the prissy blonde girl) part VIII was a total downer compared to this one! I hope Freddy vs Jason isn't a disappointment. "},{"Title":"Kane Hodder IS Jason........No Questions Asked","Date":"21 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"                           Possible SpoilersThe first time I saw this movie I was seven years old.  I noticed that there was something different about Jason, I just couldn't put my finger on it.  They are all the same, a bunch of stupid kids get slaughtered at a get together.  Yeah, that was basically the same thing here.  Except this time around, Jason is just mean as hell.  He was always mean before, but this time he is fired up and is ready to just kill everyone in the world.  This was the first of Kane's four memorable times to play Jason and I think it was his best.  The kills are gruesome and creative as well as very, very brutal.  Did I forget to mention  brutal?  The main character, Tina, is also very good in the story with her power and background, but Kane, Jason steals the show.  The fighting sequence at the end is great.  I give this movie a 7/10.  Although the plot is original and the heroine is very cool, it still seemed like it lacked in trying to make the other characters smart.  Bottom line, Kane Hodder IS Jason.   "},{"Title":"Fun,but tiresome","Date":"9 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  By now the FT13th series was showing it's age. They were running out of good ideas for the ever continuing adventures of everyone's favorite hockey masked mad man. So they made VII. The film is about a girl with telekinetic abilties. She awakens Jason from his watery grave. And he continues to slice,and dice. The plot get's old. It is still very fun to watch.The make-up job is fantastic.You can see it Jason is decomposing! I don't really like the plot,but who cares it is still fun,not great but fun.2.5/4 "},{"Title":"Back to B movie","Date":"30 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  After the great part 6 we are back to another lackluster sequel . This time Jason actually get's an opponent who can hold a candle with him and he really hates that . Noteworthy is the first appearance of Kane Hodder as Jason and he does really well in the role . But that doesn't help to elevate this pretty substandard movie that much . The US release was heavily edited to obtain an R rating . "},{"Title":"I've got a date with a soap on a rope.","Date":"15 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  WARNING REVIEW CONTAINS MAJOR SPOILERSA bit of a cobblers instalment into the Friday The 13th canon. This is especially disappointing after the headway made by the two prior entries, but this perfunctory, uninspired retread just doesn't cut it. (And as the story revolves around a girl who gets psychic powers after reaching puberty, then maybe the subtitle wasn't such a good idea either) The dialogue is trite and clichéd, while acting is corny and second-rate. Not that such qualities are unique in the Friday series of course. And check out the cracking 80s frizz-mullet on Tina's mother.There's a welcome return of gratuitous nudity to the series, and some of the killings are quite inventive (the sleeping bag tree smack particularly) even if this did turn out to be the most heavily edited instalment. But while this might be the new blood, everything else about this movie is old-hat. The plot - if indeed it can be called that - sees a two-strand narrative between Tina and her psychiatrist (yawn) and Jason, who, in a virtual support role, just butchers loads of randy teens. For a change. The monotony of such events, and the tiresome, rigid adherence to the death after sex principle, fails to maintain interest.Only moment to engender any kind of charm sees nerdy Eddie open a box marked Personal Penis Enlarger... only to find a magnifying glass inside! However, as this comedy character is a stereotyped SF fan it makes him almost as bland as the other victims-by-numbers. And when Jason face down in a puddle, electrocuted, rises up... well it'd be more of a surprise if he DIDN'T get back up. But instead we've got ten more minutes left so Tina's Carrie gets to battle it out with Jason's SuperPsycho. It's all a bit silly and completely outside the original remit by now.Further entries have so far seen the franchise attempt to operate outside its usual parameters, with Paramount's final entry, Jason Takes Manhattan, transporting the character, for a few minutes anyway, into downtown New York. An okay, yet not great, throwaway work, it sees the character killed and revert to a small boy. Not that such plot developments worried New Line, who took over the franchise and had an inexplicably restored Jason killed again and possessing bodies in the execrable Jason Goes To Hell (q.v.). Finally, New Line seem to have gotten the formula right with arguably the best sequel, the shallow but fun Jason in Space antics of Jason X. As for The New Blood, then it isn't actually a bad entry by any means... just very, very forgettable. Give it a miss. 4/10. "},{"Title":"Best out of the series","Date":"7 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  With another new actor playing jason this has proved to be one of the best in my opinion. Lar Park Lincoln is an amazing actor. Kane Hodder really portrays Jason as a ruthless killer the way he should be. The deaths are creative and the movie leans more toward the gory side. One of the only downfalls about the movie is that the make-up FXs for some of the humans are crappy for a movie this late in the series. This one moves at a nice pace and takes time to develop some of the lesser characters. My rating 9/10 "}{"Title":"Best of a bad lot","Date":"20 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I hate the Friday the 13th series! When I was five, I didn't, but then all I wanted to see was dumb teenagers get sliced up. Now It's just boring to watch these mindless morons run around Crystal Lake and the same thing just happens over and over again. But this one is a little different, or different enough to make it a satisfying movie experience. Tina Shepard is the difference here, a young girl with telekenetic abilities who puts them to good use against Jason in the second half of the film. She hurls nails and television sets, collapses cabin ceiling on Jason and basically just throws him around like a rag doll. Finally he gets some worthwhile competition. In other words, if you love Jason, see this. If you like good horror movies, don't. It's good but not that good.p.s I would to love to see a poster for the next 13th movie Jason, sitting alone in a rocking chair, machete across his lap, on the porch of a Crystal Lake cabin, wondering why in the world nobody wants to camp there anymore...  "},{"Title":"The Best In The Series.","Date":"29 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I thought this was clearly the best film of the entire Friday The 13th series. I loved the special effects. Jason is great. I loved how all the murders were done in the film. I loved the seen when Jason ripped the tent open and crushed a person into a tree. This movie was more entertaining than all the other Friday the 13th movies. I give it Thumbs up Way up. "},{"Title":"Ouch","Date":"31 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This one flops pretty badly.  The telekinesis angle is a foreshadowing to the hocus pocus of Jason Goes to Hell and shows that there wasn't a good enough script for the typical formula.  The characters are even more meaningless than usual and are completely in the background against Tina's mind talents.  A splatter film becomes pretty aimless when your main kills aren't part of the main plot.  Jason is actually more brutal than in part VI and seems more mechanical.  It's nice to see a woman slug it out with Jason and I guess that the writers figured that a gimmick was necessary to do the trick.  A few plus points go to Jason physically.  He keeps the chain from VI around his neck for the whole movie (a nice touch) and the skeletal shots of his back and arms are really cool.  Kane Hodder's first turn is emotionless and intense.  That's about all that this movie is good for, other than Lar Park-Lincoln's Tina, which is pretty good and the early screen roles of a few future soap opera stars.3.2/10 "},{"Title":"New blood and more blood.","Date":"26 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I bought part 7 thinking it was part 4. To be honest, I just bought it because it had 'Friday the 13th' written on the box. A telekinetic girl named Tina resurrects Jason after trying to resurrect her dead father from the depths of Crystal Lake. This was Kane Hodder's debut as Jason and he explodes into character with his huge stance and heavy breathing. This movie is almost the same as part 4 as it has a group of partying teenagers staying at a house situated near the main characters house. Tina is being researched by Dr Crews who says he's trying to help her and the rest of the kids are having a good time waiting for a party guest to show up. He doesn't show up of course. Some fun is added to the movie by Tina's fight with Jason at the end. Telekinesis versus brute force. The killings are quite creative as well as brutal too. A girl gets a party blower shoved through her eye, a girl gets picked up in a sleeping bag and whacked against a tree and Dr Crews gets sliced by a garden strimmer. 'Friday the 13th' movies have a reputation for making people famous. In this case Terry Kiser stars as Dr Crews. Those who know who Bernie is in 'Weekend at bernie's' will know who terry Kiser is. Most surprisingly however is Jeff Bennett who plays Eddie. Jeff now is a voice artist who is the voice behind Johnny Bravo. He has also done 'Scooby-Doo', 'House of mouse' and the hit looney tunes movie 'Space jam'. I'm sure true Friday fans will love this one but in truth it's still the same as all the others. It's very good. "},{"Title":"Sci-Fi/Horror Masterpiece","Date":"2 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  First off, what the hell was the Academy thinking when they overlooked this film at the Oscars. Kevin Spirtas should have at least been nominated for best actor, although Dustin Hoffman deserved the Oscar. But Lar Park-Lincoln's performace of Tina Shepard was far superior to that of Jodie Foster's in The Accused. She set the bar for female acting in horror films but comes short in setting it for acting altogether (that title goes to Shannon Koenig in Wash the Spider Out)Also, strong consideration should have been given to nominating this film for best picture. Besides the acting, which has not been topped by any movie before or after (with the exception of Bill and Ted's Bogus Journey), the special effects are fantastic. The special effects were so great I thought that the film could have been mistaken for Star Wars Episode 7! Director John Carl Buechler also gives us some of the greatest camera angles since Citizen Kane. This is a must see film. Rent it...no, BUY IT ON DVD. That is the only way you will see the film as Buechler intended it to be seen. WARNING Watch the first 6 Friday the 13th movies before you see this one. If you don't you may miss or not recognize some subplots from previous movies and at some times you may be completely lost. This movie definitely runs on all cylinders. 10/10!!!  "},{"Title":"not bad.....","Date":"12 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  It wasn't all that bad I liked the kills and the characters but just found that how could the girl lose to Jason she was the power to control with her telekenetic power either pick him up and slice off his head with a machete or hold him down long enough to cut his head off or his heart out or something else. whatever.......5.5/10 "},{"Title":"Average, but can be entertaining.","Date":"8 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Friday The 13th Part VII The New Blood attempted something different by having one of its characters possess telekinetic powers. Many viewers find this to be too off the wall for a Friday The 13th sequel, but then Jason himself is now a supernatural character since he is a revived corpse. SPOILERS ahead The opening of the film is played out in a hokey manner with a young girl named Tina running away from the abuse she hears her father subject her mother to. She runs to a dock on the lake, and takes off in a boat as her father chases after her. The girl's telekinetic powers take over as she is at the height of emotions, and her father dies in the lake when the dock collapses. Years later, an older Tina (Lar Park-Lincoln) is joined by her mother (Susan Blu) to return to the house by the lake for therapy from her corrupt psychologist (Terry Kiser.) Tina goes through emotional difficulties, which leads to accidentally freeing Jason from his watery grave in the lake. Jason again stalks the woods, and slaughters everyone he can. A side plot features the psychologist as a man wanting to exploit Tina's powers rather than wanting to give her the help she needs. The climax of the film has Tina using her telekinetic powers to battle against Jason. This is entertaining until Tina's drowned father rises from the lake to drag Jason down, which seemed like an absurd way to get rid of Jason and end the movie. The film follows the usual formula of the prior films, and actually resembles Friday The 13th - The Final Chapter in a few ways. However, it does try to present a new approach to the overused formula of slasher movies by having the Tina character possess the telekinetic powers. I feel this addition to the run-of-the-mill slasher formula actually worked for the most part, and helped enhance the story. Most of the acting is on a good level; especially by the leading performers. The movie is well made, but too often uses the point-of-view approach when Jason is closing in on another victim. More suspense could have been created if the point-of-view approach hadn't been used so often. The opening music is something altogether different from the previous films, and is not a bad addition. The rest of the score throughout the movie isn't always noticeable. There are some errors in continuity between the last sequel and this film. Overall, Friday The 13th Part VII The New Blood is an average film, but it can be entertaining.     "},{"Title":" My God, it's you!","Date":"3 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Lar Park Lincoln is compelling as Tina in this frightening horror film. The following cast is fine. Kane Hodder is horrifying as Jason. Friday The 13th Part 7 The New Blood is sure to scare the life out of it's viewer being the best out of the movies. 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"LOVED IT!!!!","Date":"3 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Friday the 13th part VII The New Blood was one of the best in the series. Funny as hell, Entertaining, and overall a good film. The classic sleeping bag scene is priceless and Jason is unmasked to reveal a hideous disfigured face like no other. GREAT STUFF!!! OVERALL 9/10  "},{"Title":"Great picture","Date":"28 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This in my opinion is the 2nd best installment in the series next to part 2. Sure the acting and storyline are dubious but that's not what we are here for. This was the the last true Friday the 13th that kept Jason in his familiar surroundings. Jason's appearance has never looked so grisly that if not for the mask you might think your watching an Italian zombie film. The only factor against jason in this film was not Lar Park Lincoln but the extremely fastidious MPAA. Come on Paramount release this Uncut.  "}{"Title":"decent","Date":"23 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Friday The 13th PT 7 The New Blood was halfway decent.All the characters were annoying you will root for their deaths for sure.Pt 6 added some comedy but Friday pt 7 has very little.Tina(Lar Park Lincoln) was so annoying she was the star so you have to put up with her. All she does is whine!.Nick(Kevin Spirtas)was pretty cool though he was the only one i didn't hate.Kane Hodder is now Jason and he was cool.Some good kills make this one fun too watch, the sleeping bag scene is the best!Director John Carl Buechler did a pretty good job.I give Friday the 13th pt 7 The New Blood 5/10 "},{"Title":"the worst is the best","Date":"22 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Come on people - it's part seven for god sakes! Of course it is going to be one of the worst movies of all time, but that's what makes it so great. But what I think people are missing is that this is one of the funniest squeals of them all. The effects are pretty good and the kills are top notch. (the sleeping bag against the tree also relived in Jason X has to one of the best of all times) Some of the greatest nonsense ever.  "},{"Title":"This time Jason faces a young girl named Tina...","Date":"9 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This entry was the start of the producers finding new adversaries for Jason to face and new situations for Crystal Lake's resident madman to deal with. This time Jason faces a young girl named Tina who comes equipped with special powers ala Carrie and she unintentionally unleashes Jason from his watery grave. This is a different Jason than we are used to seeing as his bones and massive amounts of flesh are now hanging off his body, also this was Kane Hodder's first stab at the role of Jason and he along with Part 3's Richard Brooker stand head and toe above all other Jason's. Sadly, this is probably the worst censored Friday of the entire series as the MPAA demanded cut after cut, if we are so lucky when Paramount ever decides to put out special editions of the Friday films, this should be one of the first to be revisited.  "},{"Title":"This time Jason faces a young girl named Tina...","Date":"9 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This entry was the start of the producers finding new adversaries for Jason to face and new situations for Crystal Lake's resident madman to deal with. This time Jason faces a young girl named Tina who comes equipped with special powers ala Carrie and she unintentionally unleashes Jason from his watery grave. This is a different Jason than we are used to seeing as his bones and massive amounts of flesh are now hanging off his body, also this was Kane Hodder's first stab at the role of Jason and he along with Part 3's Richard Brooker stand head and toe above all other Jason's. Sadly, this is probably the worst censored Friday of the entire series as the MPAA demanded cut after cut, if we are so lucky when Paramount ever decides to put out special editions of the Friday films, this should be one of the first to be revisited.  "},{"Title":"This time Jason faces a young girl named Tina...","Date":"9 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This entry was the start of the producers finding new adversaries for Jason to face and new situations for Crystal Lake's resident madman to deal with. This time Jason faces a young girl named Tina who comes equipped with special powers ala Carrie and she unintentionally unleashes Jason from his watery grave. This is a different Jason than we are used to seeing as his bones and massive amounts of flesh are now hanging off his body, also this was Kane Hodder's first stab at the role of Jason and he along with Part 3's Richard Brooker stand head and toe above all other Jason's. Sadly, this is probably the worst censored Friday of the entire series as the MPAA demanded cut after cut, if we are so lucky when Paramount ever decides to put out special editions of the Friday films, this should be one of the first to be revisited.  "},{"Title":"Look out he behind you.","Date":"7 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"              This film is better than 5 and 6 hands down.The telekintic lady does wonders for the film.I like the setting and the hulking Jason.The rest of the cast is there to get naked,drink, flirt,etc.You never really care about the fodder teens in any of these films.I like this one and its the third best of the movies. "},{"Title":"Top 2 of the ten sequels.","Date":"20 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The thing that works best here in this film is the exciting opening prologue, which lets us see clips from 1-6. Speaking as a big Friday fan, I thought the opening really sets the tone for this sequel.Kane Hodder's debut as Jason is a very good one. As oppose to the other Fridays (with the exception of 6), he's more of a bad-ass than the other Jasons. Instead of just senselessly slashing his victims like in the others, he stalks them down with a sort of bad-ass persona about him. You almost want to root for him to make every one of his kills in this one. Because with the exception of a few victims, you almost want to see all them meet their demise.WARNING HERE--POSSIBLE SPOILER!! So besides the good qualities, there are a few bad ones. I wish this Friday tied in a little with the last one in terms of characters. The biggest plothole here is the fact that Jason must have been underwater for more than 20 years, unless Tina killed her dad before part 6 ever happened. The other plothole, of course, is that Crystal Lake was changed back to Crystal Lake from Forest Green without any real explanation. Oh well, it's not that big of a deal, but that could have made it a little better in terms of a storyline. It's a good movie if you like these kind of films, and a great movie on the scale of the Friday the 13th series. Check it out! "},{"Title":"New teens  New blood for Jason","Date":"19 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The New Blood is the perfect title for this movie. Well there are new teens, and a new and interesting plot.Good acting, a skilled lead female (cannot be compared to Amy Steel from part 2, but still does a good job), kick ass special effects, and a scary Jason with, and without his mask.This is not the best in the series, but it's not the worst. The same old stuff mixed with new teens, and at last we have a new female heroine.  "},{"Title":"Jason meets his match","Date":"28 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Since many of the F-13 films have been repetitive, the writers decided to try something new put on a Sci-Fi twist to the series. And it works too. The acting isn't the greatest, but it's a F-13 movie, so who really cares? The film is butchered by the MPAA, so most of the deaths are cut tremendously. But good acting by Lar Park Lincoln, Terry Kiser & Kane Hodder, in his first outing as Jason. Hodder truly brings life to the Jason role. When a young girl with telekinitic powers accidently kills her father, she returns to the scene to try & revive him from the lake where he is at. But not knowing that there is a certain hockey masked being in the same waters, the wrong one is awakened. After being revived, Jason starts back to work. But this time he has met his match, & it is a fight to the finish. "},{"Title":"another good movie in the jason series.","Date":"13 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This is another great movie in the jason series.  Not only are the actors good. this movie was really scary. I loved the whole telekinetic plot.  it was original.  This along with jason goes to hell are the best in the series. "}{"Title":"Entertaining sequel","Date":"23 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  *possbile spoilers*Many people have given this film a lot of flack for ripping off Carrie. Granted, the filmmakers undoubtedly borrowed the concept from DePalma's film, but one shouldn't be so quick to dismiss it. The Friday the 13th series isn't about originality; after all, they even copy each other's formulas, so it's a moot point.This film gets good marks from me for nothing more than entertainment value. The plot structure is just as formulaic, but it delivers as promised, plain and simple. Carrie never really took off, partly because the conclusion was too perfunctory, despite a terrific buildup. The New Blood is a tremendous improvement in that respect, treating us to a thrilling, action-packed finale that never lets up. It's trash, yes, but it's entertaining trash, and I was rarely, if ever, bored, as I was with some earlier entries.Director Buechler's expertise in special effects is evident in his crafting of the new Jason. He's not just a killer, he's a force of nature, reeking of death and decay. Kane Hodder is terrific in the coveted role. No one can ever accuse him of going through the motions; he always goes for the gusto, making the character even more aggressively violent than the old Jason. Together, they have created the most fearsome, relentless slasher-movie killer in modern horror.The next best performance goes to Terry Kiser as the opportunistic Dr. Crews. Of all the characters in the series, he is probably the most deserving of Jason's wrath. Not only is he a selfish prick, he actively and knowledgably contributes to another character's death.The only notable failing is that Lincoln and Blu are not exceptional in their roles. They perform adequately, but I can only imagine what a magnificent film it would have been with Sissy Spacek and Piper Laurie. Well, you can't have everything.*** (out of ****)Released by Paramount Pictures  "},{"Title":"He keeps coming back!","Date":"1 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  They say he died as a boy, but he keeps coming back!That's only part of the narration that opens this film. Of course, they're talking about Jason Voorhees. The hockey-masked serial killer is a lot like the Energizer rabbit he keeps going and going! Some people may be turned off by the idea of Jason taking on Tina, a Carrie-like girl with telekinetic powers. Plus, the subtitle, The New Blood, appears to be misleading; the gore is minimal, which is a big drawback for this sequel. Still, the film is not without some neat killings. To me, the best death scene is where Jason rams his fist through a guy's stomach. If that isn't grim, then I don't know what is.In addition, the Jason-vs.-Tina showdown is cool (though, in my humble opinion, it actually pales in comparison to the Incredible Hulk episode where the Hulk fought another Hulk). This is also the first Friday the 13th movie to have Kane Hodder portraying Jason, and he did an amazing job in the role. He is the only actor to portray Jason more than once. "},{"Title":"The New Dud (thanks to the MPAA)","Date":"22 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  After a flashback-packed opening montage and the standard-issue `Friday the 13th' credits we join the story of Tina, a Village of the Damned/Poltergeist-looking little girl who sends her dad toppling into Crystal Lake. Cut to the mid-eighties, and Jason is still submerged in said lake, but apparently has drifted from the camp where he was captured to the summer home side of the lake, where Tina, her brittle mother, and her transparently evil psychiatrist have returned to tap into Tina's latent telekinesis. If you care, Tina's doctor is played by the corpse from `Weekend at Bernie's'.Jason gets out of the lake and racks up an impressive body count, but all the gore was cut from the movie, which totally sucks. Why? It's not fair! I want to SEE when the gal in the sleeping bag is whacked against a tree! I want to see the axes in faces, the spikes through stomachs, and the roto-tiller in the guts. I mean, what's the point of paying for the darned effects if you aren't going to show them? I'm pretty sure this features the first time Jason has used a party horn to kill someone, and the scene is edited like crap. So the violence is nill, but most of the average-looking female cast members appear in some form of undress if that gets your popcorn popping.The scenes where Tina uses her Carrie-esque powers to beat the crap out of Jason was entertaining, and when Jason's mask blows off he looks pretty cool. This was also the first movie with Kane Hodder as Jason, and believe me, it makes a difference. Right?Oh, and the ending of this one would be the lamest ending of all the Jason movies if not for the moronic ending of part 8.  "},{"Title":"One Of The Better Jason Movies.","Date":"3 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Jason Lives and The New Blood were some of the better Friday movies, but this one does have some minor problems with it. 1. In Jason Lives, Jason is dressed in a green shirt and it looked like gray slacks and he had yellow gloves on, but in The New Blood he's wearing what looks to be like a blue jump suit.2. Towards the end of the movie (just before the one girl gets thrown out the 2nd floor cabin window, if you look hard enough you can see a camera man's shadow in the background.)3. I might be right, but at the end of Jason Lives wasn't part of his mask broken off when the boat broke his neck, I think that his mask in this one does not have that part of his mask broken off.4. Right before he guts the guy raiding the fridge you can see Jason's shadow in one shot that looks like a cardboard cutout, but a few seconds later you see him moving with out any problems at all.Really this is a good Jason movie, but I couldn't help noticing these things in the movie. It's funny how some of these minor things were overlooked by the staff. I only hope they release part 7 on DVD, I've heard that there was a lot of gore cut out of this one, and it would be included in a possible DVD version. Anyways if you like the other Jason flicks you'll like this one too. "},{"Title":"A Good Friday the 13th Film","Date":"2 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This is A GREAT Film, I Just Wish they could have Dropped the Psychic Bull. Other than that, We Have a Friday the 13th Film With All the Goodies Like Exciting Deaths, Good Looking Girls, and A Heart Racing Adventure From Start to End. The Doctor also I Think Added a bit to the film that was worth seeing. It seemed like he was protecting Jason Until He Got Sawed. Worth Seeing  "},{"Title":"Jason at his best","Date":"21 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  First of all, the premise of this film should already be known by all. The only difference in this installment is the heroine, who is blessed with the powers of telekinesis. Reminiscent of Sissy Spacek in Carrie or Drew Barrymore in Firestarter, this Friday the 13th features Lar Park-Lincoln as Tina, the one with the power. Jason also looks his scariest in this installment. He hasn't looked this scary since Part 3. The overall acting isn't top-rate, but the special-effects and just Jason's look in general are enough to make this one a winner. Also features one of the best final battle segments in the Friday the 13th series. "},{"Title":"Just keeps going and going","Date":"16 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Part 7, well by now it must be really hard coming up with a new plot, But this movies proves with the right brains behind it anything is possible. This was actually one of the better ones. The acting is better, the characters are enjoyable, and Jason gets his hands on all kinds of different weapons. The special effects aren't bad either, I was surprised. When you watch this movie don't miss one of the best scenes near the end when Melissa gets it. "},{"Title":"One of the better sequels","Date":"10 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Don't let other comments fool you; if you are a fan of horror movies, & the 'Friday the 13th' movies, you'll enjoy this movie, The movie is a continuation off of part 6, the previous movie. While Jason lays at the bottom of the water at Camp Crystal Lake, Jason is accidentally rejuvenated by Tina, who tries to use her tele-kenetic powers to bring back her dad. Of course this is all it takes to set Jason off on a new rampage. Good effects & scares rate this as one of the better sequels.  "},{"Title":"I felt sorry for the actors...","Date":"29 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Well, I do have to say that I own this movie on VHS.  It's good for a laugh. Many of the Friday the 13th installments scare me and parts of this movie scared me.  There was a scene involving a sleeping bag and a tree that really had me cringing.  But, the death scenes were all too contrived and cheesy.  It was laughable.  This installment did make a good attempt at establishing a plot.  The storyline regarding the character of Tina and her abusive father and his death was interesting, along with Tina's telekinisis. This plotline was integrated well with the general slasher plot that the movie embodies.  Basically this poor girl was working through her own personal and family problems and it was unfortunate for her to be doing this at a cabin nestled right along side Crystal Lake.  The partying college kids at the cabin next door could have been taken out of the movie without any detraction from the plot.  But, what fun would that be.  At least 10 people have to die in Friday the 13th movies. "},{"Title":"Greatest movie ever filmed in Foley, AL","Date":"22 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Foley, Fairhope, somewhere in Baldwin County.  That's right, the ever foreboding Crystal Lake is a pool inside a dive shop.  They still have the dock there (at least they did the last time I was in the shop).  So that's one good thing that came out of this movie, a dock used to train people taking diving lessons!  This movie was pure crap except for the scene at the end w/ my uncle as a paramedic.  Great job!!!)  But despite all of its shortcomings this IS the greatest movie ever filmed in Foley, AL.  That is unless any other film (that doesn't fit into the porn category) in the history of movie making was partially filmed in Foley.  So come on showbiz and film another movie down here!  No movie maker with a conscience should allow Friday the 13th 7 to be the greatest film ever made in this town (listening Spielberg?).  Do you have any idea how embarrassing that is?! "}{"Title":"A Letdown After Part VI","Date":"21 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The series was REALLY showing its age at this point.  Back in 1981 I don't think the writers were thinking about bringing a girl with telekinesis powers to Crystal Lake, but...  A girl with telekinetic powers accidentally resurrects Jason from his watery grave while trying to resurrect her father who she had inadvertently killed when she was a child.  When she sees Jason, her shrink-who's just trying to exploit her, talks her mother into not believing her while he secretly doesn't believe it himself.  A few teens come to party, how coincidental, and one falls for her.  Jason attempts to kill them all.  Damn fine when Jason kills the shrink, the chainsaw was great!  Series was showing its age at this point, and new ideas, as well as slasher films, were dwindling down.  This is unfortunate, as I would've loved to be a teenager in the 80's.  Cool ending, for Part 7 of a dying series.  **out of****Not bad, but not great!  Climax was really cool!   "},{"Title":"Can't top Jason Lives","Date":"24 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Lar(quite a name for such a cute girl) uses her telekinesis and, again, Jason is accidently revived. It's fast, gory and sexually active - it's Jason. Is it fun like JASON LIVES? Occasionally. This one disappointed me, but I still enjoyed it.**1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"The worst with Jason, but still good!","Date":"23 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This movie is the worst with Jason in it, but still good!  Of course, the only Friday the 13th movie I haven't seen yet is Jason Goes To Hell, so until I do, this movie is the worst with Jason.  Reason why is the female character matches up with Jason, and that's not supposed to happen.  In all the other movies, most of the heroines grab objects they can find, in this one she just stands there and uses her telekenetic powers to kill Jason. I like this one though because I love Friday the 13th overall and this one had a cool ending too when Tina brought her dead father alive and he wrapped Jason in chains and brought him back underwater, how he died, I do not know considering the fact that Jason was a zombie and he was pretty much alive at the end of part 6.  This may have been the worst of the Jason movies, but it was still cool. "},{"Title":"Best, since part 3","Date":"24 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  After 3 terrible sequels, this terrible acted sequel is actually a whole lot decent. Stupid story (but atleast it's something new) has a girl with telekineses releasing jason form his watery grave. He now goes killing obnoxious teens at a party next door. Tina now has to stop him, before he can killl again. That's it. Some stupid death scenes such as a sleeping bag thrown against a tree, hand puncehd through chest, and what's with the whole fat girl looking for boy in the middle of the night deep in the woods. Some scares and some suspense. A new score that is ok. Kaitan has a silly role as an airhead. Terrible but decent effort. ** "},{"Title":"Almost like an action movie rather than a horror.","Date":"30 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  In this installment of the Friday the 13th series, we are introduced to Tina, a young woman with extraordinary powers of telekinesis. Seems at a young age, she saw her parents fight, and in a burst of anger, she sent her father to a watery grave in... you guessed it... Crystal Lake.Now as a teen, she returns to the lake (along with her mother and psychiatrist) to attempt to gain control over her power. The shrink exploits her, her Mom is generally clueless, and Tina is distraught. Then, some teens decide to party it up next door. Looks like Tina may have some friends. Well, she would have if she didn't accidentally awaken Jason from his underwater imprisonment. Now Jason's got fresh teens for the slaughter, and Tina's got to stop him. The entire finale, though well done, reminds me of the Terminator's finale. Heroine uses whatever she can to stop an unstoppable killing machine. This scene is very gripping and exciting, especially when we get to see Jason without his mask for the first time in several films, and lets just say the years have NOT been kind to Mr.Voorhees. The rest of the movie and the characters are uninteresting, and the deaths are no longer shocking, with the possible exception of the psychiatrist.See it for the ending.  "},{"Title":"Great Movie in Series","Date":"19 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Friday the 13TH Part VII  The New Blood is one of the very best in the series.  Young Tina accidently killed her father with her psychic powers at Crystal Lake and returns there years later with her mother and psychiatrist.  She accidently releases Jason from his watery grave which spells doom for the group of teens partying next door.  See it now, you'll love it.Friday The 13TH Part VII  The New Blood is Rated R for some violence and language, sexuality and nudity, and some drug use. "},{"Title":"Very entertaining","Date":"14 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"   The 7th movie in the FRIDAY series is probably the strangest, but is also one of the most entertaining and bloody. There's also the fact that people call it Carrie Vs. Jason, which makes it sound more intriguing than it already is. !!!SPOILERS!!! We begin in the late 80's where Tina Shepard murders her Father at Camp Crystal Lake with her psychic powers. A few years go by and Tina returns to the camp site with her Mother and psychiatrist. One night, after an argument with Dr. Cruz, Tina runs to the Lake where she caused her Dad to drown. She accidentilly wakes our masked friend, and the fun begins. Good story, acting, and effects. ***1/2 out of *****. "},{"Title":"Jason is back.....again","Date":"27 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  It always seems that Jason gets brought back by the stupidest ways. This time a girl with the power to move stuff with her mind brings him back (by mistake !!) from his grave at the bottom of a lake. Than the masked killer continues his killing spree until the girl uses her powers to bring back her dead father to take care of him. Where did this series go wrong? Oh right with the release of the first one. "},{"Title":"There's a legend round here","Date":"20 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  It's the legend of a really bad movie. The makers of the F13 series are doing nothing but beating a dead(?) horse. It's plain to see that they have completely run out of ideas and are reaching at this point. But as we all know, that dead(?) horse was beaten twice more after this one. From pt7 on this series really goes down hill. My advice, if you have a free punch on your video card; dont use it on this. "},{"Title":"Pretty Good","Date":"1 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Well I can't complain on this movie. It was alright. I especially like Jason and his weedwacker. And there is a big difference in clothing between this movie and Part 8. And a pretty good ending to this movie too. I think they went a little overboard with the nudity and sex in this movie. Kane Hodder is really good as Jason though. So I can't say this movie is bad. I actually enjoyed it.  "}{"Title":"New twist in the tale","Date":"31 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Ok. We all know the story by now. And before I begin my comment I have to say that when people give these films a bad name...they know what to expect before so why bother watching? You know a lot of teenagers are gonna get killed in various ways with a generous array of weapons, with lots of gore. So you knew in advance.Now back to the film. Actually in my opinion one of the better installments....certainly the best of the last 5 anyway. It has an original plot a young girl with telekinesis kills her father when a small child. Years later she returns to the lake with her mom and a doc to try and help her overcome her powers. In guilt she tries to bring him back to life but instead revives the body of Jason Vorhees who embarks on yet another murder spree.Like I said we all know what is gonna happen teenagers getting sliced and diced. But now the focus for people like myself is not when they are killed but how. And this film has some different ways a girl is smashed against a tree in her sleeping bag, there's a hedge trimmer sort of thing and more. The girl is a match for Jason and tries to stop him with her telekinesis powers. And there's a throwaway scene when one of Jason's victims actually tries to hide in his weapons shack!Kane Hodder is simply brilliant as Jason. His lurching figure is terrifying as he strolls through the woods. His teeth nash together and he stares ominously at his victims. But when his mask is taken off he looks more like Alien than human although after being killed, buried, struck by lightning and stabbed numerous times in the head and chest by knifes and axes you would look like that too! He is merely a walking zombie no longer is he the revenge killer he was in Parts 3-4. He is now along for the ride.A better effort and by now we knew what to expect so its hard to come up with new material. They tried to give the series some depth and they didn't do a bad job. Not the best but by far not the worst. And the ending spoils the film. "},{"Title":"What The New Blood may really mean -or- Creating the horror/slasher formula by the 'seat of their pants'.","Date":"13 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Slasher/horror movies are funny.  i'm sad that they are now, for the most part, gone - series like Friday the 13th (and Nightmare, and Halloween, and Chainsaw Massacre, etc.) let the viewer watch different kinds of people (the nerds, the jocks, the hot babes who wouldn't give most of us the time of day) get 'chunked' - aha!  serves you right.  but we also got to watch the monster take beatings in the end - aha! serves you right too!.  the viewers became 'bad guys' and 'good guys', got to let out some aggression through the movies, scared the heck out of themselves, laughed (at the camp), and gagged.  Most people, i imagine, would gag at this movie... especially if he/she wasn't familiar with the series.The interesting thing about this series IS how campy it is, how 'make-believe' it is.  although serial killers do exist, and it's scary to think about someone sneaking up on you in the woods, Friday the 13th movies aren't traumatic - there isn't heavy torture!  people die (usually) within seconds of ANY wound (Finneus Gage lived after a railroad spike blew through his head, but other's die within seconds of being impaled with a knife!). so, since the series isn't similar to Faces Of Death in that way, it results as a 'less horrible than it could be' horror film - that seems pretty campy to me (lightly campy, but campy nonetheless). ...Now, about Friday the 13th VI.  people didn't like this movie.  i love it.  i've watched this movie over 30 times.  yeah, the 'magic powers' bit was a bit lame, but so is the series - that's camp, that's why we like it! up until this point, or maybe part 6, Jason was still really human.  now he seems like all humanity has been pulled out of him - he's more of a zombie now than a psychotic human.Part 7 continues the formula of (a.) Bring Jason To Life - started by part VI, (b.) Killing Jason Off, and (c.) killing wild teens and authority figures.  pretty dull, huh?  it's worse than the plot to Titanic!  but the gross-out deaths and the 'look' of the monster really add appeal to this flick!  NOTE LEVEL 1 SPOILER HERE... Jason looks absolutely frightening with his skin nearly engulfing his mask, and his spine showing through, all the while remembering the chain around his neck and the wounds in his skull. when that mask comes off (spoiler?), Jason is nothing like he used to be, he's lost all his physical facial identity!  he's even still missing an eye! it's amazing how well he healed in Jason Takes Manhattan when his mask fell off in the sewer - what a joke that was!I heard New Blood called Jason vs. Carrie.  that fits.  the series needs some 'new blood', as in, some new attractions - not necessarily gimmicks, but something to break up the monotony.  i think parts 1 - 6 were enough of the same, i say, add the spice!  Nightmare on Elm Street did it when they added 'dream powers' (although i wish they made a few more like the original before they turned the series into the mess it became - Freddy became TOO campy, and almost like a parody of himself... but that's for another review).The original movies had an 80's B movie charm - that will probably never be reproduced.  i'm not sure where that change was made, and what made it, but that old atmosphere is gone from EVERY modern day horror movie... so, if you can accept that, try to accept other changes as well.  if you don't watch these movies with a 'grain of salt', and actually ENJOY all these mindless killings for the sake of pain, lock yourself away now - you're dangerous! but if you live in the 90's (00's in a few months) where our society is violent and crazy enough already, then check out this eye candy - it won't make you worse... but watch it for a laugh.  most horror movies are comedic anyway - there's a fine FINE line between drama and comedy, and horror fits ON that line. "},{"Title":"There's a legend around here!","Date":"10 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  That's right, Jason is back,and he's angry!After unintentionaly killing her father with psycic powers as a girl,Tina Shepard goes back to Crystal Lake as a teen to confront her problems.However, when she tries to bring her father back, she wakes up Jason Voorhees!Can she stop Jason!And is Tina's mental doctor using her? This movie could have been better but it's pretty good. I give it a B-. "},{"Title":"Nifty entry in tired slasher series.","Date":"16 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This film has all the hallmarks of previous entries in the series (Poor acting, no plot to speak of, plenty of dead teenagers) and yet I found it to be quite entertaining.  John Carl Buechler directs with style and enthusiasm, making for a much less static film than one might expect. Earlier outings were just excuses for clumsily handled, and unimaginative, scenes of gore.  At times you could almost smell the contempt the producers had for their audience.  In part VII, however, a real effort was made to ensure a professional end product.  No, the film isn't scary at all, but one can delight in the various new ways Jason has thought up to off his victims and the energetic way Buechler handles the camera.  Buechler performed double duty on this, also providing the make-up which is far better than anything previously seen in the series.  If you're curious about the Friday the 13th films, but don't know where to start, start here...and end here.  Because the other entries are so stupid and deadly dull, you'll feel like a real fool after having watched one. "},{"Title":"Can only be recommended to fans of Jason or splatter","Date":"4 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Apart from the killing scenes - full of phantasie as ever in this series - you can spend your time with more useful things than watching this movie... What kept me hanging on till the very end ( oh I forgot - till the next part ) was ( not the splatter scenes ) but the curiosity in which way Jason might get killed the next time. The possibilities in this one movie were sufficient for a whole series... ;-)) The idea of putting a nice looking, telecinetic opponent against Jason might be sufficient for such a seventh sequel but the way this part is developing during the film isn´t worth commenting... The way both, Carrie and Jason, stand up on and on from their presumed death is a nice copy of the old Road-Runner cartoons or stuff like that.  "},{"Title":"Jason...the party crasher","Date":"14 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Here we go. Jason's back for another series of teen-hackings and now he faces a new heroine--Tina--who has telekenetic powers and in the last 10 minutes of the film, her and Jason go at it.There are some great death scenes Jason rams a girl into a tree. Another girl is axed to the face. And the other teenagers meet gruesome deaths as well. There is a mixture of scores in this installment. You can hear some music from the first four 13th films. As well as music from Jason Lives. While several teenagers are set to present a surprise party for another teen (from Night Of The Living Dead '90) Dr. Cruise is trying to solve Tina's little telekinesis problem. But there are more and more problems to come. Dr. Cruise becomes more interested in the telekenesis power of Tina, than the poor  teen herself. Tina stares into the lake, where her father died (due to Tina's telekenesis) and is determined to revive him.Unfortunately, she revives Jason Voorhees (from his watery grave where is was put in Part VI) instead. Jason, ofcourse, goes onYet another bloody adventure, determined, to wipe out every teen on the planet. After the big match between Jason and  Tina, her father arises from HIS watery grave and pulls Jason down, only to be unknowingly revived by a young couple in  Jason Takes Manhattan. The reason the Friday The 13th series will never come to an end, is because teens keep unknowingly bringing Jason back. They're their own enemy "},{"Title":"Baad Jason! Baaaad!","Date":"8 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The makers of part 7 have decided to leave the blood spattered glories of the past and subsequentely have managed to remove the one redeeming quality of the previous films the gore. Part 7 makes an irretating habit of cutting away at exactly the right moment before we see anything actually happen, which upset the gore crowd who greatly admired the claret spewing glory of past times. With a plot as cheap and acting as bad as this, there's not much to recommend about this now that the very life blood has been sucked out of the production.RATING ZERO (Out of four) "},{"Title":"Spectacular!!!","Date":"15 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This well-crafted movie is such a spectacle of thrills,excitement, action, and special-effects That I don't knowwhere to begin!  Even if you're not a fan of this  wonderful slasher series, There's bound to be something inthis lucky number 7 that will draw you in. Legend has it that the diabolical Jason Voorhees has beenchained to a boulder at the bottom of Crystal Lake foryears... Fortunately for Jason, a frustrated young womannamed Tina with telekinetic powers accidentally releaseshim from his watery grave while wishing to bring back herfather who died in Crystal Lake when she was a child. After rising from the depths of Crystal Lake, Jason onceagain begins slashing up all the partying young men andwoman who are vacationing by the lake... Meanwhile, Tinatries to convince her Psychiatrist, Dr. Crews, that a  man came out of the lake.  Unfortunately Dr. Crews ismore interested in exploiting her powers than helping herand tries to convince her that she is only seeing  delusions of her father...But Tina knows something isn'tright and when she finds the corpses of many of the folksthat were partying in the cabin next door she knows thatwhat she saw wasn't just a delusion...and it isn't longbefore JASON meets his best match in Friday the 13thhistory!  The climax of the film is breath-taking, Loadedwith more stunts and special-effects than you see in mostaction movies as Tina uses her telekinetic powers to  battle the bone-smashing Jason!  The movie may start oflike a slasher flick but the last 20 minutes of the filmare so exciting and exhilarating that it feels like you'rewatching a big-budget action movie with Jason in the  middle!  This is incredible; a must-see!  Not only are thestunts, special-effects, and pyrotechnics incredible, ButJason himself is an awesome sight!!  He looks big and  menacing, rotted into his shredded up clothes with hisbackbones exposed...what a look, and Kane Hodder's deeplyanimated performance gives us the best Jason yet!!  I haveto give everyone involved in creating this film a giantpat  on the back!  Who would have thought that a part 7 couldbe so fun and exciting?  Don't miss this cross between aslasher movie, an action movie, and a supernatural moviemixed together into one hell of a ride!!           "},{"Title":"One of the best of the series","Date":"9 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I think this was one of the best. First, this one actually had some what of a plot, and little story. I also liked the slightly new-and-improved Jason, the makeup done  by the director. Then there was the cool showdown between pretty Lar Park Lincoln and the masked terror. One of the main things is the look, which like 6, is looking more like a real movie, aided by the direction of John Carl Beucheler. When reading all the reviews i read for the series by others, i thought about it, and then i think i have a philosophy came up. I have a philosophy for Friday Fans. I say that there are 2 types of Friday Fans, 1) the type who likes the first 4 of the series and thought it took a bad turn downhill since Friday the 13th 5; 2) the type who thought the series actually got better after part 5. I would call myself type 2. Even though i liked the whole series(I have my reasons), i thought some like 5 and 9 were kinda dissapointing. But It definitely got better since 6 came out. It became more appealing, and fun. But I'll always like the first 3(by the way I didn't see 4), because they always seem to get under my skin and scare the hell out me.  "},{"Title":"Average but entertaining sequel","Date":"24 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This chapter can be described as an average, predictable sequel in the series that never ends, but there are elements that are very entertaining. Jason's exposed skeleton and his newly designed face are the best parts, very cool.  The battle between the heroine and Jason was somewhat original, as a slightly different climax for a Jason movie.  However, I do have some gripes about the movie in the meantime.  Why does no one ever remove bodies from Crystal Lake?  No one ever bothered to remove the bodies of Jason and the girl's father from the lake, why?  With that in mind, why is the girl's father (when she resurrects him from the lake) not decomposed like Jason? He was probably down there about ten years!  And finally, why is Jason unaffected by the explosion near the end?  Anyway, the movie was okay ** out of **** "}{"Title":"A fantastic slasher film featuring good old Jason!","Date":"3 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Two years ago, Tommy Jarvis finally defeated Camp Crystal Lake's resident mangler Jason Voorhees (Kane Hodder) by chaining him up at the bottom of the lake. Tina Shepard (Jennifer Banko) is a troubled young woman who possesses extraordinary telekinetic powers, which resulted in the death of her father several years before. She is still haunted by her father's death and is watched over by a psychiatrist named Dr. Crews (Terry Kiser), who notices that her psychic abilities only seem to work when she is overly emotional or enraged. When Dr. Crews continuously provokes her, a frustrated Tina rushes out to the lake and, with her powers, accidentally releases Jason from his watery grave. He makes his way back to camp and begins mercilessly killing off the new counselors there, a few of which have befriended Tina. The psychic teen decides that it is now her responsibility to stop Jason's brutal killing spree, and uses her mind powers against her masked foe in a battle of epic proportions! This is my second favorite Friday film next to part 4. I appreciate how they brought something new to the table with this entry and provided a fresh take on the Jason story. Let's face it, the formula was getting a bit repetitive and monotonous with the last couple films. It's a good thing his installment breathed new life into the series. Introducing the Tina character was a great way to give Jason a worthy adversary who can actually defend herself against him with her awesome gift. It was just like seeing Jason vs. Carrie White from the Stephen King novel! Kane Hodder is a wonderful Jason and you can tell he enjoys playing the part, especially since he returned for the next three films of the series. He also happens to be my second favorite actor to don the hockey mask, next to Ted White. Jason has the best look in this movie, with the zombie makeup effects being very well done. When you finally see his face during the unmasking scene, he is one scary looking dude! The final battle between Jason and Tina is so entertaining that my eyes were glued to the screen for the entire duration. I didn't want it to end! I will say that the way they finally defeat Jason is really stupid and is one of the most bizarre moments of the entire series. It doesn't really take away from the movie though, which gets a perfect score in my book! "},{"Title":"Great Horror, Jason at his Best!!!","Date":"14 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This movie of all the Friday the 13th movies is quite possibly the best. Kane Hodder delivers an incredible performance as Jason giving the character depth and real life motion(s) he has been lacking in the previous installments. While CJ Graham might be the most physical imposing Jason of the original series Hodder is the best. the idea of a girl with telekinesis powers fighting Jason might seem like a stretch its not cheesy, they do a good job with keeping it at a minimum. This movie is EASILY the darkest and most aggressive of the series. Dark sets and tons of night shots make this a creepy flick. the Music and sound effects in this movie are insane. This is the one to see!!!! "},{"Title":"Jason Versus Carrie","Date":"11 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I realise that the original Friday the 13th set the benchmark for all subsequent sequels and any other teen orientated horror movie made during the eighties and beyond, and in truth it was a decent little chiller, especially that ending! However for me, Friday The 13th - The New Blood has always been my personal favourite of all the Friday movies made. Two reasons for that were the presence of director John Carl Buechler calling the shots and scriptwriter Daryl Haney credited as co-scripter.I've always loved my B movies, and these two masters of their respective craft have been attached to some of my favourites down through the years, Buechler's Cellar Dwellar is still one of my favourite Empire movies, and as for Haney, he hit the nadir of his career when he worked for both Harry Bromley Davenport & Axis Films International.Now as for Part 7 - The New Blood, how do you resurrect everyone's favourite bogeyman when he's been anchored deep beneath the murky waters of crystal lake, why not introduce a girl called Tina, who many years earlier consigned her errant father to a watery grave via her ability for telekinesis.Then of course when she feels that she needs comforting she accidentally brings back everyone's favourite bad guy, who naturally picks up where he left off, slicing and dicing.Lar Park Lincoln excels in the role of the adult Tina, emoting very well the stresses and strains of being a teenager with an unusual talent, but the Oscar for the best bad guy on screen, aside from Jason that is must surely go to Terry Kiser as Tina's snake in the grass svengali Doctor Crews.Although many people expect a film like Friday the 13th and it's respective sequels to have bum acting and less than sterling scripts, but that is certainly not so, as Friday The 13th Part 4 - The Final Chapter & Buechler's seventh entry in the series will attest to.Why even Kane Hodder brings his usual panache to the role he made his own.As sequels go, this one get's my full attention every time, 10/10 "},{"Title":"Amazing and fun!","Date":"17 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I love this film, Even though most of the gore and effects were extremely cut from the film by the MPAA, this film still develops characters and makes them real and fun like if you wanted them to be your best friend in real life! And the characters are real everything in the film is creepy and fun! I highly recommend this film! Jason is really scary and mean and strong and aggressive in this film! I love this film from beginning to end! And the intro and title sequence is just plain creepy and scary and very interesting! The fist time I saw this I just got so excited and happy! Jason looks really beaten up and scary! His presence is the best in the series next to Part 2 and 4 and 6! "},{"Title":"More Like Carrie Vs. Jason.","Date":"9 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Friday the 13th VII The New Blood is the seventh installment in this series. Camp Crystal Lake has been peaceful for the past few years, ever since Tommy Jarvis had Jason chained to the bottom of the lake. Of course, Jason can survive underwater for years and years, nothing phases the guy. Tina Shepard, a teenage girl with telekinetic powers (much like Carrie) is a girl with many problems, still plagued by the mysterious drowning of her father at Crystal Lake years ago. She comes back to Crystal Lake, however, with her mother and psychiatrist to sort of face the problem I suppose. But her psychiatrist is only interested in exhibiting Tina's telekinetic powers, and Tina unfortunately unleashes Jason from his watery grave. Jason heads straight into the forest to begin some more killing, but this time he has another match, because it is up to Tina to stop him. Now it's a battle between a superhuman killer and a teenage girl who can move objects with her mind.The best thing about this film is the plot structure, it at least tries to offer the audience something new rather than the regular chop and slash action that Jason does in every film, much like Part VI did. I'm sure the whole telekinesis subplot was very much inspired by Stephen King's Carrie, but the sequences between Tina and Jason were interesting and fun to watch, as this seemingly helpless girl gives Jason some serious battle scars. I really liked the sequence with the power lines and the whole finale that took place in the house. This is Kane Hodder's first performance as Jason, and he is one of the best Jason's I've seen in the series, he's a senseless killing machine with a very intimidating facade. There are also some clever deaths and great makeup effects throughout.Overall, Part VII The New Blood offers something new, like Part VI did, and it makes a good effort. It's not anything extravagant, but in terms of Friday the 13th movies, it's pretty good. 6/10. "},{"Title":"Jason and his putty head","Date":"16 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This film is hilarious!, I thought that they should have stopped at Part 6 which was a brilliant flick but i'm glad they didn't. Where does Jason get his array of weapons from?, does he have a special shed in the woods where he keeps them?. Walking around killin people with his machete then a party horn and then he gets his maggoty hands on a strimmer!, wastes idiot Dr. cruise played by old bernie (weekend at bernies).Watch out as well for when Jason gets pulled up on that light wire, the look on his putty head face and the sound he makes is hilarious.Rating for part VII 3/10 for it's funny factor. "},{"Title":"Stop the Madness","Date":"30 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" - Normally, I start with a brief (sometimes very brief) outline of the plot. With Friday the 13th Part VII, there's really no point in doing that. A group of young people is staying in a cabin on Crystal Lake. They have sex, smoke dope, and act incredibly stupid. Gee, I wonder what's going to happen to them? Imagine my surprise when Jason shows up and starts butchering everyone in sight.- I'll give the movie credit for trying to throw a new wrinkle into the Friday the 13th story. One of the people staying on the lake is a young girl with telekinetic powers. Think of it as Carrie vs. Jason. She actually proves to be one of the more equally matched foes Jason has faced and the highlight of the movie for me.- While not the lowest point in the Friday the 13th series, Part VII comes close. The biggest problem with the movie is the total lack of suspense. By the time Part VII came out, anyone with a pulse was already familiar with the basic premise. And even though Telekenetic Girl is present, the movie doesn't stray from the tried and true formula. We know Jason is going to show up and kill people. What kind of suspense is that? It doesn't help that we know absolutely nothing about most of the victims. I realize that the majority of Jason's victims are little more than cardboard cut-outs, but here they're even less than that. It's hard to have suspense when you don't really give a damn or know anything about the people in danger. "},{"Title":"Kane Hodder's in the house!","Date":"13 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Telekinetic super-girl Lar Park Lincoln comes back to Camp Crystal lake with her mom (voice actress Susan Blu) and her doctor, where she accidentally killed her somewhat unstable father when she was a child, to get a grip on her powers and, as luck would have it, she accidentally resurrects Jason Voorhees (exit CJ Graham, enter Kane Hodder, in his big Jason debut). Fortunately for Tina, there are a bunch of drunken, horny teenager idiots not too far away, so Jason will have to deal with them before he gets to her, and unlike some of the other idiot heroines we get in these movies, Tina's got her telekinetic powers to help her out and a smarter than average lover boy to boot. Of main interest to Friday the 13th fans as the first of four outings by Kane Hodder as Jason Voorhees. True Jason's pretty much the same in all the movies (a big mute monster, regardless of whether he's human or zombie), but Kane Hodder's affection for playing the hockey masked one is very touching just the same. Plus Kane's a real trooper to lumber around in all that make-up, even though the make-up kind of makes it hard to appreciate his imposing physique (something Richard Brooker of part 3 and Ted White of part 4 didn't have to deal with). If you're a fan, come right on in. "},{"Title":"The new Blood","Date":"4 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Friday the 13th part 7 The new blood i thought wasn't a bad movie. This was made in 1988, bringing this to a total of 7 friday the 13th movies, and 8 years on the run with the whole collection. Jason is back and he is accidently released by a tennager with powers. I give this movie 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Here we go again","Date":"1 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Another cheap badly acted sequel, the characters are so annoying and unpleasant you want to hack them all up your self,theres no violence at all and the sub plots are straight from saved by the bell type situations.The only good scene is when a nerdy girl dresses all up trying to allure this guy but then gets chased by jason.The only good ones worth watching IF u are a Jason fan are 1-4 and forget the recent sequel!. "}{"Title":"Kane Hodder's awesome Jason debut!","Date":"2 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I really liked this sequel, though many others didn't - as is evidenced by the abysmally (and ridiculously) low user-rating.The plotline is virtually secondary to Jason's underwater revival at the kinetic whim of poor old I used to be insecure, but now I'm not so sure Miss Tina Shepherd. Hodder gives Jason a sense of commanding and unstoppable evil - love his dental work too. This guy looks the part! Events at hand are, agreed, rather mundane - but so what? Once Jason is up, out and dried off....he is also totally p***ed off!!!! Lots of people die. Who would do anything but clap at Kiser's deserved demise? Good on yer Jason lad! "},{"Title":"Quite Average","Date":"19 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I very much enjoyed the first six installments of Friday the 13th and I do enjoy watching films about maniacs such as Jason Voorhees and Michael Myers. However, I found Friday the 13th Part VII rather average.I guess one of the reasons was because it was set in Crystal Lake yet again (surely Crystal Lake would have been closed down after the events of the first few films). Lar Park Lincoln is an interesting character and it is interesting the way she brings Jason back to life.As usual, there's all the slashings and slayings and whilst the film isn't too bad it is not exactly spectacular.However,you might as well check it out if you're a fan of the Friday the 13th films and the series did return to form with Friday the 13th Part VIII where Jason left Crystal Lake to stalk Manhatten. "},{"Title":"NOW WE'RE COOKING!","Date":"28 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Kane Hodder breathes new life into the character, and this episode contains some of the best killings, makeup and special effects. Unfortunately, it is also a direct ripoff of CARRIE and as such suffers for being a truly derivative thriller. It also basically rehashes the ending of the previous installment, which is disappointing. Not the best JASON by any means. Stick with episodes 3, 4 and 5 and you can't go wrong. "},{"Title":"Seventh one More garbage","Date":"15 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Did I miss some kind of meeting or something? I thought horror movies were supposed to be scary. First of all, Jason died. Remember? I really don't go for the creators bringing him back to life. Furthermore, all of the psychic powers and telepathy in the movie just make it downright laughable. "},{"Title":"...And you thought the previous films were a stretch...","Date":"17 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Wow!  They were really reaching for a new idea for this one!  This film could have easily been shortened to about 30 minutes or so.  There are numerous chunks in this film that are utterly useless and simply to show yet another death.I didn't think this film was very good at all.  The whole girl with telekinesis sub-plot thing was a bit much for me.  Although, it did make for an interesting fight between her and Jason towards the end of the film. ...But the actual end of the film was just atrocious!  I nearly burst into laughter!  I will give it this though, there were some pretty nice make-up effects at the end of the film and Jason did have a very sinister and disgusting look to him throughout the film.  I thought it was odd that Jason seemed to use a new weapon every time he made a kill, and it was hilarious when he busted out that electric long-reach saw.If you like the Friday the 13th films, then go ahead and watch this one, you might like it.  If you didn't like the previous films I can't imagine you would like this one, but I have been wrong before...so do what you will.  Anyhow, if you do see the film, I hope you enjoy it.  Thanks for reading,-Chris "},{"Title":"They only get worse....","Date":"28 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Jason 7 was a major disappointment in my opinion.  It is basically psycho vs. psycho, when Jason seems to have picked the wrong person as his final victim.  And by the way, if I go in the middle of the forest somewhere, will I find chainsaws, and other assorted murder weapons like Jason always seems to find...... "},{"Title":"I don't know if it is the single worst of the series, but it's down there&#133;","Date":"9 February 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Friday the 13th Part VII starts off with a quick summary montage of the last few films, in case you've forgotten anything. It's always good to make sure you're up to speed. I actually appreciate it when sequels do that, to some extent, especially when there is such a long line of films that came previously. In this case, however, we get this montage of what we had seen before and then a whole movie of things that we had already seen before. There is literally not a scrap of originality in this entire movie, which is not a good thing in a series based almost solely on creative ways to kill people.Tina, the main character, gets mad at the beginning of the film because her dad hits her mother during a fight, so she gets into a boat and all sorts of weird things start happening. The lake starts to boil, for one thing, but more importantly, the dock that her father is standing on collapses into the lake, killing him. This is, of course, totally unique and invented for this movie, and doesn't remind me of Carrie or Firestarter at all.The movie is similar to its massively superior predecessor, Part VI, in that it starts off with characters returning to the scene of previous trauma, in this case Tina returns to the lake where her father died because, as her accompanying therapist claims, there is nothing left that they can do for her at the hospital. It just so happens that her father died at exactly the same spot as where Jason was drowned at the end of Part VI. At any rate, an undisclosed amount of time has passed, and ultimately Tina's riled emotions cause the water around Jason's body to start boiling, his eyes snap open, and the chain just falls off of him. It definitely rusted through pretty fast, given that it was in fresh water.But no matter, the movie wastes no time in piling on the horror clichés. The interesting characters from the last movie are replaced with more idiot kids who literally do absolutely nothing in this movie but have sex and get killed. YAWN. One genius opens a can of beer upside down over his face, then acts surprised when he starts choking. I couldn't wait to see this jerk get killed, but the characters are such cookie-cutter clichés that by the time he was killed I had lost track of who was who.And no points for guessing that the doctor is not really there to help Tina. It becomes quite obvious very soon in the film that he's not really going to help her much if he keeps insisting to her face that she's insane.But listen to this setup &#150; a guy is making out with his girlfriend in the woods (people always found ways to end up in the woods alone at night in this movie). She says she's cold and will he go get some firewood. Why don't we just get in a sleeping bag, he says. Ultimately, he agrees to go get wood, gives a bad Terminator line and then, get this, he walks out into the woods WITH A MACHETE, leaving his girlfriend alone. She promptly crawls inside the tent, closes the flap, gets into the sleeping bag, and waits to get killed. Is this the best they could offer?The sad thing is that the entire movie is filled with enormously clichéd horror movie setups exactly like this one. Later in the film, some blonde girl tells some geek to come skinny dipping with her in the middle of the night, to which he reluctantly agrees. Needless to say he not only doesn't make it into the water, he doesn't even manage to get undressed. Is there going to be a scrap of originality in this entire movie?I can tell you right now, the answer is no. I just saved you an hour and a half. The most original thing that this movie does is that, after the Screeching Cat scare (I'm willing to believe that the production team made it a point to put that dinosaur egg into the movie), they threw in some thunder and lightning, just in case the cat wasn't enough.In the movie's third act, Jason pulls the power out as he goes to enter the building where the remainder of the kids are. No one cares. Maybe because the lights didn't go out, they just changed color. There are, by the way, no camp counselors in this movie, just teens making out and having sex. No time for plot, character, or story. The movie is nothing more than a series of murder scenes, which also happens to be a description of all of the bad Friday the 13th films.At one point in the movie, some jerk goes to get some food after having sex with some girl, and then barely even pauses before reaching for the refrigerator when he starts slipping around in the blood all over the floor, and at this point all we have to look forward to is the ending, which is drivel of the lowest order. When Tina was flinging things around with her mind, I was waiting for her to twinkle her nose at things or maybe flip her ponytail.That would at least have fit with the level of originality in the rest of the movie.Avoid this one. "},{"Title":"Good but flawed.","Date":"21 November 1998","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I think that this and parts 3 and 6 are the best. Kane Hodder was definitely the best Jason, up to a point. The direction is a bit lame in places but quite adequate in others. The premise of the movie is good but the acting and dialogue really sucks in some parts. If this movie was made today, no way would they get away with such dialogue. Actors nowadays just wouldn't speak it. I'm not a big fan of the Harry Manfredini music in the first 5 movies but here he introduces an, eerie, ghostly little theme that crops up every now and again. Jason is also at his coolest with the bones showing thru his boiler suit. New Line ditched this look with Jason Goes To Hell. In part 10, or Freddy vs Jason I really hope they don't make Jason the way he was in JGTH. That movie just seemed totally miscellaneous, it didn't fit with the others( and Jason had hair). Overall this is very watchable and pretty good, but why do the end credits roll like a TV movie?Regarding the DVD...it's not good. F13 Part VII The New Blood is my fave Friday the 13th movie thanks to the strong supernatural elements and a jazzed up score from Harry Manfredini and Fred Mollin. I looked forward to this DVD, I was let down tremendously.Director John Carl Buechler was horrified when the MPAA made him chop his film up worse than Jason ever could and censor almost every spot of blood. This changed the film from a strong and effective horror to a tedious assembly of teens getting killed.Horror films are supposed to offend and upset. In horror you have the capability to provoke a very wide variety of emotions from your audience. Even if the source material is rather weak, if pulled off correctly you can entertain them in such a way that they'll babble about the movie for weeks and perhaps never forget it.This is exactly what John Carl Buechler did with this movie. Sadly no audience was to be exposed to his make-up genius or copious gore. The movie was wasted. Or, in his own words, castrated. I couldn't agree more.Buechler approached Paramount with his own cut of the film, many deleted scenes and a wealth of extra material and proposed a special edition DVD. Paramount flat out said 'NO' even tho Buechler offered to work on the DVD for free. Knowing that there were MANY fans out there who feel the same way about the movie Buechler set up a petition and got thousands of signatures begging Paramount to release Part VII as a Special Edition. Still, there answer was, flat out, 'NO'.And now that this DVD has been released what extra features does it have? None. Even after all this and all the begging Paramount didn't even give us a trailer. Something they were 'kind' enough to give Parts 1-6. I see no reason to buy this unless you have submitted your VHS copy and need the DVD.Friday the 13th Part VII The New Blood is anamorphically enhanced at 1.781 and has a remastered Dolby 5.1 soundtrack made from the original Ultra Stereo recordings. Unfortunately, it's not a good 5.1 track with hardly any .1LFE use or surround use. "},{"Title":"Carrie + Jason = Not That Bad Of A Movie","Date":"24 July 2002","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Okay, Friday the 13th Part 7 The New Blood was an okay and pretty well-set film. Though Tina Sheperd (the main character) has telekinesis which is very reminding of Carrie, but also put a spark in the series, instead of Jason just killing everyone. All in all, this movie was  okay. I give Friday the 13th Part 7 The New Blood a 6 out of 10 "},{"Title":"If you've seen any other entry into the series, then you've pretty much seen this one too","Date":"17 April 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" With the idea of Jason Voorhees as a supernatural presence firmly established in the previous film, Friday the 13th Part VII introduces a new foe for the masked brute in the form of Tina Shepard (Lar Park-Lincoln), a young girl with telekinetic abilities. The character of Tommy Jarvis, who has been played by a multitude of actors such as Corey Feldman and Thom Mathews in previous instalments, sadly doesn't return, so Jason once again 'meets his match'. The telekinesis angle, however, is the only change to the formula. So, for a sixth time, we get to watch the same film all over again for a tedious 90 minutes.After watching her father drown when her then-unknown abilities causes the dock he is stood on to collapse into the water, Tina returns to Camp Crystal Lake with her mother (Susan Blu) and Dr. Crews (Weekend at Bernie's (1989) Terry Kiser) years later to undergo psychiatric treatment. Crews claims to be helping Tina overcome her emotional abilities and uncontrollable powers, but his questionable methods raise her suspicions. Naturally, a bunch of horny teenagers arrive to party, only to be on the receiving end of Jason's (Kane Hodder) wrath after he is accidentally resurrected from the lake he was left in by Tommy Jarvis at the end of the previous film.While the sixth movie, Jason Lives (1986), was probably the most entertaining entry into the series thanks to its tongue-in-cheek humour and inventive bloodshed, Part VII plays it straight but manages to be neither scary or particularly gory. The geek, rich bitch, jock and virgin stereotypes are all here as expected, and watching them get bumped off one-by-one is usually the only bit of enjoyment to be squeezed out of this franchise. But here, the pay- off is never satisfying enough. Newcomer Hodder (who would go on to be the first to play Jason more than once) certainly has the physical presence, but his Jason is more clinical and less fun (although the sleeping bag death is a corker). If you have seen any other entry into the series, then you've pretty much seen this one too. "}{"Title":"Bollywood style!","Date":"13 April 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The 7th part of FTT takes a bollywood film twist, with the director giving supernatural powers not only to Jason, but also to the protagonist this time.Stupidly ridden with guilt over thinking that she was responsible for her father's demise in her childhood,Tina and her mother, alongwith a psychiatrist take a break at Camp crystal lake, a place about which everyone's forgotten, hoping that she will improve. Tina also has supernatural telekinetic powers by which she can move objects with her mind. Unfortunately she unleashes Jason who is stuck at the bottom of the lake, and Jason returns to terrorise everyone.The best part is the rock music. The acting is good, the have borrowed bollywood like ideas really. And makeup may have been good but I did not get scared.But otherwise it's just ....well, see my previous FTT reviews. "},{"Title":"Friday the 13th Part VII The New Blood (1988) **","Date":"6 February 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Some undetermined length of time after PART 6, a troubled young girl with special telekinetic powers named Tina (Lar Park Lincoln) accidentally revives Jason (Kane Hodder). She harbors a deep guilt for killing her dad in a tragic mishap when she was only a child, so her scheming psychiatrist (Terry Kiser) takes her back to her woodsy home where the event originally occurred so she can confront her fears. As luck would have it, a new assortment of randy teenagers have rented a cabin next door to throw one of their ilk a birthday bash -- which Jason expectedly crashes. THE NEW BLOOD is an effort at attempting something different by having the lead psychic girl do battle with Jason in a mind over brawn CARRIE-styled duel. But alas, it takes forever to get to that climactic showdown, as the first three quarters of this show retreads old worn-out ground that is now feeling awfully dull and repetitive. It doesn't help either that the teenagers in this one are a rather uninteresting bunch. Director John Carl Buechler fails to conjur up any suspense, and even the kill scenes fail to deliver because THE NEW BLOOD was extremely edited down for gore and violence before is release. The main point of interest in PART 7 is the much ballyhooed confrontation between mind-bending Tina and the lumbering Jason, if you can wait that long. Buechler insisted on series newcomer and stuntman extraordinaire Kane Hodder to embody the part of Jason, and with nice results; Hodder made this part his own, believed in the character, and would proudly keep returning for the rest of the saga. Jason's makeup was nicely elaborated to reveal the ravages and deterioration the character has endured during the last several installments. As much as Hodder tries though, Part 7 still turns out to be weaker than intended. ** out of **** "},{"Title":"New blood in the franchise results in a pretty original take","Date":"30 March 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Friday the 13th Part VII The New Blood might not be the best installment of the series. Might also not be my favorite part in the franchise. But it's certainly not the worst one either. Adding a girl with supernatural powers was a nice touch. Keeping horny teenagers in the mix was a natural given, of course. The boobs were there, and so was a very ugly-looking, rotting Jason Voorhees. Only... the filmmakers did skimp a LOT on the gore in this installment. Apparently they had to, because of censorship/rating issues. I've seen footage that ended on the cutting room floor, and yes, they cut out the juicy bits, damnit! So there lies my main problem with this 7th installment. Other than that, Jason rules. "},{"Title":"the new jason","Date":"24 January 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The reason why you should watch this flick is for the hairstyles, really, they are so 80's and so weird to see, almost extra terrestrial. Just kidding. The real reason to watch it is that I found this one a real good attempt. Let me be clear. It's made in 1988 a time were slashers were out of order. But still somehow they managed to re-create Jason. Another reason why I love this flick is that the director John Carl Buechler and also Kane Hodder weren't happy with the end result of The New Blood. If you listen to all directors or Jason's before they are all bragging about how wonderful their version is and how good Jason was. But I have watched a lot of interviews with John and I met Kane a few times and they both agreed. The movie was supposed to be much gorier. If you have the deluxe version of the DVD you can easily see 'slashed scene's'. go watch it, you will see more gore that is left out like for example intesticines flying around and knife's going in and out of bodies. But it really was a fight between John and the producers and of course MPAA decided to heavily cut it. But again, what I liked about it was that the flash backs at the beginning were really entertaining and not like with the others were it was just some editing. The way Jason comes back to live is maybe arguable, but what they created was the most brutal Jason so far, going away a bit from the supernatural Jason this one is more about force. Visually he looks more an more like a zombie but it works. I must admit as what the fans say, a new Jason is born. "},{"Title":"The batch of blood was tainted","Date":"22 January 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" With Jason trapped under the sea, presumably humming along to a red crab singing about how it is down there, it takes a psychic(yes, the horror stand-by of the 80's... that's how deep this series has sunk at this point, and it didn't exactly start out brilliant) girl who, years prior, killed her father accidentally by focusing really hard on doing just that(she telekinetically shook a wooden pier that he was too stupid to walk back to the shore from, and drowned because he apparently couldn't swim in spite of living right by the lake) to release him(if this was the only idea for how to do that they could come up with, I'd have preferred that they left him down there). He crashes a surprise birthday party full of young people, and Hodder does a great job in the performance, giving a real immediacy and having him use the element of surprise(there is little stalking in this). I could not get into this for the life of me, because every character is obnoxious, weird or invisible(seriously, find me anyone to even remotely *like* in this), the dialog is bizarre(this thing is *never* funny), and the acting is over the top(not that you could do well with this material anyway), so I couldn't relate to anything I was seeing at all. The deaths are uninspired in spite of the use of several large instruments, and the climax, whilst certainly different from the others and technically speaking well-done(in general the FX aren't bad, if this is so censored and they're so dull that it doesn't matter much), is pretty silly(you can guess what it is from the overall concept of this entry). Opening credits have the disco ball lighting mask, following a recap boringly edited from footage of the earlier ones and Crazy Ralph narrating about the death curse. Have you ever met someone with a perfect poker-face, they'll tell you one thing and you believe them, then say the opposite and seem so sure about it that you can't tell which is the case? This movie is that person. There is some blood and gore, nudity and sexuality in this. I recommend this solely to those who can't handle the thought that there's a Friday the 13th flick out there that they haven't watched. Everyone else, stay away for the safety of your sanity. 4/10 "},{"Title":"A guilty pleasure","Date":"20 July 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" As it stands, this is my guilty pleasure of the franchise. I love the concept and think it would be a really solid Friday the 13th sequel if it wasn't for the MPAA butchering this film. Most of the gore has been cut and it really hurts the film as a whole. This also begins Kane Hodder's reign as the masked serial killer for the franchise, who seems to be a cult favorite as the best Jason. Speaking of Jason, he looks the best in this film. It may just be my opinion, but in addition to loving undead Jason, the make-up effects and his costume are just phenomenal in this one. As ugly as he looks when his mask gets ripped off, this is the film that makes him look the most flattering. That's not saying much for a guy who's been chained down at the bottom of a lake for ten years and killed multiple times, but at least he doesn't look like he has down syndrome this time around. If an uncut or director's cut of some kind ever makes the light of day, it'll probably wind up being in my top three F13 films. Easily. "},{"Title":"The worst of the series for me","Date":"29 January 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This movie stats with little girl who seem to have the power As Carrie and then kills her dad.She older now come back to camp and with mum and step dad she goes mad storms out and then tires to bring her dad back from dead only for to bring Jason back from the dead and start to kill again.The deaths in this movie were not that good, not that gory at all, the acting didn't help the movie all, i did not care if Jason killed them or not.Jason himself was not scary and for some reason his head seem to look 10X bigger then Part 6, make up effect was really bad too, Who ever did the makeup for Jason as never seen the other Friday 13th movie.This was worst Friday 13th movie of the series for me, i didn't like anything about it. I going give this movie 3 out 10 "},{"Title":"Not the best sequel in the series, but far better than you'd expect from a movie with a VII in the title","Date":"28 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" While most Friday fans simplify this entry as Jason Vs. Carrie, The New Blood has a lot more going on than many installments in this sometimes-brilliant/sometimes-wretched/always awesome franchise. The title seemed to indicate that Part VII would be the launch of a new story arc, and after following the Tommy Jarvis trilogy to its redundant conclusion in Part VI, the idea of introducing a new re-occurring character wouldn't have been such a bad twist on the series.That was not to be, and it's actually quite a shame, as Lar Park-Lincoln's Tina is far and away the best Friday The 13th heroine, both as a logical foil to Jason and as a purely likable character. (In the interest of full disclosure, I must admit that I had the pleasure of meeting Lar at a Fangoria convention while she was promoting this film, and she was an absolute sweetheart. She was extremely friendly, genuinely excited that a 12 year-old horror nerd was thrilled to meet her, and generous enough to give me a glossy and sign it in the lobby instead of telling me what time she'd be at the Friday booth and asking me if I had 10 bucks to purchase the head-shot from her. However, though this positive experience may have instilled a bit of bias on my behalf, she is still excellent in this film).As you know, we didn't get a Tina trilogy out of the deal, but Part VII stands on its own as one of the most satisfying entries in the series. With John Carl Buechler at the directorial reins, The New Blood stays truer to the spirit of the original film than the previous two installments, which attempted to use lame humor and teen-movie stupidity as a shoddy substitute for the gore elements the MPAA had neutered from the Friday franchise. There are very few laughs here, and by this point, Friday film-makers had learned to utilize clever camera cuts to simulate the evisceration and mutilation they couldn't show, so even if the blood gallon-count here is paltry, the brutality of the killings is very much intact.And we must give supreme credit to Kane Hodder and the make-up crew who transformed him into the most monstrous and genuinely frightening presence Jason fans had seen yet. Hodder would go on to play Jason for several more films (the only actor to do so to date), and his hulking presence re-energized Jason as an actual monster rather than a pop culture icon. His horrifying reveal at the film's climax is a logical extension of Tom Savini's brilliantly understated creation in the original Friday, and the FX crews in future films would never match the intensity seen here. I suppose that's not surprising since we have a special FX master at the director's helm here, but when you see how comparatively silly Jason looks in the two films after this one, it's no wonder our self-conscious killer has mostly kept his mask on since.The plot device that spawns Jason's resurrection is definitely flimsy (as is the denouement that returns him to his watery grave), but when you consider that Buechler was trying to take the series in a new direction, and imagine this same scenario taking place in a non-Friday film, the Tina's-father angle is actually a pretty nifty and original twist, and it certainly puts a bit of poetic punctuation on the well-developed subplot of Tina struggling to come to terms with her guilt about her involvement in dad's demise.It's notable that the only two Friday sequels to take the franchise into uncharted waters (Part V's fake Jason, and Jason's New York City getaway in Part VIII) are by far the crappiest entries in the F13 canon. In that respect The New Blood's ability to weave new ideas into the tired formula without sacrificing the core stalk-and-kill principles of the series must be viewed as a success.Some of the characters here are among the most trying in franchise history (who invited the sci-fi plot-spouting geek who thinks a movie called Battle Of The Gargantuan Thronger is a work of filmatic genius?), and the set-ups for their murders sometimes reach into the realms of are you TRYING to get killed? (Consider the plight of hapless Maddy, who, angry that the boy she admires has chosen to take her friend to bed over her, applies a hasty and unimpressive make-over then proceeds to wander OUT INTO THE FRIGGIN' WOODS to look for him, when she very well knows that he's upstairs shagging her friend).So, some of this is remarkably silly... But, this is a Friday The 13th film, not Shakespeare. What counts is how much fun you have watching this, and The New Blood definitely succeeds on that count. We never got to spend any more time with Tina, but her presence definitely gave this winded franchise some new life. Of course, that would be stymied by Jason's cruise to Manhattan, but I digress... "},{"Title":"Jason Is Back- But Backer!","Date":"11 June 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" One, two Jason's coming for you! Three, four he wants to settle a score! Five, Six Get a bag of bricks. Seven, Eight You'd better throw them straight. Nine, Ten Kill him again and again. Eleven, Twenty Four He'll be back for more! Thus goes the famous rhyme that the ghosts of all the children Jason Myers has killed sing. No-one ever pays heed to the important lyrics and lo and behold the big lumper is back! Taking over the baseball glove this time is WWE superstar Kane, replacing Giant Haystacks from previous instalments. This is a new chapter in the saga and was intended to reboot the franchise like Batman Begins or Carry On Constable. The characters are new, but Jason is the same except this time he's different- bigger, stronger, tougher. The story focuses on Tina and her mum Nancy. Tina purposefully killed her father by mistake after he accidentally beat her mother on purpose. Tina you see has magic powers handed down by her granny Carrie Bradshaw, who had a few years earlier went mental and murdered her entire school with fire and pig's blood.Flash forward a few years and Timmy is a bright, but disturbed and ripe teen. Her mom decides to take her to a Psychoticist who lives near Camp Krusty Lake to try and relieve her of her guilt. The doc hypnotises her which results in many scary images from her past springing out for her and us to see- her dad hitting her mum; her dad hitting her; her dad hitting her duck; her dad hitting her dad; Fonze on a jet ski. This proves too much for her and she runs out screaming. Her 'mind scream' as the doc refers to it is so strong that it brings Jason back to life. Jason quickly goes on a rampage in his quest to find and thank the one who woke him. If Tina had just accepted his gratitude at the start then the gore, guts, smashed heads, pierced necks, broken limbs, burned bodies, seared flesh, gouged livers, eaten hearts, swung intestines, scratched knees, bruised lips, and exposed breasts that followed could have been avoided. But then we wouldn't have our film! Mr Mewes does his stuff better than the previous films, though I think he's better in parts one to V, as well as 6. Overall this film is a film full of scared bits, some nice blood, and plenty of killings. Splendid show! Best Scene When Billy wakes up to find Jason in the sleeping bag beside him. The camera cuts to outside the bag and we see shot after shot of Jason's sword pumping up and down through the bag, screams and blood filling the screen. Then we pan up to the top bunk and see two other teens doing the dirtiness without hearing what is happening beneath them. We know they're next! "},{"Title":"comparing Friday the 13th part VII with Jack Smith's Flaming Creatures","Date":"16 April 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I would compare Friday the 13th part VII with Flaming Creatures, because they both deal with bad guys, sexually frustrated people and the actions they undertake.Concerning Flaming Creatures, this is obvious. Concerning part VII, it raises the following questions is Jason sexually frustrated (we know his victims are, but is he?) and does he murder because of his sexual frustration? Let's think... Why would Jason be frustrated? Is it because he can't have sex anymore? It is because he never had any sex, because they drowned him before he even could have sex.But even if he could have sex, he was - let's face it - terribly disfigured too (remember the ending of the original?). That's why he always have something over his head. It makes him feel less disfigured. But still, he felt bad about it all.It was only in part III (or IV) he found the hockey mask, that became his trademark. With the hockey mask on, he knows he can perform very well (sexually) - or so he thinks. We all know that Jason can't perform sexually (maybe because he is dead?!), so he tried to find something that would give him the same thrill.That's why Jason needs to kill revenge is the wrong motif. He kills for sex (we all know how important that is).And that's what Friday the 13th part VII and Flaming Creatures have in common. "}{"Title":"A Nightmare at Crystal Lake","Date":"18 January 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Welcome back, Jason. And I don't mean that in a positive way. Not much more can be said about the 'Friday the 13th' series and after just a huge leap in 'Part VI,' Jason came back in 'Part VII &#150; The New Blood' to slash the creative team (and apparently the budget as well) and drag us, once again, below standards, even at any 'Friday' level. Simply more of the same, a rehash of 'III,' 'Final Chapter,' most of the other 'New' chapter 'A New Beginning,' but I'm guessing it's many more years after 'Part VI,' as Jason is shown trapped at the bottom of the lake &#150; where we left him in 'VI' &#150; and a young girl kills her father almost immediately overhead. She's now grown, as are her telekinesis powers, the same ones she used to murder her father (intentionally or not.) Decent twist to the old 'Friday' plots, but not as a whole, this film just rips off of the 'A Nightmare on Elm Street' films. Let's see the powergirl's name is Tina, (Nightmare 1), she looks/acts like Patricia Arquette (Nightmare 3) and has super-powers like Alice (Nightmare 4.) The series needs to find more original names, as well, i.e. Tina, and when someone mistakes Jason for (another character) Michael ('Halloween,') it just seems tired by this stage. So, we have more of the same in 'Part VII' copied movies, copied names, characters we wish dead long before Jason gets to them, sex, too-hard attempts at creative kills and the usual Girl Vs. Jason finale. I will say this, 'VII' is worth watching for one reason only It was awesome watching someone kick Jason's butt. The whole fight between the girl's powers and Jason was worth actually baring through another clichéd 'Friday' film. Well, all but the laughable ending. "},{"Title":"If Only They Knew She Had The POWER!!!","Date":"5 December 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Pretty cool, hunh? It's a tagline from (say it with me, kidz,) CARRIE, but it's a perfect fit for this, the seventh chapter of the series that is the Energizer-Bunny of supernatural serial killer sagas.I want to make it known right up front I did just as much bitching and groaning as anyone else when I saw most of these movies upon their original release. Even so, you gotta admit...nobody ever went to a FT13 movie expecting to be surprised, right? You got Jason, you got stupid teens (all being played by people about twenty years older), and you have sharp implements of every shape and size. Stir and slash well, and voila! Fresh Girl-And-Guy Gazpacho!Okay, that was a NASTY image. But ANYWAY, since Jason became something of a living dead anomaly some chapters back, it was only a matter of time before the victim's gallery got the upper hand in this respect...well, at least one of them. That would be Tina (Lar Park Lincoln) in this case, a girl who, unlike dear Carrie White, doesn't exactly have to run to the school library to look up telekinesis. Especially after using it on her darling dad, who at the beginning of the move, picks the wrong night to take his butthead pills and shove his wife and daughter around.Fast-forward some years later, and poor, traumatized Tina is under the care of psychiatrist , Dr. FeelYouUpGood, er, I mean Dr. Crews (as if THAT name were any less obvious.) You know what a skeevy character this guy is since Terry Kiser is playing him, and doing such a damn good job, you'd think they were spritzing him down with Ghostbusters Slime between takes. The 'good' doctor doesn't exactly have Tina's best interests in mind, and knowing that stress accelerates her powers, he's seems determined to do everything short of dumping pots of Folgers down her throat to keep her amped up.Well, Tina has a nightmare one night, dreaming that she's communicating with her late old man down at the bottom of the lake near the house where she sent him. She uses her powers to revive him...well someone she THINKS is him, but guess who's coming to dinner as our guest carver? Yep, Pamela Voorhees' little boy is back from the watery grave where Tommy Jarvis sent him in Part 6, and now he's being played for the first time by the guy most fans consider the Olivier of Jasons, Kane Hodder! Okay, so if you're a snob, you're probably sneering down your nose that this is what passes in this series for 'originality'. But I doubt it...since movie snobs probably don't come here, anyway. So now that we've established that it's just you and me, I can say it - I thought Part Seven ROCKED, which is why I chose it as the first out of the series for review.Okay, so the acting isn't Oscar-worthy, there's very little nudity and not as much 'bangedy-bangedy' going on as in other parts of the series, but I love the premise, and the way John Carl Buechler pulls it off. (And okay, you got me, I'm biased I'm a huge Buechler fan from way back in his days with Charles Band at Empire Pictures/Full Moon Films).Plus, since he's an effects guy, Buechler makes sure to include more than enough cool gags to keep the fans oohing, ahhing and entertained. (Though what I wouldn't give to see an industrial-strength, uncut version of this puppy!)AND if that weren't enough, Kane Hodder literally makes his bones as Jason his first time out, especially getting to spend more time UNMASKED than ever before. (And believe me, when it comes to UGLY, even the Hunter from PREDATOR might want to rethink any planned plastic surgery.)Even with about 85% less tits, you still get terror, trauma and telekinesis! For a FT13 flick, that's almost more than we could ever hope to expect. In fact, things wouldn't get to be THIS cool again with the Crystal Lake gang until JASON X. "},{"Title":"Fresh blood.","Date":"31 October 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Before there was Freddy Vs. Jason there was Carrie Vs. Jason.Well, sort of.As the Friday the 13th franchise was dominant, so was New Line Cinema's A Nightmare On Elm Street. The time was right, or so it seemed, for a monster-mash of the most recognizable slashers the 1980's had to offer. However, it wasn't meant to be, and when Paramount (owners of the Friday The 13th property) couldn't get into bed with New Line, the project was dropped, only to be revived a decade and a half later. In it's place, Jason faced a different foe. A telekinetic teenager by the name of Tina, thus, the Carrie comparisons.Truth be told, the Friday The 13th brand was getting tired by the late 80's, and despite a strong sixth part preceding it, there was almost nowhere to go with the series. Almost. While much of Friday The 13th Pt. VII The New Blood (that's a mouthful) is par for the course, there a few slight differences that set it aside from the previous installments, making for one of the fresher, more enjoyable parts in the series. Let's start with the make-up effects of John Carl Buechler. A genre workhorse in the 80's, Buechler was giving Tom Savini a run for his money with the outlandish special effects he created for some of the hippest horror movies of the time. Stepping in as director, Buechler showed he could create an entertaining and effective film around his stunning special effects. Despite the fact that a lot of the nasty stuff was cut by an overly trigger-happy MPAA (who seemed to enjoy butchering horror movies in the 80's just as much as Jason enjoyed butchering teenagers), the work that was done in the seventh Friday sets it apart from previous installments. Most noticeable is Jason, who looks nastier than ever. Watching him lurch around Crystal Lake with an exposed spine and ribcage is quite a sight to behold and it is capped off beautifully with an energetic, unflinching performance by stuntman Kane Hodder. This was the first of Hodder's four times playing Jason, and you need only to look at this one film as evidence of why he was the best Jason. It's a great challenge to make Jason seem angry, brutal and effective after six films have watered it down, but Kane nails it.Also an improvement are the characters. Sure, there's the troubled Tina and her sympathetic mother to root for, as well as the boyfriend next-door. But just as this movie gives us a rarity -- characters in a Jason flick to root for -- it also gives us characters to despise, such as the cold-hearted sexpot who seems the be the only one in the film not having sex and of course, the cruel, borderline-abusive psychiatrist taking advantage of Tina's powers. Don't worry, they all meet grisly fates, made all the better by the fact that they were fleshed out before hand. Thus, why this remains one of the most enjoyable entries in the franchise. Time and time again, this is one of the few films in the series that never gets old. It has a slightly different look to it than the others, better special effects, an improved story and colorful characters. Jason is meaner and more menacing than before and the movie wraps itself up in a tightly paced 90 minutes. Along with Fridays two, four and six, The New Blood is a must-see. "},{"Title":"Not one of the series' high points, but still a good effort","Date":"22 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Horror movie slasher Jason Voorhees was brought back to life in the unexpectedly awesome 'Jason Lives Friday the 13th part VI,' and fans welcomed the return. If the shot of Jason's eye opening at the end of that film was any indication, the series would continue two years later. John Carl Buechler, the man responsible for some of the greatest (And sometimes not so great) effects in horror history sounded like a top choice for director. Did he deliver? I'd say that for the most part he did, but as a whole part VII isn't nearly as good as some of the others.Pros Another unneeded, but well done opening recap of the series. The idea of a heroine with telekinesis is a good attempt at something new. Has a little more plot than most of the other installments. A few really good kills. Some good performances, mainly from the leads. Moves at an OK pace. This time Harry Manfredini collaborates with Fred Mollin, and the two create a pretty good music score. An impressive make-up job on Jason. Some cool set pieces.Cons Totally lacks suspense and good scares. At least most of the supporting characters in the earlier films were likable, but this time a lot of them are either really dull or unlikable. Has almost no blood or gore thanks to the MPAA. Not only is the opening recap unnecessary, but it goes on a couple minutes too long. Not all, but many of the murders are predictable.Final thoughts I guess not every one of these sequels can be as good as IV or VI. There's a lot to like here, but the negatives prevent it from reaching greatness. Still, it's an enjoyable enough romp.My rating 3/5 "},{"Title":"Jason vs. Telepathy?","Date":"27 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Now Jason (yet again) has met his match, a telepathically talented young lady (Lar Park Lincoln) who has a knack for getting so mad that she can levitate objects and make things move, real scary stuff compared to what Jason can do! Anyways the movie is just another teen slasher splatter-kill installment of the Friday series, nothing special this time, just new actors/actresses who do not have any real acting ability except for dying (they do that dying stuff pretty good). I would recommend it to the Jason fan but I would hesitate if you have high hopes of this being a great movie. It's average, Jason's makeup for this movie was spectacular, that's probably the only thing I liked in this movie, there are some new styles of killing that Jason picks up. And who can forget Bernie Lomax? Terry Kiser plays Lar Park Lincoln's corrupt physician, watch out for his turn with Jason! I have also heard word that a lot of scenes were cut from this film in order to avoid an 'X' rating. Maybe its the lack of those scenes that really hold this film back from having its full flavor?!? Oh well, knowing Paramount, we'll probably never know... "},{"Title":"My Least Favorite","Date":"25 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" THIS one is just ridiculous.I'm a strong believer in psychic phenomenon, but to bring it into a Jason film is rather desperate. The appearance of Jason's real face also has proved to change in almost every film, which I'm getting sick of. This film lacks suspense, it lacks true horror, it's typical, predictable, and only worth the purchase if you're a major collector of horror films.The ONLY thing that makes it watchable, and that's the appearance of Terry Kieser as the psychiatrist.A bad film, but if you've got nothing better to do, then I suppose it's bearable. "},{"Title":"Jason Vs Carrie","Date":"13 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The Plot = A young girl named Tina who has psychic powers heads for Crystal Lake with her mother and her shrink so she can attempt to let go the guilt she feels over her father's death (which she caused due to a psychic accident). There, she befriends a bunch of teens (in their twenties) who are chilling in the house next door She also encounters Jason Voorhees who proceeds to slaughter her and her new fun pals with a variety of weapons,garden tools and even a sleeping bag. Tina puts herCarrie psychic powers to good use and battles Jason, has Jason met his match this time.All the Friday ingredients are in the house the teens fit the slasher film mold And yes they still do really dumb things like walking ten miles into the woods to take a leak or camping in the middle of nowhere. But on this run, Friday the 13th Part 7 surprisingly gives the audience a bit more than usual. Tina's main confrontation with Jason is by far the most exciting set piece of this flick and I had a hoot watching it go down. The flying furniture, massive explosion, the crumbling roof and the impressive human torch stunt made sure that this movie kept the audience and me entertained. Again this route follows the Zombie type Jason like it did in Part 6 and plus Jason has again gotten even more deteriorated with his spinal cord is showing through his ripped shirt, his knee caps are busted and his face well is again even more deformed.On the downside though Part 7 just doesn't have the greatness part 6 had and again lacks the suspense and doesn't have the likable characters the previous series had well it's safe to say I actually rooted for Jason this time to do what he does best. But on a whole this is yet another strong entry in the entire series it's just a shame that after this one the series went really downhill.Lar Park Lincoln who played Tina as the heroine with a twist she gave a really strong and focused performance, Kevin Spirtas (Nick) does fine as the hunk and Tina's new boyfriend with a heart of gold. Susan Blu (Mrs Shephard) gave a spot on performance as Tina's mother she was really nice and sweet the kind of woman who'd be proud to call your mother and plus she was the only character I was sad to see die. Terry Kiser (Crews) was spot on as the doctor who was out to exploit Tina and her powers which really made me hate him. Susan Jennifer Sullivan (Melissa) played the rich nasty spoilt blonde girl role down to a tee and she also had the best death scene and Kane Hodder was spot on as Jason.All in all another solid entry in the series, which brings a supernatural element which is something different and plus we still get our awesome kills and the climax between Jason and Tina is awesome. "},{"Title":"A Fun Friday Romp","Date":"12 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I stayed up late last night and dusted off an oldie but a goodie from the DVD shelf Friday the 13th, Part VII The New Blood. I've long considered New Blood to be one of my favorite films in the F13 franchise, though I'm not exactly sure why, as I really don't think it's any better or any worse than the rest of the series. It could be that I simply enjoy this one more because I haven't seen it a billion times like I have many of the early chapters, so for me New Blood still seems somewhat fresh. (Apart from the original, which I still view from time to time,I really don't feel any particular need to sit through F13's part II, III, Final Chapter or Part V A New Beginning ever again as long as I live.) Since the Friday formula had obviously become rather stale over the course of the previous six films, it was nice to see the writers of Part VII attempting to inject something new to the mix by (FINALLY) introducing a character strong enough to go toe-to-toe with the psychotic Jason, rather than just another terrified teenage girl who gets in a lucky shot with a machete at the last possible second. Thus, as New Blood begins we meet Tina, a troubled girl with psychokinetic/ESP powers, who accidentally caused her father's death at a Crystal Lake cabin when she was a little girl. Now a teenager, she returns to Crystal Lake for the first time since the accident with her Mom and psychiatrist (played by Terry Kiser of Weekend At Bernie's fame!) in tow, for a bit of face your fears style shock treatment.Of course, in true Friday fashion, the cabin next door to Tina's happens to be well stocked with the usual assortment of teenage party animal F13 victim types (the rich bitch, the sci-fi nerd, the stoner, the yuppies, the tough but sensitive nice guy, etc.) all of whom are ripe for the picking when Tina has a fight with her doctor and heads off to the lake on an emotional burn, where she accidentally awakens Big Jay from his underwater slumber. Jason, of course, grabs the nearest handy sharp objects and begins picking off the occupants of the party animal cabin one by one, until sure enough, the lone survivors of the carnage are Tina and her hunky new boyfriend (the previously mentioned sensitive nice guy). By the time Jason and Tina finally meet face-to-hockey mask, she uses her mental powers to put him through the wringer Carrie style. The last fifteen or twenty minutes of this flick contains some of my favorite moments of mayhem in the entire F13 series, as Tina electrocutes Jason, strangles him with vines, sets him on fire, drops a roof on his head, causes him to fall through a flight of stairs to the basement, and so on. I have to give props to Kane Hodder (playing Jason for the first time here, and who owned the role for many years afterwards, until he was replaced by Ken Kirzinger in Freddy Vs. Jason), because after Tina beats on him for a while he does a very good job of portraying how TICKED OFF Jason must be that a mere girl is actually getting the upper hand on him! (My favorite scene is when she uses her ESP to make a jar full of nails fly into his head and chest; Jason has lost his mask by this time, and when he rips one of the nails out from between his eyes, Hodder/Jason gives her a hilarious cross-eyed look as if to say Is that the BEST you got? HA!) One major complaint I have about F13 VII is the relative bloodlessness of it all. (Especially when the movie's subtitle is THE NEW BLOOD!) Whether due to tighter MPAA restrictions by the end of the 80s or maybe squeamishness on the part of F13's longtime studio (Paramount), New Blood's gore factor is not very high at all, in fact most of the kill scenes cut away at the very last second so you don't get to see the good stuff. This makes Kiser's death-by-tree-saw scene in particular rather disappointing and weak.(Director John Carl Buechler's original cut of this film was much gorier, but it was subject to massive editing before its release... the un-edited kill scenes can be found on YouTube, by the way, and are quite nasty. Dare we hope for a Director's Cut special edition DVD one of these days with the scenes re-inserted?) The ending of F13 Part VII (which I will not reveal here so I do not violate any SPOILER WARNING rules; all I will say is How many dead people ARE there at the bottom of that lake?) is unfortunately one of the lamest in the entire series (topped only by the end of Part VIII Jason Takes Manhattan), so that takes a few points off of this one, but other than that minor quibble, most of F13 Part VII made me smile and flash back to my teenage horror-geek days for most of its length. Back in the 80s my friends and I had a regular tradition whenever a new Friday movie was released, we'd make sure to go see it on opening night, and this one in particular brings back fun memories for me. Friday THE 13TH PART VII THE NEW BLOOD still holds up as one of the better chapters in the seemingly never-ending saga of Jason Voorhees. "},{"Title":"Jason is BACK! (Again!)","Date":"7 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Jason comes back in what is the worst movie of the entire franchise(F13th-Freddy Vs Jason). The problem with this movie is that in the previous movies I could feel for the characters but in this one I actually end up rooting for Jason. I feel that the cast are just going through the motions and the writing is worse than poor and slapdash.The movie brings nothing new to the franchise and is a remix of the other six films taking little bits and pieces from each.One or two of the death scenes ARE good such as everyone's favourite sleeping bag bashing against the tree death. Some of the main reason's for this and other slasher films being so successful is a high body count, which in this case is 15.Having seen all the movies up to date in this franchise and consider myself a fan of it, this is one movie which wouldn't be missed if erased from existence. The reason for this film to have gone ahead is like some would suggest with some of the others in this series is the quick lets make some money by doing another sequel and lets not bother with a script and just watch the money come flowing in. I personally think that they made the lines up as they went along as its so terrible.Apparently this went through heavy censorship before being released so perhaps if it was seen uncut, then who knows it could be better.There is always going to be a problem when a franchise has gone on for so long. Making Jason super zombie in the 6th film Jason Lives(which i feel is the only thing wrong with that particular film) has been both a godsend and drawback. The godsend is that further films could be made, the drawback is that things will be repeated and rehashed and that. Sooner or a later a further sequel in the series will be produced which will result in a re-shoot of one of the previous films, how i hope it isn't this.The only bright side (if there can be one) is that the role of Jason was taken up by Kane Hodder who is really enthusiastic in his role as Jason in this and the next three films. Many fans were disappointed when he wasn't cast as Jason in the most recent film Freddy Vs Jason.The first movie and Friday 13th part6 Jason Lives are still the best of the series. "},{"Title":"When bad plotting destroys a movie...","Date":"18 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Friday The 13th Movies aren't the most difficult movies to write. Basically it goes like this; Jason resurrects, we meet the potential victims, Jason kills a couple of locals/walk-on roles, we see the future-victims doing pot, skinny-dipping etc, it turns night, Jason comes, chops them off until there's only one or two left, the last survivors find a way to defeat Jason. Ambulances enter, end of story... This movie has a couple of things going through it- A worthy adversary for Jason which delivers a good end-battle - An incredible make-up job on Jason - Interesting kills, he really uses all the tools in the shed in this installment... - A couple of nice T&A scenes (sue me, I'm a guy!)Unfortunately, this movie has a lot more against it- The gore that was removed... we don't get anything which really makes the movie lose it's punch and it really is weird considering how brutal the first couple of flicks were compared to this installment - The light tone displayed in part 6 has been almost ditched completely. Only one or two kills are actually funny - No attractive cast; none of the cast members will be remembered 5 minutes after their death. One can say that this is the case with most of the cast in these series but I still remember Kirsten Baker skinny dipping in part 2, Stu Charno telling jokes in the same installment, Reggie the reckless in part 5 etc etc. Ask me about this installment and I can only say that it had a really unattractive lead in Lar Park Lincoln and that it had a doctor which I wish would be killed way sooner in the movie. If you have a movie in which most cast-members have no personality, at least make their faces memorable. Even the slut in this film had the appearance of an ice-queen.But in the end the thing that destroys the movie entirely is it's plotting; Jason gets resurrected comes out of the water, ignores a knocked out teen on the boardwalk (as Tina was knocked out while resurrecting Jason), walks by the two houses filled with teens only to appear 5 miles from camp crystal lake and make his first kill. Then he goes back to where he came from and just ducks in and out of the bushes to kill someone occasionally (using a different garden tool every time). Some people seem to appear at random. Maybe it's me but I never saw the black couple at the party, they appear out of nowhere the next morning. The skinny-dip-girl and her boyfriend; who are they, where did they come from? Can't remember seeing them there earlier. Are they walk-on roles? Must be, but walk-on-roles are normally always established by the characters by saying something or being something; the couple in part 6 which are celebrating something, or the hitch-hiker in part 4, even Demon is practically a walk on role in part 5 as he and his girlfriend have one scene in the entire movie. It's a walk-on-role, but I still remember his name, that can't be said about almost any character in this movie. This movie will probably be erased from my memory within a week, with the only things I can remember will beoh yeah, the sleeping bagThat girl looked good underwater, and above actuallyloved that hedge-trimmer/lawnmower thingI won't recommend this installment to anyone unless you're doing a marathon, and that's saying something coming from a guy who actually liked part 5! If you want to have an overview of the Jason Saga, just watch 1-4, 6 and then jump to the last 10 minutes of Part 9, do Jason vs Freddy and then watch the ultimate Jason film; Jason X. Just my 2 cents... "}{"Title":"Could've been better","Date":"28 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I don't know what anybody else thinks, but I think part seven of this endless series could've been much better. I liked the idea of Jason going up against a girl with special powers. Some of the scenes worked, but there were a lot of improbable scenes as well. Her ability to raise people from the dead was just a cheap way for the director to bring Jason back to life. The ending was even worse, and probably one of the reasons I give this such a low score. The ending truly did kill this movie, and some of the poor acting didn't help either.What else to say about part seven. Well it's not the worst in the series, but it's definitely not one of the better ones either. The original and part 6 are still my favorites, and even they weren't what I would call good films. Of course I never saw any one of these movies in the theater. Good old HBO made it all possible. "},{"Title":"The new blood but no new life....","Date":"13 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This time Jason goes up against a girl who has telekinetic power, see it's because of her that Jason rises, she brings him out of the watery grave of part 6 and this time fight each other in a climax which almost saves the film but not quite. A lot of fans of this series like this entry, while I can see why someone might have fun with this entry, I was disappointed with the lack of humor and creativity taken after # 6. Indeed there are many silly moments such as the match sliding over the table. Also there is less gore than usual making this somewhat dull. The climax is kinda cool though.*1/2 out of 4-(Poor) "},{"Title":"Jason vs. The Fluorescent Lamp","Date":"5 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Yawn! They're not even trying anymore. The direction is horrible. Stuff happens, scenes change without any sense of continuity, there's not a shred of tension, bad music, awful acting, a story ripped straight off of Stephen King's Carrie... and a fluorescent lamp.Boy, that fluorescent lamp sure gave poor Jason a hard time. Why wouldn't it just leave him alone? Depressing. Jason, who only wanted to stumble around and kill porn stars trying to become movie stars. What'd he ever do to the fluorescent lamp? Huh? Lar Park-Lincoln (of The Princess Academy fame) plays Tina Shepard, the raging telekinetic who bends the laws of physics by cocking her head. Kane Hodder makes his first appearance as Jason and gets the chance to display his wide acting range, with impressive character acting such as 1) walking menacingly through the woods 2) grunting 3) getting hit by lamps I felt a little bad about Jason at the end. I know how horrible it can be to be humiliated in front of a girl, especially if you want to make a good first impression. Jason, the poor sod, is thrown into a muddy pool not once, but twice. Very embarrassing, if you ask me.Here's to Jason, the only character I ever liked in the entire Friday the 13th franchise.(r#32) "},{"Title":"A good solid slasher, but a bit of a comedown after the manic Part 6.","Date":"4 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Firstly, I love the Friday the 13th series. Every horror fan has a certain slasher series they dig, and for me this is it. As a self confessed fanboy, I enjoyed Part 7, especially the Jason that they came up with for this one, all decomposed and hulked out, but I just didn't get on board with it as much as the previous part or the sequel that came after, Jason Takes Manhattan. Both were full of gleeful self-deprecating humour and manic chases, whereas The New Blood is a definite attempt to go back to the series 'Halloween with more violence' roots. It doesn't entirely succeed.I dare say it would have been more successful if the studio had left it the hell alone. In order to get that ever-important R rating, The New Blood was (ironically, I suppose) butchered, with almost every horrific thing that happens in this movie being either curtailed or removed entirely. With the exception of a few scenes, this movie has been almost totally sanitised. So, we have a movie that unavoidably feels incomplete, which it is, having had half of most of the scares taken out by unscrupulous editors. Add to this the fact that the movie isn't paced well, and drags a lot in certain parts, and Jason 7 is probably one of my least favourite Jason movies.Still, even with the series trademark gore exorcised by Paramount, and a story that drags because it's busy setting everything up again, The New Blood is still a solid slasher movie, with some memorable scenes and a nice (if totally predictable for series fans) twist at the end. Some of the less massacred kill sequences are impressively inventive, with one particular scene sticking in my mind involving someones eye and a clown horn, and the movie keeps a decent bit of tension going throughout.It isn't the best Jason movie (that's probably Part 6 Jason Lives) but it's better than the worst ones, like the inexcusably bad Jason Goes to Hell or the recent Freddy vs Jason. If you're going to watch the Friday movies and haven't started yet, this could be a good way in, as it seems to be cheaper than the first ones in most countries (for some reason, despite there being nothing on the disk, Friday the 13th Part 1 is always really expensive, rent or otherwise), and it readdresses the whole plot during the opening segment, so you could do as well to start here as the beginning. "},{"Title":"Friday the 13th Part 7-The New Blood","Date":"21 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I was so excited to see this film when it arrived in theatres back in 1988. I remember siting in the theatre thinking to myself when is this going to end. I found Part 7 to be one of the most boring Friday films to sit through. I remember being disappointed by the opening music, if you could call it that. The Friday films always managed to set you up with some cool music to get you ready for the film. And explain to me how the location changes from Camp Forest Greene to a new location containing two homes. And nobody better say that it was the two homes from Part 4, because they were no where near Camp Crystal Lake. What's funny is Part 8 should be the direct sequel to 6, because it gets the location right. Tommy drowned Jason near Camp Forest Greene, and he should have surfaced at the same location. What's funny is the camp is no where near the two homes in part 7. If you watch Part 6 the two homes featured in Part 7 were no where in sight as well. If those two homes were that close to the camp then I'm sure those people living there would have been Jason's victims in Part 6. I find it very irritating that the producers overlook things like that. Part 7 was a piece of garbage and to call it one of the best films of the series in an insult to the films that were good. I would have to say that last good film in the series was Part 6, and part 5 was by far better than anything that followed Part 6. I can't believe people consider The New Blood, Jason Takes Manhattan, Jason Goes to Hell, and Jason X good films. I think had people not complained we the audience could have been treated to an all new Friday the 13th with Tommy taking over the reins for Jason. We'll never know what could have been. Part 5 left it open for a great follow up, one that could have been a little more psychological than previous installments. "},{"Title":"The meanest Jason, ruined by lame characters and the MPAA","Date":"8 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I was told that this was one of the best in the series, so I was really excited when I got the DVD in my mailbox. However I was in for a nasty surprise. After about 40 minutes into the film, I remember thinking is this ever going to pick up? For me, the main problem with Friday the 13th The New Blood, was that I didn't think it had any likable characters except for Tina and Nick. I didn't care who got killed, and I really WANTED to see a couple of them die. The dialog was also lame, the acting was poor, and the story wasn't top-notch either. While the other films had some logic as to when and where Jason appeared, it seemed like this was missing here. He just appeared, and *boof* he's gone, only to return some other random place. And to top it all off, the MPAA had cut the film to shreds.The only positive thing was that Kane Hodder as Jason looks great! He moves really aggressive, and you can almost feel his anger. The scariest Jason to date! But all in all, this film was pretty bad. I give it a 4/10, a score which could easily be raised to 6/10 if the film were to be released UNCUT! And if the characters had been more likable, this would probably be one of the best - because it really has the potential. "},{"Title":"Kane Hodder brings Jason to life.","Date":"20 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Tina Shepard (Lar Park-Lincoln) is a special girl. She has the gift of telekinesis (which allows her to manipulate objects by thought). But her gift is also a curse, mainly because she caused the death of her father on the docks of Crystal Lake. Now, Tina has returned home with her caring mother (Susan Blu) and her conniving doctor (Terry Kiser), who wants to exploit Tina's powers and become famous. But the teenage residents of Crystal Lake have something more to fear than Tina's powers as she accidentally frees Jason Voorhees (Kane Hodder) from his watery grave.The BEST of the series, still not a great film but compared to the other installments this is Jasons golden age. 7/10. "},{"Title":"Really good Jason film for F13 fans","Date":"18 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Although many think this movie was a waste, I really liked it. Kane Hodder was awesome in his first role as Jason. He has played Jason in Parts VII, VIII, IX, and X. The plot is more well thought out than the other ones, and his coming back to life sequence is great. The sleeping bag murder is probably the most famous Jason kill in the entire series, certainly my favorite. Lar Par Lincoln was great as Tina, the telekinetic heroine of the movie. Also enjoyable were the performances by Susan Blu (Tina's mom) and Terry Kiser (Dr. Crews). Kiser was excellent (for a F13 film) as the annoying psychiatrist. Highly recommended to horror fans, and Friday the 13th fans! 7/10 "},{"Title":"Easily one of the best sequels to the series!","Date":"20 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Friday The 13th Part VII The New Blood, one of my all time favourite sequels in the series (third only to THE FINAL CHAPTER & JASON LIVES) the one thing I have to say is the Jason costume looks awesome! it's easily in the top three best looks for Jason ever!!! with his exposed bones, ripped & rotted flesh & battered mask & get a load of his face! KANE HODDER's first turn as Jason is wonderful, since he is able to make the character very menacing. The atmosphere is very creepy. The acting & directing was pretty good also. All that aside however, the film despite it's good merits has some problems. For starters the film is really nothing more than a remake of THE FINAL CHAPTER. The characters are the same paper thin stereotyped characters we seen in the previous instalments, the doper, the snooty girl, the nerd etc. Worse still, is the films really bad climax, which isn't a climax at all, since most of it wound up on the cutting room floor. THE NEW BLOOD, much like it's predecessors, has a great build up going in, but once it reaches what should have been a knock out climax, it falls flat. Originally Tina was to use her powers to resurrect all of Jason's victims to attack him, but this idea was jettisoned because it was Too out there by the films formula obsessed associate producer BARBARA SACHS & then Tina uses the last of her powers to resurrects her dad to save her, which when he shows up, is only drenched in water with some dirt on his face! despite having been dead a few years. He then promptly throws a chain around Jason's neck & yanks him in the water, where Tina passes out. Originally Buechler had created a wonderful zombie make-up for the actor, but again the associate Producer vetoed that as well!. The next day both her & Nick are then taken to the local hospital, the end! originally there was to be a sequence where Jason leaped out of the water to pull down a fisherman, proving that Jason was still very much alive & still very much a threat, but that was edited out! The kills are also severely cut, robbing them of their impact, to the point where THE NEW BLOOD was almost...well bloodless. It's a shame to, since the kills are not only way over the top, but very exotic & imaginative. Still I don't blame Paramount or Buechler, all the blame should go to the MPAA, who by that point in the series has a straight jacket on the franchise, while films like INDIANA JONES & THE TEMPLE OF DOOM (Which features someone going around ripping the hearts out of others) was gifted with a PG-13!, even TOTAL RECALL released three years later, had more violence in it than several Friday's put together!. FRED MOLLIN replaces HARRY MANFREDINI as the composer & does a great job at it (Although credited, Manfredini's music is only lifted from previous Friday movies) but I just don't think the score that runs over the opening credits, was all that good, it was fine for the closing credits, but not the opener, it needed to be more explosive, more driven. The A NIGHTMARE ON ELM STREET series was also clearly a heavy influence on Paramount, since THE NEW BLOOD contains several NIGHTMARE like sequences, mainly hallucinations, & in an effort to try & win new converts to the series, adds a secondary villain to the piece in Dr. Crews. A final girl with telekinetic powers etc. which is no doubt why many fans refer to Part VII & VIII as the Mainstream Friday's Another film I think THE NEW BLOOD would make a fair comparison to is A NIGHTMARE ON ELM STREET 4 THE DREAM MASTER (Which ironically enough Buechler also did the effects for that one as well) since both films feature heroines with amazing powers & both of whom realize they can only destroy the evil foes from within. I liked the telekinesis angle (probably the only original thing about it's repetitive story) but the story never makes clear as to why the villainous Dr. Crews wants to exploit Tina's powers, why he wants her locked away, why he's setting her up to completely lose her mind, is he working for someone? the film never answers any of these questions, even more curious, is why after Jason was resurrected, did he not kill Tina who passed out on the docks right in front of him? why did he travel through the woods to kill two hitchhikers & two campers deep in the woods & then head back to the cottages to kill the rest of the kids? it made no sense. Why wasn't his body pulled from the lake after Part 6? Why was Tina's dad's body not pulled from the lake after he died? How come her dad wasn't rotted & why if the dead really be brought back through telekinesis, does Tina not keep her mother, dad & friends around? none of these questions are ever answered & I felt that the filmmakers could have done more with the telekinesis angle by making Tina see even more wild & hideous visions of Jason & maybe even throw in a few nightmares, which would have been real exciting. All in all, despite it's many flaws, THE NEW BLOOD is one of the series better entries, it has a good flow, creative kills, a great performance by Kane Hodder as Jason, a cool Jason costume, plenty of atmosphere, nudity, attractive characters, some humorous moments to make it a must see for horror fans. Followed by Friday The 13th Part VIII Jason Takes Manhatten**** stars "},{"Title":"Jason Vs... Carrie?","Date":"8 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This film is flat out ridiculous. I have heard people refer to this film as ONE OF THE BEST IN THE SERIES. People, it's just not true at all. I can see how SOME people would like this film, because it does have some cool death scenes, and Jason looks way awesome in it, but the plot of the movie is nothing but ridiculous.Here is the plot of the film A young girl was born with telekinetic powers. She has been dealing with this problem since she was a little girl. So, her doctor, and her mother, take her to her fathers old house to try to trigger the telekinesis and try to figure out how to stop it.........Oh yeah and Jason is running around in the woods killing people as well.I think paramount forgot that these films are suppose to be about JASON, not about the people that he hunts. Yeah, sure, we get to know a little bit about all the characters in these movies as time goes by, but this film is actually ABOUT the main chick and Jason is just another person in the film. It's ridiculous. These films are suppose to focus on Jason.But anyway, I guess if you're a big Friday The 13th fan, check this one out just to see it, and so you know all of Jason's past when you move on to part 8. "}{"Title":"Everything good about the 80's!","Date":"14 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The series should have ended with Part 7. The New Blood has one of the best Friday the 13th casts of the entire 10 movies. The story is true don't go in the woods / camping plot. The kill scenes of each of the teenagers are some of the best. A true audience entertainer, each kill scene is better than the one before. Even though Jason has been killing teenagers for the last eight years, The New Blood is successful in pushing the envelope and bettering themselves. Each of the 'killings' has its own originality. You either find yourself cheering, laughing, or jumping out of your seat. The Gore / F/X betters the story-line, although the story stands on it's own. One of the better of the series, A New Blood sticks true to its roots but also adds its own 1988 flavor with the characters in the story. From here, there is no where else for Jason to go, except maybe New York? "},{"Title":"Seriously, one of the best slasher movies EVER.","Date":"27 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The Friday the 13th movies from part 2 to 5 are pretty much the same thing. There's Jason still as a human, plenty of gore, sex, nudity, and the slasher elements we all know. Jason Lives, The New Blood, and Jason Takes Manhattan are stand alone movies in the franchise, each of them have unique elements. In Jason Lives Jason's resurrection is the main event in the movie and he isn't human anymore. The uniqueness of Jason Lives is the black humor mix with horror. Great 80's flick. Stands alone.*SPOILERS* The New Blood has all the slasher elements of the late 80's combined with the early 80's Friday the 13th style and a more complex storyline. Also there's a bigger budget. This is the only Friday the 13th movie where Jason faces a deadly match for him. Tina managed to hurt Jason without getting hurt unlike Freddy Krueger that had his butt kicked. Also, it's the first time that science-fiction and drama elements are inserted in the series. For the first time there's a lot more character development on the lead character. The gore is kind of disappointing. Until I get the Un-cut version (that supposedly has explicit death scenes, like Melissa and Ben's) these are death scenes that I like the least. The sleeping bag smashed in the tree is my favorite. It's pure Jason style. The direction is pretty good. Buecheler did a good job as the movie never looks cheap or boring. He knew what he was doing. The score is boring because it's the same used in Jason Lives and House II!Tina's theme stole the movie though. The make-up is pretty good when required. Jason's looks are fantastic in this movie, and Kane Hodder's first appearance as Jason is great. Unlike what most people say, Hodder gives a different feeling to Jason, it's like he makes the character. No one moves and violently kills like Kane. As many people say, this is Jason Voorhees V.S. Carrie and it's a brilliant idea. Sci-Fi V.S. Horror (slasher specifically) is one of the best mixes I've watched.What I like the most about the movie is Tina's evolution. She's beautiful fragile girl with many insecurities mainly derived for her father's death and her fear to control the telekinesis powers she has (Lar Park Lincoln does a surprisingly good job here). With the movies' events she becomes stronger, specially after she watches her mother being killed by Jason. Before facing Tina, Jason kills many people, included Eddie, Ben, Maddy, Russell, Dr. Crews, and the super hot and sensual Melissa. Susan Jennifer Sullivan deserves a special mention, she's incredibly hot. Tina gets the necessary forces to confront Jason using her telekinetic powers. The first encounter between Tina and Jason is interesting because Jason notices he's been attacked by an unknown force but obviously handled by Tina. Jason never experienced that kind of things ever.After a series of encounters where Tina easily beats Jason, the house where Tina resided blew to thousands of pieces after a spectacular explosion (yes, pretty good f/x). After it, Tina and her boyfriend Nick think Jason's dead for good when he suddenly appears and knocks out Nick. When Tina is about to be killed by Jason concentrates her powers to the water in Crytal Lake just to awake her father from the bottom of the lake. Tina's father rises and takes Jason down with him. I must say that's a shocking and unexpected ending! Great material for the series. There's a deep storyline here that is not all about Jason. This time the story centers on the lead character that will face Jason at the end, something very brave to do as Jason since part 4 is the main star of the movie. The audience actually cares for Tina and expect a shocking ending. We got everything we can as for in a slasher movie.Friday the 13th part VII  The New Blood is one of the best slasher movies from the 80's because it has all the winning elements, a big budget, a killer storyline, a great villain, and the Friday the 13th name to support it. You can't get much better talking about slasher movies. Also, this is one of the best in the series. I'd rank it only behind part 6, and 3. Jason never looked so cool I have to say. Jason looks mean and scary, just like in the old times (Richard Brooker in part 3 in concrete).8.5/10 in the Friday the 13th scale. Believe me, one of the best slasher movies ever.  "},{"Title":"Jason is scary again, after the more comical previous film","Date":"17 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Another well edited recap of the previous films begins this atmospheric, but underwritten, slashfest. Everybody's favourite hockey mask-wearing killer goes up against a Carrie wannabe, who tries to use her telekinesis to resurrect her father, and mistakenly brings back Mr. Hockey Mask from the bottom of the bottom of icy Crystal Lake instead. Jason spends the rest of the movie stalking and killing the various dim guests at a birthday bash in the dead forest, while Carrie-lite tries to convince her creepy shrink that there is something really wrong and that it is not all just in her head.This is the first film in the series which does not have a direct link to the previous film, either in its characters or an earlier event, other than Jason still being chained to a boulder at the bottom of the lake, and as such, it feels more like a standalone film, rather than a continuation. The final thirty minutes are good, as the Carrie clone does battle with Jason, but the final twist ending was really desperate. This is well photographed, and with the last great music score in the series. I dig the opening credits, too. The music is intentionally disorienting due to its odd metre (it sounds like five beat measures, with intentionally jarring notes played only on the first and second beats) and adds to the creepy atmosphere. I do think the font used is generic, however. Jason's make-up, by director John Carl Buechler, is the best this time around than in the rest of the entire series, Jason has become nothing more than a rotting corpse with a severe attitude. Maddy's stalking and scythe-death scene in an old cabin is probably my favourite part of this one.When Jason is on-screen this movie is creepy and good, but too much time goes in between (heavilly edited) killings to keep up the momentum and tension. Weird colour composition gives almost every scene a brownish tinge. "},{"Title":"Above average by F13 standards","Date":"28 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The Friday THE 13TH franchise gets a small dose of life from special effects artist John Carl Beuchler's directorial debut, who manages to inject this entry with just enough flair to make it a reasonably entertaining schlock fest. A telekinetic girl (cute Lar Park Lincoln) accidentally brings Jason back to life with her mind powers and he gets back to work hacking up campers. Well shot, with a fast pace, likable cast and some decent carnage, plus a good dose of nudity to keep things interesting. Highlights include a woman picked up in her sleeping bag and smashed against a tree, a guy's face split in two with an axed, a guy impaled on a spear and thrown through the air and Jason finally being subdued by the psychic girl's resurrected father (who appears in remarkably good shape after having been rotting underwater for ten years). It's also Kane Hodder's first of four turns as Jason.It's really nothing great, but far better than Parts 5 or 6 (or 8, for that matter). "},{"Title":"My Favorite F13","Date":"4 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Really, it is.  Not that I think it's a good film, maybe remotely decent by horror sequel standards at best, but I still feel it surpasses all the other Friday the 13th films.  What's worse?  I don't even like it for the right reasons!  Oh well, go figure.   Possible - Spoilers - if you've never read anything at all about this entry into the F13 worldTelekinetic girl versus Jason.  I dunno if they intended it to be funny or not, either way, it's frickin' hilarious.  The overall feel of the film is genuine horror (or at least tries to be).  It doesn't have the deliberate comic relief of its predecessor, Jason Lives, whose humor is shoved down the viewers throats as if we're too stupid to distinguish between funny and scary.  I personally think the serious and scary scenes of F13 are far more humorous and entertaining than the funny scenes.If you had telekinesis, what would you do?  Let's rock, Jason.  You, me, outback, I'll be the one holding an SUV over your head.  I would have fun--I'd paint his hockey mask as a yellow and white smiley face while holding him still with my telekinesis then cut him into little tiny quarter inch parts or something with his own machete.  Sell tickets to Jason's demise?  I dunno.But what does the typical horror heroine do?  She screams and runs away. Throws a tv at Jason with her mind, screams, and runs some more.  Throws something else big and heavy at him, screams and runs some more.  I can't say why, but I find it funny.  Yeah, I'm sick, I know.Everything else is standard, generic, F13 fair.  All the characters cardboard cutouts for Voorhees to slash apart as usual; subpar everything. The music by Manfridini is a touch above the typical F13 music, a signifcant improvement from the godawful Dies Irae of Jason Lives.So, with typical Friday the 13th kills--the infamous sleeping bag kill which was killed (pun intended) in the idiotic and all but useless crystal lake sequence in Jason X (Sorry, two naked women in a scene does not make the scene.)  Jason's a little more vicious in this film since they held back on the blatantly obvious comedy, I've heard the MPAA has cut this movie more than the others--I dunno, I never cared to compare any F13's gore to another even thought that may be all that's worth comparing.  Overall, it's a F13 film with a telikenetic heroine.  I don't think that makes the film, but I find it entertaining for an occassional viewing if bored.  So again, the better of the F13ths in this critic's opinion.     "},{"Title":"Decent film with the best Jason actor in the series","Date":"19 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Friday the 13th Part VII The New Blood is by no means a great but it's decent. The producers tie the film to the last sequel pretty good and the whole Jason v.s. Carrie plot is also cool. The film had one really funny death where Jason picks up a lady in a sleeping bag and slams her into a tree. "},{"Title":"they should have stopped","Date":"26 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  They should have stopped with the 6th one. This was so stupid. The frist one was really good but this one isn't worth watching. The acting sucks in this movie. i just didnt like this movie. Honestly I dont recommend this movie to anyone. Maybe if your a Friday the 13th fan you might like this movie. "},{"Title":"Interesting idea, below average execution","Date":"19 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The idea to fight Jason via PSI could have brought some new impulses into this petered out series, unfortunately director John Carl Buechler was not able not put this into reality as well... Once again the same old story about a teenage-slashing monster-psycho is told and I really wonder how anyone can stand it longer than three episodes..!?! The showdown, which was really great in the part before, is just another laugh riot in this installment!!!And villain Terry Kiser was much better in the Fall Guy-series..! "},{"Title":"Jason Voorhees Returns to Battle Matilda!","Date":"9 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Jason Voorhees has been chained to the bottom of Crystal Lake for a while now. Nearby in a cabin, the Shepard family were spending a vacation. Dad is drunk so he slaps Mom. Young Tina takes a boat into the middle of the lake, and says she wished her father was dead.Suddenly the doc that her Dad was standing on crashed into the water. What happened? Fate? God? Tina?          Ten years later, Tina, now 17, travels with her mom back to Crystal Lake. Some teens are camped out by the Shepard place. Tina's doctor is there too. Dr. Crews, who's a real creepy man, and is a creep himself. He says he wants to help Tina, but he's actually trying to exploit her. She still feels guilt about her father's death so one night she tries to use her telekenetic power to bring him back to life, instead, she resurrects Jason. He becomes unchained and walks to the surface where he slaughters any person who comes within 5 feet of him. Even Michael, the teen who's getting a birthday party thrown for him at the cabin beside Tina's. The teens there include Eddie, a geeky comic book addict who loves to make up stories, Melissa a competitive woman, and Nick, a sensible lad. Nick meets Tina and it seems to be love at first site. This makes Melissa mad.         Mrs. Sheppard finds out what's going on with Dr. Crews, so does Tina, so she tries to run away. She keeps getting horrifying visions of the man she rescued from the lake (Jason) killing people, but these visions are true, that or they eventually happen.Jason kills the teens at the cabin, even Mrs. Sheppard. He also killed Dr. Crews with a buzz saw to the cut. I rooted for Jason. I was also happy when Jason shoved an axe in Melissa's head and tossed her behind the TV. Melissa was so mean! So was Dr. Crews. I'm glad when the jerk characters get killed in these movies.          Tina and Nick run from Jason. She even destroys his hockey mask,revealing his grotesque face! Tina uses her powers to try and stop him,she even tries to burn him. But right when it seems that Jason iswinning, Tina's father submerges from the water and pulls Jason back down with him. Then it's over. Jason is gone. In hell. Where he belongs. Until the next movie, of course! This film was more dramatic than the previous six movies. They all contained humerous moments but this one wasn't very humerous. But it's still pretty good. If you saw the first six parts, you might as well see this one. "},{"Title":"One of the best movies of the Friday the 13th series. Good concept a killer VS. psychic power.","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Jason out of the lake to do battle with a psychic now what a good concept for a horror series! This Friday still has the gore and blood, but it was sure nice to see Jason get a challenge like this from a psychic, because you need all the extra help possible to bring down and destroy this killer. "}{"Title":"A step up from the last three.","Date":"26 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The seventh in the tired but popular slasher series incorporates more of an actual plot than the previous several, and a definite from the Parts 4, 5 and 6.Tina Shephard is a hypochondriacal, telekinetic teen who harbors guilt repression over causing her father's death at Crystal Lake many years before.  Along with her mom and her shrink, she travels to Jason's resting place to try and sort out her suppressed emotions.  In a futile attempt to resurrect her father, she resurrects Jason instead, and the bloodbath begins.But the MPAA strikes yet again, the bloodbath is offscreen in this one as well; the film takes the cake as being the most heavily edited film in the F13 series; slapping the loyal fans in the face yet again, just for that all-important R rating.I think the headline reviewer stated it best this film is basically Carrie vs. Jason, but despite following the repetitive formula (again), it's much more enjoyable than the majority of its predecessors.  But a director's cut would make it even more worthwhile.  How about it, Paramount?*1/2 out of ****. "},{"Title":"Fair, but we need to see the unedited version","Date":"7 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  MORD39 RATING   **  out of  ****This is a step down from the last one, but still fair. The mental telepathy fighting where Carrie VS. Jason is a lot of fun, and an interesting idea. I also like Jason's new decomposed look (his face is very scary), and I think Terry Kiser makes a perfect villain.Kane Hodder makes his first appearance here as Jason, a role which he would wind up making his own baby. As limited a character as Jason is, Hodder is still able to put his individual stamp on him from here out.Down sides include another house of teenagers that's really beginning to feel tired, as well as severe trimming on all of the gore scenes. I got a chance to see Kane Hodder at a convention a while ago and he showed reels of unedited kill scenes BEFORE they were cut up; believe me, you don't know what you're missing! It seems to me that a lot of sfx work went into this installment, but in the end they were wasted because the gorey stuff is edited out rather abruptly, I think. The scene which suffers the most is the one where the bad guy gets his due. As originally shot, it really delivered.The ending on this film is probably the worst of all FRIDAY movies.  "},{"Title":"One of the best sequels, in a not so good series.","Date":"31 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  It is such a shame they had to cut so much out of this film to get it an R-rating. They cut out even more in this, then they did for part 6.Jason returns yet again killing off partying teenagers in a cabin, but one of them has special powers that could finally put an end to it all.The effects are very good, and the director who is a make-up artist is able to inject some life into this series. One of the best Fri. the 13th. sequels. Rating 6.5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"better then the last 2","Date":"11 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  friday the 13th part 7 is not too bad, it's better then the last 2, we all know the story by now, so there is no need to explain it. the one thing i did like about this movie is it's alot like the first 4, but it's too much already, it brought nothing new to the series. but hey it's better then 5,6,8,9. only check out if you're a fan of the friday films or horror movies. there is some suspense but no good scares, i give it 6/10 "},{"Title":"Jason's New Blood","Date":"19 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  When this sequel finally came out on video two looong years after part VI, the only expectations I had were that it be NEW BLOOD, and no longer Tommy Jarvis stories.  That got old.My expectations were met, and I was even more thrilled when I realized that it was much like part IV The Final Chapter.  This one gives you the mother/daughter relationship of Tina and her mother much like that of Trish and her mother in part IV.  But this New Blood can move objects with her mind.  I realize that the concept is quite exaggerated in the movie, but it still works.  Tina never gives up on trying to send Jason back to the grave from which she brought him from (with her telekinesis), and it eventually works a whole ninety minutes later.Even better for hardcore fans, there is a very large group of teens partying in the cabin next door to Tina's.  Among them are Kevin Blair and Susan Sullivan, who lead the roles that are beginning to become trademark to the Friday the 13th industry.  Blair plays Nick, the understanding, there-in-the-Nick-of-time, potential hubby for Tina, while Sullivan plays Melissa, the loose, coniving bad half of Tina who seems somewhat lesbian at times in this movie and at the same time is trying to steal Nick away from Tina.  This movie has several suspensful chase scenes from the skinnydipper to the girl hiding in Jason's notorious Weapon Shack.  For those reasons, I rate Friday the 13th part VII  The New Blood on terms of entertainment only.  That is all it is.  Harmless fun for the senses.  It deserves a seven out of ten.  There is New Blood in the movie.  Nobody lied...  "},{"Title":"Middlin' maniac....","Date":"14 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Much to his agent's chagrin, Jason doesn't do much this time around.Don't get me wrong in Friday the 13th Part VII The New Blood, Jason does kill as usual for our boy.  But this time all is concentrated on a poor unfortunate girl (Lincoln) who happens to have mental powers beyond her control.  She resurrects Jason, he kills nearly everybody, she has to battle him with her mind and blah and blah and blah....Hold on, other than a deal that says they had to make another 13th, was there really a reason for this nonsense?  Sorry Jason, but you ain't half the man you used to be.  Maybe it's from all those resurrections for every sequel; they can take a lot out of you after a while.Well, there is one pretty amusing part to all of this....SPOILER....This time around, Bernie (Kiser) actually stays dead. ...END OF SPOILER.Two stars.  Guys, never pick on a chick with ESP. "},{"Title":"pretty good but the least in the first 7","Date":"14 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  the new blood was pretty good. but the down fall of the series is that when they try to do something different than the other it usually backfires. like the last 4 they tried  something different each time failing to be as good as the one before. i give this one **1/2 out of ****  "},{"Title":"Another brilliant installment of the franchise!","Date":"31 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Years after Tommy Jarvis has drowned Jason Voorhees (Kane Hodder) into Camp Crystal Lake, it seems a former Crystal Lake resident who happens to be a beautiful psychic teen girl named Tina (Lar Park Lincoln) who accidentally killed her father long ago in the lake comes back. She is with her mother (Susan Blu) to seek out a psychologist (Terry Kiser) to help her with her unusual powers and control them very well, along the way she meets up with a boy named Nick (Kevin Spiritas) and a girl named Melissa (Susan Jennifer Sullivan) with a group of youths in a nearby cabin who are having fun. But it won't be all games and parties once Jason has been resurrected accidentally by Tina and the bloodshed begins as the undead killer meets a greater enemy then him.Another splendid installment of the franchise as Kane Hodder made his debut as Jason Voorhees. This one has it all with gore, nude babes, 80's horror clichés, a nice premise and decent performances. The film does have a different vibe to it with a Scanners/Firestarter/Akira-like psychic person feel to the movie. This installment gives us some crowd pleasing bloodshed thrills such as the party favor killing sequence and a bodycount of 16 people dead.This one was originally intended to be Freddy vs. Jason back in 1987 but Paramount and New Line couldn't agree to do it so Paramount decided to throw in a Carrie-like person to fight Jason instead. It didn't became a reality until New Line made Freddy Vs. Jason in 2003, but this is one of the better movies of the series. "},{"Title":"The SCARIEST Of The Series!!!!!!!","Date":"21 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Now there comes a time when a sequel, especially one that spawned this far, is better than the first. it took five sequels of this to be just as good as the first. But writers Daryl Haney & Manuel Fidello and director John Carl Buechler, who also does the make-up effects, have made a sequel that is better & scarier than the first one.Tina Shepard(Lar Park Lincoln) has psychic and telekinetic powers. Her doctor, Dr. Crews(Terry Kiser) says he trying to help her, but all he is trying to exploit her powers. Her mother(Susan Blu) knows just how dangerous they are, because Tina accidentally killed her dad(John Otrin). On one faithful day see try to bring her Dada to life, but brings JASON(Kane Hodder) back instead. Will her powers be a match to JASON's killing spree.This is JASON at his best, even though the deaths are a little clean, his costume and face are the best put on JASON's body in the history of horror films. The way he acts and feels is full of emotion not shown in the series, which to me makes it scary as hell. When the mask came off I was scared out of my wits. Even when the mask is on you can feel the angrier. The scares come out of nowhere and the showdown between JASON and Tina is utterly spectacular. The mood is also set in a dark tone of realism in the way people are killed. Watch at your own risk!!!! "},{"Title":"My second favorite FT13TH sequel!","Date":"28 February 2005","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Next to The Final Chapter, The New Blood happens to be my second favorite Friday The 13th sequels. Lar Park-Lincoln plays the telekinetic Tina Shepard who accidentally kills her father in Crystal Lake. Her power is a bigger challenge to Jason Voorhees(Kane Hodder). To my opinion when I saw the preview, I thought to myself, Jason is going to be sorry in this movie! Boy was he ever!Tina didn't know that Jason was at the same area her father was when she put him there. Tina had to take responsibility of her powers and her actions. It was mind over muscle, good vs. evil, Tina Shepard vs. Jason Voorhees. And Jason didn't stand a chance against her telekinetic advantage. And BOOM!, Tina resurrected her father and put Jason back in his watery grave. I liked the poster that was made for the movie, and seeing how it comes out made it more interesting. I've seen Jason's new killing methods, just using the ax or machete, seems to get old-fashioned once in a while. Either way you see it, 7 is Jason's unluckiest number! Rating 2.5 out of 5 stars. "}{"Title":"The one with the psychic girl","Date":"10 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Um, if you've ever seen a 'Friday 13th' film then you'll know that they're all about oversexed teens getting brutally wiped out in the woods by a masked killer.Same here.However, this one throws a girl with telekinetic powers into the mix to cause the undead killer, Jason Voorhees, a spot of bother. But then the two of them don't square off until the final twenty minutes, so, up until then, it's just Jason stabbing teens wearing less clothes than normal people would.That's it. Jason vs Psychic girl in the last twenty minutes. That's the film's whole 'new' selling point. If you like the Friday 13th films in general and you feel like watching another, that's about how different this one is. If however, you're getting a little tired of the same old formula, then you're probably praying for the film-makers to do something a bit different.Did someone say 'Jason in space?'http//thewrongtreemoviereviews.blogspot.co.uk/ "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"30 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I like it enough, but I don't think it's great or all that really good. After coming back to life, zombie Jason Voorhees embarks on a killing spree at Camp Crystal Lake. This is one of those movies that had bad timing when it came to its release. The cinematography is stark and bare, with only the soundtrack adding some effect. From an artistic standpoint, there were some plot elements and character developments I didn't think were needed. They do however drive the story, which seemed to be their purpose, so I can accept them. The film is dark, brooding, intense and most of all scary and violent. For those reasons, it gets 7/10. "},{"Title":"This how they wear their jackets back at the mental hospital?","Date":"21 October 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Tommy is gone, and Kane Hodder appears as Jason, who is brought to life once again by a girl (Lar Park-Lincoln) with telekinetic powers.There is really no story here other than the girl who is being treated by a psychologist (Terry Kiser) to help her overcome the trauma caused by using her powers when a child and killing her father.Jason is walking around the camp eliminating party-goers one at a time. That's it. The whole sordid tale. A traumatized girl and lots of dead bodies. It was more interesting when Tommy was involved.One thing that you have to note is that when Tina (Park-Lincoln) has an emotional orgasm, the earth really does move.At least Jason used some alternative methods in this film. The atmosphere was very good, and the music was great. "},{"Title":"Her Prom Date Isn't Tommy Ross This Time","Date":"9 March 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I have to admit I'm not the biggest fan of the Friday the 13th series. The films are entirely entertaining, but I have always regarded them as overrated by many of my fellow Horror fans. The sixth part, Jason Lives was probably my favorite film in the series (apart from the letdown that it was the only one featuring no female nudity), as it presented the creepiest version of Jason so far, and gave him obvious supernatural powers for the first time, and furthermore included a nice amount of gore. This seventh film in the series, Friday the 13th Part VII The New Blood (1988), presents an even scarier-looking Jason, which is probably the most positive aspect about it. Other than the continuation of the Friday films, The New Blood also includes sort of a homage to Brian De Palma's brilliant Steven King adaptation Carrie of 1976 (which is incomparably greater than any of the Friday films), as the main protagonist is a girl with supernatural powers very similar to those of Sissy Spaceck's eponymous character. So the film includes some new elements. So far, so good, but it also suffers from the factor that Jason's continuous butchering teens tends to get a little tiresome after a while. My main complaint about The New Blood is the fact that it is quite tame. This obviously had a higher budget than any of its predecessors, and was therefore intended to attract mainstream audiences. The gore is therefore almost nonexistent, as most murders are either un-gory or happen off-screen (or, even worse, the camera blends away when the good stuff happens). As sort of a substitute, this one features some female nudity again - but then, if you're merely looking for that there are plenty of other films to watch. Jason does look creepier than ever though. This is the first time that he was played by the tall and intimidating Kane Hodder, and the makeup people really did an amazing job. In the predecessors, I always felt that it took some of Jason's creepiness away when his mask comes off, but this isn't the case here. He looks really, really creepy. This is no surprise regarding that this film was directed by John Carl Buechler, who worked as a makeup artist on such Horror greats as Stuart Gordon's Re-Animator (1985) and From Beyond (1986).(As a director, Buechler is responsible for the unbearably terrible Troll, though). Lar Park-Lincoln makes a pretty likable protagonist in the role of the supernatural girl. For my money, The New Blood is neither the best nor the worst Friday. For carrying the word 'blood' in its title, it should have been a lot bloodier though. "},{"Title":"The new Blood....What's new about it!?!?!?","Date":"21 September 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Not any different than any of the Friday the 13th films before or since. Just more ways in which kids can get beat, stabbed, hacked to death, strangled and in this one kicked while in a sleeping bag. WOW the death of Jasons crazy mother in the first one so long ago must have really made him angry to keep this grudge against Young sex starved kids. This is not scary any longer, and I am not sure that it ever was. I mean you can only see so many people getting killed by some mad man. At least for me that was the case after part 4 when it was the final chapter. Are the writers in Hollywood so out of original ideas that they have to keep going back to crap re-makes and sequels that should have died like all those sex starved kids? "},{"Title":"The Franchise continues it avalanche of dreck","Date":"5 May 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Damn it's not good when you feel like you have been brutally anally raped by a movie and that's what I feel like now.Young girl named Tina flees from a cabin on Crystal Lake after seeing her drunken father strike her mother, hops into a boat, starts up the outboard motor puts some safe distance between her and her screaming parents. The father is the first to reach the dock pleading his apologies and his desire for her return. In a fitful rage, Tina screams I hate you I wish you were dead and cue the generic Carrie music and into the tank the father goes with the whole dock piled atop his watery grave.Now a older Tina and mother are driving back to the same house on the Crystal Lake, doctor orders as Tina has been institutionalized and suffers guilt over her father's death. They meet Dr. Cruz her doctor there, Tina is here because she is not making enough progress at the hospital and she has psychokinetic powers. But the doctor is only trying to heal her of the guilt of her father's death. *wink* The cabin next door is occupied by young adults one of whom introduces himself to Tina as Nick. He is renting it for his cousin Michael's birthday. Already fireworks are going off between these two.That evening Tina walks out onto the dock in effect visiting her father's grave assailed by flashbacks after wishing aloud her would come back cue the generic Carrie music again she raises Jason Voorhees back from the dead chained to a rock at the bottom of the lake (see Jason Lives!). Tina faints when she sees Jason step out of the lake and her mother discovers her unconscious on the dock. She tries to tell them about the man she saw but Dr Cruz writes it off as her mind manufacturing hallucinations.The next day Nick invites Tina to the birthday which against the doctor's wishes the mother let's Tina go. Once there the film introduces the largest collection of sideshow freaks ever displayed on the bigscreen. It's heinous and criminal. She doesn't enjoy it long because she suffers a vision of Jason killing one of these sideshow freaks *high fives Jason* and Nick's jealous ex-girlfriend or something or other teases the nutjob Tina causing her to run back home to momma.Meanwhile Jason begins his carnage, and he is a rude walking corpse because his first victim is the birthday boy Michael and his girlfriend Jane after their car stalls. *high fives Jason* During the course of this abominable dreck Tina continues to suffer visions of sideshow freaks dying, Dr Cruz finds their bodies left lying around by Jason, his mother uncovers evidence that Dr Cruz is not helping Tina but exploiting her, Cruz finds the mother a confrontation ensues and he tells the mother that Tina is dangerous and must be committed subtlety avoiding the fact there are bodies piled up outside he feels Tina is responsible for, Tina hears this conversation makes a short attempt at a escape but totals the car when a vision of her mother being killed by Jason appears in the headlights.This all sets up the rumble in a cage match between Carrie and Zombroid. Oh, and Crystal Lake police don't believe in dragging the lake for missing persons.The best part of this sequel is creature fx make-up applied to Kane Hodder and the infamous sleeping bag death that Jason X has such hilarious fun with. The deathscenes are absolutely ridiculous Jason is now running through victims like ground hamburger beef. "},{"Title":"has Jason finally met his match? (5.5/10)","Date":"11 January 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" it seems like it.but(as usual)he certainly leaves a lot of carnage in his wake before that point.will this be the end for our psycho in the hockey mask?maybe,maybe not.after all,Jason is an unstoppable killing machine.this 7th installment is decent enough,but slower than the other 6.Terry Kiser is in this one in a serious role,which he does very well.Lar park Lincoln also stars.there is one really unlikable character here who i couldn't wait to see killed.as for Jason,it's nice for him to have an adversary who might be his equal or more powerful.did i like this installment?sure,i did.the only thing i didn't like was the slow pace,like i mentioned.it's pretty much that way through most of the movie.but it's not quite boring.all in all,i give Friday the 13th Part 7 a 5.5/10 "},{"Title":"Apparently the authorities in the county refuse to drag the lake for any reason.","Date":"2 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Yes, this movie pits Jason against a gal with telekinetic powers.  Kind of a Jason v. Carrie scenario.  In fact, from Friday the 13th 7 to Jason X, all the Fridays have been basically what if movies.  This is what if Jason fought Carrie, the next is what if Jason went to New York, the one after that what if Jason was a body snatching alien, and finally what if Jason was in space.  This one just isn't very good at all.  Then again I am not the biggest fan of the series.  I thought 3, 4, and 6 were pretty good, but most of the others aren't very fun to watch.  Here somehow the telekinetic girl raises Jason out of the lake where he was chained up in part six.  Apparently the authorities didn't feel like taking the body out of the rather small lake.  They apparently have a history of not taking bodies out though as this gal's dad is in there too (this is who the girl wanted to revive).  There are some killings and finally a showdown between the girl and Jason with a really lame conclusion. "},{"Title":"Is this a Friday the 13th movie?","Date":"11 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The movie's main focus is the story of a girl with powers,and half way through it forgets it's about good old Jason. I must say the plot is dumb,but with good special make-up effects,and good death scenes it manages. This is Kane Hodder's first Jason movie he is memorable. The teens,and A Mental Hospital Doctor,are complete jerks,you are glad to see Jason do his dirty work. Anyways it's got a bit more of a plot than needed for a Jason film.3.5/5 "},{"Title":"* * out of 4.","Date":"30 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Nothing new, but slightly more entertaining than usual with some good effects and a few memorable scenes. This time around Jason fights to the death with a young teen girl with telekinesis. Exciting finale, good scare scenes highlight this entry. Rated R; Extreme Violence, Nudity, Sexual Situations, and Profanity.  "}{"Title":"Really horrible movie...","Date":"17 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  For me Friday the 13th Part 7 is an absolute let down.The film relies too heavily on cheesy special effects rather than suspense.It contains also very little gore,so the gore-hounds will be disappointed.OK,there are some good deaths,but none are memorably gory or exciting.The acting sucks and the characters are incredibly dumb.When I was twelve I loved Friday the 13th series.Now I am nineteen and I prefer watching dark,disturbing horror movies like Last House on the Left or Nightmare or Italian giallo thrillers.If you want to see creepy wood slasher,then  try to find Just Before Dawn or Madman.Thanks for reading. "},{"Title":"ONE OF THE WORST!!","Date":"22 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This is one of the worst of the series. Shades of Carrie are seen with the lead actor have telekinises. Jason is set free and guess what he starts killing people. By now Jason's motive is old and boring. I also don't like the fact that Jason is a supernatural force, i much preferred he was a normal man killing people. This is shown when we see his face and he is almost alien like and he survives a house exploding on him and he is under water for a year but doesn't run out of air. Some okay killings the only reason it's okay is cause jason is in it. "},{"Title":"Dumb and run-of-the-mill but well-done.","Date":"27 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Friday The 13th, Part VII is probably the slickest and most professionally done entry in the series. There are some attempts at creating some normal, believable and likable characters along with  the usual stereotypical ones. The reason this movie and the previous two parts are superior to the first four cheapies of the series is that major improvements took place on the levels of acting and pacing, and the production values also got better. Unfortunately, this movie is partially ruined by its  idiotic climax, where Jason dies about four separate times in 10 minutes - and then gets up again. It was too cartoonish to be considered even self-spoofing. Another weak point while the effects are generally solid, the scene where we see Jason's face behind the mask is unintentionally hilarious! I mean, he is supposed to be a deformed - even de-composed - corpse, not an Alien-looking monster. Still, as a run-of-the-mill slasher pic, this is watchable. "},{"Title":"Is this a joke?","Date":"15 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  May contain spoilersLook I'll be the first to admit that the Friday the 13th series asks you to suspend your disbelief and turn your brain off most of the time.  For example I have never seen barns and campgrounds that contain weapons like these movies have.  When you need a machete to defend yourself, well what do you know?  There's one right there in front of (whoever) just waiting to be used.  Secondly people are always calling out the name of the person that they are with knowing full well that it is impossible that the person who just disappeared behind the clothes line could be that person.  Especially when the height discrepancy is about 8 inches.  Thirdly, a man posing as Jason does not inherit his ruthlessness, brute strength and Rambo-esque ability to take pain.  But you know what?  I can overcome this.  I can look past all the sheer stupidity and enjoy the films for what they are.  But not in this one.If we recall correctly, at the end of part 6, Jason was chained to a rock and left to drown.  His neck was cut almost completely off and Tommy survives.  Now are you going to tell me that no one would have come along and gotten his body out of the lake?  Would the authorities leave a man that has to be responsible for 1000 murders at the bottom of the lake?  NOOOO. Of course they wouldn't!  They would be all over that situation.  Crystal Lake or Forest Green or whatever it's called now would have been crawling with cops and Jason would be back in the morgue or better yet, they would have cremated him almost instantly.  And this is just one idiotic point that I can not get past.  Maybe if I had enjoyed this film on any level then I could have overlooked the absurdity of it, but there is nothing to enjoy here.  It is not remotely scary and it seems that the writers just ran out of ideas so they decided to have a Carrie like character in here.  Excuse me while I barf up a lung.If you are a Friday the 13th fan the way I am, then I think you'll be utterly disappointed in this effort.  If however you had never seen one of the Friday's before, you may enjoy it.  Not because it is scary, but because you don't know any better.  Next to part 8, this is as low as you can go. "},{"Title":"Along with A New Beginning one of the weakest films of this series,but still enjoyable.","Date":"11 September 2004","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  John Carl Buechler's Friday the 13th Part VIIThe New Blood is nothing in comparison to Jason Lives.Still its a decent addition to the series,unfortunately it was absolutely butchered by the MPAA.The cuts in some gore scenes are almost laughable.This time Jason Voorhees rises from his water grave awakened by Tina,the telepathic hero of the movie.He kills everyone who gets into his way.The makeup of Kane Hodder,who plays Jason on the prowl,is absolutely excellent.His clothes are tattered and his bones are exposed.He is a pure walking dead.Unfortunately there is no suspense whatsoever and the acting is rather bad.Anyway,for those who don't mind the same old type Friday the 13th picture,then pick this one up.7 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"One of the worst film ever.","Date":"16 October 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Yesterday i'have seen Friday the 13th part 7. First of all i am absolutely not a fan of the series. Jason's character is one dimensional.I know these films are slashers but the whole film was very very stupid. This film is completely waste of time. Boring and horrible at the same time. Friday the 13th series are just a stupid overrated rubbish.I never imagined how on earth could many people fall in love with these movies. I give you a good advice.Do not waste your time to movies like this. "},{"Title":"Tina, the paranormal hero!","Date":"21 February 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Part VI was no good. Guess what Part VII is even worse! I'm now really starting to believe in those persons who said (here in IMDb) that from the Part IV is always getting down... It really seems to be like that. So now I don't even know what to expect from Part IX which almost everyone says it's the worst in the series... This NEW BLOOD was bad enough for me! The paranormal crap is pure trash not to say clichéd (I don't know if it was already at the time, but nowadays it is!) and the way they reborn JASON and kill him in the end is just pathetic! I'm now scared expecting to watch the other movies, not because of JASON but because of the awful they might be! "},{"Title":"Unintentionally funny.","Date":"21 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Plot Synopsis Teenager Tina Shepard returns to her home on Crystal Lake where she once accidentally killed her father with her latent psychic powers. Stirred up by her dodgy psychiatrist (who wants to exploit her powers), Tina unwittingly revives Jason Voorhees. The zombie serial killer then attacks & slaughters a group of partygoers at a nearby house.At first glance, this entry in the Jason Voorhees saga appears to be the same hack-&-slash as the previous six films. But Paramount adds a psychic girl to the mix. Jason is played for the first time by Kane Hodder, who gives the brute character some meanness. The film has some nifty moments, like the way Jason kills his victims, including one memorable kill where he bashes a person in a sleeping bag against a tree. On the other hand, the scenes involving Tina's psychic powers are poorly handled, resulting in unintentional hilarity. The film ends up being quite weak. There is no gore, thereby removing any reason to watch this film. "},{"Title":"The worst in the series. Boring and ridiculous.","Date":"11 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Friday the 13th Part VII The New Blood was originally supposed to be Freddy Vs. Jason. However, when they couldn't come up with an agreement on how to do it, they changed it to the 7th entry in the Friday series. Apparently the writers were so lazy and stupid that they couldn't get their minds off the idea of Jason fighting someone, so they came up with the appallingly bad plot of a telekinetic girl(like Carrie), raising Jason from his watery grave and subsequently having to fight him off.This must've been the movie where they realized no one cared anymore, because everything was done so sloppily it's not even funny. The acting is REALLY bad. I mean, it's not supposed to be great in an 80's slasher film, but they at least could have shot for soap opera level. The climatic battle between Jason and the freak girl is so ridiculous that you'll be laughing your way through it. You would think that this would at least be a good popcorn flick, but no...It's also boring as hell. Try sitting around waiting for something to actually happen. It's not that great. The only reason to watch this movie is to see Kane Hodder's first appearance as Jason (He played Jason in 7,8,9, and 10, and is considered to be the best). Also to watch Jason brutally murder (in completely unrealistic ways) the terrible cast. If you ever sit down for one of those Friday the 13th marathons they play from time to time, take this 2 hours to go do something fun until the 8th movie starts.1/10 "},{"Title":"A waterlogged sequel that's nothing special.","Date":"26 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The series has hit rock bottom. Fresh out of ideas for poor Jason. He was defeated by his arch-nemesis and weighed down in the middle of Crystal Lake. Angry that some crazy guy beat him at his own game, Jason decides to take it out on the new residents in the area. Can anyone stop him? Bullets nor knifes or garden implements can slow down this watery behemoth. Wait a minute. Someone can....Lame! Don't watch!!D- "}{"Title":"Absolutely Terrible","Date":"4 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  A girl with psychic powers unintentionally brings Jason Voorhees, a maniacal mass murderer back to life. Hmmm... This sounds like a good movie. Not! This movie is unbearably stupid. The acting was very poor and the storyline could not have been any worse. The only value in this movie is that it gives aspiring filmmakers the motivation that maybe, just maybe their film can make it to the big screen. If Paramount pictures released this film, they will obviously accept anything. So, if you're interested in a movie making career, contact Paramount. Do not see this movie for any reason- you'll be sorry!  "},{"Title":"Lucky 7? That's a Good One.","Date":"2 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Ho-hum sequel that is terrible to put it bluntly. Terry Kiser gives probably the best performance of anyone in the series as the psychiatrist, but he is not near enough to save this waste of film. This time a young girl with telekinetic powers resurrects Jason and the mayhem starts again. Not quite as disgusting as its predecessors, but still a film that had no business being made. Turkey (0 stars out of 5). "},{"Title":"Friday the 13th Part VII The Mother of all ripoffs","Date":"10 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This movie is so bad I have problems to find words for it. Even it has horrible script and editing it have a so cliché and cheesy plot; evil stepfather who only use his stepdaughter to his own test and mother who don't believe her about his male friend being bad. This plot is from some eighties family movie. Also it ripoffs seventies and eighties well known horror classics; main character is Carrie, some of scenes in the woods are directly from Evil Dead and even as this wouldn't be enough the ending is from A Nightmare on Elm Street. I thought earlier part was bad but I was wrong; this is worse. I assumed that this movie would just be about zombie killer Jason chasing teenagers but its just a little portion of the plot. There's a hole lot more idiotic entity served for you! "},{"Title":"Family-friendly Jason, courtesy of the MPAA...","Date":"20 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  By the late 1980s, the attitude in governments and film studios that everything should be made suitable *only* for four-year-olds was at its peak. The FT13 series was, arguably, one of the biggest casualties. By the time the FT13 series had moved onto part nine, the incredible damage done by parts seven and eight needed something exceptional in order to be recovered from.Given that Orion Pictures had released RoboCop the previous year, we cannot lay all the blame for the sheer lameness of this episode upon the MPAA. The MPAA-approved cut that eventually surfaced in theaters instead smacks of Paramount not bothering to go to bat for its product. Whereas Orion Pictures stood up to the MPAA and reminded them that there is, in fact, an audience out there above the age of 17, Paramount dutifully trimmed everything they had spent so much money on photographing.As a result, with a cast a soap opera would reject and a script that Ed Wood would turn his nose up at, FT13 part seven becomes an exercise in boredom. The only thing that distinguishes part seven from the previous six parts is that Kane Hodder plays Jason, but it wasn't until parts nine and ten that he had a decent script to work from. Getting back to part seven for the time being, this was originally where Paramount executives had the idea to pair Jason with Freddy. I suspect the real reason New Line balked at the idea was because of Paramount's inability to make a decent horror film.So, instead of Freddy, Jason is put up against a poor man's Carrie. So far, so good, but the problem here is that the Carrie character, along with the rest of the cast, are so unidimensional that the viewer soon forgets them right after the film has concluded. Edited down to the confines of what Australia's OFLC saw fit to rate M, the sole reason anyone watched FT13 films is effectively gone.It doubtlessly sounds like I'm concentrating entirely on how this episode was unfairly targeted by the censors and pretty much removed of its manhood. If you've read any of my other FT13 reviews, you'll notice that with the lack of memorable actors, original or worthwhile story, and even unique points, FT13 part VII is really just an exercise in wasting ninety minutes worth of film.So dull is FT13 part seven that I don't even recommend wasting a recordable DVD on it, leave alone the thirty-odd dollars it will cost to legitimately own a copy. Thankfully, after the next film, Paramount sold the franchise to New Line and effectively got out of the slasher market, one they never really understood in spite of helping to create one of its staples.If you were expecting me to give FT13 part seven anything other than a one out of ten, you're being too hopeful. At best, the film is worthy of a minus two billion. If you don't believe me, try the exercise of naming one attribute of the supporting cast that doesn't show up in another episode.  "},{"Title":"One of the worst of the series.","Date":"24 December 2008","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" John Carl Buechler's special effect and make-up work varies greatly in quality, ranging from the excellent (such as his impressive gore FX in recent comedy/slasher Hatchet) to the downright awful (his cheap-looking hand-puppet monsters in Ghoulies, for example).Buechler's directorial work, however, seems to be pretty consistent it all sucks! Troll, Cellar Dweller, Ghoulies III Ghoulies Go to College, Curse of the Forty-Niner the list of bad movies from this guy is impressive, to say the least. However, few of these titles are quite as disappointing for me as Friday the 13th Part VII The New Blood, which makes a mockery of all that has gone before (even Part 5 was better than this!).The dumb plot for this particular sequel sees Jason&#151;last seen residing at the bottom of Crystal Lake&#151;accidentally revived and released by Tina, a disturbed young woman with psychokinetic powers. Jason naturally proceeds to go on the rampage, attacking the over-sexed teenagers who are partying in a nearby cabin, and it is up to Tina to use her amazing mental abilities to try and stop the hulking maniac.The result is an unbelievably stupid movie which ineptly blends elements from Stephen King's Carrie with your classic stalk 'n' slash ingredients numerous deaths interspersed with regular scenes of T&A. Add Buechler's uninspired direction, a lousy script, not a lot in the way of decent gore (although to be fair, this was the fault of the scissor-happy MPAA), some particularly dreadful acting, and an ending that makes very little sense (Tina's dad saves the day, despite having died years earlier), and the result is a real mess.I suppose that the quantity and quality of the gratuitous nudity was OK&#151;one hot babe does the decent thing and strips off completely for a skinny dip&#151;and the zombie Jason was kinda fun, but when I also find an impressive mullet (worn by an ambulance paramedic at the end) to be one of the most entertaining things about a film, then I know I've just witnessed a stinker! "},{"Title":"Dreck","Date":"15 October 2008","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Saying that Friday the 13th Part VII The New Blood is god awful is like saying the sun rises in the East. It's just an objective fact, and there's not anything anyone can possibly say to refute it.I have about as much energy to muster up a comment about this film as the filmmakers had in creating it, and believe me, that's not much. This movie doesn't have one redeemable quality about it -- the acting, writing, directing and editing are remedial. My friends and I made movies as good as this in college goofing around on a Saturday with nothing more than a camcorder. Even the kills (to use fanboy parlance), which I'm assuming are the primary motivating factor behind most people watching this at all, are dull and unimaginative, and gorehounds will be supremely disappointed, as they're censored to the point where you don't see much of anything at all.After Part VI, I didn't think the Friday the 13th series could get much worse -- this movie proves that there's always the opportunity to achieve a higher level of incompetency.Grade F "},{"Title":"A Really Weak Spot on the Entire Series","Date":"23 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Tina Shepard (Lar Park Lincoln) killed her father as a child, using her latent psychokinesis abilities. As a teenager, she is brought back to Crystal Lake to confront her fears and to understand her anxiety and powers. But when she is pushed too far, she brings back a surprise from the bottom of the lake -- Jason Voorhees (tied to a rock from part six).This film fails in so many ways. It is not very funny, it is not very scary... the plot is decent, but really just more of the same from the last six films. I do not know what director John Carl Buechler (Troll) was thinking. I guess the idea of Jason versus Carrie is somewhat interesting, but this film does not really make it seem like it is worth my time. (In Buechler's defense, though, the original kill scenes were much more graphic, as evidenced by the Slashed Scenes featurette. Had this been in the final product, my opinion would have greatly been altered.)In a horror film, you need to be funny or scary or both. This one does not offer us either. The lack of humor can slide if there is a decent body count, but guess what -- there just is not. Pay close attention and you will notice in almost every single death, the camera moves away or cuts off before anyone actually gets stabbed or chopped. No gore, no blood. It is left to our imagination, which sometimes works, but not here. Especially after some gorier films earlier in the series (and if you have seen Jason Goes to Hell, which tops them all). Again, I know this should be blamed on the MPAA, but everything possible should be done to get those cut scenes mastered and put back in.One good thing was the sleeping bag scene (even if it was also cut short). It is not funny or gory, but it pays off when you see Jason X (if you can remember this awful film by the time you get to part ten). The other good thing is that this is the movie that introduces Kane Hodder as Jason Voorhees, who I consider the best Jason (and I think many would agree). Buechler might lack other skills, but he knows how to cast (he personally brought Kane with him from a previous film they made together).And also, I guess I should give Buechler a second break if you watch the special features, you will see in an interview that he designed a cool head for Tina's dad to have as a corpse. The other people involved would not let him use it. This was a big mistake. And his take on what Jason looks like without the mask is pretty cool, though my colleague Seth claims that the maskless Jason seems less human and therefore less scary. I am undecided.I guess there is one scary thing about this film Susan Blu's atrocious hair, and maybe some of the wardrobe choices... thank you, 1980s. If you must watch this, watch it with the commentary turned on. While it is a bit slapdash and should probably be re-recorded, it gives valuable insight into why the location was chosen and other behind-the-scenes tidbits. If you do not mind a bland, mostly humorless, almost blood-free Jason movie with poor continuity (how did he get to the other side of the lake and why is the lake's name changed back to Crystal Lake from Lake Forest Green?), this is for you. If you are like me, you have watched so far in the series that you just have to finish it... do not worry, only one more bad one to go. Get some popcorn and a Miller Chill or some Early Times whiskey and just relax. And if you have time, petition them to get those cut scenes put back in! "},{"Title":"Another one huh","Date":"8 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  While I thought there were a couple of redeeming qualities about this film (Lincoln's Carrie like performance, Jason getting a lot thrown at him and some good makeup), it is just as pointless and un-scary as so many of the other episodes in this series.  Hodder is pretty good though. C- "},{"Title":"A blatant Carrie rip-off","Date":"14 December 2014","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" If I found out that back in the mid eighties there was a plan for a sequel to Carrie that got warped into something else, I wouldn't be the least bit surprised. Why? Because I just watched it. This movie is just a Carrie movie that happened to have Jason in it. Our main character has telekinetic powers that are activated when her emotions are at her peak, and she even sets a building on fire with those powers. I know the Friday the 13th franchise hasn't been even slightly original, but this is taking it a bit too far. Apart from outright plagiarism, other problems that plagued this film are atrocious acting and a complete lack of camp, which really disappointed me. I mean if you're going to keep pumping these movies out, at least go crazy with it. Alas, they went for a more serious tone. I don't know why, but what I do know is that the serious tone killed any chance of this movie being slightly enjoyable. Worst in the franchise so far. 2/10 "},{"Title":"More like the same old blood over again.","Date":"2 November 2009","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This is not a bad entry in the series but it's just being more of the same again. The movie tries to be original but it's originality often works out weak for the movie fore it often isn't anything too likely. Jason facing off against a girl with paranormal powers this time just isn't the most likely of stories and besides, it also isn't anything too original as well. This is what makes the movie somewhat weak but still good enough to watch for the fans of the genre and the series.Jason is back in this one and he's uglier than ever before. It's nice to see how his character has developed over the years, especially his looks. First he was still a Michael Myers type of character, while in the later sequels he more turned into an ugly monster. It also definitely matters who plays the character behind the mask and Kane Hodder. No wonder he continued to play on the character for 3 more movies, more than any other previous Jason actor had and has ever done.It's still being mostly a movie than hangs together from its killings. There really isn't more to the movie and its story. Jason simply goes on doing what he does best and that's killing a bunch of fooling around teenagers in the woods. It provides the movie with a couple of nice graphic killings but if you've seen the previous Friday the 13th movies before, nothing in it is too surprising or shocking for you.Not too much new good originality in this one, though still watchable for the fans.5/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "}{"Title":"The New BloodFriday the 13th VI","Date":"8 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" An emotionally fragile young woman, Tina(Lar Park Lincoln), whose dangerous telekinetic powers led to the murder of her abusive father as a child, returns to Crystal Lake years later at the scene where that incident took place thanks to her demanding psychologist,Dr. Crews(a delightfully slimy Terry Kiser, easily the most interesting character, and better than average performance, of the film) who secretly plans to exploit her abilities when she's able to control them. In anger at the difficult situation she's facing, she releases a telekinetic shockwave which unleashes Jason Voorhees from the bouldered chain holding him captive underwater. Across from her cabin is a birthday celebration being held by a group of young adults who will unknowingly fall one by one to the hockey-masked psycho ready to pick up where he left off many years ago.If director John Carl Buechler had been able to deliver to franchise fans the version he made, this would be mentioned in the same breath as bloody slasher faves, Maniac & The Prowler(..even The Prowler director Joseph Zito's Friday film is allowed bloody rites). Having seen the deleted gore scenes, you can not help but feel slighted by those involved with censoring(..more like butchering)this sequel. It's a shame because the deleted footage is in rather bad shape, having been buried in Paramount's vault unprotected for many years without much care it seems. There are some really inspired gory bits such as Jason forming his hands into a vice crushing one poor soul's skull like a walnut as blood squirts from the orifices of his face, one victim receiving a chopping ax to the face opening a gaping crevice with gushing blood, one man getting Jason's arm ran completely through him, and another penetrated through the stomach with a spinning saw blade. As is, the slasher film is mostly Jason killing victims off-screen, wiping away the make-up grue completed by the special effects company. What ultimately hurts this film is that the cast of victims attending a supposed birthday party(..and a few scattered victims elsewhere Jason runs into)aren't very interesting at all, merely the same repeated clichés you expect in a sixth sequel to a franchise whose best days seem long past. If you don't have, at the very least, the gory bits inserted into the final product, what's the point of sitting through this umpteenth sequel? This type of slasher product is specifically designed for Friday fans and gorehounds..if this film isn't allowed to cater to those it's designed for, what is the point of releasing this film at all? Anyway, the film's bread and butter has to be the special effects showcase at the end as Tina faces off with Jason..for once, Jason is provided a worthy adversary who can oppose him. I think this is the only success of true note for Buechler, except some effective camera shots of Jason around cabins, in the woods, and following him as he closes in on those who are about to meet their maker. I do think Hodder is the best representation of Jason, and his make-up job(both his rotting body and shredded outfit and facial work)is great. The house explosion at the end is well executed as well.The rating I give the film is for the finished product forced against the director's wishes onto the viewer. "},{"Title":"Jason never looked so good !! (small spoilers)","Date":"17 January 2004","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Finally, Kane Hodder takes over the part he was born to play. Hodder is a huge and impressive stuntman who really makes Jason look like the horror icon he deserves to be filthy, soulless and extreme. Either way, The New Blood is a very decent entry in the Friday series! You can reproach the writers of the series a lot of things, but not that they're not trying to keep it interesting and innovating. Episode seven contains a really good attempt to give the movie more depth. The gorgeous Lar Park Lincoln plays Tina. She is extremely beautiful but also pretty disturbed&#133;She has telekinetic abilities and accidentally uses her powers to resurrect  Jason from the underwater grave where he was left in part 6. Now she'll have to try to fight him with those same powers that gave him life again&#133;Which more or less makes the entire last 30 minutes of this movie look like Carrie vs. Jason!!  Other than this creative new element, all the traditional and effective aspects are present. A lot &#133;and I do mean A LOT&#133;of young and horny teenagers are waiting to be slaughtered in the most gruesome ways. The make-up effects are great and there is a lot of yummy female flesh to admire.  Diehard fans of the Fridays certainly will consider this to be one of the best entries in the series and, maybe this film will even attract other horror fans. Favorite `rewind'-scene A large part of satisfying killing scenes in this one, but I think I can safely say that part 7 has the coolest killing in ALL the Fridays. A young girl in her sleeping bag is brutally smashed against a tree. Classic Jason-move !!    "},{"Title":"Friday the 13th Part 20... I mean 17... I mean... whatever!","Date":"19 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Friday the 13th Part VII The New Blood sequel number 7 in the Friday the 13th series, I feel like I've come such a long way, you know? But I believe I've hit what you would call the down fall of the series. The stories are just getting worse and worse, while like I've said in my other comments on Friday the 13th series where they deliver bad acting, sex, drugs, the normal bad behavior that makes Jason go crazy and on his killer rampage. But this story is just insulting to the mind and is insulting to the series, I mean, it almost takes a Carrie appeal offering us to believe that some kid has psychic powers, I was expecting pig's blood to be poured on Jason and for him to go on his killer rampage.Everything seems to be going fine at Camp Crystal Lake since Tommy has chained Jason to the bottom of the lake. But when Tina and her family go to the camp, they are going to expect something different when Jason escapes and goes on his typical killing spree. But also Jason should expect something different when Tina is proved to have psychic powers.Friday the 13th Part VII The New Blood is definitely a low point in the series, it's pretty lame and not even so cheesy where it's good again. But the film once again has some very awesome kills as usual, my favorite was definitely Jason punches a kid so hard that his hand goes through his chest, ultimate gore, I just love it. I just can't believe that I still have 3 more Friday the 13th movies to watch, but I hope they do get better if Friday the 13th Part VII The New Blood is anything to stand by.3/10 "},{"Title":"Jason Meets Carrie","Date":"13 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Friday the 13th 7 *** (out of 4) Friday the 13th 7 The New Blood was another film hated when originally released but over the years fans are finally starting to come around to it. I first saw this in theaters and didn't care too much for it but over the years even I have come to liking it. At first you're rolling your eyes because our female hero is nothing more than an 80's version of Carrie but after you've seen the previous six films over and over, seeing her is somewhat fresh air because we're getting a different and new story.Nothing in the film really works too well, although most of the teens are likable and the death scenes are pushed way over the top making them interesting as well. If you watch this film on its own then you'd probably get a few yawns but if you've ever watched the previous six films in order and followed it up with this one then it plays a lot better. Why? Simply because it offers us something new and instead of a regular person fighting Jason, we get a Carrie type girl The ending is so over the top that you can't help but laugh, which is a good thing because it means you're having a good time.I guess it would be fair to say that 1988 was the year that killed the legendary horror figures of the decade. In this one year, the likes of Michael, Freddy and Jason would release films, which would all be bashed by fans and helped turn the genre on its face "},{"Title":"The second worst Friday the 13th...","Date":"24 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Friday the 13th Part VII The New Blood starts with a troubled young psychic girl named Tina Shepard (Lar Park-Lincoln), her mother Amanda (Susan Blu) & her Doctor (Terry Kiser) diving to Crystal Lake the scene where Tina witnessed the 'accidental' death of her Father many years ago as part of her treatment. As they pull up to the cabin where they will be staying they notice that a group of teens are staying in another cabin nearby. Tina is not convinced that this is the right approach to help her & in a rage storms out & runs down by a nearby lake. There she becomes angry & upset which unleash her psychic powers which in turn brings the notorious serial killer Jason Voorhees (Kane Hodder) back to life whose body is, or was, chained to the bottom of the lake. Jason only has one thing on his mind & that's to kill anyone he meets & all those appetising teens in that cabin is a good start...Directed by John Carl Buechler this was the seventh (if your not too good with Roman numerals) entry in the long running & popular Friday the 13th horror franchise, unfortunately I have the sad duty to report that in my opinion Friday the 13th Part VII The New Blood is probably the weakest of the regular series but not quite as bad as Jason Goes to Hell The Final Friday (1993) which messed about with the whole thing but that's a different story. Anyway, the script by Manuel Fidello & Daryl Haney (who was apparently sacked before he completed the script because his agent said he wanted a large pay increase & was replaced by Fidello) once again tries to breathe new life into a somewhat tired, predictable & formalistic series of films with no so good results, I openly admit that I am a big fan of the Friday the 13th series but the way Jason is revived this time around is poor & to have him face off against a Carrie (1978) wannabe in the shape of the annoying psychic Tina including a silly & incredibly stupid ending when she resurrects her dead Father to rise out of the lake & kill Jason more or less killed the film for me also the extra unused deleted ending shown on the DVD should have been kept in & is pretty cool. Having said that parts around it when it does go back to the more traditional Friday the 13th theme of Jason stalking & killing teens it's OK but still far from the best the series has to offer.Director Buechler does OK & I have to say that Jason has never looked better, or should that be worse?, as he has some absolutely terrific rotten zombie make-up & I liked the way earlier in the film while he wears his iconic hockey mask there is a small section broken & you can see some his teeth sticking out & that his lips have rotted away, nice touch along with the fact that under his ripped clothes you can see his rib cage, spine & various bones poking out & all achieved with some impressive special effects. Now here's the problem, it's obvious that the censors got their scissors out again & Friday the 13th Part VII The New Blood has to be the tamest & most bloodless in the entire series, every kill looks cut, every kill is more-or-less bloodless & there's just no graphic gore or violence whatsoever, come on guys what are we watching films like this for anyway? In the end I found it all rather dull with little in the way of build up to the kills & absolutely no pay-off or reward for sticking with it. What I will say though is that it wasn't the filmmakers fault & that I have seen the cut gore scenes, they're on the special edition DVD as poor quality time coded snippets without music or sound effects, & they are so much better it's untrue. Dr. Crews guts get torn out, someone gets an axe in the face, the sleeping bag death is longer & gorier, someone has a party popper shoved in their eye, there's more graphic bloodshed & impalings & the best bit where the guy has his head literally crushed to a bloody mess, great scene, & more besides but it's a shame they'll never be put back into the film properly.Wit a supposed budget of about $3,500,000 it's a shame that a lot of that probably ended up on the cutting room floor in terms of special effects. It's well made & has decent production values though. The acting isn't up to much, I can't say I liked anyone.Friday the 13th Part VII The New Blood is one of the most disappointing entries in the series as far as I'm concerned, the filmmakers set out with good intentions but a few poor script decisions & the untimely & unwelcome intervention of the censors pretty much killed it before it had a chance. A disappointment all round. "}]