[{"Title":"you get what you came for...","Date":"22 July 2003","Score":"17 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  why anyone would choose to watch this movie and then turn around and complain about how awful it is baffles me.  you're given a silly title, Hot to Trot, Bobcat Goldthwait as a star, and a blurb mentioning a talking horse.  how could this movie NOT be utterly stupid?  of COURSE it is stupid! and that's why it's great! sure, the jokes are juvenile and rather stupid, though in my opinion there are a few zingers in there (how is a three-stoogie horse humping a Volvo NOT funny?) but sometimes that's what you want to watch utter stupidity.  this movie succeeds as a brainless comedy with easy to grasp humor and blatant...stupidity! i sincerely doubt it ever tried to be more than just that.  so, for what it is, it's a huge success, and if you want to sit back and not think and enjoy an 80s flavored 80 minutes with a talking horse and an annoying guy whose jockey pants are too tight, then by all means, i highly highly recommend this movie.  if you're too uptight to relax and enjoy it on some level, then yeah, skip it. i've personally seen it at least 20 times since it opened in theaters when i was 9 years old, it's in my video collection and a favorite to pop in when i'm sick, cleaning or trying to get someone to laugh and feel silly, and yeah it sits surrounded by films by the likes of  Wim Wenders and Jeunet, above The Seventh Seal and to the right of Dr. Strangelove.  "},{"Title":"Talking horses rule!","Date":"29 June 2006","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" It just gets funnier, every time I see it! The cultural subtext is genius. Bobcat is the idealistic misfit from a previous generation wandering lost through the 80's as yuppy Republicans seize control of America. A talking horse is just as reliable as any stock expert at picking winning stocks. It shows the utter ridiculousness of that profession. The cartoonish nature of the movie represents the cynical rejection of reality espoused by punk rock and other revolutionary movements of the time. I guess you just had to be there to understand it. Today, greedy corporate types have so subsumed this country that it is difficult to remember a time when they did not dominate. This movie brilliantly illustrates the culture clash that was occurring at that time. Vietnam and Watergate elevated protest to an art form, especially the DaDa, surrealist, mocking the system type of commentary. "},{"Title":"If you liked Seabiscuit, you'll love Hot to Trot","Date":"12 August 2003","Score":"12 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Seabiscuit is actually based on this masterwork.  The horse that couldn't win.... yep, that was Don before it was Seabiscuit... The jockey no one wanted.... Goldthwait long before Tobey... The obnoxious outsider owner... Bobcat again.  The big climactic race... yes, Seabiscuit fans, you HAVE seen it all before.Hot to Trot was a film before its time.  Dabney Coleman's performance is magical.  Virginia Madsen's best performance where she kept her clothes on. And Candy is a master of horse dialects.Two hoofs up!  Ten stars!  Fabulous!  Mucilage! "},{"Title":"still funny, still laughing...","Date":"11 September 2004","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Just watched it again for about the third time. Yep, it's similar to Mr. Ed, but if you check your movie history, most of the movie releases are clones to what's been done; just a little twist here and there. Animal movies have proven themselves over and over again to be winners. This one's no different. If you're not an old-fart yet, you got at least one more hilarious flick to see. Thank God I'm open minded, not high-strung, nor hanging on too tight to appreciate this side-splitter. It's FUNNY!! Even if you don't get a laugh out of it, you'll at least get to watch Virginia Madsen strut her stuff. Relax with a drink and a snack, give it a look and laugh yourself light-headed!!!  "},{"Title":"Hot to Trot indeed!","Date":"11 December 2001","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I loved this movie....it's one of the funniest movies ever.  Sure, it's probably one of the worst movies ever at the same time.  But, this movie makes me laugh and laugh and laugh.Bobcat, though annoying at times, is hilarious.  John Candy is excellent as the voice of Don the Horse. "},{"Title":"This is hilarious!!","Date":"23 November 2001","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I must have seen a different movie from all the other commenters, because this is one of the funniest films I have ever seen. John Candy, even though only his voice is used, steals the film!! The funniest part is when Don, the horse is feeling lonely and some animals invade the apartment and have a party and destroy the apartment in the process!! I admit, I was one of the ones who voted this a 10!! LOL. It is a funny film!! "},{"Title":"Great Comedy On Par With The Classics","Date":"22 October 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I wish I still had this movie, I sold it but had watched it a lot back in the day. It has everything a good old Jerry Lewis movie would have. Bobcat's character is a combination of his old crazy Police Academy self, and a new sort of guy that wants to fit in and make it in society. There's a lot of great characters in this. Although it's predictable, the execution makes it worth the ride every time. It's not viral or anything. It's a hidden gem for people who appreciate the classics but also like it when things just get outright silly. The unexplained things that get written in to this kind of comedy make it what it is. This isn't going to impress any snobs who have never farted or talked in a funny voice. But it doesn't rely on toilet humor either. It's just right. "},{"Title":"SO FUNNY!","Date":"4 February 2003","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Okay, this movie is damn funny. How could you not laugh at Bobcat Golthwait? With a voice like that? Come on, it's nothing but comic genius! Seriously, I first saw this movie when I was about 6 and have loved it ever since. If you enjoy comedies aimed at adult audiences that in effect appeal to six year olds, this film is definitely for you. (it may also fall into that category of this movie is so bad you have to check it out just to believe that somebody agreed to make it... also in this category Eating Raoul, the early Val Kilmer gem Real Genius, Killer Klowns From Outer Space, Big Momma's House, the list is neverending) "},{"Title":"It's still funny!","Date":"9 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" When it comes right down to it, my love for Hot to Trot stems from childhood. That's the best way to put it. I watched this movie all the time on HBO as a kid, and I loved it. And what makes this stand up today (for me) is that I find even more humor as an adult in John Candy's performance. He's what makes this movie so damn likable. I know that, deep down, it's just a silly horse movie, and without that key casting decision (Goldthwait, too, let's not count him out), this would have disaster written all over it.But it's Candy's warmth and comedic charm that makes this work so well. I have no idea how well this would hold up if I were watching it with fresh adult eyes, but as it stands, I have quite the soft spot for Hot to Trot.7/10 "},{"Title":"Marxist Farce","Date":"24 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" People may think I am crazy, but I feel like if they didn't have the talking animals (well, any animals at all), it would serve as a great satire. See, you have Dabney Coleman, which many remember as the boss in 9 to 5. In the 80s, he served as a face to the ruling class. His character, Walter, is the boss. Then comes Bobcat Goldthwait's character, Fred. Fred gets an inheritance of many shares of the company. Walter thinks Fred, the face of the proletariat, is dumb enough to make an offer of, like, $50 for all the shares that would be worth millions. So, yeah, without the animals this would make for great satire. (All of the above is not at all spoiling anything. All happen towards the very beginning.) "}{"Title":"Nothing like a talking horse...","Date":"11 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" When is any movie involving a talking animal bad...if you're stoned!! I don't smoke anymore, but a re-watching of this movie might make me break out the ol' hooka... And who doesn't wish they had a horse to give them stock advice?John Candy is always funny (well, almost always, at least), and this movie comes near the end of what I would consider his prime. And Bobcat, while (as mentioned) annoying at times, has, like a fine wine, gotten better with age.It's a difficult find, don't even bother looking at Blockbuster, but if you can find it, roll a fat one, sit back, and enjoy what comes close to the stupidest wide release of all time... "},{"Title":"the horse can talk better than bobcat","Date":"5 August 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  After his mother's death, Fred P. Cheney (Bob Goldthwaith) must share the family financial business with his scheming stepfather Walter Sawyer (Dabney Coleman). Fred also inherits Don, a talking horse who provides him with hot tips on the stock market. Don's voice is provided by John Candy and Virginia Madsen plays Fred's romantic interest Allison Rowe. I liked this movie, Bobcat was actually pretty funny back in the day.  "},{"Title":"THE BEST MOVIE OF THE CENTURY!","Date":"3 June 1999","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  How do I put into words my love for this film?Dabney Coleman was superb, a milestone performance. Bob Golthwait shines as the protagonist of this cinematic marvel. And the incomparable John Candy...his voice-overs are breathtaking in their complexity.Forget all the so-called great films.  Those are child's play compared to this gripping indictment of the gambling industry and one man's dedication to his friend, and his principles.We can only wait with baited breath for Hot to Trot II Don Eats An Apple.  I hope that Hollywood has the good sense to make it soon, and the budget to make it a fitting tribute to its vaunted predecessor "},{"Title":"No! No! No! No! No!","Date":"24 September 1999","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  No! No! No! Don't view this slop if it's the last available rental at the video store. Infact, Hot to Trot is an insult to the talents, however large or small (whichever it may be, you decide), of everyone involved. You can be rest assured that (1) John Candy will be forever rolling in his grave contemplating the merits of having his voice used in this clunker, (2) the poor horse is rolling in its own equine grave wondering if it had been better off in a glue factory, and (3) Bobcat Goldthwait will be rolling in his grave, once he has one arranged, wondering if this is to be a crowning acheivement in his film resume. This is by far the poorest thing I have ever seen put on screen, and will remain so, I am positive, until I am rolling in my own grave. What a load of pus. Sincerely. "},{"Title":"Someone owes me 80 minutes of my life because of this movie!","Date":"3 March 2011","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I was dragged to see this movie by a friend who trains Standardbred racehorses. All she knew about it was the title and the fact that it was about a Standardbred racehorse. I think she envisioned something along the lines of The Black Stallion or National Velvet or Misty of Chincoteague or something.Who is Bobcat Goldthwait? she asked me. I didn't know.Well, by the end of the movie we knew Bobcat Goldthwait is the most annoying stupid awful rotten bad comedic would-be actor we'd ever seen. He's a warning to potential moviegoers if you see his name associated with a movie in ANY capacity, avoid, avoid! This movie is not about Standardbred horses or horse racing. It is not about anything that any sensible sentient intelligent person can make any sense about. It purports to be a comedy, but it's so far from funny that it's almost an anti-comedy.And Goldthwait... my god, is it possible for any human being anywhere to deliberately contrive a more whiny, affected, unintelligible voice and persona? My friend and I both wanted to slap him. Wanted?!? I mean we still want to slap him, even years after we saw this mess! Given how much money that it costs to make a movie, the question my friend and I both had when we left the theater was how on earth did this movie get green-lighted, and should people who waste money making garbage like this be allowed out without a keeper? (Our answer was NO!) See this movie at your own peril. You'll emerge from watching it numb with boredom, dazed and confused, and with the agony of Goldthwait's voice ringing in your ears for hours afterwards.Better yet, if anyone suggests you see this mess, jump up and knock them unconscious and lock them up for their own protection. They need HELP. "},{"Title":"Hot is not!","Date":"16 April 1999","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  As far as 80s comedies go, this is definitely among the worst ones ever, with inept and lousy writing that breaks the ecstatic barrier! Mister Ed would've taken a bad rap through this excrusiating rip-off of talking animal movies and TV shows. Notice how the mouth of Don The Horse doesn't synchronize well with John Candy's voiceover. The children's audience was what the studio hoped for, and just what is the meaning of all the flatulent jokes and improper language? Make no mistakes, because this is the perfect substitute for Mucilage that comes in handy whenever the afterlife doesn't stick. Or worse, stinks, depending on how you felt over the dreadful HOT TO TROT. There are better things to do, like cleaning up after the horses in the barn. "},{"Title":"Do Yourself a Favor and Trot Away Slowly.","Date":"6 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Bobcat Goldthwait becomes an over-night success with the help of his late father's talking horse (voiced by John Candy) in this short little comedy that is pretty short on everything---including laughs. Dabney Coleman is wasted as the comic-book-styled villain. A typical Mr. Ed idea that lacks creativity and spunk. Flat from its starting point. 2 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"In my estimation the second worst film ever","Date":"17 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  There are a large number of films I have watched. Very few have given me nightmares. Hot to Trot did, you may think I'm kidding, I'm not. I stayed up crying all night when I saw this movie. It was horrible. This was an incredible waste of talent. Alright, Bob Goldthwait is not exactly the most talented individual, but John Candy (voice only) and Dabney Coleman were in the movie, and they should have gone nowhere near this piece of crap.The movie was supposed to be the next Mr. Ed as it had another talking horse getting it's owner in trouble. The trouble is the movie is just so awful, I watched a few minutes of this movie again when I was older, and I wouldn't have nightmares about this movie. The movie is so disjointed, the writing is awful, the movie is awful. Dabney Coleman is given such a horrible part, I don't know why he would take it. This is awful, I can't say it enough. Do not and I repeat do NOT watch this movie. By the way if you're curious my choice for worst film is Leonard Part 6  "},{"Title":"Talking horses are funny","Date":"18 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  They ARE funny, right? Otherwise this film would never have been greenlighted, right? And Burgess Meredith worked for scale and no screen credit because he really BELIEVED in this project, right? Be that as it may, Hot To Trot was another bad career move by Bobcat Goldthwait, one of the most underrated comedians of recent years. And needless to say, it's not very funny, though it's perfectly harmless and will probably amuse the under 12 set.   "}]