[{"Title":"One of the most misunderstood movies ever...","Date":"6 December 2002","Score":"39 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I wish I could have a few minutes to hear Vincent Ward's take on the marketing of the movie, because I never have seen anything so mis-marketed. I could see some US film distributor scratching his head and saying, gee? how are we going to make this dreary arty movie about the black plague appeal to the lowest common denominator of the US market?, Ok, let's slap sci-fi and time travel on it...Navigator is a beautifully filmed, well acted, impressive movie that (hear this!) has nothing to do with time-travel, or monks dodging 20th century stuff...it is an allegory! (look that up).  What Mr. Ward does is, rather than rely on expensive and silly special effects to spice up fantasy dream sequences, simply juxtaposes 20th century settings with the 14th century time frame of the film to give life to a boy's fantastic visions, and story told to give hope and entertain the desperate people of his village...his visions, done in color and film with the 20th century as it backdrop is as fantastic to the people of his village, as if someone from the 14th century actually did travel through time.  With premonitions of the arrival of the plague to his village (which turn out to be heeded), the villagers of a winter bound poor community hover in fear and look for any omen good or bad to give them some sign of what is coming.  With a fantastic narration of a quest (ala the holy grail) to mount a spire on a church in a faraway land, that if done before sunrise would save the village, a boy describes his fantasy which is shown to us, complete with sea monsters and dragons (all represented by 20th century contrivances).For those seeking real time travel, stick to the true sci-fi, you will be disappointed...For those interested in seeing a dark, moving tale of the desperation that must have been felt by the people who lived through the plague without understanding what it really was...a tale where the fantastic is really our wonderfully mundane world...check this out. "},{"Title":"One of the greatest  unknown films.","Date":"15 April 1999","Score":"20 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This film is almost unknown. None of the cast ever achieved fame, and Vincent Ward, while an able director, is not very prolific. However, I still cherish my memories of this movie. I saw it nearly 11 years ago, and every detail , and all of the performances, are still fresh in my mind. It is  a fantasy of extraordinary beauty, which does not use a single special effect, and which conveys the thoughts and beliefs of mediaeval peasants better than a dozen high-priced epics. "},{"Title":"Rarely is there a film that you cannot view just once. But this is one.","Date":"8 March 2000","Score":"17 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Not really well-known in most of the world, this New Zealand classic is one of the finest time-travel adventures ever to grace the big screen. A remarkable story indeed. Only by seeing it several times do you realise that every little detail is quite significant. This has been one of my Top 10 films of all time for over a decade. See it by all means, but see it more than once ... and pay close attention to everything. "},{"Title":"Goonies this ain't","Date":"27 February 2007","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This is an extraordinary film, not to mention extraordinarily underrated. I first saw this film as a child and it has stayed with me ever since. Now I've seen it once more with adult eyes I can't help but wonder why it's not more renowned. The fact it defies standard genres has probably hampered its reputation, often getting it unfairly shelved as a sort of arty kid's flick. Undoubtedly there are elements here that will appeal to children - imagine a more sombre Terry Gilliam and you might be there - but it's much more than just that. And to describe it as merely fantasy is to ignore the power and universality of the story. Poetic and moving, The Navigator is a lost masterpiece of 80s cinema waiting to be rediscovered. "},{"Title":"A believable representation of medieval people. (minor spoilers?)","Date":"20 September 2004","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I just saw The Navigator for the first time last night, and I must say that it is a very well done film. Unlike Hollywood films, the medieval characters are not simply modern men in medieval garb, nor are they treated as ignorant buffoons. The portrayal of the characters is highly believable.They see everything with religious and medieval attitudes, and try to cope with the nightmare world of a modern city as best they can, in order to complete their pilgrimage / quest. This is perhaps the greatest strength of the film, as it helps the viewer to successfully suspend his disbelief and identify with the characters.It may be subtle, but there is also medieval symbolism used in the movie.There are some things in the movie that don't quite make sense, like the complete willingness for the foundry workers to help a group of people who should for the most part seem insane to anyone not knowing they are actually from the fourteenth century, or the apparent pathological need for every car driver in the movie to try to run the characters down, without any attempt to swerve, stop, or otherwise avoid them. These, however, are merely nit picking trifles, when placed in the context of the full story.It is not the greatest movie I have seen, but I would definitely say that it is worth a look. It's respect for and realistic depiction of it's medieval characters is a strength that really helps to hold the movie together.I give it a thumbs up.  "},{"Title":"Probably the best movie you've never seen","Date":"5 September 2001","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie for the first time about ten years ago, and was absolutely impressed on every level. The acting done is fantastic, and far beyond what you would expect from such a small budget. The directing leaves you with memorable scenes and the point is clearly made, big money does not equal big talent. Do not let this movie pass you by! "},{"Title":"Magical","Date":"18 February 2003","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Well, what can I say, of the 20 or so reviews below, there is a dissenting voice, this is a Truly Magical Movie I won't go into the story, read the reviews below below for that, I'll just say, put it at the top of your MUST SEE list, it's long time since I saw it, and I've been looking for a copy ever since (with NO luck I might add)Now stop reading and go watch it.......  'o)  BUT!!! beware, like I said, it's Magical, and will entrance you. "},{"Title":"An amazing Sci-Fi adventure","Date":"6 December 1998","Score":"13 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  No, this is not the silly Disney movie in which the fat kid rides around in a spaceship shaped like a big green booger and generally annoys all forms of alien life to the tune of a bad Robert Palmer cover of a Little Richard song.This Navigator, The Navigator A Mediaeval Odyssey  is a sad, yet compelling story of time-travelers from the Middle Ages trying to save their small village from the Black Death.  In this movie, the view is treated to how the modern world would appear as heaven (or even hell) to a person from Mediaeval times soley through the use of visuals.This film was the creation of master director Vincent Ward who has made such wonderful works as What Dreams May Come and Map of the Human Heart.  As with all of his movies, Ward treats us to an array of stunning uses of color and texture to enhance a grand story.The Navigator only suffers having a bland name.  Watch this film at least twice, once for the mind blowing story, the other for Ward's rich film work. This film is sure to become a Sci-Fi classic. "},{"Title":"Very good film","Date":"7 May 2008","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I first watched this film in the early nineties. It's always a good sign when a movie can suck you into something new. This is a unique story in a ocean of sequels and copies. It's not just a film about time travel, in fact the time travel takes a back seat to the psychology of a medieval man. This film is about a small medieval village during a time of the plague and a boy who seems to have an answer on how to keep this plague at bay. It's a world filled with superstitions and struggle, even when the travelers end up in the modern era, all their motivations are much the same. It is a gritty film, for some it may be a bit to dark, but it is a truly fascinating and original study. "},{"Title":"The way movies should be made....","Date":"17 September 2006","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This is a movie that takes you on a journey. Simple in it's storytelling yet complex in it's storyline. I actually felt like I was there, sharing in the lives and travels of the characters. The cinematography is beautiful. If this movie didn't win an award for it it should have.This is a movie that will stick with you, it will stand out as a movie that was clearly ahead of its time. I strongly urge everyone to see this. It may be difficult to understand at first, but you must allow it to sink in. There is a moral to it which took me a while to understand myself, but it's timeless.Watch and enjoy, but pause if you leave the room even for a second. One of my favorites. "}{"Title":"A haunting dark fantasy ...","Date":"16 October 2008","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Led by a visionary young boy, a group of mediaeval men from England dig a tunnel through the Earth and end up in 20th century New Zealand on their quest to forge a cross for the steeple of a church in the hopes that this will avert the Black Death from coming to their village. This is the basic plot of The Navigator A Mediaeval Odyssey, a wonderful dark fantasy.I first saw this movie on its initial VHS release in the late 1980's, loved it then and was very happy to find it on DVD recently, so that I could watch it again. It has a haunting soundtrack with music that seems very appropriate for the atmosphere and mood of the film. The use of black and white in the dream sequences and the stark settings that reminded me of those in FW Murnau's Nosferatu (1922) and deathly and religious imagery give the film an overall dark tone. And I do find the contrast between the black and white sequences and the colored sequences to be effective.There were also comedic parts in this film-the crossing of the highway scene, the group attacking the submarine as if it were a sea monster and Connor on the front of the train for instance, but interestingly, each time comedy is shown, it is immediately followed by a much more somber and dark scene.Overall, I highly recommend this film its dark and surrealistic vision, its haunting soundtrack and its portrayal of a desperate people. "},{"Title":"Death, Sacrifice, and...Magic?","Date":"6 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" In a medieval Welsh village, a strange fey boy has a vision; that if the villagers plant a cross on the highest steeple in Christendom, the village will be spared the Plague. So begins a journey that takes the villagers, the boy, and the audience to entirely unexpected places. Even though the film tried to be too 'relevant' in places, the mix of humor and sudden plot twists, and the bittersweet ending that comes as a surprise, but shouldn't, hold up extremely well. In particular the collision between medieval Wales and modern New Zealand lent itself to some truly hilarious moments. (Quote from the movie, from one of the villagers; The Church is a business; and it runs out of money?) I really wish I owned this film, or a better copy of the soundtrack. "},{"Title":"One of the best","Date":"7 June 2007","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Some of the critiques I've read of this, from others on the database, complain about the clumsy imagery or the accents. Get a grip. The point isn't linguistic accuracy, or any other kind of accuracy but rather the theme and motifs. In 1348 a frightening illness swept Europe, killing thousands. People didn't understand what caused the illness, only that it offered a horrifying death. This movie is as much a critique of christendom as it is of contemporary politics. If the US nuclear submarine is for some too clumsy an analogy to the black death, imagine the fall out of nuclear bombing as analogous to the black death. The pervasive silent killer. This movie was fantastic, for its imaginative plot, the interesting motifs and imagery, the concept of a small boy's vision, and the possible universes. "},{"Title":"visually strong, but a weak narrative core","Date":"18 December 2010","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" A group of miners from a 14th century English village in the path of the Black Plague follow the recurring dreams of a young boy and tunnel through the Earth into the 20th century, where they hope to appease God by raising a cross atop the highest church in New Zealand. Director Vincent Ward is a name worth watching, if only his narrative skills would catch up to his visionary style. His sophomore feature is no less haunting than his 1984 debut film 'Vigil', but likewise suffers from sketchy characters and an underwritten script. The villagers' quest for spiritual redemption has no real parallel in our own age (despite casual comparisons between the Plague, the AIDS epidemic, and the nuclear arms race), and the only reason for bringing them into the 20th century is to see their confusion with automobiles and television. The often striking visual scheme gives the film a strictly cosmetic impression of depth and meaning, but Ward's Little Nemo resolution, and the forced irony of the epilogue, only underlines the lack of a story built around his compelling, original idea. "},{"Title":"A Weird and Original Movie About Faith","Date":"22 October 2003","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  On the Fourteenth Century, a small community is threatened by the black plague, which is soiling Europe. Griffin (Hamish McFarlane) is an eight years boy with visions. These visions show the salvation for his people digging a hole to center of the earth and putting a cross on the top of a church. Griffin, his brother Connor and some locals starts their quest that brings them to the Twentieth Century. This is indeed a weird movie. Only yesterday I decided to watch it, and I do not dare to say that I liked or disliked it. First, because although being a very strange film, it is also very original. The black & white for the scenes of the dark Middle Ages and the colored ones for the present days is a technique very unusual. Second, the plot is totally unpredictable, with no clichés. And last but not the least, the unknown cast has a great performance. My vote is six. "},{"Title":"atmospheric but simple","Date":"23 January 2006","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This is an imaginative but slightly strained film. It promises more than it really delivers, and the message is sometimes delivered with all the finesse of a sledgehammer. This is epitomised by the American nuclear submarine as the symbol of all that is evil.The portrayal of rural England at the time of the Black Death was atmospheric - though that it not to say that it was accurate. The accents in particular were a problem. Haven't film-makers heard any regional accents (these people are supposed to come from Cumberland -not Cumbria - which is in England) that they have to fall back on Irish-Scottish? Or perhaps this simply reflects the actors' limitations. But the major problem with the film, reflected in other comments, was that it was confusing. Was the boy's tale purely imagination (a form of foreknowledge), or did the villagers really travel to the 20th century - surely the former.The commentator who wrote of the apparent pathological need for every car driver in the movie to try to run the characters down, without any attempt to swerve, stop, or otherwise avoid them obviously hasn't driven in New Zealand. It is standard driving etiquette to ignore obstacles, or hit them if possible. "},{"Title":"Christian Allegory","Date":"6 November 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This is a parable regarding the salvation of the community through the vision and sacrifice of one innocent boy.I stumbled onto this movie at an art house back in the day and was impressed by and absorbed into the bleakness of the medieval miners' lives. As the story continues into then contemporary New Zealand there are a few amusing moments, but the gags are mostly predictable. One nice touch was how the modern foundrymen and the visitors found a common language in casting the cross. It seemed apparent to me that the boy represented Jesus Christ, the Black Death, spiritual death and the placing of the cross atop the highest spire symbolic for the elevation of faith in Christ to redeem the world. The end of the story defines this view. "},{"Title":"Very Interesting Movie","Date":"26 November 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I'm surprised this movie didn't rate higher. The photography is excellent, it's a beautiful movie to look at.  The acting is also excellent but no one performance stands out.  The story is interesting and well told.  I remember being so happy to find this gem of a movie.  It is movies like this that make me go to art theaters. "},{"Title":"Definatly under the rainbow","Date":"27 September 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This is truly a lost gem of a film. It is beautifully photographed, well-acted, well paced, and well written. It is a fantasy film that relies on the fantasy and not on the SFX budget. Something we see all too little of these days.It is the story of a little boy that has visions during medieval times of a great city, and to save the village from the horrors of the Black Death, he, his brother Connor, and a few others must travel there and erect a spike on the cathedral there. Of course, this is a fruitless enterprise and Connor knows it, but no one would listen to him; they were stuck on a single idea and would hear nothing else.Their journey to what turned out to be New Zealand is both humorous and sad. There were times when one would be brought almost to tears and at other times laughing hard enough to hurt, but the sad element was dominant.As with all the films I like to review, it has a strong 'cult movie' appeal, but it is more accessable to general audiences than, say, Six-String Samurai was. Seeing that the Director (Vincent Ward) later did 'What Dreams May Come' (I'll review that one in a few weeks) this film deserves to brought back into the spotlight. "},{"Title":"Fantastic movie set during the time of the first outbreak of bubonic plague  when a group is transported in future","Date":"30 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Very good film with interesting as well as weird plot , nice acting and exceptional , colorful cinematography shot on location and has the feel of a great medieval fable . As men guided by a boy's vision, dig a tunnel from 14th century England to 20th century New Zealand . This Time-Travel Adventure set in Middle Age begins with a real sense of wonder and intrigue with pest causing ravage and winds up with continuous feats climbing a cathedral and including a surprising finale . As a psychic boy called Connor (Bruce Lyons) lives in 14th century Cumbria (north of England) , a tiny medieval English village . Connor keeps getting visions he cannot explain , he attempts to protect villagers from the bubonic plague . His village has so far been spared from the pest , but the villagers fear its imminent arrival and seeking relief from the Black Death . With the illuminate young boy as their guide , a group (Chris Haywood as Arno , Hamish McFarlane as Griffin , Marshall Napier as Searle , Noel Appleby as Ulf) set out to dig a hole to the other side of the world . As in an age of darkness , circa 1348 , a motley group will face the ultimate battle against deadly plague . Then , Connor leads a tunneling expedition so as to fulfill the visions and save the village , but they emerge in a modern city from New Zealand , XX Century . Gripping and evocative film about Middle Age and full of fantasy when a group of men from Dark Ages emerge in a modern city in 1988 . In Middle Age one young boy along with some reckless countrymen will take on an impressive fight against bubonic Death . It is a genuine as well as imaginative medieval tale written and directed with great sensibility , fairness and clarity . This one contains a Bergman style , as ¨Seventh Seal¨ comes to mind , as the first part results to be filmed in Bergmanian wake . It was not just the artistic vision or imagination, but above all , religion , God , devil and sacrifice . This engrossing picture contains powerful and haunting images , being divided in two parts  Middle Age and Modern Times . It's plenty of scenes that stay in the mind as when the group appears at the 'other side' that results to be 20th century New Zealand , as the appearance of Black Death and church bell conquest . This thought-provoking story deals with holy fate , religious awe , the passion , Catholic Church and several other 'Age of Darkness' issues . The interesting perspective is intimate and it lends a great deal of excitement to the movie experience . Beautiful scenery, tense , intriguing and a stirring climax lift this story . There's something for everyone here ; fans of history , fans of Sci-Fi/Fantasy , fans of medieval adventure should all find something to enjoy about this film .Wonderfully directed is all strongest for being brilliantly photographed in an excellent black and white during Middle Age and colorful imagine for recent times , excellently shot by cameraman Geoffrey Simpson , filmed on location in Auckland, Mount Ruapehu, Tongariro National Park, Southern Alps, Waitomo Caves, Waikato, New Zealand . Emotive as well as atmospheric musical score plenty of religious sounds and chores by Tabrizi . The motion picture was stunningly written and directed by Vincent Ward , though on a short budget . It was this movie that convinced the producers of Alien 3 (1992) to hire Vincent Ward as writer/director , although Ward would eventually leave the set of Alien 3 after many creative differences with the studio . It's a masterpiece who made his major impact gaining international acclaim . The picture won several prizes in a lot of Festivals such as Australian Film Institute , Cannes Film Festival , Fantasporto and Sitges Catalonian Film Festival . The great filmmaker Vincent Ward has produced, executive produced and/or written and directed feature films including What Dreams May Come , The River Queen and The Last Samurai , developing the underlying material he chose the director, before acting as an executive producer on this film . Ward's films have earned critical acclaim and festival attention whilst achieving a wide, eclectic audience as Vigil (1984), and Map of the Human Heart (1993) and this The Navigator A Medieval Odyssey (1988) . Rating  Above average but is deemed by many to be the Vincent ward's best . "}{"Title":"Why never on TV?","Date":"6 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" i enjoyed this film when it was first released on video - it never seemed to have played the theaters in my college town. i loved it! i've often thought about it from time to time, and wondered why i never see it on TV. it seems like a good film for the sci-fi channel or bravo (dear god, how many times can they run 'braveheart'???) i recall it being inventive, well-acted, well-directed.a pity it's not better known. heck, i don't even think it can be found at blockbusters now. "},{"Title":"Additional Comment","Date":"25 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The Navigator offers plenty of strong imagery and metaphor - black and white sequences of medieval Cumbria are interspersed with the colour visions that pepper the film. The more the film continues the more colour is introduced, and even the scenes shot entirely in colour are either at night or underground. This gives the film a darkness and foreboding which suits the theme of plague, and allows the viewer to forget the slightly outlandish plot, which so many directors would have used as an excuse to introduce flashy special effects rather than the simple, solid imagery that makes the film so strong. A lot of work has obviously gone into this film - even the accents are an impressively believable attempt at medieval Cumbrian.  This film isn't for anyone wanting thrills or adventure, but if you're willing to spend some time and thought on it then it's a film you'll remember very fondly.  "},{"Title":"beatyfull black and white art movie","Date":"29 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  A beautiful partly black/white partly colour movie in the spirit of Dreyer, Bergman and Tarkovsky. A band of pure Irish sets out on a quest to plant a Copper cross on the highest church in Christendom to avoid the Black Dead . Absolute viewable and interesting for a fascinating soundtrack. "},{"Title":"A Parable for All Times","Date":"7 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This was the first video I rented to watch on my very own VCR, all those years ago.  It had been a favorite rental.  But it took quite some time to find a copy for my private collection.   I am very careful about loaning it out too, because it once went missing for nearly a year! Highly recommended, especially if you enjoy the mix of historical reality with fantastical journey.  I have shown it to 7-year-olds and 37-year-olds and everyone loves it.   "},{"Title":"A tantalizing meditation on faith, mystery, and imagination.","Date":"3 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Sometime in the Middle Ages, a group of men living in fear of the Black Death follow the visions of a nine year-old boy (Hamish MacFarlane) to go on a pilgrimage by digging a tunnel through the center of the earth (!) emerging instead in twentieth century New Zealand (!) where they try to complete their journey by erecting a cross atop a church steeple. A willing suspension of disbelief (or the kind of unquestioning faith that the main characters have) never hurts when watching something like this, but if you're in the right frame of mind, this fable will gradually draw you into its tantalizing meditation on faith, mystery, and imagination. "},{"Title":"Not quite the stunning achievement as suggested by others...","Date":"28 July 2005","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I sought out this film based solely on the wonderful reviews and comments left by fellow IMDb members, going so far as to pay a top premium to obtain a previously owned VHS. To say I was disappointed would be an understatement.It's not that this isn't a decent film; in its proper context it's actually not too bad. But to slurp on the adjectives that reviewers have generously heaped onto this flick is more than a touch disingenuous. Perhaps it's real admiration on their parts, I'd rather not speculate. All I can say is - it's decent.Made along the lines of Baron Munchausen in its quirkiness and mixed metaphors, The Navigator tries to balance stark realism and half-imagined visions. Taking us from a plague infested 14th Century village to a modern 20th Century city via one of childhood's best fantasies Digging a hole to the other side of the world.But there's so much clutter and unresolved thematic elements that it's extremely difficult to appreciate what is, or isn't, occurring on screen. Look, I'm not a pedestrian film-goer waiting, or expecting, to be spoon fed a story. But confusing will always be confusing and claiming pseudo-intellectual superiority because it *is* that confusing doesn't make it 'special by default'.Believe me, I appreciate the original idea, that's a big plus for Navigator. And thumbs-up for giving us the ultra-realistic world inhabited by the characters. Their filthy blandness stands out from the all too common clean & crisp that Hollywood mistakes for life in the middle ages. (Just how many times can you populate a giant castle with outlandish costumes borrowed from the yokels-n-yahoos who regularly attend the Medieval Festival?) These truths speak to the sincerity, honesty, and originality of the filmmakers.But the approach taken by a young Vincent Ward is just too disjointed to be considered a good film. Decent pretty much sums it up. However, it does give us a true peek into the future in another way The Navigator is a proving ground for a filmmaker who will, in ten years, hit his stride with the amazing and genuinely stunning achievement --- What Dreams May Come. "},{"Title":"It has flaws, but it's a film you'd not be ashamed to have on your personal top 10","Date":"28 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I watched this movie with little expectations and it managed to surpass them. I stood and thought why it isn't more acclaimed, since it has many elements that stand up compared to more well known films. I realized Navigator's main flaw is it doesn't succeed to induce the right state of mind to the audience from the very beginning. If you watch Terminator 2 expecting a realistic SF you'd find many things making no sense, but if you watch it with the action movie conventions in mind you find everything it's on it's place. Every single movie needs to make the viewer familiar with it's rules and conventions, to set him in the right mood. Navigator has a pretty ambiguous beginning, and it's not very consistent after that either, leaving me confused at times if i'm watching a kids fairytale with some serious undertones, an actually profound artistic movie, or just an exploitation on the concept of what if medieval people traveled in our time.Otherwise everything else about Navigator A Mediaeval Odyssey is great. The characters are very well designed, when i was a kid i had myself an idol like Connor (we probably all did), the man that is a natural leader, knows every time what is right and doesn't afraid of anything. But in real life even this kind of persons are still human beings, they mess up sometimes, they lose hope sometimes, no one's perfect, and i really liked this little touch of humanity Connor has. Ulf even though he's the oldest in the group he's the clumsiest and most insecure. He's still a child at heart, even more than Griffin, the actual child. The fact that his friends care about him so much despite him being more of a liability to their mission is really touching. Overall all medieval characters are very realistic compared to what we see in the genre.Maybe some people that watched this movie would expect the reactions of the medieval villagers to the modern city to be different, more powerful. The truth is, it's hard to imagine how would such people react in a situation like that, and i can't think of films that get this aspect right and believable, but i think Navigator comes quite close. There was a lot of unknown during that ages, and for the villagers of a remote mine everything was new, a big medieval city would be just as new and strange as a modern city with skyscrapers, cars and trains. They expected to see strange things, and they saw strange things, not too much reason to get overexcited.Somewhere about 6-7. "},{"Title":"The inside journey","Date":"28 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I stumbled across this flick on VHS, in a s-mart basket (the ones that gather lot of rubbish, and a few jewels, at a cheap price). I was haunted by the cover (different from the one IMDB shows) and the plot and the prize won at some Mistery Festival (or whatsoever). It was the right choice the story is not so original, but it works. A sort of metaphisical trip through time and space, an ordeal for ancient knights surrounded by contemporary evil. A little treasure in the fantasy gender. It deserves more than it's got.  "},{"Title":"Truly a great mediaeval fantasy","Date":"7 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Director(and co-writer)Vincent Ward's medieval villagers escaping the Black Death by tunneling thru' the earth to the other side; a sort of China syndrome with English miners! the plot device leaves him with great room for manoeuvre in the both plot and visual imagery - which he uses to great effect.  "},{"Title":"Watch your Woofers!","Date":"5 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  No... this is no dog of a film.  It is surprisingly excellent.  The other comments by IMDb members are pretty much right on, except they all forgot to mention an astounding portion of this film...  the rich SOUNDTRACK!  This film really made my woofers WOOF!  I do not know who was in control of the music, but perhaps IMDb staffers can find out... it's not in the rundown of the film.  The Miller-Movies formula awards a high 8 to this film that is well worth seeing, especially if you want something a bit different! "}{"Title":"Lose yourself.","Date":"7 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  One of those rare movies where the viewer tunes out and becomes totally engrossed in the film.  The individual characters are developed with all their ignorances and weaknesses; their faith in the visions of the mystical child is heartbreaking.  By film's end, the trip down under and back, the characters are inverted.  The child finds truth, but it does him no good as he is another plague victim.  Reminds me of Simon in Lord of the Flies. Deserves to become a required watching in a High School Humanities class and it shares the etherial qualities and plage background of The Seventh Seal.     "},{"Title":"Whatever you discover for yourself from this film, you'll still enjoy it.","Date":"19 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I had to watch this one a few times to fully understand it, and you might have to, too. Initially, I thought it was a little boring and, yes, even confusing. The story claims to be about time travelers in 14th century England, but do they really go anywhere? Well, that's what you must figure out. Watch it once for the feel, especially the music and haunting cinematography. Watch it again to really grasp the story, and keep watching it to discover your own metaphors AIDS? isolation? brotherhood? betrayal? religious tyranny?Whatever you discover, you'll enjoy it. The Navigator is clarity at its best and powerful film-making at its even better.   "},{"Title":"The Best Time-Travel Movie!","Date":"30 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I know of no other film that so captures the fantastic magic!Ordinary village folk escape from medieval Europe, ravaged by the plague, to modern New Zealand - and then back to home! A one-of-a-kind classic! Inspired! "},{"Title":"It's an Incredible film!","Date":"1 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This is definitely a film for people who enjoy certain genre, ie;fantasy/medieval, adventure, dreams. In some ways it reminded me of Willow, and Princess Bride. If you don't like these types of films, you won't like this one. Period pieces/time travel, fantasy fans should enjoy it.It's far superior to something like Black Knight, or A Kid in King Arthur's Court, but similar to these films in many ways. It's visually fascinating, esp. the tunnel digging scene. I would love to own a copy of this one!There are certain beliefs that should be suspended during the watching of the film, those with strict religious views or Bible interpretations may object. "},{"Title":"One of the Best Time Travel Films of all Time","Date":"2 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  What I love about this film is that nobody even realizes that they have traveled through time.   This makes sense because of a great script and terrific acting.  The few people that I know who have seen this film all love it.    "},{"Title":"Bad!","Date":"4 September 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Avoid! Avoid! Avoid! What the heck did I just watch??? The whole time I didn't know what was happening. It's in black in white, and full of shaky cuts. We all think you have to be on drugs to enjoy this movie. I'm a big fan of time-travel movies, but that element of the movie is barely touched on. Don't let the other reviewers fool you into seeing this movie - ever! We all were confused during this movie - right from the very beginning, through the time travel and at the end too. Some of the scenes were comical (although there were not supposed to be). Strongly suggest you don't see this movie for any reason. I'm rating this a 2 and not a 1 because it had a nice twist at the end. "},{"Title":"Huh?","Date":"18 April 2002","Score":"6 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I was truly interested in seeing this film when I was first told about it. It sounded like something I normally would like and be able to appreciate. Unfortunately, I was gravely disappointed. This movie made not one iota of sense at all! I found it to be extremely slow-moving, confusing, and just quite awful. If you were from the 14th century and suddenly found yourself in the 20th century, wouldn't you be at all interested in your new surroundings? Why weren't those guys afraid of electricity and the machinery in that plant? Sure, they stopped and looked at the TV's, but they didn't act at all surprised by anything they were seeing. I also found the ending to be a big disappointment as well.One last thing Were all you people who gave this movie such glowing reviews in your right minds when you watched it? Perhaps if I had been in a drug induced stupor, I would have enjoyed it more.  "},{"Title":"Tedious,  uninteresting limited plot and definitely overrated","Date":"16 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I ordered the DVD of this on the sole knowledge that it was a time-travel film and imagining that it couldn't NOT be fun - and unfortunately came to regret my purchase on watching the said film although I actually watched the DVD three times in the hope that I could glean more interest the second and third time round. But no, my overall opinion did not change. This is for a number of reasons, firstly the dialogues are mostly unintelligible, they are very strong Scottish/Irish accents, there should be subtitles but there aren't any, so, basically, if you are not Scottish/Irish, you're up a gum tree. If English is not your mother tongue, you can forget the film completely ! Second thing is picture quality which is very amateur compared to similar type films made in Hollywood, thirdly, there is little interaction between the people from the 14th century and the people from the 20th - the fun about time-travel films is exactly the interaction which serves to construct a plot. Our band of miners, although physically in the 20th century, remain for the most part amongst themselves, and I would even query the logic of certain of their reactions faced with modern conveniences such as lorries and television sets.Here we have people tunnelling through a mine in Cumbria and ending up in New Zealand. Even if they were very fit, it's just nonsense, there's also the boy who dreams it all in advance but we don't know why.The worst failing of the film is it's almost perpetual dark and night. I intensely dislike films that take place all the time at night. Human beings are generally sleeping at night, whatever country they may be in so it doesn't make sense to make a film of this nature take place in the middle of the night - unless we are talking about a night watchman who's gone off on a time travel adventure - but this is not the case. So why make most of the sets in pitch dark, it's unnatural and you get the impression, rightly or wrongly that the film maker is trying to hide some inadequacies, whatever they may be.Lastly I'm not into medieval dress and costume - I am a person of the 20th century and am open to time travel around 200 or 300 years but the 14th century is a little too far back for me ! The film is the antithesis of another time travel film which I equally detested called the 12 monkeys - that was too extreme in the other way, incomprehensible plot, too many special effects to the point of becoming boring. In this film, the plot is just not strong enough to engender emotion, and there is no romance, which is a big minus in time travel films.As far as time travel goes, I'm more of a Portrait-of-Jennie, Somewhere in time, For all time, cream-in-my-coffee person - I don't like the extremist ends of the scale, either too primitive (this film) or too overdone ( many others).I cannot possible recommend this film to anyone seeking an exciting and coherent time travel adventure ....the only possible use would appear to be a cure for radical insomnia. "},{"Title":"Don't bother, leave it.","Date":"17 January 2009","Score":"2 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" No, don't do this thing, it really is a pretty awful movie. I like almost every time travel movie I have seen including the bad ones and I am a New Zealander but this movie is one confusing arts letdown of a movie, I didn't like the movie one bit but it still would have better if the ending had not been so bad.I agree with the view that the others must have been taking drugs to enhance this movie, either that or they will be happy with anything incomprehensible.And there isn't any time travel anyway.Also the movie is B&W for much of it's run. It is shot at night. "}]