[{"Title":"It makes me laugh !!!","Date":"2 December 2001","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  It may not win any awards as one of the all time greats. However it is a fun movie to watch.  Sometimes you don't want a movie that you have to think about. Like I said it makes me laugh! "},{"Title":"We really can rest at night knowing comedy is safe with Mary Gross","Date":"5 June 2003","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is one of my five favorite comedy movies.Mary Gross gives an inspired and hilarious performance as the nerdy, neophyte, near-Fed.Rebecca De Mornay is perfect as the straight foil for Mary, and Fred Thompson did a much better job of impersonating an FBI instructor than he ever did at impersonating a Senator.Tony Longo as the sailor in the bar was also outstanding.It also had a great beat, and was easy to dance to. I give it an 80, Dick. "},{"Title":"An enduring favorite","Date":"14 May 2008","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Hopefully Feds will be brought to DVD!Feds is a unique buddy comedy. Two women are admitted to the FBI academy on the assumption that they will fail. Academically weak and physically strong Ellie pairs up with academically strong and physically weak Janice for mutual aid. Both have plenty of moxie and come up with unique solutions for overcoming roadblocks. Casting Rebecca DeMornay as Ellie was genius; soft-spoken Mary Gross is exactly right as Janice. It's refreshing to see two women in these kinds of roles. Has one of the best funny bar-seduction scenes ever. Fred Thompson is the perfect FBI director Bilecki, with a hard-guy manner and that warm southern accent.Family-friendly despite the bar scene. "},{"Title":"Satisfyingly Hilarious","Date":"7 February 2000","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I love this movie.  I own this movie.  I watch this movie whenever I need a quick pick-me-up.  Rebecca DeMornay and Mary Gross play off of each other so well (Rebecca's the straight-man and Mary's the comic relief.)  The girls are trainees in the FBI Academy--chosen because of their gender rather than their skills.  Ellie (Rebecca)is the ex-marine who has no trouble with the physical requirements but can't do the academics.  Janice (Mary) is the multi-degreed academic standout who can't pass the physical tests.  Teamed up as roommates, they are forced to work together so both can realize the dream of becoming a Special Agent.  Good clean fun for the whole family. Enjoy!  "},{"Title":"Favourite movie","Date":"7 May 2005","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Feds is great! So much humour and wit mixed with butt-kicking.The movie really is empowering for any woman who works in a male-dominated field. They really do show many of the guys how to do the job right.There is also a great showing of support for each other that really helps make the difference.I wish they would release it to DVD. VHS is really a sad medium for film now. I want to add Feds to my DVD collection.If you haven't seen Feds, do yourself a favour and rent it if you still own a VCR. "},{"Title":"Not too brainy, but fun","Date":"10 June 2002","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Feds is not a cerebral type of film by any standard, but is still a lot of fun to watch. The two female agents in training complement each other well - one is in great physical shape but not the studying type, the other is a bookworm with no athletic skills, and they end up helping each other through training. Despite the possible premise, this film does not come across as a vehicle for feminism or political correctness; the male agents are not portrayed as bumbling or dumb, and the two women are by no means the perfect trainees, and in fact they realize they were signed up just because the FBI needed some female trainees. Though the plot may have some holes and it's obvious it was filmed no where near Washington, it's a funny movie and worth seeing.    "},{"Title":"I Love this movie!!","Date":"10 November 2005","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Affirmative action says there have to be female cadets. Nobody says that the old boys network has to like it. Mary Gross is a perfectionist with more degrees than a thermometer. However, she's the proverbial 98 lb. weakling. Rebecca DeMornay took a couple of classes at a community college, however, she just got out of the Marine Corps and can kick the butt of anything or anyone that crosses her. Together, they're the ultimate agent, however, they've got to pass separately. The things they get into, the mistakes they make and the things they do spectacularly (and sometimes accidentally) right will keep you laughing and cheering to the end. Mary Gross getting beyond drunk and coming onto a sailor in a bar is worth it by itself. "},{"Title":"DeMornay is beautiful. What else is needed?","Date":"10 May 2016","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" A great action film, but not as clever as the first film and not as tightly put together as the second. It lost its way a couple of times and I was left feeling that of the first three films, strangely this was seemed the most outdated. Still a good yarn and never boring. Feds was refreshing in the sense that it's a female buddy cop movie that didn't have to depend on vulgarity or sexuality to be entertaining unlike its modern counterpart The Heat. Yes, both women have a crush on their respective male equivalents, but the movie didn't dwell on it so it didn't resort to being a rom-com either, which typically happens these days. Overall they just help each other become more competitive against their fellow classmates, there's no trickery involved, no toilet humor, no crudeness, and really no male-bashing either - the brainy Janis helps Marine Ellie become a better test taker and Ellie gives tips to Janis on how to pass the physical requirements. Good clean fun. I would've been satisfied if the jerks failed but oh well, good ending nonetheless.Overall rating 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"SHUCKS! Police corruption is a gas, gas, gas,......kiss my ass! SPOILERS","Date":"14 May 2000","Score":"4 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  FEDS features REBECCA DE MORNAY as a beautiful FBI agent with no common sense who is able to foil G. GORDON LIDDY and his evil plan. Unfortunately when these guys trample our civil liberties there's not much we can do except bend over and sue them when it's all done. This film puts a happy face on those who sit on high and act like god almighty with our lives...you know the types...they snoop, intrude, and yet some of them are beautiful enough to pop out of a cake or pilot a UPS van down to MCMURDO base for a ZOE WANNAMAKER fan meeting. Sigh....beauty mixed with corruption is a bad thing......booo hooo booo hooo. This movie is bombastic and had had all the common sense of J. EDGAR HOOVER'S sex life! Enjoy....goombas! "},{"Title":"Not Even Funny!","Date":"4 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Leonard Maltin has this movie perfectly pegged with his 1/2 point rating. Rebecca De Mornay and Fred Thompson are much too good to be associated with a film of this caliber, which did not even come close to being anything comparable to a Police Academy. Just to even watch the whole film tells you that I certainly did not have anything better to do. "}]