[{"Title":"Made me laugh so much I had a side stitch","Date":"22 April 2004","Score":"21 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Picking up a couple of years after the original, tomatoes are now banned - which has ruined the pizza industry - and the unseen mad scientist who chalked up those giant killer tomatoes in the first film, Dr. Gangreen (John Astin) is up to his old tricks again, only this time he's using music to make tomatoes into people, and depending on the type of music being played, that determines who/what the tomato becomes. Playing sexy jazz music produces sexy blond tomato women, playing Salsa music produces Carmen Miranda, playing Church music produces the Pope, playing pop produces either a pre-white Michael Jackson look-a-like or a Don Johnson look-a-like, or if you play rock music, you get big, burly military tomato men.As Charlton Heston's character from Soylent Green would say The killer tomatoes are PEOPLE!Our hero, Chad Finletter(Anthony B. Starke) falls for the attractive one time tomato Tara (Karen Mistal). Unfortunately, Tara can be changed back into a tomato whenever she hears a certain musical chord.Full of gags (like the aforementioned multiple musical interpretations of a tomato) that include a prison dividing its cells between Really bad guys and former political aids, the mime stalking Chad & Tara during their musical montage dating sequence, pot shots at how films have to feature tons of marketing in order to have a budget to get made, pot shots at bad movie marathon hosts and game shows, and let's not forget MY personal favorite, the talking teddy bear that calls out for help when Rock Peace tries to smother it. Film also features a more coherent plot (as it were) and served as the blue print for the animated series that later aired on Fox Kids.Keep an eye out for it. George Clooney makes his film debut as Chad's friend and pizza co-worker Matt.  "},{"Title":"Funny, but where's the tomatoes?","Date":"20 July 2000","Score":"16 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Being a huge b-movie fan, I had to see this movie. It is VERY funny and entertaining and still a b-movie even with a larger budget, but the only footage of tomatoes moving and attacking people (the best part of the original) is taken from the original attack film. Here instead we got tomatoes that look exactly like people. But when you buy an attack of the killer tomatoes movie that shows a giant killer tomato attacking on the cover, you expect to see a giant killer tomato attacking in the movie! John Astin as Gangreen was funny, but I like the original movie's reason for tomato attacks. In the original, man altered tomatoes to make them better but accidently gave them the ability to grow and attack people.In this movie that is all ignored and now the killer tomatoes were made by a evil professor in his basement.I think the original plot AND movie are much better, but this films is still very funny in it's own way. And I am surprised it got away with many of the raunchy jokes while staying PG.Recommended if you want to laugh. "},{"Title":"A truly excellent comedic spoof.","Date":"29 September 2001","Score":"16 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If you expect a serious movie you'll be massively disappointed.  If, however you're expecting a comedic spoof that doesn't take itself (or it's prequel) seriously then you're in for a wild ride.  It's almost worth watching just so you can admire George Clooney's 80's mullet.  There's little plot, but instead there is a series of imaginative scenes which can really make you laugh (so long as you don't try and take the movie seriously).  Heartily recommended. "},{"Title":"Funnier than it has any right to be..","Date":"10 October 2003","Score":"12 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I had fond memories of the cartoon, but realised that I'd never actually seen the movie.This is a perfecly silly, intentionally cheesy, 80's classic. The premis is so silly and everyone involved (especially Clooney) is so obviously just having FUN making it that the humour is just utterly infections.The knowing looks at the camera. The exaggerated dramatics. The tomoato transformation effects. FT!!!!I LOVE this movie and heartily recommend it as a classic B movie.You cannot beat this film for a silly giggle. All those po faced people who claim its not amusing need a humour transplant.all together now.. (sings) When Big breastd giiiiiiirllllllllS, go down to tthe beach....! "},{"Title":"Cult Classic Continues...","Date":"9 April 2001","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" ...excuse the excessive alliteration.  A sequel (of sorts, though they change the entire plot) to the original Attack Of The Killer Tomatoes, this film absolutely screams 80's...the music especially.  That said, sure, it's silly, it's plot-deficient, it's over-acted...but it's SUPPOSED to be!  The movie constantly makes fun of itself as it runs.  (Hey, has there been a chase scene in this movie yet?)A young, big-haired George Clooney delivers dozens of one-liners perfectly this is not a big surprise, actually, the visual jokes are a riot (the overdone product placement is brilliant, especially considering its juxtaposition with the completely silly fight scene featuring cowboys, ninjas, bikers, and a really bad impersonation of Muamar Ghadafi), John Astin's totally-over-the-top evil doctor character is so deliberately bad it's good, the little sideline parodies are excellent (Oliver North Federal Prison?  Full Contact America's Cup Yachting?)...good stuff all around.Oh yes, and it's also one of the very few films to feature the gorgeous Karen Mistal. (I've spent some time trying to figure out what she supposedly did with a lawnchair, six milk bottles, and a tuning fork...) It also features a quick cameo by lingerie-clad Teri Weigel, who went on to star in quite a few other movies...though most of them aren't exactly rated PG, if you catch my drift. "},{"Title":"An excellent sequel for its day","Date":"15 January 2002","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  In the late 80s when sequels were being put out at an incredible rate, this little film called Return of the Killer Tomatoes was released. It definately ranks among the best comedy sequels I've ever seen. Possibly the funniest sequel to this genre next to Gremlins 2The film is the sequel to the spoof of disaster flicks Attack of the Killer Tomatoes that bombed heavily upon release. This film pokes fun at the low-budgets and box-office failures of both films but tends to make more of a mockery of the first film. It reuses old footage, makes fun of the actors/lines from the first film and has a plot thats almost a complete turnabout from the first one. There are no giant growling tomatoes or explosions or musical numbers or anything hi-tech in this film but you get tons of hot chicks, evil Tomatoes-turned-Rambo guys, catchy synthesizer music, the adorable little F.T.(fuzzy tomato) and probably the only time you'll see John Astin and George Clooney in the same movie.I'd give it an 8/10! "},{"Title":"Greatest B-movie comedy ever made","Date":"6 December 2002","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Even though I've only recently saw this yesterday,it is most certainly the greatest B-movie comedy ever made,and the most important part of Killer Tomato history,since many characters here went on to be on the TV show,most of the characters from the first movie reappear only they're played by different actors with the exception of J.Stephen Peace as Chad Finletter,with the introduction of six new characters,Chad(Anthony Starke),Matt(George Clooney),Tara(Karen Mistal,later to be played by legendary voice actress Kath Soucie on the show),Professor Gangreen(John Astin),and FT as himself,the product placement gag precedes the one in Waynes World by 5 years,and it has one of the weirdest relationships since Splash,I haven't seen the first or the next 2 sequels,but I'm sure they're just as funny as this one,so take my advice and buy this at Best Buy today and request to Anchor Bay to release the other Killer Tomato movies on DVD  "},{"Title":"The girl of my dreams is a vegetable...","Date":"13 May 2002","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I love this movie!! Judge me if you will, but I stand by my opinion. Forget Mars Attacks, THIS is the best B-movie spoof made in a long time. I haven't seen the original (though plenty of supposed footage from the first one is spliced into this film as part of the joke, much in the same way as Bride of Frankenstein, 1935), but from what I can gather from reviews, this is better. The film constantly makes fun of its low budget with several actors playing multiple parts, and the product-placement scene in the Pizza Place precedes the one in Wayne's World by years and is much, much funnier. The before-he-was-famous Clooney is hilarious, and there's a nice touch having John Astin (who has already spoofed light horror in the original Addams Family) play Professor Gangrene.The film is simply a silly delight to watch, so I recommend you get your hands on it as soon as possible!  "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good","Date":"27 February 2001","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film ranks up there with the best of the spoof movies, such as Naked Gun, Airplane!, and Top Secret! I rented it as part of a bad horror movie marathon, along with Leprechaun in Space. It has some of the funniest moments I've ever seen in any movie. The running joke about the film's low budget was one. Also, the fight in the bar made me laugh hysterically. Why did the fight occur? I have no idea! Keep in mind that I don't enjoy this movie on a campy, b-movies-are-cool level. I regard this movie on a One of the Funniest Movies Ever Made level. George Clooney has large hair and does a pretty good job. Also, look out for Rick Rockwell, TV's Who Wants to Marry a Millionaire? millionaire in one of his rare movie appearances! He plays a shady villain. "},{"Title":"one of my best b-movie ever seen","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  ok, this is a b-movie, and there is best to see, but this one has something peculiar, between a monty python's stupidity, and the american way of filming...you know that's gonna be plotless, but you see that the crew really enjoyed making this movie with an accurate sense of causticity. there are plenty of allusions(ex rob lowe, bikini girls...)its construction shows self-criticism, their play is really dumb, but it has a way of making it for pleasure. it has a lot of funny innuendos. its the best films of the serie...this film is considered as a cult, in its way, like the horror picture show', and you'll understand afterwards why clooney likes to play the clown, when you see his filmography..but he's not just the only interesting actor of this movie ( ;o) )the best thing is to see it with friends and drinks & foods (try to make a pizza without tomatoes but with pineapples & tunafish).enjoy! -p  "}{"Title":"She's sexy, she cooks, she cleans... I think you've found the perfect woman. Mildly entertaining comedy spoof.","Date":"22 February 2006","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Return of the Killer Tomatoes! starts as it means to go on with a silly film-within-a-film gag about it being the one dollar movie of the week on a cheap cable TV station. Once the film begins proper it seems that Professor Gangreen (John Astin) is experimenting with splicing human & tomato genes & has created tomato people, or at least I think that's what's happening. One such tomato person is his good looking assistant Tara (Karen Mistal) who dislikes the way he treats her fellow tomatoes & runs away, she ends up at pizza delivery guy Chad Finletter's (Anthony Starke) shop because he is the only other person she knows. They become romantically involved but the sinister Professor Gangreen sends his tomato person servant Igor (Steve Lundquist) to find, capture & return her. Oh, a young looking George Clooney is here as Matt, Chad's best friend just to make the film even more bizarre.Co-edited, co-starring, co-written & directed by John De Bello I thought Return of the Killer Tomatoes! was an OK comedy spoof that you simply can't take seriously. The script by De Bello, Stephen F. Andrich, Costa Dillon & J. Stephen Peace moves along at a fair pace & has plenty of cheap gags the best of which are centred around some tacky & blindingly obvious product placement, a trend that was becoming popular in films at the time this was made, the fact that tomatoes are now illegal & have to be smuggled into the country like drugs & the shortest car chase in cinema history. A lot of it is pretty much hit & miss, you'll either end up in stitches rolling around on the floor or you'll be sat there stoney faced. Personally I found a few scenes mildly amusing but I thought much of the comedy here was far to predictable, silly & juvenile to be effective. Also forget about any literal killer tomatoes because there aren't any as the film focuses on Tara & her adventures in the real world of which she had no knowledge of before, at heart it's a fish out of water tale with the hapless Chad bailing her out of trouble. At the end of the day I found it an acceptable way to pass the time, nothing more.Director De Bello doesn't do much & as a whole Return of the Killer Tomatoes! is a rather bland & forgettable film throughout. There are flashbacks to the original Attack of the Killer Tomatoes! (1978) to save money while he goes for zany comedy rather than bother with unimportant things like a story.Technically Return of the Killer Tomatoes! is OK at best but nothing spectacular. It's competent but nothing more. The acting isn't up to much & it really is strange to see such a young George Clooney pre-stardom in such a, well lets be kind & call it a unique piece of film-making.Return of the Killer Tomatoes! is OK if you liked films such as Airplane! (1980), Top Secret! (1984), The Naked Gun (1988) & Loaded Weapon 1 (1993). Watchable if your in the right mood. Followed by a further two sequels, Killer Tomatoes Strike Back! (1990) & Killer Tomatoes Eat France! (1991) both of which were directed by De Bello who seems to enjoy making films about tomatoes a little too much, he must have a giant tomato fetish or something like that... "},{"Title":"Do we have enough money to finish this turkey yet?","Date":"23 January 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This sequel to Attack of the Killer Tomatoes has actually very little to do with it. It's also a much better film. It does get a bit too juvenile for its own good toward the end, but it's entertaining (at times), with bits of surreal humor, jabs at moviemaking itself and decent acting. Half the time you'll be laughing, the other half you'll be looking at your watch. (**) "},{"Title":"Greatest Movie ever to not take itself seriously","Date":"2 May 2003","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What can I say about this movie except that it is FUNNY! Not once does it take itself seriously, always blurring the line between what you know a movie to be and just how ridiculous can you make it. Check this out for a young George Clooney. Or just check it out for a really fun night.  "},{"Title":"Good Mindless Fun","Date":"15 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie is not a good movie, I admit that right away, so right off the bat let's not say I'm arguing that it's a great movie we should respect.But that said the people who made this movie also know it's not a good movie. They are in on that and are just giving us a fun ride. I bet they had a lot of fun making it too. And I mean be honest what do you expect from a movie with such a ridiculously stupid title as Return of the Killer Tomatoes?People playing multiple parts, laughably bad effects, stupid slapstick jokes, but it all works and is a lot of fun.Plus George Clooney is in it, in what I bet is the role he is most embarrassed by in his entire career ) If you like bad movies that are funny it is worth checking this one out. Also the soundtrack is super fun. "},{"Title":"No way am I going to defend a tomato!","Date":"17 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" After making ketchup of the original killer tomato attack in the 1978 feature Attack of the Killer Tomatoes, here the tomatoes would show up again being much more of a threat in Return of the Killer Tomatoes. It's not just your standard follow-up, but it deliberatively goes up a notch adding its own unique spin to the crazily random formula. Being so absurd, strange and uncanny, it knows that and ambitiously takes every opportunity to poke fun at itself. From it's silly nature, low-budget origins and blatant product placement. The gimmicky material is a satirical delight taking pot-shots with its political and social slant, but these campy, low-brow gags within had too much of a wink-wink attitude to make too much of it. Just sit back, enjoy the spoof onslaught especially on film-making. While the cast is game too. John Astin relishes the mad genetic scientist role Professor Gangreen with his constantly hysterical animation and grimaces. Anthony Starke and George Clooney (in his most creditable role) are charismatically likable as the pizza-makers taking on Gangreen and the tomato army. A voluptuous Karen M. Waldron is memorable as one Gangreen's perfect creations. Even though it was going for that tatty inept touch with it's charmingly chintzy decors, props and special effects. Still technically it was competently staged. Ultimately ridiculous and quirky, but a cartoonish hoot.Do we have enough money to finish this turkey yet. "},{"Title":"a slight improvement on the original","Date":"26 March 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" i found this sequel to Attack of the Killer Tomatoes to be a slightly better movie.for one thing,it's high energy and not boring.plus,the music in this one is actually not annoying.however,i still didn't think it was funny at all.some of the gags are just too stupid too be funny.but that's just my opinion.again,i wouldn't watch it again in a long time.it wasted just over an hour and a half when i had nothing else to do.again,it's all about the novelty factor with this one.there's a third one entitled Killer Tomatoes Eat France,which is likely more of the same,so i'll be skipping that one.for me,Return of the Killer Tomatoes!is a 5/10 "},{"Title":"An enjoyably inane hoot","Date":"25 June 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Mad scientist Professor Gangreen (a gloriously hammy John Astin) plans on conquering the world with his army of tomato men soldiers. It's up to nice guy pizza maker Chad Finletter (affable Anthony Starke) and his easygoing smoothie best friend Matt Stevens (an engaging performance by George Clooney in an early pre-stardom gig) to stop Gangreen before it's too late. Moreover, Chad falls in love with sweet'n'sexy, yet seriously kooky tomato lady Tara Boumdeay (an adorable portrayal by sultry brunette fox Karen Mistal). Director/co-writer John De Bello crams this flick with plenty of blithely silly and often sidesplitting jokes about such things as product placement, cheesy TV game shows, equally tacky late-night trashy movie marathon television programs, and lousy special effects (Gangreen's house is an obvious crummy matte painting), plus tosses in a corny romantic montage set to a hideously sappy song (watch out for the irritating mime!), a scene-stealing hairball mutant tomato named FT, a snake that growls like a dog, a nonsensical gratuitous fight scene complete with ninjas, and loads of priceless dippy dialogue (favorite line The girl of my dreams is a vegetable). The cast have a field day with the screwball material Starke and Clooney make for likable protagonists, Astin deliciously overacts with eye-rolling aplomb, Steve Lundquist pours on the smarm as Gangreen's slimy yuppie assistant Igor, J. Stephen Peace is a riot as Chad's gung-ho uncle Wilbur, and De Bello contributes a pleasingly smug turn as supremely obnoxious TV reporter Charles White. The plain cinematography by Stephen Kent Welch and Victor Lou gives this picture a properly chintzy look. The bouncy score by Rick Patterson and Neal Fox and the witty theme song both hit the groovy spot as well. Sure, this flick is incredibly dumb and ridiculous immaterial fluff, but the film's endearingly giddy'n'goofy sense of off-the-wall humor is impossible to either resist or dislike. An absolute gut-buster. "},{"Title":"One of the Best -Funnest-'B' movies ever.","Date":"16 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I have to say I first saw this movie while I was in graduate school. My roommate brought it home and it had been a rough day in the lab, so why not? I had seen the original movie and remembered its 'cult star' appeal so I kind of expected the same kind of movie. I was wrong.This movie tries its best to disguise itself as a B movie. But there is a lot more to this production. Generally B movie acting turns me off. But the crew of this movie really shines through. The 'Star' of this movie is supposed to be John Astin, although George Clooney of later fame also shines in this film. The main actor, Anthony Starke, plays his part brilliantly. But, lets be fair, the actor, or actress, in this movie who I think is the real star is Karen Mistal. She was hired for her obvious incredible beauty, but frankly, she really shines in this film as an actress. She plays the roll as a creation of the 'mad scientist' and brings real mystery (in a light-hearted way)to the roll. I think it is a real pity that she never developed into a better known actress in any other movies.If you like knee-slapping non-sophisticated in your face humor this is the movie for you, sort of like 'Airplane' or the 'Naked Gun' series type humor. If you want sophisticated humor I guess there is still Woody-Allen, right? I liked it so much it was one of the first comedy VHS movies I bought, and that was saying a lot back when I was a poor graduate student.And watch-out for those veggies! PS. Skip the Tomatoes in France. Now there's some bad acting! "},{"Title":"An excellent 80's movie","Date":"2 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is an excellent movie on so many levels. The 80s nostalgia was all over it, the hair and clothing styles, the music. George Clooney was in top form, his scenes were excellent, he had me laughing on the floor. Tara is the hottest tomato that I've ever seen. The Finletter/Kadafi/cowboys/ninjas/bikers fight was incredibly funny, and the product placement scenes blew the later used scenes in Wayne's World away-though they were funny too. If you wanna watch a fun movie, when your not in the mood to strain your brain on a complex plot line, feel like reliving some of those 80s trends, or you just feel like laughing your ass off, give Return of the Killer Tomatoes a try. Also except for a flashback scene, you don't have to listen to the song Puberty Love in this one!!! "},{"Title":"Really funny movie.","Date":"11 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  *Spoilers at the end*I really wish I had seen the original movie before this one, but I saw this movie for sale, and I just had to get it, knowing the reputation of the original. And I gotta say, I laughed my buttocks off watching this movie. Everything about this was hilarious. The beginning with Big Breasted Women Go to the Beach and Take Their Tops Off the movie, and how the movie treated itself like it was a piece of crap. And I love the interruptions in the middle of the movie, like when they were showing clips of the first movie and people called in complaining that this wasn't really a new movie, all they did was recycle the old one. And I love when the director has to stop the movie to tell everybody they were out of money, and so they started the product placement. That had to have been the funniest thing I have seen in a couple of months.I can't understand why this movie has such a low rating, I loved it. I am a huge advocate of terrible B-Movies and that was what I expected to see when I watched this. A terrible B-Movie, but I got so much more. I actually laughed at their jokes, I enjoyed the plot, and I believed the actors, no matter how goofy they were at some times. The only part about this movie (and I know it is supposed to seem like this) that I really did not like, was the end. I really do not like anti-climaxes, and I did not like this ending. When F.T. jumped onto the grenade and blew up, I really wanted him to stay dead for two reasons. I SAW him get blown up, and I SAW him blow up into pieces. He should not have survived. But, that wasn't the full end. I actual end was where all the tomato clones went down to the beach and took their tops off... What an ending. Great movie, deserves more credit than it was given. "}{"Title":"I'd rather watch ketchup being made","Date":"27 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I've always had a soft spot for campy films.  The original Attack of the Killer Tomatoes had its moments but wasn't a great comic achievement.  I think this follow-up suffers from trying way too hard.  It just isn't funny. The image of giant tomatoes rolling through the streets of San Diego, that was kind of funny.  In this film, most of the tomatoes are turned into humans, that's not funny.   "},{"Title":"Highlight of the Series","Date":"10 February 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Years after the original batch of evil tomatoes was destroyed by the song Puberty Love, a new batch has been created -- a batch that can be transformed into a humanoid appearance, to blend in with the human population. Wilbur Finletter, the original hero, returns as his nephew unknowingly falls in love with Tara, a tomato and the girlfriend of the evil Dr. Gangreen.While there's something to be said about sequels not being able to surpass the originals, I find this to be an exception. The humor is campier, and the jokes are lamer. But for some reason, I really appreciate it. The visual gags are stepped up to the level of Airplane! or some Mel Brooks movie and I don't think this one should be neglected. Even in the beginning when clips are shown from the first movie, the clips are well chosen to really bring out the funniest and most important parts, adding something to the new saga.George Clooney appears. Actually, he more than appears -- he is on screen more than just about anyone. This is before he was big, and he has a look as though he was auditioning for the part of Jesse on Full House (but I guess he lost to John Stamos). He's very lovable in this film, putting a Charlie Sheen act of women-chasing that suits him well. There's something funny about him running a Meet Rob Lowe contest to meet women, when now the women would much rather meet him than Rob Lowe.Some of the jokes are more subtle, at least as subtle as a film like Killer Tomatoes can be. Take, for example, the Oliver North Federal Prison. At the time, this was probably pretty funny. Today, the audience who gets it will be much smaller (they'll say Isn't he a commentator for Fox News?). And there's plenty of sex jokes, but despite their prominence I never felt the film crossed into the childish realm of gross-out humor. Even the nudity was more or less tastefully done (I expected much more).If you liked the first film, I can't see why you wouldn't love this. And if you grew up with the cartoon, you will want to see this film since this is the one the series was based off of. I have yet to see Tomatoes Take France, but I think it's safe to say this is the high point in the movie series. "},{"Title":"One of the funniest movies from the 80's","Date":"11 May 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The is the second killer tomatoes movies and it is better then the first. Third killer tomatoes movie Killer tomatoes strike back is better. The forth killer tomatoes movie Killer tomatoes eat France is also better. This is this a great movie. Is it very funny. See it. See all this killer tomatoes movies. 5.1 is underrating it. This movie has a great story line. It also has great special effects. It also has great acting. It is very funny. See it. See all the killer tomatoes movies. This is one of the funniest movies from the 80's. There are not to many comedy movie that are funny. But this is. See it. It will make you laugh. See all the killer tomatoes movies. They are some of the comedy movie ever. "},{"Title":"Random","Date":"21 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Most people who have seen this movie will probably give it a very low rating.Me for one actually enjoyed this movie. The story is obviously a big joke and not to be taken seriously, and the special effects are one of the worst I've seen so far. Then why give this movie a 6?Well.. it was because i could not stop laughing seeing this movie. The movie has so much random stuff going on in it. Obviously the story is one big cliché and not to be taken seriously, but its just the sheer amount of random unexpected happenings. There are also some spoofs on other horror movies inside.At some point in the movie the director actually kind of rubs in your face there was no budget. Im trying not to give spoilers, but with all the random happenings its not really possible to give away the movie in one comment.Now it would not be fair to give this movie anything near a 7 or 8, because there are lots of movies with a lot of effort put in to it. This movie has obviously not a lot of effort put into it, but i still find it very enjoyable.All i can say is if you are open minded and looking for something completely random, just put on this movie. Just don't expect any masterpiece! "},{"Title":"silly irreverent fun","Date":"24 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Parachutist Wilbur Finletter is a national hero after defeating the Killer Tomatoes. Congress bans tomatoes and Wilbur opens his own pizzeria serving tomatoless pizzas. His nephew Chad Finletter is the delivery boy working with his womanizing friend Matt Stevens (George Clooney). Mad scientist Professor Gangreen (John Astin) and his assistant Igor are perfecting the transformation of tomatoes into human form. A mutant fuzzy tomato is thrown out which is rescued by a tomato of a girl named Tara. She calls it FT (fuzzy tomato).It's fun. It's irreverent. It's silly. It takes the original's ridiculousness and makes a good camp movie. It starts with the late night TV show introduction. The use of the original's footage gives a sense of the style. There is a young Clooney although he was a nobody back when I first saw this. In all honesty, I can't claim to have foreseen his future success. It's not big laughs but there is something enjoyable about this light romp. "},{"Title":"Just when you thought it was safe to go back in the produce aisle","Date":"7 May 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Killer Tomantoes are back and honestly this is one of my favorite stupid movies. I think this was honestly, better than the Original movie 1978's Attack of the Killer Tomantoes. It's works as a parody of the real threat of Communism. It also spoofs old monster movies such as Invasion of the Body Snatchers (1956). The running gags are just over the top fun. I like the silly product placements, the secret word game show, and everybody liking Full Contact America's Cup Yacht Racing. The sight gags, sound gags, satire and clever humor all works here. There is a lot of catchy quotes in this film. There is only a few jokes that hit rock bottom for me. Director John De Bello made the sequel to a campy cult-classic, better than ever. De Bello even pokes fun at the movie, themselves, as he breaks the fourth wall to reveal the cheapness of the production on several occasions. The low-budget can be a bit disappointing like showing old footage from the first film way too much. Not only did De Bello renew the inane humor of the original, but also bring in new kooky characters to work with some of the original cast. The hilariously off-beat performances of all those actors account for much of the film's success. Professor Gangreen (John Astin) and his weather-man wannabe dumb hunky assistant Igor (Steve Lundquist) are just some of the new characters in the film. Their goal is to transformed simple tomatoes into vicious Rambo look alike tomato-men in another evil attempt at world domination! It is up to a new group of heroes to stop Professor Gangreen before the streets run red with the Red Meance. That group is a group of pizza makers, Matt (George Clooney) and Chad (Anthony Starke) who works for their Uncle Lt. Finletter's no-tomatoes pizza parlor (Steven Rock Peace reprising his role from the original movie).This was George Clooney's first full length film and compared to the first killer tomato movie, the acting is pretty darn good throughout. Still, I kinda get confused if I'm watching George Clooney here, or John Stamos. They look very similar to each other at the time. They uncovered Gangreen's scheme, when Chad meets Professer Gangreen's assistant Tara (Karen Mistel) who escape from his hide out with a fuzzy tomato, or FT for short. Karen Mistal is very hot and stunning. She gives off some pretty good humor parts as well. He soon find out that there is something about her that doesn't add up. Can the group save the world from Professer Gangreen and his armies of tomato-men? If you didn't like this movie, well I feel sorry for you. It's just fun mindless comedy horror flick. The point of the film is be off the wall stupid film. So it's hard to criticize a film for that. It's suppose to be cheap, dumb, and cheesy. If you don't like it, maybe Big-Breasted Girls Go to the Beach and Take Their Tops Off will be your type of film. If you do like this movie, make sure to watch the Attack of the Killer Tomatoes The Animated Series. If you haven't saw this movie. Go watch it and make some toast, eggs, bacon, toast, waffles and toast with it. "},{"Title":"A silly but somewhat likable sequel","Date":"23 March 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The original Attack Of The Killer Tomatoes failed to move me, so I was not expecting much for this first sequel. But to a degree I was surprised. This is one sequel that's an improvement over the original. I'm not sure if I would give it a recommendation, but there are a few gags that really work well. It's also fun seeing a pre-fame George Clooney, who manages to show some charm and why he became a big star years later. In fact, the entire movie is kind of charming in a way that has you forgive some of its shortcomings.If there is a flaw to this movie (besides there not being quite enough good gags) is that the story is really stretched out. It takes over half of the running time for the movie to really set everything up and start the new tomato crisis. While the slow story isn't exactly frustrating, it is really clear that much of the time the movie is spinning its wheels. I think if the screenplay had been given a few more rewrites, we might have had a comedy up with the ranks of Airplane! "},{"Title":"a pointless failure","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film is off to a bad start really it is attempting to send up an earlier one which is recognised as being very bad.This needn't be a problem if it's done with very clever wit.  This isn't.It's about as entertaining as watching paint dry and smells just as bad.The humour is forced and ridiculous and not remotely funny. Not once.  I don't think I saw anything to smile or even just grimace about. It a very badly done slapstick and it's just way, way, way too juvenile, and even at a juvenile level it's still not funny.As a personal rating out of 10I'd give the acting =0, the plot =2, the script=0.5, the photography= -5 if I could, the sets = 2 (well they were SUPPOSED to be bad - it is a parody), the Director= -19 (please!)overall= 0.5  (in deference to those who did like it)It's slightly less irritating than watching Rainbow, the Teletubbies or a two-hour interpretation in mime depicting the sex-life of the inside of a ping-pong ball, but only just, and you probably need to be drunk first. "},{"Title":"Tomato, with lots of cheese and ham.....","Date":"22 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Professor Gangreen is cooking up the Great Tomato Uprising, in which music converted tomatoes into human form to war against mankind. Pizza delivery man Chad Finletter must save the world and beautiful tomato-girl Tara.....The problem with this film is that it tries way too hard to be intellectual, and to further it's self away from cheap exploitation.The fact is, no matter how many times you break the fourth wall, or kill the product placement joke to death, you cannot get away from the essence of Troma that the film wreaks off.The actors are great, Clooney was always going to be famous, and the other chap will always be the whining accountant who gets killed by Sanchez in Licence To Kill.It's just the idleness of the whole thing, trying to be an adult orientated comedy, but having that weird furry tomato whom is obviously going for the gizmo look, because kids, they love the merchandise don't they?It loses it's way toward the end of the second act, so they up the ante on sight gags, and more product placement, and fail, miserably.It's a car crash movie of the highest order, you know you shouldn't watch it, but you can't take your eyes of the blasted thing.At least the pizza dough comes down at the end.... "},{"Title":"A good tomato is a squashed tomato.","Date":"14 November 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" ~Spoiler~ Return of the Killer Tomatoes is a far superior sequel to the original, especially in the laughs department. The cast is also infinitely better. Would you believe George Clooney is in this, pre-superstardom of course. But still!!! The cast also includes Anthony Starke, John Astin, and a buttload of fighting tomatoes. Much of the film consists of re-used footage from Attack, but a great joke comes from it. They actually make fun of the fact that they are using old footage and there are numerous jokes about the budget and product placement. So at least no one was taking this thing seriously. I do enjoy it however because it is very close to the spirit of the cartoon, which I watched religiously along with The Toxic Crusaders. Don't forget to wait for the pay-off to the pizza flipping. Hilarious! In fact, this whole film is funnier than it should be. As the theme song states if the film does well a Part 3 will follow. Well, it must have done okay, because it is in fact followed by Killer Tomatoes Strike Back AND Killer Tomatoes Eat France! "}{"Title":"One of the best movies ever","Date":"7 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie has everything from cheesy lines to classic quotes (iron your pants, how about a blow job?) and tear jerking loneliness and romance (I mean in the laughable sense). When the movie (as pov as it is) finally runs out of money they turn to product placement, only too obviously. From main characters describing their methods of transportation to a picture of the haunted mansion with a pepsi logo on it, you'll adore this movie and have to own it.It also stars George Clooney in his first acting role (god only knows how he made it up from there) and it doesn't require you to see the first Killer tomatoes (thank god) there is an indepth recap of it in this film (to waste time). I cherish this movie and would put it on my top ten of all time (right up there with BioZombies).  "},{"Title":"One of the best ever!","Date":"11 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a great spoof of a B-movie, with a great cast, a young George Clooney, one of cutest girl on the planet (Kara Mistal, oh boy... what a sight), even a playmate in white lingerie!! What do you want more? Rent it, buy it, grab it somehow! It's a must for every movie lover out there "},{"Title":"A pretty intelligent bad movie.","Date":"26 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If you know what this movie is before you watch it (it's a bad movie), then I can't see how anyone could possibly not like it.  A lot of bad movies take themselves far too seriously, but this is definitely not one of them.I saw this movie on sale on DVD (DVD?  WOW!!!) for $10 at Best Buy, remembered seeing it years ago, and couldn't resist.  I wasn't disappointed. I had to have watched ROTKT 5 times the first week after I bought it, each time subjecting it to friends, my parents, and eventually my wife.  What surprised me was how everyone took to it.  Even my parents, who mostly watch big-budget films, enjoyed most of it and found themselves liking it (for what is was).I must say, you cannot watch this movie thinking you are getting a masterpiece.  However, before you start watching the movie, if you realize they had a budget of probably around $12 dollars, then this movie does in fact become a work of art.  It is slow at times, but some scenes sent my friends and I into downright hysterical fits (aka, the random Corn Flakes box followed by the Ninja/Cowboy fiasco).  Basically, this is a poor-boy's Airplane, but a surprisingly well-done 'bad' movie.6/10  "},{"Title":"One of the few films that's actually better that the original","Date":"14 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film was extremely funny because it poked fun of itself, its  predecessor, and lots of other things. This movie sort of had a weak plot  but then again look at the title, it makes up for it though with a good  sense of humor about itself and George Clooney has a supporting role! "},{"Title":"Need more tomatoes action","Date":"9 November 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I found it's take a while for anything to really happen, I was not laughing at this movie as much as I though I would.This movie did have a bigger budget and the acting is better in this sequel was better but down side to this movie was there was no tomatoes that actually killed people in this movie,Was that why the first movie was so much more fun? , I didn't mind the plot, tomatoes turning into people sounded OK.The other thing that really annoyed me was that when same person keeps falling down, funny first few times, it happens every times the person on screen, you just milked it dry and it not funny at all.4 out of 10 for this movie, first was fun, this one I found some- what boring as there not much tomatoes action.4/10 "},{"Title":"Better tomatoes for a new invasion.","Date":"5 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A slightly larger budget allows for tomatoes to be turned into people. Professor Gangreen(John Astin)has finally developed the formula to make the once feared red vegetable to look human. And once again it is San Diego that will see the beginnings of a second invasion. A young pizza maker falls in love with a gorgeous girl working with Gangreen. Is she really a tomato? Music will serve as a catalyst instead of a destroyer with this newer developed tomato. Citizens are reluctant to believe the ancient attack of the tomatoes will be repeated. This sequel is really easier to watch than the original; thanks to a young George Clooney and a beautiful Karen Misal. Also in the cast Steve Lundquist, Teri Weigel, Anthony Starke, Rock Peace and Charlie Jones. "},{"Title":"I'm Sure Fans Will Enjoy; Others Not So Much","Date":"7 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Return of the Killer Tomatoes! (1988) * 1/2 (out of 4) It's been years since The Great Tomato War and the government has put a ban on all tomatoes. This doesn't stop the crazy Professor Gangreen (John Astin) who is creating tomatoes that look, act and smell like humans. Pizza shop owners and best friends Chad (Anthony Starke) and Matt (George Clooney) end up with one of these creatures, the beautiful Tara (Karen M. Waldron), who seems like the perfect woman if it just wasn't for her DNA. With a fear about humans of another war, Tara tries to prove that it's not the tomatoes that are bad. Look, you're either going to get this series and enjoy it or not get it and wonder what on Earth people see in it. I'm in the group that really doesn't get the charm but I think I can understand why some might enjoy it. With that said, since I don't get it, obviously I had a pretty hard time working my way through the incredibly long 98-minute running time. Even as someone who likes bad movies, this thing here was just so long and boring to me that it was actually quite painful to sit through. The entire joke just seemed so forced to me that I really couldn't laugh and the jokes were just so stupid that they came to me as more annoying than anything else. Again, I realize that this silly charm is what fans enjoy but it just doesn't work for me. There are some good things about the film including the performances. I thought both Starke and Waldron made for a fun couple and of course it's always fun seeing these early roles of Clooney. Astin easily steals the film playing the nutty scientist. He's so over-the-top and goofy that you can't help but get your only laughs from him. I'll at least give the film credit for going all out in regards to its attempts at getting jokes. They just didn't work for me. "},{"Title":"Silly doesn't automatically mean funny","Date":"22 April 2004","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is trying so hard to be silly it isn't fun any more. And I love silly movies (Toxic Avenger for example), but this one was a major disappointment.Story involves mad scientist who re-introduces killer tomatoes (from the first movie, which I haven't seen yet), in the form of humans like 'Tara', who main character Chad falls in love with.Whole movie consists of silly jokes, which more often don't than do work, with the whole 'we need money to make a movie so let's use product placement' thing as a huge downer. Maybe the joke is fun for like a minute or so but to use it throughout the second half of the movie... it was wearing really thin.The makers of this movie tried to get away with the 'we're spoofing and hailing bad movies so we're making one as well' attitude, but there are tons of 'better bad movies' you can see. Not even (very!) young George Clooney can save it, so skip this one...3/10. "},{"Title":"Cut it! Cut it! Cut it! Save the film, strike the broad and kill the babies.","Date":"26 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" It's funny, sort of, that Return of the Killer Tomatoes actually lives up to (err, goes to the depths of) the original parody of schlock horror Z-grade movies it's coming from. It knows what it is in its bones, and still has a hell of a lot of fun getting to where it's going- which is almost nothing. I couldn't help but laugh through much of the flick though, especially after having seen the first one. After starting off the picture (and reminding me for a moment of Python's Holy Grail) with a whole other picture (unintentionally?) with girls taking off their tops on a beach, we get right into it full-throttle. John Astin, usually a very professional theater actor, plays Professor Gangreen in the other wild over-the-top horror comedy of 1988 (the other is Don Calfa in Chopper Chicks in Zombietown), and he's got a plan- create killer tomatoes again, but this time not REALLY tomatoes, but just regular tomatoes that can turn into killing machines Rambo style! But the professor also makes a woman (sexy Kara Mistal) for himself, and she strays away with her little fuzzy tomato, or FT, and meets Anthony Stark's Chad, a worker in a tomato-sauce-less pizza parlor with his friend Matt (George Clooney, yes, half a decade before ER if you can think back to them). Things then start to get a little wacky...Well, actually, wacky is such a little word to use. Return of the Killer Tomatoes, a movie that does not feature one real killing tomato (though potential quasi-killers they may be, and once in a while suicidal), is by and large one of the funniest horror-movie parody type sequels of the 80s. It takes itself about as seriously as you might expect, which is not at all. In fact the tongue is so placed firmly in cheek, it comes out the other end during scenes when writer/director John DiBello breaks the 'fourth wall' as the shooting of the movie (and massive, continuous, elaborate product placements are put in at every turn after a while, years before the gag was used in Wayne's World). I probably had bigger laughs during moments like these- with some random outbursts of ninjas fighting cowboys in a diner- than I did during the first Killer Tomatoes flick. While the original still does garner points for being as audacious with its stupidity and with a smaller budget (not that the sequel doesn't make fun of the budget at every other turn), the zany spirit of the first film remains strong here, and deliriously so at times. When you got the doctor's assistant of Igor looking like a wrestler, you get the idea.It's a wild and crazy ride, with a 20-something Clooney with a full head of dark hair and basically in a role that requires him just to act as himself to a much more condensed range (i.e. ladies man, which includes a great gag involving him getting girls to go on a date with him, though saying as if he's Rob Lowe). Its got plenty of stuff for fans of the first flick, including the Ewok of the series with FT, who has his own sort of merchandising going towards the end too. By the way, stay through till the end of the credits- it's not just because the director's mother said so! "},{"Title":"Lacks the humor, but not the charm of the original.","Date":"19 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" And this is also for fans who saw & loved the first, because if you saw & hated or at least never cared that much for ATTACK OF THE KILLER TOMATOES, then you will equally hate or not care for Part 2, this time the series introduces two main characters that would continue on in parts 3 & 4, F.T. (Fuzzy Tomato) & the evil scientist DR. GANGREEN, who can turn Tomatoes, (which are banned in the world following the attack in part 1) into humans & plots to take over the world, the sequel despite several humorous self references & jokes, is a step down from the ultra cheesy fun established in the original, it's just not as fun & the tomatoes spend more time in human form than their regular form & are rarely seen, sorry guys, no cheesy tomato attacks here! the acting was better this time around however & JOHN DEBELLO did good on directing, but like I said, this is strictly for die hard fans of the series. Still it's better than Part 4. Followed by the much better KILLER TOMATOES STRIKE BACK **1/2 stars "}{"Title":"This is some violent fruit.","Date":"27 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Of all the great films that were as good as or better than the originals From Russia With Love, Godfather II, Aliens, The Empire Strikes Back, ROTKT is the most underrated. Funny, funny stuff this. The first one is no where near this good. Not to be confused with Revenge of the Radish. "},{"Title":"Watching paint dry is a more practical use of time","Date":"7 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie was absolutely ridiculous.  It started off as being confusing and got progressively worse.  The acting is awful (save George Clooney's performance) and the script is inane.  The effects are so poorly done that it makes one ponder whether or not this movie was made with a budget. There were many loose ends, although I will acknowldedge that this may have been the way this movie was intended to be written. Don't rent it; unless you have absolutely nothing else to do. "},{"Title":"Weak 'Killer Tomatoes' sequel","Date":"1 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This un-necessary sequel is not as funny as the original.  The special effects are so cheesy.  How did John De Bello -- the director of Attack of the Killer Tomatoes! -- manage to raise enough money for this lame sequel? There's nothing amusing about a young pizza delivery man falling in love with a woman who happens to be a vegetable.  Not even George Clooney's early appearance is reason enough to see this loser.  My evaluation *1/2 out of ****. "}]