[{"Title":"The most beautiful dinosaur movie ever to appear on the big screen","Date":"29 October 1999","Score":"70 out of 77 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I saw this movie when I was 8 (I am now 18) and I loved it. It is one of the few movies I see which have great sentimental value to me and unlike most other children's movies can be watched on two different levels. When the children see it they will watch a movie about how 5 baby dinosaurs find their way to the great valley, while older people will view it as a movie based around how an abandoned orphaned child copes with the loss of his mother. The symbolism is great for example the dark rainy scene, but I have always cried when I see it.For once A GIRL is seen as the the 'strong' character, Cera the triCERAtops (why does she only have one horn?) is headstrong and prevents female sterotyping. I think most people who can see movies with an open mind (hey it IS a kids movie so don't expect it to appeal to adults) will love this movie. Incedently my favourite character was Littlefoot, his birth was absolutly wonderful and unlike the other characters he actually looks like he has grown.Unfortunaly due to space I cannot go into detail about the brilliant design of the backgrounds, characters and music but if on a rainy day you have nothing to see go and see this. The LAND BEFORE TIME was made by Don Bluth.Unfortunaly none of the other follow on moives BASED on the 5 characters was ever is good as this one they are just too childish.I love this movie 10 stars....  "},{"Title":"Don's Best - Endearing Cast,Exquisite Animation","Date":"29 August 2001","Score":"57 out of 61 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I've adored this film ever since I first saw it at the cinema in '88. Sweet Littlefoot, Bold Cera, Chatty Ducky, Timid Petrie & Greedy Spike are the cutest dinosaurs ever. Anyone unmoved by their adventures must have a heart of stone. The animation is superb and so is the soundtrack. Each dinosaur has a distinctive personality and you laugh and cry with them throughout. I only wish the film had been longer. The sequels are cute but it is the original that has the most heart. 10/10 "},{"Title":"A great story which has been bastardised with pointless sequels.","Date":"7 March 2002","Score":"61 out of 72 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I remember first seeing this movie in the theatres!!!! I loved it and I have had it on video for quite some time now. I am older and realise how good this movie is and what it truly means! It's such ashame when great movies like these get destroyed by pointless, stupid sequels which are so childish. This movie has it all! A tale about dinosaurs, friendship, love & family, adventure, hope, and a tale about life itself. You may not physically cry but your heart will. "},{"Title":"Simply adorable. One of the best animations ever.","Date":"11 March 2004","Score":"44 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Five adorable baby dinosaurs set out on a heartwarming adventure to find their lost families. I fell in love with this at the cinema & I feel it deserves its success in the video market. I own every one but this is by far the best. Each character, determined Littlefoot, obstinate Cera, cheerful Ducky, timid Petrie & ever hungry Spike, is a delight. The story contains laughter, tears, hope & excitement. It is beautifully scored. The end title song, If We Hold On Together, is delightful too. The artwork is cute & full of detail. Don Bluth is a master. The voice casting is perfect. An absolute treasure. 10/10 ***** "},{"Title":"Another timeless piece of that good old Don Bluth magic","Date":"29 August 2002","Score":"37 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  What do you get when you cross a bunch of dinosurs and Don Bluth?? Answer this memorable classic!!!My mum bought me this film when I was 5 or 6 years and I loved it. 13 years on and my mind hasnt changed. I was watching it this morning and there was still that Bluth magic. In case you dont know, the film is about 5 dinosaurs- a long neck, a three horn, a big mouth, a flyer and a spike tail. Theyre travelling to the Great Valley whilst trying to fight off Sharp tooth.What makes this film a classic is the way things are named. Its educational to kids on dinosaurs and is done in a childish way. Its brilliant!!!! There are lessons to be learn with friendships.The sequels dont match up to it but what do you expect?? They werent done by Bluth!!!!Bluth may not have done as many animation as Disney but each of his films have shown something that Disney cannot do. Definelty one to own and keep on watching until the end of time!!!!Helen xxxxx    "},{"Title":"One of the best animated films.","Date":"1 October 1999","Score":"35 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  A group of young dinosaurs in a world which is nearing the end of the reign of the mighty reptiles set out to find a legendary valley which is still lush and green.This is one of the best animation films ever made, as it is moving and entertaining.  Not only is it a story of friendship, courage and love, but it also demonstrates childhood friendships which are 'not allowed' due to classism or racism - Three-horns never play with Longnecks.  'Land Before Time', with its tribe of various dinosaurs plus a pterodactyl, is a story about putting aside so-called 'differences' and striving together in 'united we stand, divided we fall' fashion in order to leave the unlovely wilderness and find a land of freedom and equality (in this case the Great Valley).An excellent and unmissable adventure which will appeal to anybody of any age.The sequels sadly did away with the grittyness of this first film and instead turned to TV cartoonishness and pointless songs, but most of them (the boring Part 4 aside) are still very enjoyable.  But in the tradition of most series of films, the original is the best. "},{"Title":"A Don Bluth Masterpiece","Date":"4 September 2004","Score":"28 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Don Bluth's masterpiece, The Land Before Time, is a wonderful children's feature with beautiful animation, a great story, adorable characters, and good direction.As a director, Bluth's use of color and texture in this film is absolutely brilliant. He has this wonderful soft blending of mainly the background colors (usually most notable in the sky), which suggests use of chalk pastels to create this effect. In every film of his that I've seen, he always has great (what I like to call) atmospherics. In this film, you notice it in the blowing of dust/fog, some of the fire effects with the volcanoes (mainly the falling fire sparks), the falling black ash before the characters reach the mountains that burn, as well as certain water effects.The vocal cast was really well suited to all their roles. There were a few instances where some of the lines were a bit muffled and hard to understand, but for the most part, the cast did really well with their lines, made them sound natural, and child-like, and managed not to be overly cute and obnoxious as some characters made for children's films inherently are.The score by James Horner is a wonderful addition to the film's atmosphere and really does a great job setting the mood. Horner always has a way of infusing his scores with a sense of romanticism that is often lacking in today's film composers, and this film is no exception. He makes really good use of his strings section, especially in this period of his work.To be sure, this film is a masterpiece! All of its excellent qualities are apparent while watching the film, most notably the animation (which is excellent for a late 80s film), the voice cast, the score, the story, and the art direction. Without a doubt, it would be well-deserving of a spot in any animated feature hall of fame.9 Stars out of 10!  "},{"Title":"I don't care if they made eight sequels, this is still the best of all","Date":"17 February 2003","Score":"32 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  You heard me! Not even through the eight sequels, could they surpass the enjoyment of this one! The story is just classic. It's Don Bluth's finest work, I must say. It's ironically the only movie in the LBT series that was made for theaters! Pretty cool, huh?I couldn't believe when I read how this movie was only like 70 minutes long. It seems like a long time, since it's so good. You've got cool dinosaur characters, going alone on a journey to the Great Valley. I think it's entertaining the way they have different names for the dinosaur species. Like Sharp-tooth for a T. Rex, or Three-Horns for a Stegosauraus or Long-Neck for Brontosauraus. My favorite character is Peetree, who is pretty cute. Too bad about Judith Barsi dying. That actually makes it interesting because now I know all the times in the sequels she was voiced by a different person than this time. I hope I'll see this movie more often. It seems like forever since I've seen it.But then came the sequels. Part 4 was very nice(the best sequel yet), and Parts 2 and 3 were good, but after 4, let's face it. The movies are repetive and dull, just doing the same things its proceeders did. Why haven't they just made a TV show instead of all these sequels? Now, THAT would be something I'd like to see. This classic gets a 9/10 "},{"Title":"My favorite movie for a very long time.","Date":"26 January 2001","Score":"19 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Now, having been such a raging fan of this movie when I was a kid (I still like it as an adult, just not nearly as much), I don't really know if I've got the right to write a review of it.About the only thing I have to say, really, is that there's more personality in that one little Pterodactyl who offers Littlefoot his cherry than in the entire cast of Disney's Dinosaur.Other than that, I only have to offer up the following bit of trivia that fellow L.B.T. fans should go nuts over.  It turns out that shortly before Land Before Time was officially released, about one million dollars worth of footage was cut from the film.  Think about that the next time you watch it.  You'll notice things like how suddenly we cut from Sharptooth and Littlefoot's mom's battle to the earthquake sequence.  If Universal *really* loved us (ahem, Money To Be Made here), they'd give us a director's cut or something.  Just a thought. "},{"Title":"An excellent film for the family","Date":"22 September 2000","Score":"18 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  The Land Before Time is a very entertaining animated movie. They have a great story here filled with varying emotions from humor to sadness. The animation is just as good. This film is not just for little kids. Older kids and adults will find this just as entertaining, unlike the terrible sequels which I care not to mention. Thumbs up on this one. "}{"Title":"Epic, just epic","Date":"17 December 2010","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" One of my favorite childhood movies. I remember how much this movie made me happy as a kid, brings me very happy memories. I remember as if it was yesterday how happy I'd get whenever they aired this on television every Christmas on RTP Madeira (our TV channel). I never failed to watch it whenever they aired it.It is a marvel. I'm not a big fan of Don Bluth's cinema, but this one is a masterpiece. Classic and timeless. Without a doubt, it's the best thing this guy ever did.'The Land Before Time' is epic, solid, touching, delightful and very artistic. The artwork is wonderful and super colorful. The story is great. Animation is terrific. The movie has immense charm, it's one of the most perfect movies ever made, done with heart and soul. Will go down in history not only as one of the greatest animated masterpieces but also as one of the all time greats in general. No question about that.The 5 main characters are enjoyable, even with their different personalities. Ducky is the cutest, most innocent and most endearing, plus she's got a really adorable voice (Judith Barsi's cute voice) which is in perfect harmony with her innocence. Cera is very stubborn and has got a short temper, but it's her strong personality what makes her another favorite. Therefore, for different reasons, Ducky and Cera are my two favorites.In conclusion, it's a generally innocent little movie, being only a little dark in a few scenes with Sharptooth, the vicious and giant dinosaur (couldn't be other than a T-Rex). Aside Sharptooth, the dinosaurs are portrayed as generally friendly and adorable creatures, being the exact opposite of 'Jurassic Park' on that matter. Title in Portugal 'Em Busca do Vale Encantado'. "},{"Title":"Brings back fond memories of the past","Date":"1 March 2009","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" This movie is a masterpiece!It has great nostalgic value for me and reminds me the best times of my life childhood. Back then, they used to air this on television every Christmas and I always watched it whenever they aired it. At the time, I lived in another house. When I moved to my current house, they stopped airing this forever, something which upset me. After nearly 15 years without seeing it, it suddenly and unexpectedly came back in my life.This is one of the greatest animated movies of all times. Anyone who says this is one of Don Bluth's best or even his best work, I don't have any reasons to argue against that because that's exactly what I think. It's charming, masterfully made, memorable, classic and timeless.As a movie, it is heartwarming most of the time, but also dark and sentimental sometimes. This is no comedy, but has its funny moments. The plot is good, the animation is great, the artwork is superb and the main characters are easy to sympathize with Littlefoot, Cera, Ducky, Petrie and Spike. I especially like Cera and Ducky. Cera is hilarious, difficult and challenging to get along with, stubborn, selfish, overconfident, much self-proud and has a strong personality. Ducky is cute, loving and she's got a really cute voice. Yep, yep, yep!It's easy to see where Cera got her name from. She got it from her own species - she is a Triceratops (see?), even though her name sounds exactly like Sarah.Is this a suitable movie for children? Yes, of course, but some parts can be a bit scary for some, particularly any scene with the vicious T-Rex Sharptooth.Some elements of the story and artwork resemble Disney's Bambi and one of the segments from Fantasia, The Rite of Spring. In some ways, The Land Before Time also served as an inspiration for Disney to create The Lion King, although The Land Before Time is the better film.Actually, I consider this an excellent alternative to the more popular Disney classics, being not only as good as the best Disney classics but also superior than many Disney classics. And since I made this comparison, one thing that sets this apart from Disney classics is that there are no songs. There is only background instrumental music and a song at the end, but the characters never sing in the whole movie.The movie's an interesting take on dinosaurs, these amazing animals. I only wish it hadn't become a victim of its own success. I mean, it gave birth to 12 sequels! Wow, that's beyond crazy!This should definitely be on Top 250. "},{"Title":"Best Animated Dinosaur Film.","Date":"17 March 2009","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" The land before time is a great film and one that I have seen many times since my early childhood. It is a great animated dinosaur film and also one of the best dinosaur films ever made.As the world is in turmoil much of the food that the dinosaurs eat disappears. Therefore all the dinosaurs must travel to the great valley where food is in abundance. Littlefoot, a young brontosaurus, is separated from his family and must make the travel by himself. However he soon joins up with other young dinosaurs of various species and together they embark on a journey that will change their lives forever.First of all there is one complaint that I have with this film and then I will say all the things that I like about it. This film does not follow the time period in which dinosaurs lived. Therefore they show dinosaurs living with other dinosaurs that they really did not live with. Like how they show Sharptooth attacking Littlefoots mother who is a brontosaurus. This would not really happen in real life because Brontosaurus and Tyrannosaurus were separated by more time than Man and Tyrannosaurus were. Also they show a dimetrodon in this film and he for damn sure lived in a completely different time period completely from all dinosaurs. So this is an animated film and it overlooked the different time periods which did not surprise me. But I notice because I am a huge dinosaur follower. So this is not that bad of a flaw but it is a mistake.OK now for the good points. I love the plot. Young dinosaurs on a long journey working together is great. Overall I like films where a long journey is involved because it makes the ending seem satisfying.THe animation is awesome as well. Very well done. Also they did an exceptional job with the new Tyrannosaurus body design which showed him not dragging his tail and instead using it for balance. All of the dinosaurs look good in this film and there is a pretty good selection. However the main dinosaurs are young dinosaurs but there still are a lot of awesome adult dinosaurs as well.I think that a major theme in this film is equality between different races. Hear me out. A young brontosaurus, triceratops, stegosaurus, hadrosaurus, and pteranadon must all put aside their differences and work together. IT does not matter that they all are different, if they all want the same thing what does that matter? So I think the theme works for me at least because I think all the different dinosaur types working together portrays the message that people should all be equal.A major reason that this film is great is that it has one of the best villains ever in an animated film. Sharptooth the Tyrannosaurus is awesome. Scary and vicious and also a major threat to the characters. When I was a kid he terrified me. One of the best dinosaurs period in a film ever if you ask me.The music works well also. The main theme song Dont lose your way goes good with this film. Maybe one of the most under rated songs used in a film ever.THis film is very touching at parts. Like the relationship between littlefoot and his mother being threatened, or how Ducky befriends Littlefoot when he is in need of a friend. Very emotional film.Great animated Dinosaur film. The best ever in my opinion. THis is the also the best of the entire land before time series by far. Highly recommended for kids and adults alike. "},{"Title":"an animated classic","Date":"14 January 2008","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" The Land Before Time is the film that children will love, and is the kind of film that a person can grow on to love forever. Since dinosaurs are so appealing to young kids, films about dinosaurs, but in a less frightening tone, attract kids. And The Land Before Time is perhaps the best out of them. What it does that other movies about talking dinosaurs do not is that it makes the world in which they live seem perilous and like a nightmare, as children often imagine these enormous reptiles to have lived in.The movie is an animated classic in all regards. Like I mentioned earlier, it plays seriously to make the dinosaur world look hostile, but it doesn't overplay its part so that it gets too frightening. The characters, whom are lovable mostly in the first film, are wonderfully brought to life. Don Bluth's animation team and the talented voice acting done by actual children instead of just voice artists, makes the film work out. Each character has a personality and although they aren't developed an enormous level, they are worked just enough as needed to satisfy us. In a way, the sequels help to enhance their development, but only in mediocre films. In the original, we just simply become attached to the characters as characters.Even the antagonist, a Tyrannosaurus rex called Sharptooth is a great character. Sharptooth is really one of the best of the animated villains. Appropriately, he has no dialogue. He does not speak or taunt verbally. Like children imagine a Tyrannosaurus, he's a dangerous killer who attacks oftentimes out of hunger or even just cruelty. Effectively animated, Sharptooth is frightening to young children. There is a rumor that many of his scenes were deleted because they were deemed too frightening and this is certainly possible. Sharptooth's initial attack is truly powerful and for kids, terrifying. And because Sharptooth seems to always come back with a vengeance, makes him a memorable villain.The music score was conducted by James Horner, and his soundtrack is an absolute success story. The main theme is a very moving piece of music, and it suits the film very well, seeing as how it plays numerous times over the course of the film. It also has very thunderous scores for the scenes with Sharptooth. And there is the much-acclaimed song by Diane Ross If We Hold On Together, which plays during the end credits. Bottom line, the music score is very excellent.The Land Before Time is a classic and a great film for audience members of all ages. And it still holds out today because many adults can still enjoy it. Dinosaurs are loved by children, and therefore children love movies like The Land Before Time. A few minutes ago, I finished watching the movie in its entire form for the first time in years. It worked its magic on me again. It is notorious for suffering from, as one credit called it, Excessive Sequel Syndrome. True, there are countless sequels and many of them are strictly mediocre. And no classic like the original. "},{"Title":"Ignore the sequels. The original is the very greatest!","Date":"12 December 2007","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" This film is one of the greatest family movies I've ever seen. Absolutely none of the sequels, with the possible exception of the second one, ever come close to matching this one in grandeur and majesty.It teaches children self-reliance, confidence, the value of friendship, the hope for a better future, no matter how far away it may seem.This is one of the few movies I saw as a child that has stood the test of time. Now twenty-three years old, I still enjoy it. It's one of Don Bluth's greatest works ever, and I hope they come out with a director's cut sometime that puts back in all the material the studio cut, much to Bluth's protest, from his film. "},{"Title":"An underrated gem.","Date":"29 September 2007","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" My Take An underrated animated adventure. Trim, but a minor classic all its own. THE LAND BEFORE TIME, by acclaimed animator Don Bluth (AN American TAIL), is a kids movie that can be as equally enjoyable to the adults, once they know it's film that's not entirely for them. The film has a terrific story, and some adorable characters and fine visuals to go with it. The adults might think that this might be a good babysitter to younger audiences, but, if it is, it could be the very best one there will ever be. You can watch it with the kids, and you won't have to worry about being bored. Because, unlike Bluth's ALL DOGS GO TO HEAVEN, it isn't to childish to limit itself as a total kids flick.The story is about survival, setting place during the dawn of the dinosaurs. The plot is probably inspired by the FANTASIA segment The Rite of Spring, which shows the life during the age of dinosaurs, and the torrid confrontation with survival after wards when a heavy drought wipes out their resources and they're forced to migrate.Now, variate that plot and have younger dinosaurs do all the work, and you get the idea of THE LAND BEFORE TIME. But, really, it was more than that. Bluth provides his talent charms in directing animated films, this time widening the target audience, and results in a story worth telling.Even if you know what might happen, it has charm, it has peril and also has drama, you don't really care and just let the scene take you away. There are lots of these dramatic and charming scenes. There are also a few scenes of peril and suspense, which may scare the kids.But overall, THE LAND BEFORE TIME is a good time watching movies. It's one of the best fables to come out of it's time. High recommendations all the way.Rating ***** out of 5. "},{"Title":"A great movie. How could you live without it?","Date":"26 April 2004","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  All of the sequels suck, but the original is excellent. I grew up on this movie, and, now that I think about it, I'm surprised how much I can actually remember. I haven't watched this movie in 7 or 8 years, but I can still remember the emotions linked with it. It makes you laugh, it makes you cry. I remember I could never keep from crying when Littlefoot's mom died(hope I didn't give anything away), even after watching it a couple dozen times. And I found out today that I can also remember most of the words to the main theme. I grew up loving this movie, and this song, and I realize that I still love it. I hope you do too. (I apologize if that got a little too sappy.) "},{"Title":"A cute movie, that remains entertaining!","Date":"20 July 2006","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Movies about how time began comes in many forms. I don't believe in what periods were the time of dinosaurs, The Land Before Time is about fun, and that can be taken the wrong way by others. Friends of dinosaur species go to the Great Valley where they can find food. Littlefoot, Cera the headstrong triceratops, Duckie, and Petrie travel along to find that great Valley that Littlefoot's mother told him about. It was sad that he lost her to the earthquake, but she was very wise about the star-leaf that she tells him about. Cera is always born headstrong followed her parents' rule and that what's lead to her misfortune. However, she'll learn the hard way. Duckie, very mouthy, but very positive in every way, has a childish nature in him. A very amusing character he is. Petrie, the pterodactyl, is a chicken of a dinosaur. Won't learn how to fly, and won't build up his confidence. He gets there in a way. Littlefoot, the longneck is a natural-born leader, and his positiveness, never seems to let him down, after he lost his mother. This movie is a lot of fun, perfect for kids, although the T-Rex is the most scariest of all dinos. Great family fun! Rating 5 stars. "},{"Title":"One of the best movies of Don Bluth","Date":"17 June 2010","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I don't want to rant about nothing here, but god damn they had so many sequels, they stopped numbering them. Can you imagine that!? The original is great though, a collaboration between Bluth, Spielberg, and Lucas.The moral lesson here is a typical touch to children films, even though I don't remember seeing this as a child. The animation is excellent and contributes much to memorable scenes (remember when Spike ate out of his little home?) It was wonderful to look at. The characters are fun to watch through their adventure. A film you'll be seeing more than once in your lifetime, and loving it each time. See the original, avoid all the sequels. The first is the only good one. "},{"Title":"An Unforgettable Childhood Classic","Date":"10 March 2003","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  THE LAND BEFORE TIME 9.5/10  = AWESOME movie definately worth seeingThe Land Before Time is my MOST memorable childhood movie experience. The animation is top notch, the score by famous composer James Horner is heartfelt and captivating, the voice acting manages to evoke more emotion than you'd expect, and the storyline is certainly original and should be a mustsee for all little ones.Don Bluth is a genius animation director. The wonderful All Dogs Go To Heaven, the heartfelt The Land Before Time, the An American Tale, and masterpiece The Secret of NIMH are all children of Don Bluth. Until I began browsing IMDb, I had no idea he had directed all my favorite cartoon movies..... but there you go. I encourage anyone, even open-minded teens and adults, to watch these movies. They are as masterful as they are charming and heartwarming. There is simply no better way to put it. "}{"Title":"Beautiful, dark and touching","Date":"27 February 2003","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  The Land Before Time (possible spoilers)  This is not your typical run of the mill children's animation film, but a very beautiful and touching tale of grief, friendship and hope. Don't expect the bright sunny attitude of other animated movies, some scenes are so drenched with bleak hopelessless I would not want very small children to watch it.  This isn't the first movie to feature a dead loved one, but it is one to delve into the grief of the characters convincingly. You may not think animation can get to you, but some of the scenes chronicling a lonely Littlefoot combined with James Horner's evocative score may get to even the most jaded filmgoer. The animation isn't on par with something like The Lion King or Spirited Away, but it's moody and atmospheric, suiting the plotline.Forget the insipid sequels. Forget Roger Ebert's idiotic review (he faulted the film because he didn't think the dinosaurs should talk)and enjoy one of the most powerful animated films ever made. If 2-D animation had this kind of punch nowadays, they wouldn't have to worry about the overbearing accomplishments of movies like Shrek and Monsters, Inc. "},{"Title":"Childhood Gem!","Date":"26 June 2011","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I remember watching this movie over and over when I was a kid (so much that I wore down the tape!) and I loved it. Recently though, I saw it again for the first time in years and I had forgotten just how good it really is. It brought back so many childhood memories and I ended up fighting back the tears within the first half hour of the movie! I never realised just how meaningful this film is until I saw it almost a decade since the last time I saw it (I'm 17 by the way) and it hit home just how much this film means to me.Following the story of Littlefoot from his hatching, through his journey to the great valley and the friends he meets along the way, this film is an emotional roller-coaster that sweeps you along for the incredibly enjoyable ride without loosing pace. It has one of the most heartbreaking sequences ever in a kid's movie that I have ever seen- one that I deny anyone not to have a tear in their eye at.I would recommend this movie to anyone, young or old, because it truly is a brilliant film. Please, if you haven't seen it yet-watch it! You don't know what you've been missing! "},{"Title":"Beautiful, can't believe what I was missing","Date":"14 January 2011","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I really like Don Bluth. I liked All Dogs Go to Heaven. I liked Fievel. I loved Secret of NIMH. Granted, Thumbellina and Pebble and the Penguin were terrible, but at his height he was great. Well Land of Time, unlike the other movies I have stated, was not a movie I saw when I was young. I saw two of the sequels (#2 and #5) which were at best okay but not that great. The characters were quite fun, though, and I wanted to see the film that started it all, but I never got around to seeing it. Thankfully, Netflix put it on Instant Play, and I was able to see it recently. I am not ashamed to say I was holding back tears while watching this movie. After it ended, I cried both tears of joy and sadness. This movie is beautiful, heartwarming, and touching. I won't give any spoilers, but most people should know the main premise Littlefoot and his friends are separated from their families, and must embark on a perilous journey to the Great Valley. I was very sad this movie was as short as it was. Only a little over an hour, if I'm not mistaken. It was so touching to see these little dinosaurs brave hard conditions together. You will not be disappointed if you see this movie. If you don't find yourself feeling for these characters, then you have a heart of stone. 10/10 "},{"Title":"A near-masterpiece, that is so poignant, that  it's so easy to love...","Date":"30 May 2009","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I am 17, and I absolutely love animation, when it's done right. I love all the Disneys and almost all of the Don Bluth films(though I had mixed feelings about Troll in Central Park and Rock a Doodle Doo), and I will say that this is right up there as one of the best, along with Secret of Nimh, Anastasia and American Tail. This happens to be the first movie that introduced me to dinosaurs. The animation and visuals are stunning, a similar style to American Tail and in some way the Rescuers. In terms of colour, it is quite dark, but it does need to be, as it is quite a dark and very poignant film. I realised as I watched it, that the beginning reminded me a bit of the dinosaur segment in Fantasia. The music by James Horner is gorgeous, haunting in some parts, and then so heart-rendingly sad in others. This is the composer who brought us the music for American Tail and Once Upon a Forest(both of which made me cry). Land Before Time made me cry too, because Littlefoot's mother's death is one of the saddest deaths ever portrayed in an animated film. I also thought the narration was very thoughtful and factual, I actually learnt things from the narration alone. The voice talents were exceptional, Judith Barsi a standout as Ducky(sweet and funny at the same time), voicing engaging and memorable characters. I was appalled when I read that Judith Barsi was murdered not long after she voiced Anne Marie in All Dogs Go To Heaven, because she was a very talented actress, the characters she created were both likable and sweet, and it is such a shame that something that dreadful would happen to her at an early age. Littlefoot is also very sweet, nothing like how they portray him in the countless sequels. People have argued that there isn't much of a story, but this is an example of a character-driven animation, and there was plenty of character here. I personally think that this is the most poignant of the Don Bluth movies, and if I had a minor criticism, it is just that children may find the sharp tooth too frightening, but that was the intention, as the characters are afraid of it. Also it is a tad too short. Anyone who hated this, do bear in mind that it is vastly superior to all of the sequels, which range from good to unwatchable. In conclusion, a beautiful and poignant film, that is definitely one of the better Don Bluth movies. 9/10 Bethany Cox. "},{"Title":"if you were born in the 80s, before The Lion King there was The Land Before Time","Date":"20 August 2006","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Like other 80s babies, so to speak, if you were born in that era before the Disney movies of the 90s- which did almost reach a mini-renaissance before plummeting towards the end of the decade- you first saw the animated films of Don Bluth more than Disney. This was one of them, and it is a film that, for a certain sort of kid (such as myself) can be watched countless times. It's short, maybe too short as one of its flaws (Bluth didn't retain final cut with Spielberg and Lucas in the background), as it only develops this epic tale of kiddie dinosaurs going through a harsh, dangerous journey to reach the oasis, the Great Valley. There aren't any time for songs, which is a plus, as Bluth gets in more time for some very realistic- for what is available at the time- animation of the environment. The kiddie dinosaurs themselves, Littlefoot the main protagonist (who also loses his mother, in the Bambi and Lion King vein though here even more of a shock to kids as its from nature and not from some other being to grasp), Cera, Petrie, Ducky and Spike, each have their own personalities ranging from heroic to goofy to scared and even stuck-up. This gives something that kids can hang on to, very simple characterizations that change only through the often used but not too tiresome ideal of friendship and group-work, etc etc.Some of these scenes, the sillier ones, do end up making it more of a movie that holds more for the kids than the adults. That years later it doesn't lose much of its power visually, however, is a real credit to Bluth and his team, who along with An American Tail here make children's movies that know what they are, but make them in brilliant uses of the medium. The Tyrannasorus Rex- Sharptooth- is an immensely imposing presence with it saying never a word, as if it was pulled right out of the sequence from Fantasia. The design of the film is also extremely well laid, in a kind of dying world that like all fairy tales becomes all the more compelling in relation to what is the final paradise-type goal. It could almost be said that it might be much for wee little ones (younger than 5) could take, but it really wasn't as I remember it from first seeing it. It balances its look with its characters, making it a near-classic film of its time. Alternately cute and violent, poetic and kitschy. "},{"Title":"Oscar Worthy Film","Date":"8 October 2000","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Never has a film ever touched my heart as much as A Land Before Time. Watching these five young dinosaurs search the world for the Great Valley is just heart warming.  First of all, the character of Little Foot is so sad. His mother is killed in the big shake and he is separated from his grandparents.  He meets up with Ducky, Sarah, Petrie, and Spike to lead them across the Earth to get to the Great Valley where all of the dinosaurs are at.  The scene where Little Foot sees his own shadow and thinks it's his mother is especially sad.  I recommend this movie to every human being alive.  This movie deserved an oscar for best movie, sound track, actor, actress, supporting actor,supporting actress,director,producer,independent film, special effects and for best costumes.  Why it didn't win any is mind melting. "},{"Title":"A great film for any age","Date":"26 June 1999","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  As many Disney fans may know, there are two(maybe more, I'm not sure)animated movies that came out in 1988, and they areOliver and Company and Land Before Time. Oliver and Company was a big flop, I've heard. Land Before Time is a lot better. My point is, just because a Disney movie and a non-Disney movie come out around the same time, it doesn't mean the Disney movie will necessarily be better. We found that out with LBT. Most of the sequels sucked, but the first one will always be a classic. About the only sequels I recommend are the 2nd one, the 4th one and the sing-along. Those are the only ones I personally liked.(Well, I haven't seen the 6th one, so if it's good or not you'll just have to find out yourself.) Well, I love The Land Before Time, and I love Littlefoot. He'll always be my favorite character. Well, I guess I've talked too long. Thanks. "},{"Title":"This masterpiece surpass most of Disney's movies","Date":"7 February 2015","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" So, people think Lion King or Beauty and The Beast are the best animation and belongs in top 250 of IMDb list right? Ahah, i bet not many people have watched The Land Before Time.To be honest, Lion King is way overrated and BATB not as touching as TLBT which is not suppose to be in top 250 list (don't get me wrong, both Lion King and BATB are still an excellent movie). This one here is definitely worth it and on par with Snow white or Pinocchio.The only problems with this movie is the movie is too short, only 70mins. Lots of sequels have been made, i think around 12 sequels. But non came close to this original masterpiece.I won't give further comment, go get this one on DVD and watch it!ps  Already watch for 25 times and gonna watch again and again until I die )10/10 (AAA++) "},{"Title":"yeah, i love this movie","Date":"4 December 2013","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" i must have really worn out the tape when i watched this a million times as child, then it seemed to vanish from memory, then one day, i found it on DVD, bought watched it again after many years and cried like a little girl afterwards.i felt like my emotions had been mugged, words cannot describe the impact this had.technically speaking the animation still holds up, it isn't very childish like a lot of animations, it's dark, outrageously upsetting and is overall a piece of me.it is one of favourites, a true classic for the whole family yet if you have history with it, it still holds up enough to be watched alone with a pillow.a short review for a short movie that has a lot of turmoil and impact, i really do wish it was longer, i would like to know what footage Don Bluth had to cut so children wouldn't be traumatised.there really isn't that much i can say that hasn't been said already. "},{"Title":"Congratulations Don, you really got me","Date":"22 July 2013","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" This has to be my favorite animated movie of all time. It was the first movie that I remember watching. Even today, the characters are like friends to me. The movie, as well as its successors, develops them so well that you can easily become acquainted with one or more. Though many consider The Secret of NIMH for this title, The Land Before Time, in my opinion, is Don Bluth's masterpiece.In a land in the prehistoric age, a drought is occurring and several herds of dinosaurs seek an oasis known as The Great Valley. The animation here is very dark and fluid with a nice, earthy color scheme and some amazingly skillful footage of sand wind and the moon's reflection in a lake. You can always tell something is done by Don Bluth by the animation.The dinosaurs are only stopping on their way to the Great Valley to hatch their young. One of these newborns is an apatosaurus named Littlefoot. He immediately grows close to his mother, and as the narrator tells us, knows that they would always be together. The scene where he hatches is a piece of art.One scene later, Littlefoot is older and is able to talk. We're not sure how long it's been, but short enough that Littlefoot's mother is just telling him about their journey as she gives a star-shaped leaf, which they call a treestar. When Littlefoot asks her how she knows the Great Valley exists when she hasn't seen it, she replies, Some things you see with your eyes, others you see with your heart. This was is one of many very memorable scenes for me. And like the flashback scene in The Secret of NIMH, there's a sense of wonder as Littlefoot's mother lowers her head to give Littlefoot the treestar. There's hair-rising music in this scene too.While we're on the subject, this film's breathtaking music composed by James Horner is way up there with the score he wrote for Titanic. I have every single note of the music from The Land Before Time memorized, and it describes the epic tone of the movie flawlessly.Littlefoot starts to wander off and finds a family of triceratops, including a female hatchling named Cera (spelled as it is in the middle of the word triCERAtops). Littlefoot starts to play with her, but is stopped by Cera's father, who is the most racist dinosaur in the series. As Littlefoot continues the journey with his mother and grandparents, his mother explains to him the dinosaurs' prejudiced behavior nowadays.Very early the next morning, as Littlefoot chases a frog, he encounters Cera again. They play together briefly, until a ferocious t-rex attacks. He almost has them, before Littlefoot's mother comes to the rescue. But at the same time, a massive earthquake opens a deep ravine that divides Littlefoot and Cera from their herds.Littlefoot finds his mother languishing. Under the last of her breath, her final words to him are Let your heart guide you. It whispers, so listen closely. This scene is so heart-wrenching that I can't watch it without getting tears in my eyes. That and this movie was one of the first things that brought to me the concept of death. It seems Littlefoot didn't know what death was, either, before his mother died. When I had learned what really happened, I was haunted. Now Littlefoot has to make the long journey without her. As a child, it was tough for me to wrap my mind around that.Littlefoot, sad and confused, meets an old Polacanthus named Rooter. He tells him why he's so depressed, and that he blames all of his pain on his mother. He explains to him that it's no one's fault and is part of the great Circle of Life (my only quibble with The Lion King). Later, the treestar his mother gave him floats down toward him as he hears her heavenly voice speaking to his heart. As he looks into the drop of water in the treestar, she reminds him to the follow the sun and watch for the landmarks.Soon, Littlefoot meets up with a saurolophus named Ducky. Acknowledging the racial issues among other dinosaurs, Littlefoot still offers for Ducky to come with him to the Great Valley to find her parents. Soon after, they run into Petrie, an aerophobic pteranodon who and has yet to learn to fly. Littlefoot and Ducky invite him to come too. These last few scenes succeed in lightening the mood after the emotional blow of Littlefoot's mother's death. The movie knows when to be upbeat and when to be emotionally stirring. This a bit more what An American Tail should have been like.They run straight into Cera, who claims that she woke up the t-rex from the floor of the abyss. As she brags about how brave she was, she accidentally flings Ducky into a clump of grass where a stegosaurus is just hatching from his egg. Ducky names him Spike, and tells him to come with them to the Great Valley. Spike, who doesn't talk, swallows up all the grass around his nest and then joins the group. So the five hungry dinosaurs set off for the Great Valley, Littlefoot leading the way.If you haven't seen this movie yet, you should. It is just epic. It's a great story with glorious animation and breathtaking music. Through my childhood, I had come to know the characters almost intimately. If I was lacking friends, I always had Littlefoot. When I needed a laugh, I had Petrie. You might think I'm being silly, but this really is how I felt. Though I still enjoy most of the sequels, not one of them has matched this animated masterpiece. It will stay with me for the rest of my days.10/10 for The Land Before Time. "}{"Title":"A very important movie in my childhood.","Date":"15 July 2012","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Even at 26 years old I still cry at several of the scenes in this movie. I don't remember crying as a child, but I do remember I was so terrified of the T-Rex that I closed my eyes anytime it was on screen.I think this movie is an excellent mix of sad and happy. It is balanced in such a way that even though the movie gets very depressing, there are many charming and funny moments. Even though I was terrified of the T- Rex as a child, it didn't keep me from watching the movie several times.The artwork is beautiful, I love the scene where Littlefoot has just hatched and is hiding behind his mother because he is afraid of the new world. I remember liking it as a child as well, since the movie portrays a lot of emotion without word. The fact that this movie is so emotional is what makes me love it so much. The characters are very easy to relate to and feel sorry for. Everyone has their own unique personality, especially Cera becomes interesting because she is so stubborn. The movie teaches that being stubborn and rude dosen't last, that being kind and humble earns you friendship. I also like the movie because it deals with so many difficult issues, but in a way that is possible for a child to relate to. Especially the scene where Littlefoot has just lost his mother and feels that life is unfair.I felt the movie was very important to my childhood, I had to witness some difficult things and I felt this movie was something I could relate to. "},{"Title":"One of the Greatest Animated Films of ALL TIME A+","Date":"10 July 2012","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" This is one of those films that's grace has been overlooked due to the outrageous number of sequels (I heard there was even a show&#x85;) that followed it. None of them come close to the power of the first. Under the helm of Spielberg's Amblin, which also created such wonders as American Tail, this movie can easily stand up to the Disney titans. Obviously, the artwork is just incredible, the colors created just plain remarkable. The landscapes are just stunning. Quite simply put, you don't see hand-drawn animation like this anymore. There are also dark moments that remain beautiful to this day. I'll never forget the journey of Little Foot and it really is a well told story. I also love the look of the dinosaurs, the Sharp Tooth of course being quite the fearsome beast when I was a child.Composer James Horner creates an incredible score, one that hasn't aged a day since its release in 1988. To this film's credit, it obviously more or less inspired the multi-million dollar 1998 Disney film Dinosaur which had an all-too familiar storyline. A true classic I will eternally admire. Although I have to add this in, I here in recent prints (namely on DVD), the there is a small edit concerning the fight scene in the beginning of the film. Damn you parents, us fans who saw it over two decades do not appreciate your complaining regarding cartoon violence! When I buy this film on DVD I expect it to be just as I saw it when I was but a child. "},{"Title":"After a earthquake, 5 dinosaurs meet each other and search for a place known as the Great Valley, where every dinosaur that didn't meet death could live peacefully.","Date":"16 April 2009","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" An absolutely perfect film. I've viewed this movie MILLIONS of times, and could not find a single flaw with it. Don Bluth once quoted, Kids can deal with sad qualities in movies as long as you attach a happy ending to it. Well, this quote is completely true. Most of this movie is dark, starting with the first 30-minutes. It's even been known that many of the scenes with the T-Rex were cut out because of apparent scared feelings left to children. It's just genius to think you'd include DEATH, PERIL, and every other dramatic element in a animated, G-Rated movie. The movie isn't always dark though. Much of it is very faith related, and teaches a valuable moral that sticking together and helping each other, can pay off.....whoops. The real lesson was.....See? The movie teaches so many lessons, like to stay faithful, stick together, to keep moving on in life. I could list twenty of these. Don Bluth was, and still genius. I'd like to think that he knows how to connect animated movies,a nd give interest to both kids and adults. I still watch this, and I've been out of college for 8 years. When I was a kid, I watched this movie with my mom all the time, and she found it mildly interesting. I think when you can peak interest to both children and adults, and yet make it dark enough and light enough to balance it so it would get enough interest.Unfortunately, the second movie onward weighed on on the kid factor, making this the best of the.....1...2....3...Oh yeah, 11! This seems to be one of the many movies Don Bluth directed that weighed the kid friendly animation factor, to the dark, adult factors. That's how perfect Don Bluth directed this movie. I also want to make a honorable mention to Judith Barsi, who was taken from us much too early, as her father was drunk, and found out his wife was leaving him, and then shot Barsi and her mother. "},{"Title":"Lives up to fantastic childhood memories (slight spoilers)","Date":"12 July 2008","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I watched this movie for the first time in well over a decade yesterday, and unlike some films from my childhood - which don't survive my more judgemental older brain - the Land Before Time stands as strong as it did back in 1988. The only difference is I probably won't watch it twice a week for the next two years.The Land Before Time tells a simple story of a dinosaur named Littlefoot, who loses his mother to the deliciously one-dimensional, gravity-defying, vicious tyrannosaur known as Sharptooth. Together with four other lost dinosaurs he searches for the Great Valley, but is slowed by the group's lack of cooperation or trust for one another. The must overcome their personal differences - and the ever-prowling Sharptooth - to reach their goal, and choose to do things the right way, even if that means choosing the hard way.For a movie that suffered so much during its production phase, and one which left the producers and directors dissatisfied, its a wonder LBT underwent the success it did at the box office. Don Bluth delights in making cartoons that are both dark and heartwarming, and LBT is no different. The characters will scream and shiver in fear as Sharptooth prowls around their hiding spot, but in other scenes they laugh and interact as would 'normal' children. Due to Spielberg's influence a lot of these darker scenes were cut from the film (probably good due to the film's young audience) but many still remain, enough to make the movie reasonably suspenseful, and with more bite than a typical Disney film (quite literally).The orchestral score is as beautiful as the artwork depicted in the movie, arguably better than the film, though it is often obscured by the sound effects employed. The two elements come together to shroud the world in an air of mystery, adding to the quest-like atmosphere in typical Bluth fashion.The film does stoop to a few predictable elements, such as the character that appears to die dramatically only to return less than a minute later. Littlefoot's mother also dies (no real surprise there) but watching Littlefoot's misery afterward - and little touches, of his wandering footsteps shown from the air following a much larger pair of footsteps in a search for companionship - has the potential to pull your heartstrings, as it did mine.The film tackles the issue of racism that was (aparrently) prominent in America at the time. In the beginning of the film, Littlefoot is prevented from playing with Cera because threehorns never play with longnecks. Cera heeds her father's (poor) advice, but only by working with Littlefoot are the group able to reach their goals. It's nice to see a film with underlying messages like this. Modern films, like The Lion King, though good, are rather hollow in that aspect (though I hear many children now fear their uncles). The Land Before Time will teach younger children that they'll do far better if they put pride and discrimination behind them. Doing so in a humanistic fashion is more than tolerable considering the film's audience.All the characters in LBT are colourful but Littlefoot is the most likable (in this writer's opinion). While re-viewing this film after so many years, it was interesting to see the obvious emergence of his ability to lead. Though he is a child, when hiding from Sharptooth, he directs Cera's movement to prevent their discovery. He soon becomes the deferred leader of the group, mostly because he's the only one who knows how to reach the great valley, but also because he's a genuinely motivating and kind character, without being repulsive in an over-sweet manner.There is SOMETHING missing from the film however, possibly exactly what Don Bluth has commented on when he mentions his own dissatisfaction. The film ends after a measly 69 minutes (due to all the cuts), and as a child I was always wanted more. I am no different as an adult, the only difference is I now turn to the internet rather than rewinding the film and starting again. Something just isn't satisfying in the Land Before Time. That might be why so many sequels were spawned, and though they're entertaining for younger children, with singing and adventures and reasonably-tolerable dialogue, they don't have the darkness, that makes the light at the end of the tunnel that much brighter. "},{"Title":"The emotional force of a classic!","Date":"24 March 2005","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" There are many movie directors that I cannot argue with at all, and Don Bluth is a genius! All of his animated films are dramatic, lovable and unforgettable. The Land Before Time is not only a classic, but it is also a masterpiece! This movie has been a childhood movie for many since it's release in the late 1980's; I was one of those many; I've watched it hundreds of times, and I know the whole thing like the back of my hand!Bluth managed to cast this movie perfectly. Gabriel Damon brought the character of Littlefoot to life. Will Ryan gave us some good laughs as Petrie. No one can do Ducky like Judith Barsi; I was really hurt when I heard about her assassination (may she rest in peace). James Horner was the perfect composer for this movie, and what a great composer he is!I never saw this movie when it was in theaters, but I wish I did. The movie itself is a true classic, but it was completely ruined by a seemingly endless chain of straight-to-video-released sequels. When I heard about the first sequel, I thought, Oh, cool! Then I heard about part 3, and I thought, Alright! A trilogy! Then I saw the fourth one, and that's when I decided, Okay, I'm starting to get tired of this. The original is hands down the best! I don't understand why the company made so many sequels instead of just making it into a TV series.Sadly, I got rid of every LBT movie I've ever owned. I now feel regretful for getting rid of the original. I really wish that I could watch it again and re-live my childhood. "},{"Title":"A Beautiful Movie No Sequel Can Live Up To It","Date":"2 March 2014","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" This movie is very short at just over an hour long and it is a shame that a lot of bits that were deemed too 'violent' were edited out of it. Another bad thing that stopped me giving it a 10/10 was that the continuity wasn't great in a part which had obviously been edited. It has wonderful animation though, and the score is just beautiful, the plot is great and you will cry if you are lucky. There is a lot of character development considering how short the movie is and it can be interpreted in different ways. I personally believe that the plot of the movie was slightly different before it was edited, possibly having more death. One of the main themes of the movie is that if you stick together with friends and use your various talents, you can do anything and come through trials and tribulations easier than if you go alone. A must see for any child over 5. "},{"Title":"Wonderful movie!","Date":"29 April 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I was only 5 years old when this movie came to theatre and I begged my parents to take me to see it but sadly they couldn't at the time so I had to wait for it to come out on video. I got it when I came out on video and absolutely loved it. I'm 29 now and I still love this movie. I also got to watch it on movie day in elementry school and all my classmates liked it too. Sadly the sequels aren't as good as the original. All of the characters are cute. I couldn't pick a favorite because I liked them all. I never got tired of watching this movie. I hope I can show it to my youngest niece someday. I know she would like it. Really wish I could've seen it in the theatre. I'm 29 now and I still love this movie. "},{"Title":"Don Bluth's epic prehistoric masterpiece","Date":"13 September 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" We all love dinosaurs, do we? Being the most prehistoric creatures in the planet, we'll always be desperate to learn about them in earth science. So with that in mind, it was really great to see Hollywood making movies about them. Two of them were Steven Spielberg's epic film of the 90s Jurassic Park and Disney's mega-budget from the early 2000s Dinosaur, but before all of that, there was Don Bluth, who directed his magnum opuses The Secret of NIMH, An American Tail and All Dogs Go To Heaven, but later teamed up with Steven Spielberg and Star Wars creator George Lucas to create this animated prehistoric masterpiece known as The Land Before Time.It tells the story about a young brontosaurus named Littlefoot who is orphaned when his mother is killed by a Sharptooth. He then flees famine and upheaval to search for the Great Valley, an area which has been spared devastation. On his journey, he meets four young companions Cera, a Three-Horn Ducky, a Big Mouth, Petrie, a Flyer and Spike, a Spike-Tail as they try to avoid the sharptooth while going into dangerous places in a tale of survival, love, friendship, and teamwork.Aside from the 70 minute length, there's a lot of good things to offer. The animation in this movie is shockingly impressive, the acting is amazing especially the child actors who portrayed the kid dinos. The music score from James Horner is the best and it was innovative and very emotional. Even the song If We Hold On Together performed by Diana Ross was brilliant. The tone of the movie was as dark as Bluth's previous entries in the 80s that drives the movie with drama, suspense, and very touching moments.The Land Before Time is one of Bluth's magnum opus that has adventure, suspense, conflict, and emotionally sad moments and will go down as one of the greatest animated movies ever made. Recommended it to kids, adults, and teenagers who are in desperate need for nostalgia.10/10 "},{"Title":"Lovely Animation.","Date":"10 February 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" The Land Before Time is a great new original plot and idea that really turned out to be a big hit. This movie in my opinion is underrated, its a wonderful children's movie and really adds a whole new twist in the realm of cartoons. The plot is simple enough, a group of dinosaurs are taught that each of their species is the best and that they should not communicate with the other species. But then something happens and some dinosaurs die and the world around them begins to change for the worst. Many soon become separated from one another and then must put aside their differences and work together to find their families once again in the Great Valley. This movie is a great treat for the kids because it has dinosaurs and is widely popular with younger audiences. It even has subtle and not so subtle values in it as well. It instills teamwork, determination, and bravery. And by using all of those things, there isn't anything standing in your way. I love this movie and its just one of those original movies that grow on you. Its a heartwarming story and I highly recommend this to everyone who hasn't seen this movie. Overall this movie is great and develops the characters well and gives them each distinctive characteristics that you can relate to. I love this movie, and I know that kids will love the humorous moments and bursts of action. "},{"Title":"Beautiful. Just beautiful.","Date":"25 April 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Ah, the nostalgia! Even now, many years after I was the right age to enjoy this beloved classic, I still DO love this beloved classic! It really is so incredible, I could go on for pages. Littlefoot, Cera, Ducky, Petrie and Spike have got to be the most lovable children's characters ever created - they beat Winnie the Pooh and all the others by miles for me. I think it truly is a masterpiece, told through use of excellent characters and wonderful animation, and it has so much to teach children. The beauty of life, the pain of loss, the bravery, the loyalty - and of course, the value of friendship. I will definitely be showing this to my kids one day, it's just timeless. If I were younger, I would probably call it my favourite film. The endless sequels didn't even spoil it, because you can forget about them and just enjoy the first five, the ones with the 'magic', the wonder that makes them an important part of many people's childhood. "}{"Title":"Ah, My Favorite Film as a Child.","Date":"11 February 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I used to love this film when I was little. Not like the other Crappy kids films they show today. I liked the fact that this film deals with some tough issues like the death of Littlefoot's mother. It's also a nice story against prejudice as Littlefoot and his friends must work together to find the great valley. It balances comedy with drama, instead of just being a comedy like the crap they show today. Don Bluth made such a great film, it's ashame he isn't making anymore. The sequels are just too childish and don't measure up to the greatness this film is. All children should watch this film at least once to have fun and learn something. "},{"Title":"As wonderful as it was eleven years ago.","Date":"17 December 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I watched this movie when I was six years old, and even at seventeen it doesn't fail to amaze and entertain. Of course you have the iconic scenes, but watching this movie as an adult is even better than watching it as a kid, because every scene stands out at you. I actually felt more emotional and sympathetic towards the characters than I ever did as a child, and it really makes a difference.The movie was made in 1988, and was graced with an array of twelve horribly voiced, animated, and executed musical sequels that sometimes cover up the light of the original film (too much of a good thing isn't always good.) The first movie is a masterpiece, one of the few animated films ever made that provoke serious emotions and understanding of the need for companionship.The story focuses around five young dinosaurs in a time where the world was a mostly barren place. After all of them are separated from their families, they find each other one-by-one and stay together, trying to find the one place on earth they have a chance of surviving in. What makes this plot so unique are these five characters, because they're not perfect friends and individuals, they have problems, ghosts, and don't always see eye to eye, making them a realistic and believable group of friends. However, by the end of the movie they've gone through so much together that they can't help but love one another. Now, of course, the sequels lack the chemistry shown in the first movie, so they aren't even in the ballpark of how fantastic this film is.On the technical side of things, the animation is great, a true example of classic cartooning. Everything is so smooth and attractive, and at the same time, the darkness of the story gives it a gritty look that doesn't seem out of place at all with the cute little dinosaurs. As for the music, well let's just say that The Land Before Time would be a very mediocre film if it weren't for the score. This is by far the only score that's been able to instantly bring me to tears upon hearing it, because after seeing it set to such a happy ending after such a dark and depressing movie, it leaves a serious impression.So, all-in-all, if you haven't seen this movie, see it. It's a classic that shouldn't be passed up, and it only gets better with age. "},{"Title":"Amazingly Beautiful, Epic Children's Movie.","Date":"19 November 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I was five years old when this film came out and it was the first movie that I ever saw in a movie theater, so it definitely has a special place in my heart. But that is not the only reason that I game this movie a ten out of ten.I thought that this movie was an epic children's movie. I recently watched it again and it is still a great movie to see even being twenty-six years of age now.I love journey movies like this one. Homeward Bound and another great children's movie. I feel that it makes for a great plot and really feels epic with the characters having to travel unimaginable distances. I think it was great how something as sad and real like Littlefoot's mother dying happens in a movie like this. All too often a movie would be afraid to put something like that it a movie geared towards such a young demographic, but it really enhances the film. Yes it's very sad, I'm pretty sure I cried when I first saw it back when I was five, but it is so powerful a scene that it makes this film one I could remember for years and will remember for the rest of my life.I can't remember such an epic amazing children's movie ever being made, aside from maybe The Lion King and The Brave Little Toaster, both of which I hold on the same pedestal as this for my pick as greatest animated, children's film ever made. "},{"Title":"Most of new sequels are Great","Date":"29 October 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I just made a big comment on the Stone of Cold Fire and I just wan't people to watch Sequels since 7-th movie, Here is my comment to it some people are just dumb enough to say that movie is crap without actually watching it. When I was 11 I saw the first sequel o LBT The Great valley adventure,and found it far not as good as the first movie, in fact I didn't actually like it, maybe just a bit.Then I didn't see LBT anywhere until 2007, when I got unlimited internet connection and finally got a chance to know about all things I missed during my childhood, I found one of LBT songs from LBT 13 and found it very cute, because of Petrie's singing there.I was impressed by amount of these movies, I thought they should be more successful than 2-nd movie of there are so much of them and decided to download all movies. Well I just made myself watch Great valley adventure, to so to say remember LBT characters and storyline. Then LBT 3 and it was a bit better, but still drawn worse than first movie and worse overall of course.so I watched all sequels 4-6 and got used to it's stile-not amazing, but good to remember childhood.But when I watched The Stone of Cold Fire, I felt something changed, strong dialogues, Great-drawn Amazing storyline, They DON'T meet new friends and other nonsense some of LBT haters say they only met 3 villains and 2 friendly aliens, researching the main characters doing miraculous things like traveling in another place very fast(life is full with little Mysteries) and other mystic stuff, this whole movie is filled with mystery, and meanwhile it doesn't go far from the main storyline, This movie is totally different from previous 6 as a new Millennium it's quality is much better and continues improving with later sequels. I really enjoyed this movie ,and it's actually looking as the second movie of LBT deserving for Family rating, Everyone Young and old will most likely love it.2 of 3 songs in The Stone of CF are not childish, they are just great, every word is catching, maybe because adults sing them.Also a Science fiction storyline is extremely rare for childish cartoons and realistic once( reminds me show LOST where all begins realistic and them and then goes to science fiction with time traveling) and revealing aliens at the end just blew my mind! This movie has an excellent stile, especially Pterano's personality, and his voice(Michael York did great job), SOCF is also tougher than the other onces, and at the same time it brings good moralities, where can bad leadership bring to, and that some people who seem bad have heart too, they are just confused like Pterano. I'm also glad there were SciFi instead of magic, if This stone was magical it would ruin the whole LBT universe Every time I re-watch this movie I more realize how great it is, it isn't silly as any previous sequel.Also the soundtrack is amazing.Some people think it would rather better to make a series instead of movies, my question to you ARE YOU SICK?? You really think that low quality 20-min time limited episodes would do anything good?? Sooo in 2007 a lame cartoon series of LBT released, drawn with low quality, repeating songs, silly story lines, dialogues, can't say it is worse than The Great valley Adventure, but most of episodes a really not so good, they are just childish and not for the whole family to watch, just made for kids,and for Little kids.About other Sequels, I think The Stone of Cold fire made a new level for the sequels, made them not only for children(who definitely like them)but for the whole family again, almost as it was with the first movie, which is the best for all times, but if there were no sequels I'd rather live sadder, most of LBT sequels brought much happiness in my life, and NO other cartoon is even close to it's greatness. "},{"Title":"Don Bluth at his best.","Date":"21 July 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I've always been a big fan of Don Bluth Animation. He brings a lot of good animation and stories like Walt Disney to the screen. In this movie Littlefoot a young longneck (Apatosauraus) is going to find the Great Valley a place where him and his mother and grandparents were going to live but his mother died while fighting a sharptooth and his grandparents were separated from him during an earthquake! Along the way Littlefoot meets Ducky (Judith Barsi) a big mouth (duckbill dinosaur) and Petrie (Will Ryan) a flyer (Pteranadon) and they decide to go to the Great Valley too. Along the way they run into Cera a threehorn (Triceratops) who met Littlefoot during his mother's encountered with the sharptooth and she tells them that the sharptooth is alive but Littlefoot believes the Sharptooth is dead! Soon they meet an orphan spiketail (Stegasauraus) and Ducky names him Spike! The five dinosaurs continue the journey to the Great Valley. At first they follow Littlefoot until his way doesn't seem to be working then they follow Cera until she leads them into danger! Feeling guilty for what she's done Cera leaves the group sad and ashamed! Littlefoot, Ducky, Petrie, and Spike continue on the journey through water when they run into Sharptooth who is in fact alive! Ducky lours Sharptooth into the water and Littlefoot and Spike and Petrie try to push a rock on top of his head and Cera returns to help the others push the rock onto Sharptooth and sends him sinking in the water to his death! Soon the Ghost of Littlefoot's Mother appears and she guides Littlefoot and the others through a cave where at the end stands the Great Valley. The kids are reunited with their parents. Littlefoot with his Grandparents, Cera with her father, Petrie with his mother and siblings, and Ducky with her mom, dad, and siblings. Since Spike's Parents died before he hatched Ducky's parents decide to take him in as their own son! The five dinosaurs become friends and have adventures awaiting them in the Great Valley a wonderful place to grow up! Be a big fan of both Dinosaurs and Don Bluth I was just blown away with it! It's got wonderful animation, story, and characters just like any great animated film should be. Don Bluth has proved that he's a great animator just like Walt Disney maybe even more! Great job Don Bluth! 10 out of 10! "},{"Title":"Brilliant and a true non Disney masterpiece","Date":"22 February 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Wow, The Land Before Time, truly my all time favourite movie, very special to me because I grew up with it from day one. I was also born the day it was released as well as the same year (November 18th). We had this movie on video long ago and we watched it all the time, I've loved this movie for a long time and still do, mostly for the beautiful soundtrack, the characters and of course, the memorable song. If We Hold On Together is a brilliant song, just love it, always brings back so many memories and yet, such a wonderful feeling after watching the film. Too bad this film got spawned with so many DTV sequels and a TV Series which made it so crap, I think they should have left it off at the original, I love the movie and always will. "},{"Title":"Most mementos movie of m childhood","Date":"18 October 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I have remembered this movie since I have been a kid. This is one of the best movies Dreamworks (Spielsberg) has put out. I am a huge fan of both Steven Speilsberg and George Lucas. I feel this film is an forgotten classic. It puts every emotion emaginable into 'cartoons'/'animated movies' that seem to be forgotten now.Do not get me wrong the movies that have came after this are mainly to be remembered. This however is a classic movie that seems to be discredited for the morals and ethics that we once adored.As I said before this movie has sentimental value for me as it was the last movie me, my gran and my grandad went to see before he died.Seeing this movie again this evening, I still find it truly an enlightening and tearful film. That should bring every family member together.A true classic that will make you laugh, cry and feel the morals in life that come between each other in everyday life.This is a movie that would still to this day if released now, be a huge hit. "},{"Title":"Tearful memories","Date":"12 September 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" This is my first comment on a film actually. Why this is my first is because I never wanted to waste time telling people how good/bad a movie is when there are thousands of reviews that proves different all the time. I just came home buying this movie because it brings a lot of memories back from my childhood and when I got home I had to see the vote-number on this movie and I was shocked... This movie is beautiful especially the theme-song and the story always brings tears to my eyes. I'm not that kind of person who has to prove that someone is wrong but now I just had to do it! Maybe you think I overrated it but I do fall for this movie every single time. But... the other movies from this series never caught me.. this one is the best. "},{"Title":"Timeless treasure","Date":"16 August 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Don Bluth had made some of the best non-Disney kids films over the years. The Land Before Time is a shining example. A huge success in theatres and on video, Universal decided to ruin this beautiful masterpiece with ten (I'm not kidding, ten!) direct-to-video sequels. Of course, the first is the only one worth watching.The storyline is a bit like Watership Down, but with dinosaurs. It's fun and uplifting with morals of teamwork and courage. The animation is not as good as Disney, but the backgrounds excellently portray the dying world that our young protagonists struggle through. Like Balto, there are no songs - just action, suspense and light hearted humour. If there's one think I truly love about The Land Before, it's that it''s not afraid to show the truth. It doesn't water anything down - unlike the sequels. It's shows some characters dying, and how a young child copes with death. Don Bluth makes it suitable for children, but dark enough for adults.As with most of their animated DVDs, Universal made a very poor DVD version. Universal seems to think that the only market for animation is children. They are dead wrong. "},{"Title":"everlasting","Date":"6 June 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" ... Wow. Wow because the film is absolutely amazing and wow because i am not an alone obsessed fan.Ever since a young age i have enjoyed The Land Before Time, including the sequels unlike some people. They still have their own themes and morals but i do agree to some extent.The characters are clear so children easily identify who is who. The extremity of the characters personalities helps you understand the differences in upbringings of children in different societies.The music is so beautiful and every time used it is appropriate to the scene and events. I'm still looking for the soundtrack so i can sit in my room and cry.This is a very moving story that children love. i can say this with absolute confidence because i remember when i was younger borrowing it from the video store so many times they let us keep it. not worth watching now because it is so grainy from frequent use.My summary was 'everlasting' because even though it came out in '88 it is still a big hit with me. And it seems to still have a place in everyones heart today "}{"Title":"The BEST animated dinosaur movie ever!","Date":"7 February 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I was just a baby when this movie came out in the cinemas, so I didn't get to see it then. But when I did see it I fell in love with it. I remember when I finally got it I would watch it several times a day.Now looking back I find that it has more quality then it did when it first came out. Especially with all the stupid sequels that followed. The animation is a thousand times better than the others. The Sharptooth is actually a threat in this one. A real bad@$$ of a T.Rex. Much more ferocious and monstrous than the sharpteeth in the sequels. The best of Bluth's work.A true 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A timeless classic","Date":"25 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" The Land Before Time is one of my favorite childhood memories when watching movies. Littlefoot, Cera, Ducky, Petrie, and Spike were my absolute favorite characters back in the day. The characters are what made me love this Disney classic and will forever stay that way. The music by my personal favorite composer, James Horner really sunk in to the film and I think there couldn't of been a better score than this for the movie. Don Bluth is very good at making powerful Disney movies and I'll actually admit that I had a few tears about to come out on some scenes. Overall, this is one of the greatest Disney movies to ever come out and one of the best tearjerkers also. Great movie, I highly recommend this timeless classic.Hedeen's Outlook 10/10 **** A+ "},{"Title":"I wish i could words things as well in type as some here surely do","Date":"23 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I don't think i can put it any better than those who have previously commented on this master work called the land before time. I could try to put in to words what this movie has meant to me sense i first seen it in 88 nearly 18 years ago now. I'm now 34 and will still toss it in the DVD player now and again. I've seen all the old classics from Disney but none have meant as much to me as don bluths land before time which is not a Disney film BTW. I've seen many posts calling it a Disney master piece etc. Fact is this is a film made post Walt Disney after isner and the rest took over. Post Walt Disney films lack every thing that this film has. "},{"Title":"What I think.","Date":"18 June 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I consider this movie to be my all time fav. Even now, when i remember scenes, the same ones make me laugh, and others give me the frog in the throat. Petrie is my fav cause he's so paranoid and freaks out all the time. I also like spike because he reminds me of me with all the eating and sleeping that he does. Sharptooth is also a bad-ass. I found it amazing that Steve S. and George Lucas were the ones behind this movie. Before I learned that I would've never guessed. I'm not to pleased that Hollywood has taken this perfect movie and have tried to bleed the franchise dry with a million and a half sequels, whatever. This movie is proof of magic. NOTHING will ever bump this off the top for me. "},{"Title":"One of the best animated films ever","Date":"14 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" The Land before Time is simply a smashing film, and no I don't just mean a kids film I mean a proper film. Helmed by Don Bluth this is certainly his finest movie and indeed it is debatable if he ever produced anything of worth again. The story is the tale of five young dinosaurs who after a terrible earthquake are making their way to the great valley, a paradise were they can again be reunited with their parents. The characters are a beautiful bunch. The main identity throughout the film is littlefoot a baby brontosaurus, though he is by no means the best character. Included in his main gang are Ducky, Cera, Spike, and my personal favourite the flyer Petrie. Each of the characters have their own splendid personality's from Sarahs pride to Duckys optimism. However the film certainly is not overly cute by any means. The film is plagued with black and earthy tones that give the film a dark feeling. However the main cause of strife in this prehistoric world is the brilliant T-Rex Sharptooth, who haunts the picture and when he appears really is scary. The animation is excellent and carries a certain charm to it, that few films have been able to capture since. To conclude The Land before Time is a must for family viewing, and even if you are on your own you could do a lot worse. "},{"Title":"Made me cry. See it.","Date":"16 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" This was the most amazing animated film I've ever seen. BAR NONE. Strangely, although it was meant to be a kid's movie, it didn't feel like it. For example, Littlefoot's mother says that none of the dinosaurs talk to each other because they're different. For some reason, that makes me think of racism, and how this may have been the first kid's movie to really deal with that sort of thing up-front and personal. The dinosaur society is really and truly racist, until a group of five kids become friends and bring their families together.In addition to the underlying themes, it didn't seem like much of a kid's movie because even now, as a teenage girl, I was and still am terrified by the fight scenes with Sharptooth and the other dinosaurs. And there was some really delicious humour put in there that still makes me laugh. I first saw this eleven years ago, when I was three, and I still laugh, cry, and gasp with fear in all the same places. It's really a shame that they created all those sequels, though. The first one had such a sense of closure, and then they had to ruin it with ten sequels, each one getting progressively more horrible. Still, though I sincerely recommend this to anyone who loves a good story. "},{"Title":"there will never be any movie like this one!","Date":"6 July 2004","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  this movie is probably one of the most brilliant children movies ever been made. i'm sure everyone who grown with this film remember the strong emotional parts in it like the one when little foot's mom died..who could not cry when he saw this? and the friendship between all the dinosaurs? there is no wander why everyone remember this film and keep on talking about it..there probably never been a movie that had such a strong influence on me, espectualy when his mother died..this scene was so sad i just cried my heart out each time i saw this..iv'e always asked my mother if it's true that she is dead and she didn't know how to explane this for me..sometimes i just couldn't continue watching it because of this..the one who made this movie is probably a ginius. i strongly recommend this for parents who want their children to see a quality movie.. you will enjoy every moment "},{"Title":"Beautiful in all Aspects...","Date":"5 April 2003","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  THE LAND BEFORE TIME is one of the best animated features I have ever seen. This story of a group of young, orphaned dinosaurs searching for their families is at times touching, humourous, and heart-breaking.  Younger viewers will love the adventures of the memorable characters from the talkative Petrie to the silent Spike; from determined Little Foot to headstrong Cera -- and little Ducky, who, as the innocent dose of sunshine, tries to maintain a happy medium within the group.Older viewers will appreciate THE LAND BEFORE TIME for its majestic animation and James Horner's appropriate, sweeping score.  However, parents will also love the valuable life lessons taught through the characters. As cliched as they may be, teamwork, trust, and acceptance of others' differences are deeply entrenched in the storyline of the film.  Little children need such obvious examples to identify with -- especially in a world where flawed, indifferent characters are par for the course in many television shows and movies.Ruined by pointless sequels that lack the heart of this original classic, THE LAND BEFORE TIME is a film for families to watch together and talk about -- all the while laughing with, crying with, and enjoying a true children's masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Uplifting children's classic","Date":"29 September 2000","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Anybody who calls this movie juvenile is watching this through the rose tinted glasses of an adult. This is a heartwarming, uplifting, exceptionally animated, and well executed children's classic. The colors, background, and animation are alive and vibrant. Heck, the whole entire cinematography is better than that of The Secret of Nimh! The characters are lovable and innocent, and Littlefoot's mother is one of the stronger parental figures I've ever seen. The story is one of friendship and determination. It's also warm and very emotional. There's laughter. There's sorrow. There's danger. The treestar is also a symbol of Littlefoot's mother's love to him. This is the second of only two really fantastic movies Don Bluth ever did, the first being The Secret of Nimh. All of his other movies are too saccharine, poorly executed, and have downplayed drama and emotion. This movie also doesn't have the hokey formula Disney started developing around this time. Case in point, this movie, at the time, was competing with Disney's own Oliver and Company. This, in my opinion, is many times better than that. It has a better story, a lot more heart, and no need for fancy songs. If there's anything wrong with this movie, it's the fact that the sequels turned these lovable friends into something rather annoying. Just pretend they don't exist, and you'll find a fantastic animated classic. "},{"Title":"One of Bluth's best","Date":"13 April 2000","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Don Bluth's best movies are those that offer something for adults as well as kids.  This film works on many different levels.  The underlying theme is that if we put aside our differences and work together, we can make it through.  Each character is well-defined here.  Every time I watch it I root for Littlefoot, get annoyed at Cera, and laugh at Petrie, Ducky and Spike.  The art direction here is simply breathtaking, especially of the shots with volcanoes in the background.  The score ranges from sweeping to playful to lush to heart-pounding, and in my book ranks right up there with Balto as one of James Horner's very best.  Forget the sequels that followed; this beautiful movie is the best. "}{"Title":"A terrific character animation film for the whole family.","Date":"4 December 1999","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I took my young son to see this film and watched it expecting something totally different.  I was elated and liked the fine casting of characters. Each role was distinguished and all participated in handling all the issues that are routinely faced.  This film had good social values and lessons to project to the audience.  It is a terrific film for children.  "},{"Title":"A Timeless Classic","Date":"2 July 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Hello everyone and I'm here to review on the most most timeless classics of all time. The Land Before Time will always be a classic and there is so much to love in this movie, that even the characters are lovable. I'm going to go through why this movie rocks and will try to avoiding giving spoilers as best as I can.Once you started playing the movie, you are met with great cartoon animation and great music. The music itself is pretty emotional, as it is done by the legendary James Horner. The movie focuses on Littlefoot, a Brontosaurus, who is traveling with his mother to find the legendary Great Valley. Then you meet Cera, a triceratop with an attitude. These two are actually the two of the main characters of the movie, as the rest of the main characters appear after the most heartbreaking scene in the whole movie, the death of Littlefoot's mother, who gave her life to defend him from a T-Rex, but they are called Sharp Tooths in this movie.The acting in this movie is outstanding, as I say the one who did the the best job is none other than Judith Barsi, who voices the main character Ducky. It's also very sad that she was murdered the same year as this movie, 1988. But she leaves behind a great legacy and will always be remembered. The ones that did great in this movie was Gabriel Damon (Littlefoot), Candace Hutson (Cera), and Will Ryan (Petrie). This entire movie was well made and everyone put a lot of effort into making this movie the classic it is today. If they ever remade this movie, I hope they put in the same effort as everyone did for this movie.Another thing that made this movie great is the music. I have to say that James Horner is one of the greats and his music to this is very emotional and can bring anyone who listens to it in tears, as it's very beautiful. The final song, If We Hold On Together is also very emotional and beautiful, sang by Diana Ross. I would always listen to the final song as it is one of my all time favorites next to My Heart Will Go On from Titanic. If there wasn't any music in this movie, it wouldn't have been a classic, as the music gave the story the emotions and brings the movie to new heights.My final thoughts on the movie was this, I loved every minute of this and could watch this back to back, as it is one of the best movies of all time. If you love Dinosaurs, then this is for you. It is also a very good family film, but please be warned, the music is what makes this movie emotional. I would recommend this for kids age 5 or up, but to be honest, any age could watch this, but due to the emotional scenes and the music, age 5 would be the best age to watch this. Your kids will enjoy this movie and remember it for a long time. Overall, I give this 10 out of 10 stars. This is a must see and for an cartoon movie, this is the best so far. I would recommend this over the sequels, as this was the most powerful installment. "},{"Title":"It really makes me feel","Date":"20 November 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" This movie is a real tearjerker for me. The one scene that really gets to me and breaks my heart is when Littlefoot's mom dies. That's a major tearjerker because not only is the main character's mother, who was supposed to be the most important influence of his life, dead but she died while she was protecting him and she died when he was so young. It makes me sympathetic towards our main character and I cry every time that scene and a few scenes after it occur. The fact that the 5 dinosaurs that we follow are so young really makes you feel sympathetic when something sad or dangerous happens to them. The ending is by far the best part of this film because they make it to their destination despite hard times. If you're looking for a film that will make you cry tears of sadness or joy, then this prehistoric tale is for you. "},{"Title":"Very Short but Very Sweet,","Date":"17 July 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" The Land Before Time is a great movie with a very well developed storyline and a terrific voice cast that really suit their characters personality.The movie is very short,only being about an hour and ten minutes long,so if you're looking for a quick but enjoyable family film then I would definitely recommend this.It says in the trivia that a lot of scenes were removed because they seemed too dramatic for children,I think they should have kept these scenes because it would have developed the characters some more and make the movie longer,it's up to the parents to decide whether it's alright for their kids to watch it or not.You will fall in love with these characters very early on and support them throughout,they are very sweet and lovable.The Land Before Time is a very enjoyable movie that I would recommend to anyone looking for a good family film or animation. An orphaned brontosaurus and his friends fend for themselves as they venture towards safety. "},{"Title":"Absolutely beautiful and timeless!","Date":"1 September 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I saw this movie 2 hours ago for like the millionth time (I have had it on video ever since I can remember), and I finally decided to post a review here.The movie tells the story of a little baby dinosaur named Littlefoot who after an earthquake which separates him from his grandparents and a Tyrannosaurus Rex kills his mother, embarks on a journey with his 4 newfound friends (Cera, Petrie, Duckie and Spike) to find the legendary Great Valley, where they hope to find endless food and possibly their families.The voice acting is great and satisfying. They really went all out for this one.As you can probably see, this movie isn't all rainbows and smiles. It will probably make you cry in the first 20 minutes (my cousin cried so much he hated movies altogether since then), and it delivers a powerful message of hope, love and family.The script is wonderful and will have you laughing and crying throughout the entire film. In fact, this movie was such a success that they ended up making 12 SEQUELS and a TV series. The movie is absolutely a JOY to watch and fun for the whole family. Don't let anyone else tell you otherwise, and you won't regret reading this. Steven Spielberg and Don Bluth have done it again ;) "},{"Title":"Great for Kids...","Date":"3 September 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" If your child likes or loves dinosaurs, then definitely BUY this for them. There's a few parts that are a bit terrifying, though with an endearing story, nice voice-cast, and good animation, the family should be entertained. Though I must proclaim, steer away from the sequels, as they diminish the spirit of this one.Other than that, I definitely recommend this little movie to anyone's kids that are 6-years or younger.Enjoy. "},{"Title":"Don Bluth is yet again impressive with lots of lovable dinosaurs!","Date":"29 September 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" At his prime of being an animator, with help of Steven Spielberg (as making the whole film possible), Don Bluth helped create this beauty of a film. It is unlike many films, daring to be sad and dangerous (unlike many Disneys) and the reviewer is pleased to say, that this film succeeded rightly in popularity. It also seems that the film is portraying people in a real situation, like a war, but the audience may not feel this way.The film starts with dinosaurs. The audience may expect them to just go about rampaging cave men and a t-rex to be the main star. In fact, this film turns out to show some young herbivore dinosaurs hatching from eggs, a little duckbill named Ducky is the first. Then comes along a feisty and stubborn young threehorn called Cera (short for TriCERAtops). We also see another egg rolling down a dinosaur skeleton and a waterfall and out of it hatches our star a little longneck named Littlefoot.Littlefoot is the only child of his caring and devoted mother. We fall in love with all of the characters and we watch them go through this film of friendship, betrayal and discovery.This is a truly magical cartoon film, unlike just about anything you have seen before.Enjoy The Land Before Time! "},{"Title":"A classic film that the whole family would watch","Date":"16 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I remember watching this as a child and I really liked it. An excellent film I sometimes still watch today. This film is very humorous and heart breaking, I'm sure everybody would enjoy this film and it would be a film you would watch often. A story about friendship on great adventures. But the only problem is their is to many sequels. Also It has now been turned into a series which was a bad idea, and I don't like the idea of their being a few changes in the voice actors. If you like this film you would enjoy the sequels. If you really enjoyed the film I recommend you watch the further films with more family fun and great stories with Little foot and his friends. "},{"Title":"An excellent movie for children","Date":"30 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" This movie is an excellent children's movie, one of the best ones out there, in fact. Though the rest of the series and its many sequels aren't nearly as good, this movie is excellent. It is watchable by adults, at least a couple times, and unlike many similar children's' offerings is not a musical. It has good themes and is a very sweet and well-done movie, like most of Bluth's films.Its themes of peace, cooperation, non-racism, and the like are very positive themes and shows why they're important to children. All in all, a wonderful film that everyone should see at least once, and which is great if you have children. "},{"Title":"The Bambi of dinosaur movies- an instant classic!","Date":"1 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" (the only spoilers i give are at the beginning to set the scene) this is one animated movie that just shines. most likely the best ever 2-d animated movie not made by Disney! First of all, we've got Littlefoot, a long-neck (guess what kind of dino that is!) who lives with his mother and grandparents in a herd, which is separated after an earth shake, and Littlefoot's mother is killed, and he is separated from this grandparents, with only a tree-star (a leaf of some kind) to keep him secure about finding the herd again at their destination and rendezvous point the fabled Great Valley. things never come easy to little dinosaurs on the move, so Littlefoot meets some friends along they way, like Sara, a three-horn (I won't insult your intelligence by telling you what she is), Ducky, (a hadrosaur, she never says the dino-speak version of her species name)Spike, a baby stegosaurus Duck adopted (so baby, he can't talk and he doesn't have plates, but he's a stego.)and Petri (not the dish, a pterosaur) together, they head off on a search for the great valley. Pros- Amazing realism in dino names. no matter how much we want to believe it, dinosaurs would never call each other brachiosauri (the real plural ending of something that ends with us is i) or hadrosauri or anything else. those are derived from Latin dinosaurs did not speak Latin. they would describe each other by their features, like Long Neck or Three-Horns It's original no other movie is like this. sure, the kids travel to a faraway land to find their parents is less original, but the setup of dino society (if you want to call it that) is incredible. great setup. It has Steven Spielberg and George Lucas. I know two other projects that these two collaborated on Indiana Jones and the Raiders of the Lost Ark, and Star Wars Episode III the Revenge of the Sith. all three of these movies rock. Cons This is a perfect movie. the only con is TOO MANY POINTLESS AND INCREASINGLY KIDDY SEQUELS. the original was unsuitable for small children, the newest ones seem tailor made for them. and while the dino names were ingenious in the first one, they're getting so overused and dumb I know 2 kids who use the dino names to describe the dinosaurs.in conclusion This movie is a must see. the sequels are a must not see. I wonder what George and Steven would think... "}{"Title":"Cute and enjoyable","Date":"17 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" While it's a bit clunky in animation terms, the LBT series is undeniably appealing and easy to watch. The characters are idealised and stereotypical - basically, they're anthropomorphosised children and adults. The plot is usually a moral tale showing good intention winning out over the bad guys who are always played by animalistic characters or creatures lacking the wee dinosaurs' wisdom and power to reason.My daughter (3.5) loves the whole series and has a strangely deep appreciation of dinosaurs and their world! Not a bad film to cuddle up with your children to just before bed either. I think it's because there's a genuine desire to tell a good story here and that sets them apart from the rest. And there's a whole series of the of course you wont be driven mad watching the same one over and over.Hence 8/10. "},{"Title":"Heartwarming and tear-jerking to an unusual degree","Date":"7 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" This is one of the very few films I've ever seen, live-action or otherwise, that really succeeded in telegraphing the sheer pain it must cause to lose a beloved family member. Usually in movies, the requisite is one scene or so of a character grieving, and then the plot must continue on unabated. The Land Before Time managed otherwise. The tragic final scene between Little Foot and his mother achieves a poignancy I can't remember anything matching, and the effect of it is heightened by the fact that it is not simply brushed under the rug for rollicking journey adventures to continue. We continue to feel Little Foot's pain throughout the film, and this fact makes the respites from it he finds in his new gang of friends all the more effective. Admittedly a HUGE amount of the credit for this must go to James Horner for his brilliant score, but director Don Bluth never mishandles a character moment meant to be crucial in this thread.Also, although much of the action is generally cartoon-level stuff, the opening is vastly more majestic and dignified than one might expect in a story such as this, and, combined with Pat Hingle's ultra-dignified narration, gives the film a weightier context than one might otherwise credit it with. The ending only confirms this, with the Great Valley opening up before the dinosaurs as one of the best and most blatant Garden of Edens ever shown on film. The excellent song over the ending credits clinches it even further.This shouldn't imply its a perfect work. There are spaces in between the weightier moments when it lapses sadly into clichs and contrivances, and these deflate with depressing speed some of what the film has accomplished. But certainly not to a critical degree. Don Bluth seems to have made it a mission in his career to avoid playing it safe or being too predictable. I've gone over most of his films in the last few weeks, and I've noticed that he always seems to get into his plots and characters by some unusual route. In films like The Secret of NIMH or Titan A.E., this sort of thing works brilliantly, and even his lesser works (An American Tail, All Dogs Go to Heaven) are at least noble experiments. The Land Before Time is the product of a craftsman at work. "},{"Title":"Definitely a staple of my childhood movie watching.","Date":"22 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  The epic journey of the young brontosaurus (technically correct Apatosaurus) Little Foot and his friends is quite memorable and distinctive among the films I watched as a child.  Even though it has been years since I've seen it, the messages of team work and parental and familial love continue to exist within my realm of moral values.  Little Foot's ability to unite with such varying friends (and it continues throughout the series) is a great message of friendship through differences, even if Cera is a bit annoying at times. ) The effort that they use and the teamwork that they put into place in order to make a journey that none of them would have been able to make alone is amazing, and generally a message that more children should receive.  "},{"Title":"Another quality film from Bluth","Date":"10 February 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This films bears much of the same criticism I have for Bluth's American Tail. It seems to lay the sentimentality on a bit heavy for my tastes.That said, the comraderie experienced by the characters in this movie is heartfelt and real. Cera and Littlefoot bicker realistically, and Spike and Ducky make a nice pair. Because of sympathy Bluth wonderfully derives from his dinos, one (even myself as an adult) gets caught up in their search for the Great Valley.One of Bluth's most popular movies (evident by the numerous inferior sequels this one has had). A 4 out of 5 on my Bluth scale and a 3 out of 5 on my personal scale. "},{"Title":"not just for children","Date":"10 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  The original Land Before Time film was and still is one of my favorite films. Its animation and musical scores are superb and the plot, though geared towards children is still one that adults can enjoy. Personally would I rank it as one of the top ten animated films of all time (sentimental value notwithstanding). I believe that the reason I can still watch and enjoy this movie is because it isn't a musical like it sequels. Don Bluth, George Lucas, and Steven Spielberg did a wonderful job creating this movie. I only wish its reputation hadn't been soiled by a score of crappy sequels. "},{"Title":"I still remember crying...","Date":"13 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This fantastic portrayal of the land before time really moved me and filled me with hope and understanding. This is the one that brought me to realise what death was and that it is something that is very sad. I am 15 years old, going on 16, and I would watch it a zillion times if I was given the opportunity. Apart from this, my obsession with dinosaurs started from this movie. I had seen this movie about twenty times during my time in grade 2 and when we started studying dinosaurs, I was just reminded of this wondrous movie so much that I knew I wanted to learn and discover more about them. An excellent achievement! Watch it if you just want to escape from the real world and find yourself in a land before time! "},{"Title":"One of my favorites of all time","Date":"13 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Ohh yes, the land before time. the greatest animated movie of all time i say. i saw the second one first but when i saw the first one and i was blown away. then i was only 4ish now I'm almost 14 and i still love it. the only thing that makes me unhappy is the endless supply of sequels. When i was a little kid i liked the sequels, but now... there only good up to V, now and all the rest of the sequels STINK. they should have stopped after 5 sequels. and after i bought the first 9, i stopped buying them. i used to think they where the greatest movies, but slowly, they became less and less good. If you are a kid, get it, if you are an adult, get it, if you are anyone don't get'm past #5. "},{"Title":"Great children's movie","Date":"2 March 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I still remember seeing this film for the first time in the theater. It is just an awesome movie for anyone to watch. I still watch it today and I'm 19 years old. The fact that they made so many more of these movies is sad. It was a story that should have been left alone and not continiued like it was. I have seen some of the new ones, but not all of them. The way the first one ended was perfect and would make anyone of any age smile. I just watched it the other day and it was like reliving my childhood days, which sometimes is something everyone needs. It is also a great story of hope and persurverence, and the song at the end by Diana Ross reminds me of seeing the movie as a child and it moves something inside of me. All in all, for this children's movie, it might not get any better than The Land Before Time "},{"Title":"So Cute!","Date":"15 March 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This movie is made for children, so if you are an adult it won't be your favorite kind of animation.  Growing up, my sisters and I fell in love with the characters. The story is great, because it has so many things to teach children.  Such as, you loose a loved one and can find more love if you are willing to reach out.  Also, that people can change and learn to adapt to new situations.  The characters were not best friends from the beginning, but became so when they all had to endure the same journey to find their families.  I will admitt that I do not like nearly all of the sequals, but this first one is amazing. Your kids/ or you, if you are a child, will laugh and feel for the characters and want to watch it over and over again.  I'd rate this a 5/5! "},{"Title":"GREAT MOVIE!!!","Date":"15 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  i like this movie a lot it is a great movie with a lot of emotion laughter and tearsit was my favorite movie ever when i was a young childthe story of littlefoot and his friends is very beautiful and exciting and i recommend it...buhbye from me now, the lil' feary, Adi!! ^^ "}{"Title":"Excellent!!!","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This was one of my favorite movies when I was growing up and I still watch the movie occasionally and any sequel we have (I am now in high school, so age does not matter).Even though this movie resembles Disney's Dinosaur, the plot fits this one much better (and besides, this movie came out with this plot first anyway).  Adventurous Littlefoot, bossy Cera, charming Ducky, nervous Petrie, and gluttonous Spike make up the cast of dino children in this tale.  These five must work together after an earthquake seperated them from their parents and they have to travel in search of the Great Valley, a beautiful place with much vegetation to snack on.  The movie focuses mostly on the aspects of teamwork and prejudice (Cera's father once said Come Cera, Three Horns never play with Long Necks).The soundtrack by James Horner is perfectly in sync with the scenes and I admire how much he used the brass and percussion instruments in the action scenes.  There are a few goofs in this movie though.  In one scene, Cera is missing some toes, and another the order in which the dinosaurs are sleeping Littlefoot was in the middle of the group, but five seconds later, Cera is in the middle.  The sequels are not as good as the original but still enjoyable.  Still earns a ten out of ten on my ratings scale. "},{"Title":"This is a wonderful, gentle movie.","Date":"6 August 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Lovable but absent Disney-esque saccharine, The Land Before Time will delight the heart of any child, and awaken the child in any adult. Note that this is a movie that should be not seen by very young children alone. It's OK for older kids, and ideal for tots and parents together on a rainy afternoon. The cast is suitably lovable, and you'll find it a favorite whether you are a kid or raising one. "},{"Title":"one of the best family films I've ever seen.","Date":"1 January 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This film is probably the best family film ever. It uses great animation and storytelling to help it get the story across. I think that more films not just family ones should use these elements because I think you can have a better film by using them. I really enjoy this film and I would say that everyone should see it. "},{"Title":"LAND BEFORE TIME","Date":"12 March 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I think that the LAND BEFORE TIME is a really great film especially for younger kids.  I'm 15 and it's still on my top ten favourite film list and I give it a rating of 10. "},{"Title":"A great movie that spawned a horde of unwanted sequels","Date":"10 June 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This was one of my favorite moves as a kid. I remeber seeing 1 or 2 of the sequels, but by the time they got to around #5 I had grown out of it. And i have an inkling that since the sequels went straight-to-video, they weren't very good. I loved this first one though. "},{"Title":"Journey to the Great Valley","Date":"23 May 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  The land before time is my childhood movie, i've grown up watching the land before time and i still love the films. Littlefoot is born and he loses his mother in a earthquake, his mother gives him the message on how is knows the way to the great valley, on his journey he meets more dinosaurs, they all begin there was to the great valley. They get to the great valley and they see their parents again for the 2nd time "},{"Title":"Nice journey and friendship dino film.","Date":"12 April 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" This is one of the very few non-Disney animated films I grew up with - five little dinosaurs Littlefoot, Cera, Ducky, Petrie and a non-speaking Stegosaur travel the ruins of their land while being separated from their families by an earthquake, attempting to reunite with their loved ones in the beautiful and lush Great Valley.It's a pretty exciting story as we see the little dinosaur friends travel together to beat the odds and strive for survival as they struggle to find food and fend off frightening carnivores like the unforgiving T-Rex (who the call as Sharptooth).The animation is good and the voice-acting was believable. I like the Littlefoot character, couldn't stand the bratty Cera, and thought the friendship and bonding between Ducky and Petrie was little too sweet and endearing.Again, this is an exciting and very nice dinosaur film, but grew up on me overtime. It's a good film to bring the family together, but it's best for the kids' ages.Grade B "},{"Title":"Very heavy for a kids movie, but good","Date":"19 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I remember the first time I saw this movie, I was four and in preschool. We were on a dinosaur segment, much to the delight of just about every boy in the class including myself. So, this movie was part of the curriculum. I still remember thinking the tragic death of Littlefoot's mother and Littlefoot subsequently wandering alone through the wastelands was pretty sad and quite intense for a little kid to watch. Then, Littlefoot, looking for sympathy, meets the old dinosaur and is basically told that life is cruel, pal. Deal with it. I barely had a concept of the finality and severity of death until I saw this movie...no joke. Not that I wouldn't recommend the movie for young kids, but one should take note for their kids that this is not like a Disney movie, which is typically made from the ground up for kids. Don Bluth usually takes pretty mature themes and packages them in a medium that kids can understand. His movies tend to be quite a bit darker than most animated Disney movies and Land Before Time is no exception.With that intro let me say, having just watched this movie again recently, I forgot how well done it is. It's a very well thought out story that explores many important themes and delivers many deep messages beyond the usually fluffy follow your dream and marry a prince that you often see in kids' movies. This is one of the few animated films that I've seen that really conveys a feeling of anxiety and hopelessness throughout and brings the main characters through very obvious desperation and survival needs. You never really know if all five characters really are going to make it. Some may say, It's a kids movie. They wouldn't kill off any of the main characters! Think again. Take a look at some of Don Bluth's other stuff. He's never been opposed to killing of characters you wouldn't expect...and on screen. Also in the original script, NONE of the dinosaurs made it to the Great Valley; all died along the away. Obviously, that would have been hard to package. However, the film is very harsh and dark until the last 2-5 minutes when all five do in fact make it to the Great Valley alive.All this talk about how dark this film is for an animated kids movie is not a criticism. I think that depth of the film makes it great and I wish more films like this were made for kids. I actually sometimes wished that some of the Disney Renaissance films (Little Mermaid, Aladdin, etc) as good as they are, were a bit darker and harsher in tone. Obviously, I think, especially with a kids movie, you need a happy ending, but that doesn't mean you have to constantly make it fluffy. It's too bad that this film didn't have a greater impact on cinema other than spawning a bunch of direct to video shmaltzy sequels with dumb musical numbers. All in all, great movie if you're a kid or an adult. "},{"Title":"A Very Cute Dinosaur Movie by Don Bluth","Date":"6 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I like Don Bluth (who is still producing) but he never succeeded in surpassing Disney, although An American Tail and NIMH come very close. A very cute story, but it seems too thin for a (short) cartoon feature. Five baby dinosaurs, not off to see the wizard, but off to find the great valley which is filled with green trees and water. Of course mama dies, and the little ones are left on their own. On my old VHS tape, it suffers from terrible color timing and I am sure it looks far better on DVD. Very tenderly animated but some of the dramatic scenes (volcanoes) seem to lack the punch that should be there. For younger children only, as the story seems quite simplistic. Not too young, as the T-Rex (sharp tooth) is quite a beast. How this spawned 8 sequels is beyond me. "},{"Title":"Little Foot and friends go on an adventure to find their missing families.","Date":"3 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Well I admit it. I liked Dinosaurs as a kid. No, I really loved them and thought they were awesome. Then again most kids probably go through this faze though, especially boys. So no surprise I liked this movie as a kid. Didn't love it, but it did leave an impression and didn't make me forget it. I haven't seen many Dinosaur movies, and even less that I liked. This one I found really good, even now that I'm older.Strangely I don't remember laughing a lot on this movie when I was a kid. I remember being really transfixed on the adventure and even crying when the time called for it. Not a lot of kids movies can make me cry but this one always makes my eyes go watery. I'm sure for most who have seen this as a kid or seen it in general know that the saddest seen is Little Foots mom dying. That scene for me is the one I remember most and in my opinion is one of the saddest animated kids movie moments. The movie in general, in my opinion has a good plot, stable and fun characters, and is very entertaining. Even kind of scary at times to a younger audience. All and all a really good family movie. ) "}{"Title":"The beginning of a great series","Date":"11 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Don Bluth directs a fine movie about four young baby dinosaurs named Littlefoot (Gabriel Damon) an Apatosaurus, Cera (Candace Hutson) a Triceratops, Ducky (Judith Barsi), Petrie (Will Ryan) a Pterasaur, and Spike a Stegosaurus. The plot makes you feel that you are actually Littlefoot, who has to go in search of a land that is said to be better than the one that he now lives in after a Sharptooth, a Tyrannosaur, killed his mother (Helen Shaver). Along the way he makes friends with Ducky, Petrie, Spike and then Cera. Witnessing the birth of Spike, then seeing him eating the grass that hid his egg is so cool. The fight scene with Littlefoot's mother and the Sharptooth is so tragic that you want to cry. Littlefoot and his friends battling and then killing the sharp tooth before they enter the land that they are searching for is just a perfect ending to a great movie.Pat Hingle, did a terrific job of the narrator, it really makes it seem that you are right smack into the film. The graphics are nicely done and the voice work is fantastic. This film was followed by eleven sequels which are just as good as the original. I recommend this to every family that have children. "},{"Title":"The Film That Started A Saga","Date":"28 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" To put my thoughts of this film in a nutshell this is definitely one of the best animated films I've ever seen, and I consider myself a fairly avid fan of all things animated&#133;as long as its good. High production values, good continuity, slightly rushed pacing, a simple, but firm plot, sufficient casting, good voice acting, great characterization, and all this was achieved in the meager running time of about one hour and ten minutes only. Don Bluth and company really knew how to pull it together, even with two big Hollywood producers breathing down their necks about&#133;everything. Everything fit in the film almost perfectly, with the exception of the pacing. But other than that Bluth and company brought together a truly memorable film of overcoming prejudice, that combined effects of several towards a single ideal is better than a single heroic individual working alone, the themes of the film are highly pluralistic. Another one of the major themes was finding hope in hopelessness. The idea that there is hope of success and survival, despite every that's coming down against you. It is dark moments of need when Littlefoot and the others' inner most strengths really come out. Don Bluth was able to take some very profound themes and put them very well in sync with the action and storytelling of the film.One can confidently say that it is above the average animated children's film. One can also say that it is on par with animated films long since past that haven't been seen since Disney's day. The film is not without it's flaws, though. The meager running time of an hour and ten minutes forced the filmmakers to rush the pacing, and it seemed like they were forced to finish the story as quickly as they could by studio executives.Despite this, the themes of the story and the character development were still woven in effectively. This is probably due to the simplicity of the story, itself a small band of very different individuals overcome racial differences in pursuit of a single ideal, in this case five young dinosaurs lost and separated from their families, searching for a Utopian Great Valley. Pacing aside, everything else in the film was made to be as well as it could, and there was certainly no shortage of budget on this film. The animation, the backgrounds, the effects, the atmosphere, and the music all meshed together beautifully and more than made up for sub par pacing and almost forced story telling at times.So here you have it. This is The Land Before Time, a standing ovation in animated films in its own right. A modern classic film much remembered and still watched by those young and old alike, and was the film to spawn a record setting number of sequels, which are still in production to this day, nearly twenty years down the road from the original's release in 1988. "},{"Title":"Call me on the land line.","Date":"13 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Maybe The Land Before Time is the sort of movie that appealed more to us when we were little children. Still, as a young adult, I remember that it was an interesting idea, with dinosaur children having to rely on each other. However, I do wish to assert that some of the T-Rex scenes may have been a little too intense for really young children. I mean, some of them get really ugly.Overall, it's a pretty interesting movie. I guess that Jurassic Park has made us expect a different portrayal of dinosaurs on the silver screen, but this one still passes. You probably won't have a religious experience or anything, but it's an OK way to pass time. "},{"Title":"A Wonderful Family Feature!","Date":"15 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" This is one of the earliest movies I remember owning- and by far one of my favorites! One of my earliest memories is sitting down with my babysitter and watching all four (that's how many there were back when I was a kid) in a row.The movie is wonderful, and a sure-fire classic for all animated-movie nuts.Parents may have issues with the fact that Cera is a little bit mouthy. And parts of the movie might be very frightening for young ones, I myself was so scared when Littlefoot's mother died that I hid the movie. "},{"Title":"Fun.","Date":"29 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" It seems as though Steven Spielberg has had bad luck with the 80's and 90's cartoons that he executive produced, but this was his most successful financially. This was a good adventure movie about Little Foot, a long necked dinosaurs whose mom and dad died in an accident and he was split from the herd and goes on an adventure to the Great Valley with other kid dinosaurs he meets. It's a cute and well animated movie that is quite touching. This is also a rare film where ex-Disney people make a good movie away from Disney. It might be a little scary for kids though.My rating *** out of ****. 70 mins. Rated G. "},{"Title":"storyline similar to Lion King? I think not","Date":"15 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  some people say the storyline of Land Before Time is similar to The Lion King. I don't see where they get that from. The main character's parent dies, he later sees their spirit in the clouds, and there are a few mentions of the Circle of Life.. that's as far as the similarities go. Those are minor scenes that don't actually have that much to do with the main plot, which is a group of dinosaurs on a quest to find the paradise known as the Great Valley. Anyway, I like this movie, even if it is a little childish at times, it also has some action and adventure, and humor. The sequels to this movie are nowhere near as great as the original, if you ask me; they're even more childish most of the time, and very very repetitive (not to mention that they have a lot of stupid songs; this first movie doesn't have any songs). The original is a somewhat underrated movie that is a classic to me, one of my favorite animated movies. "},{"Title":"A very good movie","Date":"29 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This is one of the best dinosaur movies, tell me if you had ever seen a better animated dinosaur movie.  It had beautiful music, and the animation was beautiful also.  This movie also showed how dinosaurs really moved, like the T-Rex, he looked right, moved right, and didn't have his tail drag on the ground, and he had two claws!  I don't know why in We're Back, Rex had three claws, why?  All those squeals aren't that good, just see The Land Before Time, that movie is a classic and will always be my favorite.  I just wish I got to see it in the theaters, but I was only three years old at the time.  Little Foot is my favorite, and I felt bad for him, because of all the things that happened to him.  But it is a very good movie. "},{"Title":"Five Dinosaur tykes versus everything Don Bluth can throw at them","Date":"1 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Possibly the best non-Disney animated movie of all time.  This movie deals with a quintet of baby dinosaurs, led by a brontosaur named Littlefoot, who have to make it to a fabled valley while fighting off the elements, predators, and even each other.There are only a few things in this film that seem incoherent, mainly why the dinosaurs are capable of speaking perfect English yet they still make up euphemisms for the different species (long neck = brontosaur, three horns triceratops, etc.)  Oh well, not that I'm complaining.The movie can be fairly exciting, but somewhat dull in a few places.  However, all the shortcomings are overshadowed by the excellent animation and strong bond of friendship the dinosaurs all gain.SPOILERS ahead.The movie has a few dark moments in it, particularly the death of Littlefoot's mom by a psychopathic Tyrannosaur while she is defending her son.  That moment will have a few overtones of the scene in BAMBI where his mother gets killed.  I was only eight when I saw this at the theaters, and it was tragic thing to witness.  However, I practically cheered when all the dino tykes sent the evil carnivore to his maker towards the end.  Kinda makes you happy, huh?  (Remember, Bambi not caught up with the hunter who whacked his mom, so sometimes you got to wonder how he would have dished out HIS payback).If you haven't seen this movie, go out and get it!  It's awesome.  I also hear it's better then Disney's recent effort DINOSAUR, so be sure to view this first before you make any judgments on dino films.  This movie will stay with you for quite a while, I guarantee it.  Also, listen closely in the first quarter of the movie for Pat Hingle's character Rooter to mention a circle of life, six years before Mufasa said it in THE LION KING.  Interesting bit of film trivia for those so inclined.8/10  I dare you to show me a better cartoon dinosaur movie. "},{"Title":"I Always wanted to see this film beginning to end","Date":"25 June 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I Easily Remember watching the sequels when i was young, There's a good enough reason that such cute dinosaurs would persevere in a fantasy world set in the year 150'000'000bc. Eventually my overall favourite is the Second one released in the good old year 1994 - Year of the American world cup and Nelson Mandela's Inauguration - and the newest one in 2007 that...seemed weird! I'm curious to know why Judith Barsi got murdered by her OWN father..? If you have any ideas then feel free to leave a few comments on this review, but above all this is a sophisticating and remarkable old film, and is one of the most child-friendliest, and best of all, It's Don Bluth's Most successful film! He even made his own TV Series broadcast on Cartoon Network, WATCH THIS FILM! Promise me you'll all love it, i EAGERLY wan't to watch this film from the opening titles to staff roll! Promise me this films great...Please! "},{"Title":"It was a pretty good movie","Date":"20 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Yeh, I watched this movie when I was 5-6 years old. It was a very emotional movie in just that one scene when Littlefoot's mom dies. I think it's a good experience to the younger kids to get along and work together. I really didn't like Cera at all. She is such a b.... Their were some dinosaurs that I haven't even heard of. I always liked to watch the scene where Cera and Littlefoot were having a fight. I can't believe Littlefoot didn't win. I would beat the living crap out of her if she said mean things to my mom. Cera got a payback when she went the wrong way. So, it wasn't that bad of a movie. This movie is a great experience to young children. "}{"Title":"Overall, It's Cute & Colorful","Date":"15 July 2006","Score":"12 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" There are some beautiful colors in this animated film, nice golden hues mixed with purples that are very pleasing to see. The lead character is likable little guy called Littlefoot. Most of the scenes with the T-Rex might be a little scary for the little kids. The little dinosaurs are all ones you laugh with and enjoy.There are touches of New Age and secular humanism in here, which is no surprise, that being especially expected with a Steven Spielberg film, even an innocent cartoon adventure. However, all in all, pretty good and a decent hour-and-a-half of animated entertainment that adults should enjoy, too. "},{"Title":"Best dinosaur movie Ever","Date":"9 May 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" This is the First animated movie I seen in my life. It symbolizes the beginning of my life. I was only 3 years old. My fuc** God, as time goes fast. Today I have 24 years old and already watched much better animations, but this will always have a special place in my heart for nostalgic reasons.But even leaving aside the nostalgia, it's a FACT that The Land Before time is the best dinosaur animated movie Ever. Over the years, we have atrocities as We're Back! The Dinosaur's Story (1993) and the rip-offs Disney's Dinosaur (2000). Even Pixar can't to make a better dinosaur movie, with its disappointing and unsatisfactory The Good Dinosaur (2015).Nothing is able to overcome this Bluth pearl, with its touching story, its memorable characters and animated scenarios in pastel colors (Bluth's trademark). And what tell about the fuc**g soundtrack? Is James Horner in the best; the man was really inspired. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Great, Cute Movie","Date":"14 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" This movie is certainly one of Don Bluth's finest animations to be sure. The animation in this movie is gorgeous like all of Don Bluth's movies and while the story is very simple, it's also very heartfelt and action- packed. The real drive of this story is the characters. The connection between the characters is very strong and believable. The scene where they all cuddle together is adorable. I know a lot of people think of this movie for the mom's death and I'll admit that it is really sad (at least it's a step up from the death of Bambi's mom) but I don't think it's a huge tear tricker scene; The scene that follows is. I also really loved the amazing score for this movie from James Horner. It can get really intense during those action scenes. I'm not surprised that most of the sequels reused the score. Overall, it's a great movie and a great family movie. "},{"Title":"For Being The First Film I ever saw, Land Before Time was epic, and real Career Changer!!!!!!","Date":"1 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Let's travel back in time together back to more simpler Times, back when I still walked the earth of the State of Georgia. when an entire millennium turned and changed right before our very eyes, when Earth's History changed forever, when we were discovering Brand New Dinosaurs we never saw, and learning brand new things about the Dinosaurs we thought we already knew about, when I was in a Grade called Kindergarten, and back when I was just an aspiring Future Paleontologist. These simpler Times were none other than the Ancient Early 2000's. Somewhere in the Ancient Early 2000's Long Ago, I still lived in Georgia but I was in Kindergarten, I wanted to be a Paleontologist in the Future due to my most Xtreme Love for the Dinosaurs that ruled our Planet for 185 Million Years, and I never seen any Film before in my entire Life. But then both of those would change forever, when I first saw Don Bluth's very own Masterpiece in all Film Making ever, Don Bluth's The Land Before Time. I will start by talking about the Story which although it is an epic Story it is admittedly forgettable, heck I could never even to this day tell or remember what the Story was about, other than it was about an Epic Migration to the Great Valley, but its saving grace is the Epic Narration about it. I now have to talk about the Animation and Art, which unlike the Story, I will never forget, this might be old fashioned of me but I love the traditional hand drawn animation of this Masterpiece because it is it realistic, detailed, beautiful to look at, intense, epic, and even majestic especially by 1988 standards, the Art in this Masterpiece is well done and well drawn, and even immerses you in this Dinosaur World Don Bluth himself has created. All I ever have to say about the Characters is that I loved them so much I named all Five of my own Pet Ducklings after them. because Don Bluth's The Land Before Time is a Dinosaur Film not to mention the ONLY Dinosaur Film Don Bluth ever made, I of course have to talk about the Dinosaurs and my Paleontological Opinions about them, for 1988 all of the Dinosaurs, and Prehistoric Animals in this, except for Rotter the Scolosaurus are surprisingly all Paleontologically Accurate including the Tyrannosaurus Rex who is not only the right size, but also has two Fingers and not three (unlike two certain Tyrannosaurus Rexes!) the only complaints I have about the Dinosaurs and/or the other Prehistoric Animals are. Spike lacks his Plates, the Baby Triceratops only have one Horn, those and the Pteranodons are too small, but hey Don Bluth's The Land Before Time did come out in 1988 so I cannot complain about, nor get mad at its Scientific Inaccuracies too much, and hey I could show Mercy too, and forgive them, and let them slide. And finally I talk about the Impact Don Bluth's The Land Before Time made and left on me and my Childhood ever since seeing it, well first of all it inspired by to become the Independent Film Going Film Maker Film Animator Film Critic that I am right now and still am to this day, Don Bluth's The Land Before Time inspired me to go see other Films animated or not where and whenever I could, it inspired me to make my very own Films, and it still does even to this day, it inspired me to make my very own Dinosaur Films, which I still make even to this day heck I am even making a Dinosaur Film right now that is inspired by Don Bluth's The Land Before Time, and Don Bluth's The Land Before Time made me respect, admire, and love both Don Bluth and all of his Work he does, but best of all Don Bluth's The Land Before Time inspired me to have a reason to even make my very own Films, to bring the Dinosaurs back from Extinction, and back to Life on Film!!!!!!!! citing "},{"Title":"A Boring Time.","Date":"3 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" The Land Before Time (1988) Dir Don Bluth / Voices Gabriel Damon, Candace Hutson, Will Ryan, Judith Barsi, Helen Shaver To a child this animation may strike an adventurous cord, but to an adult it is just a bunch of voice actors whining for ninety minutes. The plot regards a few baby dinosaurs who must travel together to find that sacred land told to them by their parents. After a violent earthquake these kids became separated from their parents. Now they must band together and try to avoid the jaws of the lethal T-Rex. The plot concept has appeal but it wears thin once it becomes a walking road movie. We know where the story is heading but the biggest headache are the characters themselves. There is not one dinosaur here that rises above cardboard level. Littlefoot the brontosaurus seems to be the leader but his arguments with the stubborn Cera the triceratops get really annoying after a certain point. Ducky is a saurolophus, Petrie is the timid pteranodon, and spike is the stegosaurus who says nothing because every other character sounds enough like a moron for him to chime in. don The voice talents are no saving grace in this department either since everyone sounds like an idiot. Bluth directs and the animation is on par with most Disney animations but this is no Fantasia. It contains a strong friendship theme within a story that should be extinct from memory fast. Score 5 / 10 "},{"Title":"Death to the Dino's","Date":"3 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I know what people are going to say you had to see it as a kid. And that's probably right because it found it too cutesy and mellifluent. The story is simple little dino loses mother. Gets separated from grandparents. Must get to green valley trough desolate land with some sidekicks. Gets there. The end. After The Black Cauldron (my favorite Disney film as a kid, I loved the dark undertone) the director almost p*ssed his pants coz he thought this movie was going to be to dark for kids. They even got a psychologist to approve the death scene of the mother dino (I'm not kidding, look on Wikipedia). The landscape is a bit grim but the film isn't really. The Land Before Time spawned 13 (!) sequels which were allegedly so colorful and glee it made kids puke on their TV screens. So that means this one is probably the only one worth seeing...for your kids. They'll probably weep. Good for them. Get's them to learn the true meaning of death. That's what dino films are for innit "},{"Title":"Don Bluth's Best Animated film","Date":"31 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Land before time is the most beautiful animated feature of hand-drawn animation history. The characters are excellently drawn,the story is great and the voice cast is wonderful. Though it is rated G, it does contain some really scary moments. The death of Littlefoot's mother is so touching, that I nearly cried. The feature should be awarded an Oscar for the Best Animated Feature and an Oscar for the Best Song If we hold on together.In conclusion,this movie is as almost as good as Snow White and the seven dwarfs.Children of ages 7+ should see it. "},{"Title":"Nostalgic movie, but could use an extended cut...","Date":"14 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" The Land Before Time is a solid and nostalgic movie for me, but I think it could be put out in better shape. Don Bluth claims a lot of scenes were cut out to follow Lucas' & Spielberg's demands, causing the film to have a very short running time. Fans have tried to find these scenes as best as they could, but I think(if possible) Bluth should try to put out an extended cut of this film. At just 1 hour and 9 minutes, it feels like it could've been so much more, and it doesn't help that Universal could care less about this flick and barely ever bother to try and properly restore it, which is why the Blu-ray and DVDs of this film are crap.Judging from the movie we got, the first and (I wish) only Land Before Time is a charming movie to watch that, despite the mediocre home media transfers, showcases the artistic talent Don Bluth has with its gorgeous animation style and breathtaking visuals. Plus, the late James Horner's film score sounds very beautiful. The voice acting is very good, even if it's a bit unsettling hearing Judith Barsi speaking just 4 months after her unfortunate death. As sad as that is, she does a really good job making Ducky so lovable, it's tragic that we lost such a talented actress when she was so young.What I think brings this movie down is its constant narration. I'd love to see a new version of this movie with the deleted scenes restored, along with every part with the narrator talking over the movie to be cut off. Maybe keep the opening and closing narration, but I think the film would be stronger if the narrator didn't talk over scenes that seriously didn't need a narration to it(the earthquake sequence, Little Foot being sad over his mother, Cera realizing they went the wrong way, etc.).Despite its obvious faults, the current version of The Land Before Time we have now is an okay movie that is very nostalgic to a lot of people. I just think an extended cut with almost all the narration scenes taken out would make the movie even better. I'd probably consider it one of the best animated films ever if this were to happen. Plus, we could get a better video transfer that doesn't look like balls... "},{"Title":"First cut is the deepest","Date":"12 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Childhood, the land before time? This is another of those kid's movies I remember from the 80's that seemed poised on the knife-edge of being too dark for their audience but always pulled out an amazing balance . like RETURN TO OZ, NEVERENDING STORY, SECRET OF NIHM etc. there seems to be a delicate juggling act between grownup themes of loss & suffering and the more child inflected ones that seem to mostly get fanned now- cutesy loudmouthed sprites getting up to colorful shenanigans & other juvenilia. Soulless cotton candy. It seems they don't make em like they used to. Littlefoot & his motley dinosaur crew (Ducky, Petri, Spike & lamentably, Sara) embark through a ravaged prehistoric wasteland on their way to the Great Valley, pursued by the tyrannosaur Sharptooth. I saw this movie in the theater when I was 5 & it left its mark. Between the bleak setting & the giant T Rex, the death of Littlefoot's mother is sure to serve up just the right amount of trauma to your little tater tots; what would children's' cinema be without it? Trial by fire I guess. This could've easily swung out of balance; I read they cut 10 minutes of even scarier stuff and while I mourn making a slight childhood favourite slighter, I don't see how that extra weight wouldn't have overwhelmed the exquisite bittersweet balance going on here. It seems just cute enough for its age group & just downbeat enough not to be overly cloying like most of its kind. I mean seriously, it fits the subject matter but rarely do you see such apocalyptic landscapes in an animated movie for the under 7 set. It makes sense that no father to Littlefoot is shown; this is one dreary, god forsaken dinotopia. There should more of this kind of movie, the kind that deliver premature fun but don't condescend & talk down to the audience between colorful Di$nified antics. The kind you're not ashamed to return to years later, hopefully able to finally recognize the point of it all. "},{"Title":"Perilous Adventures From a Land Before Time!","Date":"15 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  CONTAINS SPOILERS       Our story begins a long time ago in a galaxy far, far away. Whoops, sorry, wrong movie. When you've done as many reviews as I have, you tend to mix up your movies. But this story does begin very long ago. Long before man ever walked the earth. Before the antelope, sheep, lion, tiger, any animal at the zoo! The dinosaurs roamed the earth. There were two kinds flat-teethed ones who thrived on roughage while the sharp-teethed ones thrived on meat, which meant they usually ate the leaf eaters. The leaf-eaters were heading for a legendary utopia known as The Great Valley, a land of everlasting green plants. The journey would be rough! They only stopped to hatch their young. A Brontosaurus family just had a hatchling. The mother named him Littlefoot because his feet were little. That's logical, isn't it?Littlefoot developed a taste for treestars. His mother told him of The Great Valley and he got excited. The traveling Brontosauruses or Long Necks were Littlefoot, his mother and his grandparents. Littlefoot met a Triceratops, or Three Horn, named Cera. Cera was bossy and highly territorial. Littlefoot was told that three-horns never play with long- necks. Each herd must stay with their own kind simply because they're different. That night, Littlefoot met up with Cera again and they splashed in the water. Suddenly, a Tyrannosaurus Rex or Sharptooth, tried to attack them. Littlefoot's mom to the rescue but unfortunately she was attached by the T-Rex! Suddenly, there was an enormous earthquake that separated the kids from the adults. Littlefoot's mom died, leaving him all alone and sad. Then one day he met a fast-talking swimmer named Ducky then they met a nervous flyer named Petrie. Actually, Petrie couldn't fly. They met up with Cera who caused Ducky to meet Spike, a baby Stegasaurus who didn't talk, just ate. Constantly.       Together, Littlefoot, Cera, Spike, Ducky and Petrie headed for the Great Valley. Sharptooth kept them on the run. Cera kept trying to be the leader. Littlefoot and Cera fought. Ducky, Spike and Petrie went with Cera after that and she lead them to the volcanoes! Luckily, the friends survived and before long reach the Great Valley and are reunited with their families! They live happily ever after.       A pretty good film. It's from Don Bluth who also did An American Tale. George Lucas (Star Wars) worked on this film too! The story kind of relates to Bambi, except here, Littlefoot defeats the guy who whacked his mother. A tragety about this film is that Judith Barsi, who voiced Ducky, was killed before the film's release. She was only 11. How sad. The narrator is Pat Hingle. You may remember him from such films as Batman, Maximum Overdrive, and a few others. The Land Before Time was followed by a seemingly endless line of sequels! There's a total of 8 films in the saga. Can we expect Part IX? Yes. But until then, we can enjoy the original!  "}{"Title":"Excellent children's movie...","Date":"20 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  The Land Before Time is a wonderful children's film. I am 16 years old, and it was my favorite cartoon when I was young. Parents should definitely consider buying this movie for their young ones. I haven't seen the other 4 or 5 sequels, but I am sure they are just as great as the original. And as for older kids, teens, and adults, I encourage you also to go out and rent the video if you've never seen it.  "},{"Title":"Wonderful Tale","Date":"6 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  As a parent I often have to sit through many children's programs. Although I am not as fond of cartoons as when I was younger, I must admit The Land Before Time held my interest and my children loved it. The story is about a group of young dinosaurs of different species on a search for the great valley, where the will have lots of water and green food (leaves etc). Along the way they must overcome many obstacles including eluding the fearsome Sharp Tooth (Tyrannosaurus). The film is followed by a slew of direct to video sequels, some OK and some not-so-good. Still the 1st is definitely the best.   "},{"Title":"A cute movie that's under rated","Date":"20 October 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I remember as a kid, I was in love with this film. I mean I was really in love with it. It was such a great movie for kids to watch. And when I see it now, it's still a fun movie to watch. It unfortunately has been over runned by sequels. And musical sequels? I don't think so. But I was surprised that it only has a rating of 6.3. I thought it would've had at least a 7.1. But I would highly recommend this film. It is very wonderful for the kids to watch. And I think the grown up's can get into it as well. I should probably buy the DVD now. I think I wore out the VHS when I was younger. ;P8/10 "},{"Title":"The Land Before Time A Fun and Enjoyable Kids' Movie","Date":"2 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" An enduring and lasting animation, The Land Before Time is one of the key collaborations of Lucas and Spielberg. Spawning innumerable sequels continuing to this day, it is a classic children's favourite.A prehistoric tale, The Land Before Time is a continent-spanning dinosaur epic. Following the story of orphaned dinosaur Littlefoot and a growing band of friends he encounters along the way, it covers a gigantic earthquake which separates the land and the children from their parents. Fleeing sharptooths and further tremors, they try to reach The Great Valley.Quite probably my favourite childhood film, The Land Before Time remains for me a fantastic experience. Bringing as much entertainment to the adult as the child, it is an effective mixture of many key elements. It's plot is an effective one, taking many recognisable types of dinosaurs and throwing them amidst a natural disaster, tearing families and species apart. Containing a wonderful range of great, lovable, and adorable characters, one cannot help but be drawn into its warmth, the cuteness they provide central to the film. Not all is happy and fun, however, with a good deal of real world sadness which lends a great truth to the story. There is a constant sense of danger and uncertainty, blending wonderfully with the happiness and joy the friends find in each other. The darker, and at times unlikeable, character of Cera brings something of a morality and message to bear. To mix with this, Petrie and Ducky carry the best of the comedic offerings, creating two characters which remain in memory forever. Littlefoot maintains the underlying current of sorrow and loss in the midst of the adventure, his pained loneliness an underplayed but essential element. The characteristics of all the characters combine to create a well rounded and effective whole. Particularly, the discussions of interspecies interaction between Littlefoot and Cera is key in offering the viewing children a perspective on racism and its follies; educating as it entertains; enlightening as it thrills.Mixing an entertaining adventure, likable characters, great comedy, and an important sense of dramatic loss and morality, The Land Before Time stands the test of time as a fun and enjoyable kids' movie, working just as well for adults too. "},{"Title":"Sadly, a great film ruined by numerous sequels.","Date":"20 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Like many great movies, the land before time has been ruined by a flood of horrible sequels.  This most commonly affects horror movies (halloween, etc.) the original, however is full of heart and is great for little kids. When I was young, this film, and all dogs go to heaven, were my favorites. It just goes to show, Disney's not the only worthy animation producer.  "},{"Title":"Bambi with dinosaurs","Date":"27 December 2014","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Littlefoot is the last baby born to a small herd of Longnecks with only his mother, grandmother and grandfather. The world is changing and they must walk to the paradise of the Great Valley. They are attacked by a Sharptooth and an earthquake separates Littlefoot from his family. Longnecks are not suppose to play with Threehorns like Cera. When Littlefoot's mother dies, he is left alone to walk to the Great Valley. Along the way, others join him including orphan Ducky, flyer Petrie, a spiketail and Cera who is also separated from her family.Producers Steven Spielberg and George Lucas have created Bambi with dinosaurs. It has the same hand drawn style. It has some pretty dark edges to the story. The story may be trying to do too much. It's a bit angry and dark at times. It may not be for the smallest of the little ones. "},{"Title":"An Adult's Eye","Date":"8 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I used to love this movie when I was a kid.Now I'm all grown-up watching with fresh eyes and while I still enjoy the story, I have some issues with the way it is all carried out.For example, the only female characters at least according to the presumed gender identity of the voices speaking for each of them are the hapless Ducky and the petty, revenge-happy Cera. Ducky is always being rescued by 'strong silent type' big brother Spike, while Cera leads the crew of friends in the wrong direction after fighting the well-meaning Littlefoot for dominance.What lessons are we supposed to take from this--that women are either petty beeyatches or else silly, confused victims constantly in need of a brawnier male to rescue them? Writers, Producers, you coulda done better. Ya know--I re-watch movies like this one and I remember why I got the idea as a child that being female meant I did not deserve to be listened to...and why I believed the boys around me were inherently better...and why I lost all confidence in myself.Y'all coulda done better, and girls like me DESERVED better. "},{"Title":"The Land Before Time","Date":"21 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" When I was young I used to love this prehistoric cartoon from the makers of An American Tail, and director Don Bluth. Basically Long Neck (Brontosaurus) Littlefoot is orphaned after Sharp Tooth (Tyranosaurus Rex) kills his mother, and not long after a shattering earth-shake (quake) occurred. He begins a perilous journey to find the legendary Great Valley, accompanied by four friends separated from their parents by the quake. These friends Cera the Three Horn (Tricerotops), Ducky the Big Mouth (Parasaurolophus), Petrie the Flyer (Pteranodon) and Spike the Spiketail (Stegosaurus) travel across rivers, through rocks and over mountains, hungry for tree stars and other green food, and tired. After getting rid of Sharp Tooth once and for all, and reuniting after some arguments, their long and hard journey was rewarding when they finally reach the Great Valley, find their families, and Littlefoot finds his grandparents, a happy ending. Narrated by Batman's Pat Hingle. This could almost be seen as an early Jurassic Park, with Steven Spielberg helping Bluth to produce, and it is a fun filled animated story that kids and all the family will enjoy. Featuring the quite nice song If We Hold On Together by Diana Ross. Very good! "},{"Title":"Quite good for Western animation","Date":"16 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I don't really like Western animation as it often just too silly and full of talking animals. Surely children deserve better than that sort of thing. This movie may be a children's film, but it's much better than one would expect, given the basic elements (like talking dinosaurs). In particular, it features a kind of darkness and tension that is usually lacking in children's movies. There is actual danger, sadness, and so on. It's one movie I can honestly say I would recommend for your children.Over all, a good animated movie, though I would not recommend the sequels as they lose most of what made the original better than the average animation and degenerate into the kind of silliness that the first one avoided so well. "},{"Title":"A Great Gabe Damon Movie","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I loved this movie when I was little, even before I knew that my favorite actor played Littlefoot! Now I just love it more! I like this movie a whole lot more than I like the, what is it now? 500 or so other sequels! It's a kid friendly movie. I liked it all except for the fact that it talks about evolution at the beginning, and I don't believe in evolution. "}{"Title":"Moving and enchanting but not for younger children","Date":"22 May 2009","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" With all of the Land Before Time sequels out now (I think we'll be up to The Land Before Time 85 The Quest for a Decent Story by the time I'm dead), it's hard to remember that there ever was an original. And although I have never seen any of the many lame-looking sequels to this movie, I have seen enough trailers to know that the original is completely different from any of its sequels. And perhaps not in the way you, as a parent, might hope.The adventure begins as Littlefoot, a young longneck dinosaur (as he is so called in the film), goes on a journey to find the magical Great Valley after his all-wise mother is killed by Sharktooth, an evil T-rex. Along the way, he enlists the help of a variety of different kinds of dinosaurs, some of which he was taught not to associate with. Along the way, the fellowship encounter myriad perils, strive, and come close to losing hope, all the while learning the value of friendship, endurance, and tolerance. But a brisk 65 minutes later ... well, I won't spoil it.It's a relatively wholesome movie, with great values for children. It also has some surprisingly stunning animation; the landscape of this land before time comes to life before our very eyes. But a major weakness of this movie is the tragedy and grimness that belies it. One of the major plot points is the aforementioned death of Littlefoot's mother, which causes him indescribable grief, both in the aftermath and along his journey. Furthermore, the entire movie has an overall depressing feel; the landscapes are all drawn in dark, warm hues, and the score has a sombre air to it.The MPAA originally gave this movie a PG rating, but relented to a G after several scenes were edited. Nevertheless, I believe that this movie is not suitable for young children (up until early lower school), and therefore should be considered a PG movie despite its rating. For older children, however, this is a decent Spielberg film that I would mildly recommend. "},{"Title":"5 young ones on a search for paradise","Date":"13 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I really wanted to like this film. Really, I did. I loved Celine Dion's If We Hold On Together. That was actually the main reason why I downloaded this movie to rewatch it. That song stuck with me for many years, so I expected that after rewatching the movie, I would feel something, at the least.Sad to say, I didn't. I did not feel anything. I hated Cera (who I thought was named 'Sarah' before). She was just plain stubborn and annoying. The only time when I actually felt something was toward the end, (SPOILERS) when Littlefoot discovered the Great Valley, thanks to his mother's spirit. We also see everyone happily reunited with their families. (/SPOILERS) That's what touched me. The emotions I felt for that scene were intensified and made me wonder more after reading a particular post in the discussion board made by JoshuarayjamesWhat if the kids never actually made it? What if the Great Valley didn't exist, or only existed in their minds, or perhaps as some version of the afterlife? When they first stumble upon it, it's quite obviously just a dead, abandoned stretch of land devoid of life.Is it possible that the kids succumbed to starvation and fatigue and that there never was a Great Valley at all? The ending takes on a whole new meaning then. It's either the hallucination of the dying or the dinosaurs' version of heaven. We all know that the real story of the dinosaurs didn't end with them finding safe haven from the disasters wrecking their world. They succumbed to their fate and passed from history and from life. Disregarding the miserable sequels, does anyone else find this to be a possible true ending?That's the thing that struck me and made me actually think and wonder. Overall, I found this movie quite boring. My favorite characters were Littlefoot and Ducky. I was quite surprised to read that the voice behind the ever-enthusiastic Ducky was murdered when she was just 10 years old! That's so heartbreaking. Who could do that to their own child?Aside from that horrible learning, I also found out that The Land Before Time has so many sequels and that most of them really sucked. It made me think. Maybe the movie that I watched when I was younger wasn't this one. Maybe it was a different one? I remember the dinosaurs on an edge.. And I don't recall anything about a ledge in this movie.. But I do remember that leaf! Maybe it's the same? I have no idea. Point was, I didn't enjoy this movie and was really disappointed.In my opinion, I think this movie is best for the young ones. But if you were a true fan of this when you were younger, you could give it a try to experience some nostalgia. ) "},{"Title":"Labrea","Date":"3 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Do you see any Dinosaurs? This land the North Americas is where they are suppose to be. There natural habitat for humanity is right here in America. How many people do you think are those dinosaurs? You found your homeland security mission. Do you see the mess you all made? Clean it up. You all are almost out of your oil. Hurry up Hurry up!! How many licks does it take to see the future when you lick a tootsie roll? Who cares just lick the damn thing and find the hell out. What fule source are you all gonna use? Electrickity is about to go out soon who is gonna help you bring it back? Not I i want it to go out and stay off for good... "},{"Title":"Not superior animation, but not-bad Disney duplication...","Date":"10 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Animated family film from Don Bluth and his animation team concerns orphaned dinosaur and his misfit friends searching for vegetation during prehistoric freeze. Some of the action sequences are hectic and confusing, with one dinosaur battle taking place during a mammoth earthquake (!), but otherwise the picture is rather sweet and harmless. This is probably the closest Bluth will come to duplicating old-fashioned Disney, even if they don't quite have that studio's superior quality down. Some lovely moments, even for grown-ups. Followed by the video-sequel The Land Before Time II The Great Valley Adventure in 1994 and other cheaper sequels after that. ** from **** "},{"Title":"To think I loved this as a little kid...","Date":"27 December 2011","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" This movie came out the same day as Oliver and Company. And as a kid, I liked it much better than O&C because I understood the story in this one but not the other as much.Now that I'm older, I decided to watch both films when I learned that this was more successful. I was expecting to feel the same way. But boy did I change my mind. I loved Oliver and Company, it was a real delight to watch again and I'm disappointed that it's become so underrated. But The Land Before Time? Oh boy. I can understand why I liked it as a little kid. It's very easy to follow. But now, as an adult, it's too dumbed down. At times it felt like it was trying too hard to be a dramatic and grown-up story but fell flat.Let me try to explain. The baby dinosaurs hatch at the beginning and look so cute. I was reminded of the opening of Dumbo when Littlefoot's parents were gushing all over him. Only, in Dumbo they give you time to really see the bond between mother and son. In LBT, I thought they didn't give it any time at all. I never saw any affection between the two, just a bunch of really boring conversations. So when the mother died, I felt nothing. I honestly didn't care. Even the death scene was boring. And then Littlefoot meets up with a jerk, Cera, who reminded me of a boring version of Lucy from the Peanuts comic strip. Only she's not nearly as much fun as Lucy. We also meet Ducky, who's okay but not really all that memorable. And Petrie, who is REALLY annoying (when he almost died at the end, I was hoping he wouldn't come back). And finally Spike, who serves no purpose in the entire story except maybe to look cute. They all go through this land and get into adventures and finally find what they're looking for. Yep. That's about it. No depth, no character development (except for Cera perhaps but it seems abrupt), and nothing interesting whatsoever. The music is also repetitive and the end even shows clips from the beginning as if to remind you that you're supposed to feel something. I found this bland and boring.So I think the only reason it's hyped is because it's better than the sequels (but that's not hard to do) and because a lot of people grew up watching it. And while it does have some nice animation, there's nothing going for it. I've heard it compared to Disney but, like I said, I really liked Disney's offering that year. This is just as bland and uninteresting as An American Tail. Typical Bluth, cute but no depth whatsoever.If you're under age 6 or 7, you might like this though. It's easy to follow and the characters are easy on the eyes and mind. But this advice is for little kids. If you're a teenager or an adult, I suggest skipping this one and taking a look at Oliver and Company. You might surprise yourself. "},{"Title":"Please don't send me hate mail!","Date":"29 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This movie just wasn't something I enjoyed. Quite frankly, I found it rather boring. I don't know why. Maybe it was because I didn't see this movie until I started babysitting, so I was too old to be moved by it. Maybe it was because I saw The Lion King, which had a somewhat similar plot, first. Whatever the reason, I just didn't find Land Before Time entertaining. Please don't send me messages saying that I'm heartless or cruel or anything. I just didn't like it that much. "},{"Title":"Bluth's artistry, Spielberg's dinosaurs","Date":"18 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Here's where the two chief elements of a film cause it to fail.  This is shocking considering both are rudimentary.  Only an idiot could have screwed this up.The first is Bluth's artistry itself.  I never admired his art (read my other reviews of his work for more on that), but this takes the rotten cake for ultimate cheapness.  If Disney had pumped the amount of money and detail as in 'Lion King' into this, the visual appearance wouldn't resemble a crude 80s production.  Even Transformers and G.I. Joe have the same level of detail--totally sickening.The second is the dinosaurs.  While there are a few highlights at the beginning and end, the ultimate depiction of the creatures isn't anything revolutionary...more in line with the stereotypical designs that Disney started and have retained.  Compare what you see here to when Spielberg took the control reigns himself with 'Jurassic Park'.Overall, yet another Bluth work for you and your kids to avoid.  Have them watch 'Wizards' instead; it's an intelligent conceived failure unlike this mess.Final Analysis = = Cinematic Dud "},{"Title":"Bambi before time","Date":"15 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  If you find it hard to explain to your child what happens to Bambi's mom in the movie Bambi, then this one won't be any better.  Littlefoot gets orphaned early on in this movie and goes from one tragic near-miss to another.  The idea that all of the young dinosaurs stick together and work towards a mutual goal is OK, but, man, I thought they'd never get there!It's too emotionally harrowing for a kid to enjoy... my kids became disinterested early on.  Not a recommended movie.  "},{"Title":"The Land Where Dino's Are High!","Date":"6 July 2013","Score":"0 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Honestly some of you might think that this is the cutest series you ever seen but back when I was little at my school they only allowed us to watch rated G and PG movies and they owned the whole series of this. IT BORED ME TO DEATH!!! I literally I wished there was no land before time how many times we had to watch this load of crap everyday after school! The dinosaurs are really annoying and I literally wanted to die once that first CD was put into that VCR this boy at my school shouted out KILL ME NOW!! Out loud i front of the teachers when he found out that we were watching this piece of crap! We use to call this movie back then the land where dinosaurs were high! "},{"Title":"Choppy effort.","Date":"10 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  SpoilersFair children 's movie has now become ridiculously infamous due to the tremendous amount of made-for-video sequels. There are six sequels to date. Partially ripped off by the year 2000 Disney film, DINOSAUR, as well. LAND BEFORE TIME has charm at some points. The animation cannot save itself. TIME is choppy in some points of animation. The cast, although has some fine moments, seem more like they inspired the casting for the SURVIVOR reality show with their attitudes.Baby 'long neck,' Little Foot is born and brought up by mom and grandparents. When the food is wearing out, they head out for the Great Valley, where there is more than enough vegetation to live happily ever after. An encounter with Sharp Tooth ends Little Foot 's mother 's life. An earthquake also separates Little Foot and his grandparents. Depression subsides once friends head out with Little Foot to find the Great Valley.Touching at times, especially after enduring the trauma, Little Foot tries to carry on with his life, a leaf the maintaining memory of his mother. But the rest of the cast, save Petrie and Ducky, are not likeable. The animation is what spoils the rest. LAND BEFORE TIME may have started a legacy, but without a good upgrade on the original, this movie should have been fossilized long ago. "}{"Title":"I didn't enjoy this, but my school mates did","Date":"7 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" 'The Land Before Time' is an animated tale about lost, young dinosaurs that are on a journey to find a new land and need to band together in order to survive. This animated film introduces the world of dinosaurs to children. While this film was popular with some of the other girls my age (I would have been nine at the time), I did not watch the film until I was about a year older. When I did watch it, I could not understand what all the fuss was about. I found 'The Land Before Time' to be slow-moving and dull, and it failed to engage me. The majority of this film seemed to be taken up with the four little dinosaurs in dialogue between themselves and in arguments. I would not recommend this film unless you know a very young boy or girl who really likes dinosaurs. Otherwise, do not bother with this. "},{"Title":"OH GOD, MAKE IT STOP!","Date":"9 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  To quote Strong Bad, HOLY CRAP, MAN! This movie was so awful I wanted to throw up! These... things really took the sting out of the terror giant that is the dinosaur. With there cutesy songs and nauseatingly cute voices and faces, it made a whole generation sick!Okay, the basic plot of all of these film's (9 if I'm not mistaken) is that this little ancient reptile (forgot his name) and his little friends go on adventures. There always met by these obstacles, might it be larger preitors or something, but they always pull though with the power of team work (Yeah!). I would not suggest this film to anyone but little kids, but I didn't like it even when I was a small child, so just don't see it period, you'll be a better person, trust me!  "},{"Title":"A dinosaur tale for the young ones","Date":"23 September 2000","Score":"3 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This Speilberg - Lucas production about a group of five orphan baby dinosaurs and their adventures as they search for a paradise where they can live safely, is a good kids film that the young ones should love, but it just doesnt have enough to make it interesting for the older ones.. the story is cliched and while the animation is good the songs are non memorable and the whole thing is quite boring..on a scale of one to ten...3 "}]