[{"Title":"As long as Dan and John make me laugh, I love this movie","Date":"17 November 2003","Score":"30 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The Great Outdoors is one of the most under rated comedies that I have ever seen! It's actually one of my hidden favorites, because this is the type of comedy that I love, slap stick. Dan and John make such a great comedic duo in The Great Outdoors, you can't help but laugh hysterically at every scene or be touched by a sentimental moment. I miss stories like this, that are not only heart warming but have a great mix of comedy as well.Chet is a family man who wants to bond with his songs on a camping trip, so he, his wife, and their boys go out to the great outdoors. But an uninvited guest tags along, their rich and snobby cousins Roman and Kate and their two Shinning creepy twin girls. Since Roman likes to live it up, he practically jumps all over Chet's plans and just takes over the vacation! There are some great scenes like a bat gets loose in the cabin and Chet and Roman decide to take it on themselves. The bat gets onto Chet's face and Roman hits the bat and Chet's face with a tennis racket! Chet's reaction is just priceless! And they go to a restaurant where Chet has the opportunity to eat a 16 ounce steak and if he eats the whole thing, the family eats for free, and they do it like as if he was Rocky in his first major boxing match, it was just great to watch. The Great outdoors is one of those great under rated comedies that I'm sure you'll fall in love with.10/10 "},{"Title":"Remember these classics!!","Date":"12 September 2004","Score":"16 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The eighties was a decade of film brilliance. Not Academy Awards maybe, or deeply intriguing movies but instead R-Rated, ridiculous, fun, pompous, films that were just not thought provoking but instead FUN!! What was R-Rated back then would be barely a PG today which also reflects the kind of society we have turned into. Enter The Great OutDoors with fellow Canadian comedians who knew comedy unlike no one has since. Dan Akroyd and John Candy are just great. They aren't brilliant actors (although Dan has shown some promise in great movies such as The Arrow and My Girl) but instead they can get together to deliver laughs and they do. The Great Outdoors is the quintessential eighties film about a family on vacation. It's about the desire to succeed and BUY STUFF (an eighties must.) It's about who is the better man, and man vs nature and all that kind of stuff. More importantly it delivers the perfect blend of physical comedy AND one liners that actually made me laugh out loud. Akroyd and Candy play like a stand up comedy act and it works so well that you forget everyone else. They really don't add or take away from the story, you just forget anyone else is there...it doesn't really matter much. You're in this to see Chet and Roman battle it out mostly behind each other's backs. The cinematography is great in this movie as well. They used an actual lake although it was in California, not Wisconsin and it really helps the setting. You feel as though you're roughing it out right beside them. The best part is the climax with the bear, what a great scene. As predictable as you might think it is...it's just awesome. Candy is hilarious and sadly missed in future endeavours. Akroyd pulls off the pompous, greedy and loud mouthed lawyer type to a T and manages to not take himself too seriously. As with all eighties films they manage to toss in the someone is in trouble, everyone has to pull together and save them story ending but it works and this movie is without a doubt a classic, whether comedy or just film in general, it will always be remembered fondly. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Classic","Date":"15 January 2004","Score":"21 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is one of the best commedies ever made. I love the humor, comraderie, hatred, envy. everything. This is one movie that you could watch a thousand time and never get sick of it. John Candy is a true genius and I wish he were still around to make us all laugh. Great movie and if you have a problem with that dont' sing it bring it! "},{"Title":"Aykroyd and Candy a great combo","Date":"13 August 2005","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The Great Outdoors is what anyone would expect of a John Candy movie completely goofy, but funny nonetheless. He plays Chet Ripley, taking his family on vacation in the wilderness. Unfortunately, Chet's unpleasant brother-in-law Roman Craig (Dan Aykroyd) is also there, and he just has to make everything miserable for Chet. In some ways, this movie seems to be rehashing Summer Rental, but with a different tone. My favorite parts were the raccoons, the bear, and The Old '96er (I don't recommend that scene for squeamish people). All in all, it just goes to show what the world lost when John Candy died. He was really great.P.S. Annette Bening, in her debut, plays Roman's wife Kate. "},{"Title":"Great fun and entertainment for the entire family...","Date":"3 August 2012","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I remember seeing this movie back in the late 80's, when I was young, and I have fond memories of it being a great and fun movie. And sure enough, having sat down again here in 2012 and watch it again, the movie was every bit as funny and entertaining and I remembered it to be.But of course, why wouldn't it? You have two of the greatest comedians in American cinema in it; Dan Aykroyd (playing Roman) and John Candy (playing Chet), and they were really a great comedian couple, complementing each other well and having great on-screen chemistry.The story in The Great Outdoors is about the Ripley family coming to a very idyllic and beautiful cabin site, where Chet's father used to take Chet when he was a child, and now Chet want his children to have their own memories of this paradise. But within only moments of getting there, Chet's brother Roman and his family show up unannounced to surprise the Ripley's and spend a week of vacation together.The movie is filled with great and memorable moments that will have you laughing hard, because Aykroyd and Candy really do some great comedy in this movie and put on great performances. Sure it is very 1980's in spirit, but still today the movie is fun and entertaining to watch. And I personally never will tire of John Candy and his greatly missed comedy act, he was truly one of a kind.If you enjoy 80's comedies and the movies of Dan Aykroyd and/or John Candy, then I am sure you are already well familiar with The Great Outdoors, but if you aren't, then get your hands on this movie, because it is well worth a watch. "},{"Title":"One of my 80's favorites","Date":"10 July 2008","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" As a child of the eighties, its hard not to view this film thru the lens of nostalgia. John Candy is hilarious as the simple but decent family guy who wishes to take his family on a vacation to the great outdoors. His plans are rudely disrupted by his boorish brother in law, who crashes the family event and manages to disrupt all of Candy's plans. While there's nothing particularly stunning or insightful here, its fun and reminds me of days gone by. Although seen thru the eye of comedians, many of us can remember disastrous family vacations like this, with relatives that we sometimes couldn't stand and plans gone awry, but still forming some of our most fond memories. It is also somewhat bittersweet for me, as most of the beautiful and rustic locales in the film have disappeared during the intervening years, a loss I hadn't even noticed or thought about until I watched the film again. The film is very family friendly and, if you haven't seen it, definitely worth a viewing. "},{"Title":"one of John Candy's best","Date":"7 April 2004","Score":"15 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I watch this movie, and then i feel terrible that a great comedian is gone.. You can have your kinnison, farley, etc. But Candy, is probaly one of the over looked, and slumped into thecheap renters.. but you know why they used him as the lead in so many.. Because he is/was a kindly looking man, and was from what i have read of him.. And this is probaly the pinnacle of the greatness of Candy. And the whole bear scene steals the whole show. I just wish all the canadian actors/comedians didn't have to go south.. come on Canadian cinema drop the docu-drama and work with our funny bones.. We are wasting our real natural resource here.. Again best Candy flick of all, IMHO.  "},{"Title":"What are hot dogs made out of?","Date":"11 February 2004","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A great comedy to settle down with after a long day.  Aykroyd and Candy make a great pair in this off-beat comedy about life in the woods, and how one simple vacation turns into a dreaded day-to-day horror. Basic Plot John Candy and his family go up to Canada for a family vacation away from the city for several days.  Seemingly fine, until they get to their cabin, the whole vacation starts to fall apart from the moment they arrive.  Not only is there fish everywhere in their vacation home, but just when mom and dad think they're alone, their brother and sister in-law walk in on them, with their two daughters. From a water-skiing adventure gone wrong- to eating a whole family's worth of food (pun definitely intended.), the movie seems to continually take a turn for the worst.  The subplot is Candy's oldest son, who starts to fall in love with a local, to give it that romance along with all the humor that's going on between the adults.A fun movie to watch from 10- whenever.I give it a 7.5 out of 10 (10 being the highest).  Not one of the best movies ever but certainly funny and it has some great writing too.A little piece of triviaAt the end of She's Having a Baby right before the credits, you see the wife asking Kevin Bacon what they should name the baby... People from all sorts of films and T.V. shows voice their opinions, including some of the cast members from 'The Great Outdoors'.And that's the end of this review. "},{"Title":"Dad, isn't it illegal to drive with a bear on the hood of your car?","Date":"3 May 2003","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I don't understand why people don't understand this movie. John Candy's a laid-back middle-classer. Dan Akyroyd's a suave, rich debonar. Somehow these two manage to click together fine. They should have done more movies together, not to mention this tale has cool catch phrases Dad, isn't it illegal to drive with a bear on the hood of your car? "},{"Title":"Gets by on goodwill from the actors alone","Date":"28 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I remember seeing this film and liking it as a kid. It was always the 'bald bear' film to me containing as it does a roguish grizzly who plays a central role in the proceedings. Otherwise the format of the film is very simplistic and features a couple of families who decide to go on a vacation together and end up warring.The script was written by John Hughes and there's a slight sense that he's on autopilot here, with little meat to the storyline. For the most part THE GREAT OUTDOORS gets by on the goodwill generated from the central pairing of Dan Aykroyd and John Candy. Candy is a warm, lovable presence as ever, and Aykroyd gets some nicely acerbic moments. The supporting cast, which includes Annette Bening, is a bit more of a disappointment.A lot of the jokes are merely average but they do pass the time quickly enough. Some of the moments, like the steak eating contest, are hilarious, and the climax is very good too. But in other respects THE GREAT OUTDOORS feels a bit like a poor cousin of the popular 'Vacation' film series featuring Chevy Chase. "}{"Title":"A Fun Comedy!","Date":"20 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" 'The Great Outdoors' is A Fun Comedy, that delivers good laughs & performances. It's a film, that's best watched on a lazy Sunday afternoon. 'The Great Outdoors' Synopsis A Chicago man's hope for a peaceful family vacation in the woods is shattered when the annoying in-laws drop in.'The Great Outdoors' isn't a hilarious film, but the comedic portions do make you laugh. The chemistry between its two strong protagonists is a delight, while a sub-plot involving a younger couple, is boring & could've been avoided. The Screenplay Written by the Late/Great John Hughes is spot-on, although it does dip sometimes. Howard Deutch's Direction is passable. Cinematography captures the wilderness well. Editing is rightly done.Performance-Wise The Late/Great John Candy is the life of the show. He's outstanding! Dan Aykroyd is also in super form, competing with Candy on every level. Stephanie Faracy is first-rate. Annette Bening is impressive, as ever. The Late/Great Robert Prosky is cute. On the whole, 'The Great Outdoors' is a good laugh! "},{"Title":"Perfect No-Brainer","Date":"13 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" And I mean no-brainer in the best possible sense! It seems whenever I'm down, Dad shoots out to HMV and picks me up a nice, cheesy 80s movie out of the £5 section - this time it was The Great Outdoors and boy, did it cheer me up! A major reason to love this movie is, of course, dearly departed John Candy who is impossible to dislike. In this film he plays Chet Ripley, a wholesome family man who has his vacation ruined by the in-laws crashing in uninvited. It is not just Candy who puts in a fine performance. Dan Ackroyd is great as sleazy, posing, Roman Craig - a semi yuppy with a penchant for barbecued lobster tails and trimming his nostrils! Annette Bening is also convincing as Kate Craig, Roman's spoiled but lonely wife. Yes, she is also the mum from American Beauty - I squawked this rather loudly while watching. Her role here is far simpler, but she is still on top form with some hilarious lines - spin cycle, anyone?! Stephanie Faracy comes across as pleasant and extremely likable in the role of Connie Ripley, and the kids in the movie are great - I thought the youngest boy Benny was especially funny, especially in the 'bear dump' scene. The film starts and continues brilliantly - not having a plot as such - but this is actually a good thing. Rather than bogging us down in a story we're rather presented with a series of highly amusing set - pieces the hysterical water ski scene. The bear dump. The old man's birthday. Chet's 'Bear Story'. The bat swatting. The leech scene. I could go on but I simply wouldn't have time. This film works fabulously as this series of 'short stories' - it's almost like a character study, and the effect is great, so one wonders why John Hughes had to write in the tacky subplot of older boy Buck's dalliance with local tart-with-a-heart Cammie. It's dull fare, all in all, and Buck would be a perfectly likable character without the teen angst bit to go with it. The boredom of Buck mooching around with his sweetheart to the strains of cheese-guitar could have been cut down - or preferably cut out all together, leaving more room for developing other, shorter scenes - like the go-kart racing at the fun centre, or the pony trek through the woods. I'm sure I'm not alone in wishing these parts of the film had been made longer. The film also flags a bit towards the end when the 'moral' of the tale comes out, and Roman and Chet have to do a silly death-dash through the woods after Roman's daughters. This again seems like John Hughes feeling he has to do his duty in giving us a bit of all-American schmaltz but it would've been great without it. All in all, a very funny, light movie to pick you up when you feel down. Oh, and the raccoons are a nice touch! "},{"Title":"This movie is never a 5.9 thats insulting","Date":"16 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I was just looking up movies here on IMDb when I noticed that The Great Outdoors had received only a 5.9 mark I find this incredible as I thought that this movie was and is a cult comedy classic. With Dan Akroyd and the late great John Candy on top form .The comedy in this movie is fantastic the scene with the old dead guy in it is one of the funniest scenes I have ever seen in a movie and the gags come thick and fast it is never only a 5.9 more like a 7.0 in my opinion. It takes a lot to make me laugh when I go to the movies but this comedy hits the spot so don't let the low mark put you off checking out this movie as it is far better than its 5.9 suggests and you wont be disappointed .Well thats me finished i just had to write this as I was shocked at the low mark this great movie received. "},{"Title":"A Bear behind.....","Date":"11 April 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Big-hearted family man Chet has brought his family to a lakeside resort area, and although his wife and kids aren't quite as excited as he is, Chet has high hopes for the vacation. However, his optimism is sabotaged when his obnoxious brother-in-law Roman drops in unexpectedly, along with his snooty, strange family. Chet and his family try to stay open-minded, but they find it difficult to relax and enjoy themselves because of the constant annoyance of Roman's presence.....It's one of those fish out of water comedies, with a family with whom you root for and relate to, and the family who you dislike to begin with, and then warm to come the end.It's surprising how many of these films were made in the eighties and the nineties, and we always saw them, knowing that the snotty family would know the error of their ways come the end, but as always, the happy family man would be the butt end of many jokes during the film.Candy is as good as always, and Akroyd is fine also, but the film is so clichéd and full of troupes, you cannot help but be aware of these, no matter how much you liked it the first time you saw it.Come the end, everyone is happy, the rich are poorer, but richer in life lessons, and the ones we were rooting for all along, are the same, but a tad smugger.it's fun while it lasts, but forgettable.And the raccoons are hilarious, and they make me laugh out loud just seeing them on screen. "},{"Title":"The Great Outdoors!","Date":"14 January 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The Great Outdoors is excellent comedy with a great cast which includes Dan Aykroyd, John Candy, Stephanie Faracy, Annette Bening, Robert Prosky, and John Bloom! The acting by all of these actors is very good. Aykroyd has a great performance and Candy is really wonderful in the movie. Faracy and Bening are also very good. I think that Candy and Faracy were excellent together as a couple. The music by Thomas Newman is good. The film is very exciting and its just so hilarious the entire time. This really is great comedy and in My opinion its a classic! If you love John Candy, Dan Aykroyd, and the rest of the cast mentioned and great comedies then I Strongly recommend this film! MovieNuttball's NOTE If you love John Candy then I recommend that you see the following films Summer Rental, Armed and Dangerous, Spaceballs, Who's Harry Crumb?, and Uncle Buck! "},{"Title":"Fun movie about the adventures of camping.","Date":"31 January 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is a great film to just kick-back and watch on a rainy day.  It has a some good laughs and an interesting story.  There are a number of things that I didn't like about the film, and things that I wouldn't have done, but overall, it's a good film and I enjoyed it.John Candy and Dan Aykroyd are a fabulous team.  John Candy plays the character you'd expect him to play, given his other credits, the good-natured nice guy.  Dan Aykroyd plays an interesting character, because all in all, he's a good guy, but he's got his problems (which will come out in the end of the film).  I thought it was a bit strange to Annette Bening in this kind of comedic role, due to having seen her in various roles since, most of which not being comedic.  But nonetheless, she did a very nice job with her role, and in fact this film was her theatrical debut.  Robert Prosky plays a somewhat minor role, but does a fine job with it.  Lucy Deakins (Cammie) really caught my eye in this film, she is quite a good looking woman and needs to be in more films.I wouldn't say this film is for everyone, and I could see why some people wouldn't love it.  It's not a laugh-a-minute kind of movie, but it's got some good stuff.  If you are a fan of either John Candy or Dan Aykroyd, then you ought to see this film.  I hope you enjoy the film, thanks for reading,-Chris "},{"Title":"Better than average","Date":"6 August 2002","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Dan does a good role, and John has a script.  This film is great.  A little sappy the love story, but the water ski scene makes up for it.  I like this film, its worth the rental price.  It was a great drive in movie when I went out with my parents. 7/10 "},{"Title":"not enough fun","Date":"11 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Chet Ripley (John Candy) is excited for a great outdoors lakeside vacation with his wife Connie and two sons. Then Connie's sister Kate (Annette Bening) and her money obsessed husband Roman Craig (Dan Aykroyd) surprise them with their creepy twin girls. There are raccoons. There are bears. There's a bat. The oldest son Buck Ripley falls for local girl Cammie.It's not fun. The annoying Roman sucks out all the joy without adding any laughs himself. The kids could have done better. The puppy love is cute but they aren't funny. John Candy is the only saving grace. He's so lovable that he almost salvages a bit joy. They try some big slapstick like waterskiing, the bat and the bear. There are not enough laughs that actually works. The chemistry for the characters were never there. "},{"Title":"Amusing vacation-in-the-woods comedy with Candy and Aykroyd","Date":"31 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Released in 1988, The Great Outdoors is a comedy about two Chicago-area families vacationing at a house-like cabin in the woods. John Candy plays the patriarch of one family and Dan Aykroyd the other. They're brothers-in-law and the latter is obnoxious because he constantly puts on airs of wealth. Stephanie Faracy and Annette Bening play the corresponding wives.I always enjoy this movie when I see it. It's more quietly amusing than laugh-out-loud funny, although there are a few scenes that I can't help busting out laughing, like the leech scene or the bat scene. The latter is actually pretty true to life as my wife and I had a similar reaction when we discovered a bat in our bedroom a couple of years ago, lol. The teen-romance subplot involving Chris Young and Lucy Deakins is a highlight and they should've done more with it, but I guess the filmmakers didn't want the movie morphing into a coming-of-age flick. The raccoons are another highlight.While the story takes place in Wisconsin, the movie was shot completely in California (Bass Lake, Yosemite National Park, Paramount Ranch and Universal Studios).The film runs 91 minutes.GRADE B- "},{"Title":"A Fun, Old-Fashioned Comedy!","Date":"15 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The Great Outdoors is nothing really special and is certainly not a comedy classic, but there is still no resisting this film. It's a perfectly charming and sweet 80's comedy that pairs up two of the greatest comic stars from that generation John Candy and Dan Akyroyd. The premise is simple and rather well-treaded, but there is nothing like a movie that spends time outdoors and persuades others to do the same.Howard Deutsch's film is about a family man named Chet who is going away for a vacation in the woods with his family. However, Chet's step-brother, Roman decides to surprise him and when he does, it's time for chaos to run amok.John Candy and Dan Aykroyd are comedy legends and this film shows why. They don't have to star in perfect, career-defining films (though they do) in order to make their audience laugh. They showed enough chemistry with each other to ensure that everyone is having a good time. They're rather likable though they both show split personalities.Overall, this is a solid comedy and one that is a nice addition to both of their resumes. The movie is obviously played safe, but there are some big laughs to be had. My favorite scenes involved Chet and his encounters with the big, bad bear. I also loved the raccoons and their subtitled chitter. This is the old-fashioned comedy that is rare to see nowadays. I rate this film 9/10. "}{"Title":"Pretty Funny Movie","Date":"8 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie is pretty funny and I remember when I first watched this in my Animal Science class back in ninth grade and it still holds up.Some of the really funny parts include Chet getting caught on camera by Roman, Chet going across the lake on water skis, the bear story, the meat eating scene, the old man scene, the guy that got hit by lightning sixty six times, the raccoons, and the blowing out of ass scene.of course there are parts that I didn't like about the movie like the bat scene mainly because I read that in real life it is illegal to kill bats.I also praise the cast of Dan Akyrod and the late John Candy. This is also one of the many comedies written by John Hughes.All in all it's a pretty funny film and recommend it to fans of Dan Akyrod, John Candy, or John Hughes. "},{"Title":"Three Questions I have...","Date":"24 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Is the bad guy Roman or the bear?Throughout most of the story Roman seems to be the antagonist, constantly getting under the skin of our beloved hero Chet. However, towards the end of the film Roman has some kind of revelation. He totally admits his guilt at conning his brother-in-law out of 25k and dramatically tears up the cheque. Que the bear.The bear, whom we later find out is a female named Judy, shows up and terrorizes the entire cast of the film, minus Bucks love interest.So who is the bad guy? I say it's the Raccoons. During the entire film, they are the only ones whom we feel no sympathy for. They are truly evil.What's up with the talking Racoons?Despite what I just said about them, I think their roll in the film is comedy, and possibly an excuse to show cute and cuddly creatures that only cause havoc. The translations are a nice touch. It's a way to superimpose a human element to the great outdoors. They even have names. Nature, has become a character in the film, an actual face, and voice. A person whom we can see and understand.Lets not go crazy however, it's still a comedy. I think we should all take a spin cycle and think about it a little bit more. )Is it believable that Buck ditched his girl for a family dinner?No, it is not believable that Buck did that. Buck seems to have an extreme attachment to his family. If you were young and single, and a gorgeous human specimen saunters into your life. It seems only logical that you might excuse yourself from the table, and pursue happiness. Totally unbelievable that he didn't even attempt to leave. And where was dad? Did anyone know about Bucks relationship? Did anyone ask where he wondered off to all the time? It almost seemed like two completely separate stories.Don't get me wrong, family is very important. Also, lust is fleeting, but come on!!!! I mean, come on!!! Love is in the air, take a whiff&#x85;.. damnit.http//www.primarilycritical.com "},{"Title":"One of my All-Time Favorites","Date":"26 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This has to be one of my favorite comedies of all time. Teaming up John Candy and Dan Aykroyd was a comedic masterpiece. I love it! John Hughes did an awesome job writing and directing this movie.The Great Outdoors is the story of two families on vacation. One family is down to earth, the other are snobs. Mixing the two makes for a great combination. Chet Ripley brings his family up to the Great North Woods for vacation and to relive his and his wife's honeymoon. Little does he know that his brother-in-law invite himself, his wife, and his twin daughters to join in the fun.As has become my custome, I will list my favorite scenes. Usually there are only three, but with this movie it's very difficult to pick just three.My absolute favorite scene is the scene in which John Candy's character, Chet Ripley, is pulled all across the lake on skies. The scene starts when he is trying to teaching his son, Ben, the basics of water skiing. Chet is wearing the skis and holding the tow rope; at one point Chet waves to Roman, played by Dan Aykroyd, who takes the wave to mean that Chet will take the first trip around the lake. The whole scene is amazing when you see an overweight man being dragged, against his will, all over a lake... it is one of the most hilarious scenes of the movie. Chet even ends up on one ski!The next scene I like is when the two families go out to eat one night. At the restaurant they are ordering their dinners and Chet sees the entry for the Old 96'er, a 96 lb steak. The restaurant has a contest that if any one that orders it and finishes the whole meal is on the house. Chet orders the Old 96'er and does very well. He finishes eating all the meat, but the cook says he hasn't finished. Chet has to eat the gristle and fat as well. It isn't shown, but it is assumed that Chet eats the remaining items on the plate. When the two families get home some raccoon get into the house to get at the garbage. Roman points out that there are a lot of maggots, especially on the meat, which causes Chet to run to the bathroom to throw up.I also liked the scene when Roman's twin daughters go off to the abandoned mine during a rain storm and fall down the shaft. Chet and Roman go looking for the girls after not finding them in the house. Locating the girls in the mine, Chet returns to the cabin for some rope, while Roman stays behind. Roman rescues his daughters without help from Chet and returns to the cabin. Chet returns to the mine, thinking that Roman and the girls are still inside, throws the rope down hoping to help. Unfortunately, Chet helps a bear escape the mine, which chases him back to the cabin. The bear happens to be the same bear that Chet told a story of earlier in the movie. The resort owner arrives and shoots the bear, not fatally or even wounding it much, just taking off the hair from it's butt.The other scenes I like are a collection of scenes involving a character named Cammie, played by Lucy Deakins. Cammie is a local girl who tries to keep vacationers at arms length, but Buck, Chet's oldest son, falls for her, and she for him. The first time we see Cammie, Buck and Ben are playing pool. Buck leans down for a shot at the same time Cammie does at the next table. Buck's pool stick ends up going between Cammie's legs from behind. Cammie feels the stick and whips around to confront Buck, sending the stick flying. It's not a hilarious scene, but a pretty good scene nonetheless. I like it because I think Lucy Deakins is a pretty woman, she has the sweet, girl next door look.I give this 8 out of 10 stars because it is pretty funny. John Hughes did a fantastic job of putting this movie together. "},{"Title":"Great Outdoors...Wonderful family film.","Date":"19 November 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I loved this movie. I think it is the perfect vacation movie. It's like every vacation we ever had, no matter what you do, something always goes wrong. I love Chets family, simple things in life work out fine. Romans family, materialistic but heartwarming at the end. Candy and Akroyd, a perfect combo. I'm a big John Candy fan as well as Dan Akroyd. They both compliment each other.I own almost all of John Candys movies. He was a big guy with a big heart. The supporting cast was perfect, as usual with Johns films It broke my heart when he died, we were all very saddened. We will miss him dearly, the world has lost a great talent. "},{"Title":"I LOVE The Great Outdoors","Date":"6 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The Great Outdoors definitely holds a very special place in my movie collection. My sister and I watched this movie over and over again with our dad when we were kids and I get the same enjoyment from it now. Most people my age saw this movie as kids and it seems to give everyone a feeling of nostalgia just like watching The Goonies.The characters are entertaining and I think people can relate to them. I wanted John Candy to be my dad soooo bad! And all the girls the girls I know remember having a huge crush on Buck. Dan Aykroyd is so obnoxious, but impossible not to love! And that's just the human characters. Everyone remembers those adorable raccoons and that poor ferocious bear!This movie is hilarious and packed with memorable lines that my friends and I love to quote. This one can be enjoyed by everyone. Please see it! "},{"Title":"Pretty funny at times...","Date":"17 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is movie is quite enjoyable mainly because it stars John Candy and Dan Aykroyd (which make a great comedic duo), and I've always grown up watching John Hughes films.This movie does have it's funny parts, like when Chet was telling everyone the bear story, the kids kissing the dead guy Mr. Tompkins, and especially the studdering guy at the bar. That has always made me laugh so hard!I wish this movie hadn't concentrated quite much with Buck and Cammie's relationship. It would always show up between scenes and to me, I think it's breaks the comedy mood in which this movie's all about. During the end of the movie, things get a little more tense and emotional.This movie MIGHT get boring at times, but nevertheless, it has John and Dan and it's a good outdoors comedy all around.The dancing at the end of the movie during the credits was pretty neat and I enjoyed that. "},{"Title":"Wonderful family comedy","Date":"20 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The Great Outdoors is a wonderful family comedy, with two of the finest comedy actors of the time, Dan Aykroyd and John Candy. Now I wouldn't say this is their best movie, as they've both done much better work than this, but as far as movies designed to be watched on a Bank Holiday/Holiday weekend go, this is an excellent one to while away a few hours with.John Candy's character is somewhat similar to one his played in a rather dire movie called Summer Lease (or something similar)...he's the father of a small family, desperate to get away from it all and have a relaxing time in a picturesque location. This is whether his family (of wife who would prefer a few luxuries, and kids who would prefer some amusement arcades to hang out in) like it or not...but we've all been there before and the fact that we can sympathise is what makes the movie interesting.Then there's Dan Aykroyd's yuppy character (brother to John Candy's character). This is in the era where yuppy's were in their element and ridiculed every step of the way. They were ordinary businessmen like they are these days, they were men with bad fashion sense who enjoyed dragging every piece of equipment from their office away with them. However under the abrasive exterior, there's just a guy who wants to get to know his brother better, and is going about it the wrong way by crashing his holiday.Remember when you watch this that it's a family comedy, and remember that it's just made to be watched on a mid-afternoon holiday weekend, because if you don't, you will be disappointed.  "},{"Title":"john candy....... the father we wish we had!","Date":"4 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  i'm writing this more as a tribute to the late great john candy. by no means is this the finest film he has produced, but what i feel this film does more than any other is give you a grounding in what john was all about, sharp, witty, yet incredably down to earth. The great outdoors takes the magic, excitment, and the disasters of the modern family holiday one step further. its a whimsical tale of the idealism we all like to remember of family holidays, yet if we think carefully none are just that! this is a classic send up of trips we all have experinced! critics and pundits slammed it for having a poor scrip and plot, but i think they're wrong, this film reaches you on a level you remember as a child, you can asosiate with it, this is truely a film for all and not to be missed "},{"Title":"Hilarious romp through the Great Outdoors!!","Date":"10 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Family will screw you over faster than anyone. It's an old adage and this movie demonstrates it as well as any other I've ever seen. Aykroyd and Candy are delightfully at odds in this wonderfully entertaining farce about family A vacationing in their own style, and family B crashing in upon them, uninvited, and unwanted.This is one of both Aykroyd's and Candy's best, and a favorite of the Fiend's.The acting is relaxed and exactly what you expect from seasoned actors; the direction is great and the story is hilarious. Just go rent it. It's a lot of fun for the whole family. If you're an adult though, just a hint...rent the PG version and not the G version. It's much more entertaining.Great movie that gets a 7.8/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"The Excellent Outdoors","Date":"27 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  You know when you see a movie as a kid and still watch it as a 23-year old? This is one of those movies that can reach every age level as a hilarious film that should never be overlooked.John Candy, playing the laid-back, nice-guy of the gang, with his middle class family, decides to go to a cabin in Northern Indiana to enjoy the scenery. But when Dan Akyroyd, the fun-loving rich tycoon arrives, it's all Roman, Roman, Roman! From the first water-skiing insident to the battling of the bear, John and Dan really set up the perfect comedic pair. These two guys seperate Good. These two guys together Amazing. See it.  "}{"Title":"Hilarious!","Date":"6 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is definately one of the better movies I've seen. Hilarious and attention-grabbing, I could not stop laughing. Nowadays, I act out the dialogue all the time. Both John Candy and Dan Akyroyd did an awesome job, and I give them huge props for their performences. "},{"Title":"A pop corn and soda pop movie!","Date":"21 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Great grins movie! Strong script with a wonderful array of gags.Rent this one for the kids,then watch it yourself.See Lucy Deakins at her best!Scary tale as told by John Candy is so silly.This movie is hokey but you gotta love it! "},{"Title":"Truly GREAT outdoors","Date":"20 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  An underrated movie to say the least, this is a classic 80's comedy, great performances from Candy and Aykroyd. Great movie to watch with the family, great movie for young Kids.  I think it is absolutely hilarious, and i would recommend it to everybody.  "},{"Title":"I still watch it with my parents and I'm 25!!!","Date":"21 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I love this movie.  I remember it was the first movie I ever recorded with my parents new VCR (back in 1989 when it came on HBO).  I watched the movie so much that I actually wore the VHS tape out.  I had damn near ever line in the movie memorized.  Big Bear.... Big Bear chase me!!!  LOL.  I have a question for the rest of this movie's fans, has anyone else seen the version with a bunch of deleted scenes in it?  I watched this movie when it came on TNT once and there were a couple of new scenes that I had never seen before. I bought the DVD when it first came available, but there aren't any deleted scenes on it.  Kinda strange just like the giant squid in Goonies that only about 1/3 of the people have ever seen.  Well if anyone knows anything about the deleted scenes post then on this board.  Thanks. "},{"Title":"VERY FUNNY","Date":"17 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  How on earth can anyone not like this movie?  I could watch this over and over.  Critics and a few other were way too hard on this one.  It is hilarious from start to finish.  John Candy and Dan Aykroyd should have made more films together. "},{"Title":"Good Outdoors","Date":"4 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  John Hughs was a master of comedy in the 1980's.  The Great Outdoors is one of his better films in terms of sheer comic performances.  Its the story of a family man Chet Ripley, played by John Candy, who tries to show his family a nice rustic vacation in the north woods.  Their plans are spoiled when loudmouth well-to-do relatives show up and move into their cabin with them.  Dan Aykroyd plays wheeler-dealer big shot Roman Craig, who takes over the Ripley family's quiet plans in favor of outlandish activities.  The interaction and dialogue between Aykroyd and Candy are the real treat of this funny misadventure in the wilderness.  Its an odd couple relationship where neither side sees eye to eye, nor is willing to give an inch.  What would a John Hughs film be without some emotion and character development.  The two opposite families must learn to get along and set aside their differences.  One of the big set backs of this movie, is the mushy and out of place romance that takes place between Chet's pubescent son and a bitchy small town girl.  Numerous meaningless scenes of their cardboard cutout love story wrongfully cuts into the upbeat and comedic tone of the film.  With a little editing, this movie could have been better.  Still, you have to appreciate the sheer genius of John Candy and Dan Aykroyd doing their best bickering.  A good film with some great moments.  Final Rating = 6.7/10  "},{"Title":"i cant believe there are people who didnt like this one!","Date":"3 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  i have seen this movie over and over again. i guess i never thought there would ever be anyone who didnt like it!i thought it was very funny ,and entertaining.great family comedy of course the bear part was unrealistic but that's part of the fun!relax and enjoy! we could all use a good comedy right now to forget about world problem's if only for a few hour's. "},{"Title":"You people make me sick!!","Date":"18 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  How could anybody honestly not like this movie.  It was hilarious.  The Great Outdoors is one of John Candy's best films.  When they were discussing what hot dogs are made of was one of the funniest parts.  I like the talking raccoons.  Their subtitled dialouge was hysterical.I give this film a 7 on a 10 scale.P.S.  I'll scream if anyone says that Canadian Bacon was better than this.  That movie sucked. "},{"Title":"John Hughes' fingerprints all over it (spoilers!)","Date":"9 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  In his 2-day filmmaking course, Hollywood Film Institute director Dov Simons states that everyone can come up with a starting-point, a beginning, and an ending for a movie, but that the real creativity has to be shown in the middle section of a movie.Candy and his family travel to the wonderful vast American woods to enjoy a well-deserved summer vacation. But before Candy can cry out something like `Last one in the lake has to do the dishes' his annoying cousin Aykroyd pulls up in the driveway, bringing along his equally annoying wife Benning and their zombie-like twin daughters. Okay, that's the starting-point. In the third and final act, there will be a small disaster to overcome as a family. The film will end with the family ties firmly retied. But what will happen in the second act? And, as far as I can recall, this has always been Hughes' problem. Writers block after ten minutes of screentime. It is solved, though, in the usual Hughes-manner filling up screentime with little sketches and obvious jokes, having little to do with the original premise.To make things worse, the real red threat in this movie isn't the Aykroyd-Candy storyline, but a particularly annoying subplot involving a by the numbers teenage romance with its own annoying theme music. And then there's a beer with a bold head and, eventually, a bold butt. O, and something about a guy who has been struck by lightning a hundred times or so.A little fire, although not very original either, could have been added to the mutual annoyances by gradually having Aykroyd gaining popularity with Candy's kids. But non of this happens. What does happen is Candy winning a free meal by finishing a giant steak; Candy getting hit on the head by a golf ball; Candy's car being attacked by bears; the family getting scared by a bat. Very little of the humor comes from tension between Aykroyd and candy. And the characters simply change from being &#145;realistic' to cartoon characters when the scene or cheap joke asks for it. As is the case with most of Hughes' writing, in this middle sections things could be subtracted from or added to without real losses or gainings.      Did I make it sound like this is a terrible picture? Well, it isn't. It's entertaining enough, but also a bit annoying as this is lazy, predictable, by-the-numbers filmmaking. Hughes and director Dietch on the automatic pilot. It's not as bad as Hughes' `Uncle Buck' (The ultimate experience in braindead comedy), though. ** out ****  "},{"Title":"Funny, Family Film","Date":"16 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  My Wife and I just returned from Bass Lake, California where this movie was filmed. It is easy to see why they choose this beautiful location for filming. This is the kind of feel good movie you can watch with you`re whole Family and laugh as I am sure most have somebody in their Family that they can identify with here. From the obnoxious brother in law (Aykroyd) to the mellow, simple man trying to give his Family a great time (Candy) you have all the elements of a fun film that you will want to watch again and again and thats why this is a Family favorite. If you want to sit back and laugh, pick up a copy of The Great Outdoors. "}{"Title":"quite entertaining!!!!!","Date":"3 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  While this movie may not be profoundly deep in plot or story line, it's a good entertaining movie!!!! I'll admit I love most any movie John Candy is in...if you like the vacation movies, or other Candy fare, you'll love this one!!! I watch everytime it comes on cable....it's a great summer movie with some funny gags and all around good family fun "},{"Title":"Great Fun, and a classic movie","Date":"26 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is another of those movie that just don't get old.  I saw it for the first time probably at about 7 or 8 years old, and I remember being amused by the water skiing and the raccoons.  It's amazing that I've grown up with movies such as this and National Lampoon's European Vacation, and then start to actually get the grown up jokes.  This is one of my favorite comedies. "},{"Title":"Wild in the woods....","Date":"14 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  It's getting so you can spot a John Hughes script from fifty miles off anymore.  The Great Outdoors is his, he'd have trouble disowning this one.  It has his earmarks all over it1) Slapstick chaos (Home Alone)2) Teen love (Pretty in Pink)3) Animals with human tendencies (101 Dalmatians)4) Thick-headed adults (just about all his movies)And, of course, there are laughs to be had here.  Candy and Aykroyd as the feuding brothers are extremely funny and their chemistry works very well here.  Faracy and Bening (!) do well as their long-suffering wives.  Even Prosky serves up laughs as the campground proprietor. But you have to feel sorry for that poor bald bear in the end (get it?).Seven stars.  Time-tested Hughes humor and a solid cast to set it off just right.  Good use of raccoons, too. "},{"Title":"a classic","Date":"3 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie may be critically bashed and ignored by the general public, but what a movie.  I have seen it more than any other movie I have other seen! Why?  Because the story is woven with great characters, great scenery and one hell of a great bear story that it always seems refreshing.  A great cottage film.  Watch it! "},{"Title":"Vacation from hell but what a movie","Date":"21 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I have to say that of all the comedies released in the last fifteen years, this is one of my all-time favorites. This is most likely the case because the story revolves around something we can all relate to. Namely the summer vacation.John Candy takes his wife and two boys up for a peaceful vacation in the north woods. However, shortly after arriving their tranquility is spoiled by Candy's loudmouth, irritating brother Roman (Dan Akroyd). Candy is too nice to tell Roman and his family to leave so they each take turns arguing and destroying everything in their path. Akroyd is terrific because his character is so over the top obnoxious that you can't help but laugh. Rounding out the cast is Annette Bening as Roman's wife and Robert Prosky as the crusty old hotel owner.If The Great Outdoors has a weak point it would be the bear subplot and the almost apologetic way it tries to give Candy's older son a love interest. Neither plot is really needed in a movie that already has talking raccoons and a boat called Suck My Wake. See this movie. You'll never look at summer vacations or your in-laws the same way again.  "},{"Title":"Not a Classic But Entertaining","Date":"13 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The Great Outdoors (1988) ** 1/2 (out of 4) A simple man (John Candy) takes his family to the great outdoors for some peace and quiet but that's thrown out the window when his annoying in-laws (Dan Aykroyd, Annette Bening) show up uninvited. Considering the two comic talents and the fact that this was written by John Hughes, I think you can consider THE GREAT OUTDOORS to be a disappointment. While the film remains entertaining as it is, there's still no question that with the talent involved it should have been much, much better. As it stands this is a decent film to watch if you've got some time to kill but there's no question that everyone involved had much better work in their filmmographies. I think the best thing this has going for it are the performances of Candy and Aykroyd. I thought both of them took a rather simple and weak screenplay and at least brought some energy and passion to it. I thought both of them were extremely good in their roles and their chemistry together was certainly top-notch and helped carry things. I also enjoyed Bening and Stephanie Faracy as the wives. I think the biggest problem is that the screenplay feels as if it was either rushed or a first draft is what they dusted off to try and cash in on the stars. The thing never really feels complete and many of the jokes simply aren't that funny. Still, THE GREAT OUTDOORS is mildly entertaining and fans of the stars will still want to check it out. "},{"Title":"Good 80's Comedy!'","Date":"25 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Dan Aykroyd, John Candy, Annette Bening, Stephanie Faracy, Chris Young, Lucy Deakins and Robert Prosky star in this 1988 comedy. Chet Ripley (Candy) is a mild-mannered guy who decides to take his family on vacation to the country. He's happy until his obnoxious brother-in-law, Roman Craig (Aykroyd) shows up with his family. Soon, Chet finds himself having mishaps, facing bald-headed bears and arguing with Roman. Faracy (Blind Date) plays Chet's wife, Connie, Bening (The American President) plays Roman's wife, Kate, Young (PCU) plays Chet's older son, Buck who finds romance with waitress, Cammie (Deakins) while on vacation and the late, Prosky (Christine, Mrs. Doubtfire) plays Wally, the owner of the cabin they stay at. I grew up watching this film and always loved it and Dan & John were great together. I recommend this good 80's comedy. "},{"Title":"Made Out of Lips and A**holes","Date":"4 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The Great Outdoors reminds me of movies such as the 1996 Black Sheep. Mainly because the scene were they are trying to catch the bad is so drawn out and silly you can't help but laugh. I was really hoping I could see Chris Farley in here, but this was far to early for him.The Great Outdoors has a simple plot, but a big heart. It's about Chester Chet Ripley (John Candy), his wife Connie (Stephanie Faracy), and their two kids taking a trip to their cabin in the woods in Pechoggin, Wisconsin.The group encounter their Uncle Roman Craig (Dan Aykroyd) and Connie's sister Kate (Annette Bening) who invite themselves to their cabin. Chet and Roman become competitive like two rival boys in the school yard. Their childish antics and hilarious acts put the family to dismay.One of the kids, Buck (Chris Young) meets a girl around his age named Cammie (Lucy Deakins). A local girl who often is stereotypical towards city boys (Buck). They form a little puppy love relationship as Cammie tells Buck she has never officially had a boyfriend for more than two weeks seeing as she works at the resort.The Great Outdoors is a feel good kinda movie. Instead of those problematic kinda shows or movies. We get a movie were you can watch and relax too.With all those movies like Righteous Kill or one of the many dark comedies out there. This one lightens the tone in a competitive was about getting along with your relatives. By the end of the movie I think I can summarize, we all have a Roman Craig in out family.Starring John Candy, Dan Aykroyd, Stephanie Faracy, Chris Young, Ian Giatti, Annette Bening, and Lucy Deakins. Directed by Howard Deutch and written by John Hughes. "},{"Title":"Not one of the better late 80s comedies, but hard to hate","Date":"17 June 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" It's hard to view The Great Outdoors as more than just a cog in the high-production machine of late 80s comedy including the talents of John Candy, Dan Aykroyd, Bill Murray, etc. Most of the film is incredibly predictable and the plot is almost entirely formulaic, yet despite it all, it's hard to truly despise this film. It's nothing more than average, but still enjoyable. Of all the films that master 80's comedy writer John Hughes has written (Ferris Bueller, The Breakfast Club) this is not one of his standouts.John Candy stars as Chet Ripley, yet another likable protagonist who is always getting screwed over by his jerk of a co-star, in this case Dan Akyroyd as his brother-in-law, Roman Craig. Chet wants peace and quiet in a small Canadian lakefront town with his family when the Craigs drop in uninvited. It's so overdone and overused, but a few of the scenes are quite funny and somewhat unique.What makes this film different is that it feels more family-oriented. Not in the sense that it's appropriate for all ages, but in the sense that the film offers something for every member of the family. Whether it's the adult dialogue, the films troublesome kids, or the unimportant teenage fling/romance subplot, Great Outdoors tries to make a reason for every demographic to see this movie. It seems really contrived, but other than the National Lampoon's Vacation movies, this is honestly one of the most family-oriented comedies of that era.Great Outdoors is not a staple of 80s comedy, but it does add some ample padding in the overall collection, especially when it comes to fun for all ages. "},{"Title":"Deleted scenes","Date":"27 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Just wondering if anyone else noticed this but I have seen this movie many times and when I saw it on regular TV there is a scene where Chet and Roman are picking up the boat on a trailer. I think it should be right after Roman tells him You've got it in neutral Chet then drops it in gear and the boat flies onto the trailer. The next thing you see is Chet on the docks explaining things to Benny. But on the TV version,after the boat is loaded,Chet drives away and as he is leaving, he knocks down 1 or 2 totem poles with his car. I have never seen this on the DVD version. Just wanted to know if anyone else has seen this or if there are any other missing scenes......Thanks.Pull Over!!....No, It's a cardigan but thanks for asking....Killer boots man!! Love that line..among many from Dumb and Dumber. "}{"Title":"I love it","Date":"11 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is a childhood favorite of mine, so I guess there's some nostalgia attached to my fondness for this film, but to me, it just keeps getting better. Much like Uncle Buck, every time I watch it, I'm reminded of how much I miss John Candy and what a great loss he was to the world of film. He and Dan Aykroyd had great chemistry and it would have been nice to see them do more stuff together. The other night I was watching Waking Up In Reno. Afterwards, I popped in The Great Outdoors and had a nice double feature. Seriously, if you've never caught this one, then you've missed out big time. Check it out. There's not much thinking (if any) required, just a great time. It plays great on a rainy Saturday. "},{"Title":"The greatest camping movie of all time!","Date":"23 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The day before you go out on a family camping trip, remember to watch THE GREAT OUTDOORS. It is played on TV a lot, so if you can't get it at the video store, maybe you can catch it there. I remember growing up watching this movie with my family on TV a lot, and I also remember laughing a hell of a lot. John Candy and Day Aykroyd are great together. They have good chemistry and they have the ability to make their arguing and stupid situations realistic and funny at the same time.If you're a comedy fan, or if you like John Candy movies (which this is obviously both) then you will like THE GREAT OUTDOORS. Other great John Candy movies are UNCLE BUCK and PLANES, TRAINS AND AUTOMOBILES with Steve Martin. THE GREAT OUTDOORS gets 4/5. "},{"Title":"The Great Outdoors Have Never Been More...Outdoors","Date":"25 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  There hasn't been a family vacation like this since the Griswold's took that memorable trek across country in search of WalleyWorld and discovered the downside of `quality time' instead.  This film follows a similar path, and demonstrates how even the best laid plans can wind up being a blueprint for chaos.  The old getting-away-from-it-all `R&R' and well intentioned parent/child `bonding' takes a shot in `The Great Outdoors,' directed by Howard Deutch, which begins with a trip to the Wisconsin woods and ends up in a suite in Comedy Heaven.  After all, when you mix some clueless city-slickers with nature and all it's trappings, it doesn't take a genius to figure out that Murphy's Law will soon prevail.  Here, the filmmakers do, and it does; and in the end, you may not be up for answering that call of the wild in light of all you've witnessed, but you're sure going to be laughing while you think about it.  And it certainly makes visiting the woods vicariously seem like the best-- in fact, the `only'-- way to go.For the perfect `family' vacation, Chet (John Candy) takes his wife, Connie (Stephanie Faracy), and their two boys, Buck and Ben (Chris Young, Ian Giatti) to a lakeside lodge in Wisconsin.  Not only is this going to give them all a break from city life, but Chet hopes to do some bonding with his boys, just like he did with his own father at this same lodge when he was a kid himself.  He's hoping for that kind of `quality time' that money just can't buy.Before they can even settle in, however, Chet's plans are history, with the surprise arrival of Roman and (Connie's sister) Kate (Dan Aykroyd, Annette Bening), and their two daughters, Cara and Mara (Hilary Gordon, Rebecca Gordon).  And suddenly it's an `extended family' get together, and Roman takes charge.  Chet wants to grill hot dogs?  Not with Roman around; it's lobster or nothing.  Rent a pontoon boat and tour the lake?  No way.  Let ol' Roman introduce you to the joys of the jet boat (okay, let's vote on it-- jet boat wins!).  Throw in some romance between Buck and one of the locals, Cammie (Lucy Deakins); a story about a bald-headed bear; and Chet's encounter with a 96 oz. steak, and you've got a formula for fun and an unforgettable `family' vacation.Working from an insightful screenplay (by John Hughes) that mines the lighter side of human nature, and with stars Candy and Aykroyd decidedly in their element, Deutch proceeds to establish a pace and timing that perfectly keeps the film on track, as he presents the story in a way that best serves the talent and material at his disposal.  Candy and Aykroyd play so well off of one another, and Deutch never fails to capitalize on any and all opportunities the two happen to present as their characters develop.  With all he's given to work with, it's a matter of Deutch having the sense to let it happen, while employing his own innate sense of what works to present it all as cohesively and hilariously as possible, which he succeeds in so doing.  Rich in characterization and visual gags, Deutch plays up the kind of situations that could very well-- and often do-- happen in such a setting, especially with the kind of personalities depicted here involved.  You've heard of the `accident waiting to happen?'  Well, meet Chet and Roman.John Candy is imbued with a natural and empathetic personality he employs to great effect with characters like Jack, in `Summer Rental' and Del Griffith, in `Planes, Trains and Automobiles.'  But in `normal guy' mode, Chet just may be Candy's definitive portrayal.  In creating Chet, Candy gives you a caring individual, one who is willing to open himself up and meet you more than half-way; a guy who seeks that which is pure and good, and wants to share it once he's found it.  He's a character to whom you can readily relate because there's something of Chet in everyone (albeit deeply buried in some cases), and it creates that strong sense of identification that ensures that emotional connection with the audience.  And it's played perfectly by Candy, who makes Chet an unforgettable character.Then there's Dan Aykroyd, who plays Roman absolutely to perfection; this is, in fact, the role he was seemingly born to play.  And what makes this character so hilarious and engaging is the fact that there's an `Uncle Roman' in every family, and from the moment he pulls up to the lodge in the big car with the `Roman I' license plates, you know who this guy is.  He walks the walk and talks the talk (then talks some more); he's the salesman who could sell a vacuum cleaner to a dust bunny.  You'll recognize him immediately because in one form or another he's been to every family function you've ever attended, and Aykroyd has it all SO down, in the way he looks, moves, talks and, most especially in that condescending attitude he affects so well.  And watching him interact with Candy's Chet is a total riot.  It's a terrific performance by Aykroyd, and except for a bit during the credits when he takes to the dance floor, there's no trace of Elwood Blues here; this guy is 100% `Roman.'Also adding greatly to the festivities are the solid performances by Faracy, who as Connie more than holds her own with Candy, and Bening, making an auspicious big screen debut as Kate.The supporting cast includes Robert Prosky (Wally), Zoaunne LeRoy (Juanita), Nancy Lenehan (Waitress) and Britt Leach (Reg).  A fun and funny film that is pure entertainment, `The Great Outdoors' is great comedy that showcases two of the best in the business doing what they do best  Making you laugh.  Putting Candy and Aykroyd together was inspired casting; it's one of those, `if this works, it's going to be great' propositions.  It does, and it is.  9/10.                     "},{"Title":"One of John Candy's Greats!","Date":"19 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I liked this movie alot it's hilarious. From the bear scene to John Candy eating that gigantic steak to the bear story to Dan Ackroyd's entrance in John Candy's cabin come out of the woods tempress with horny the bear smokie's cousin to the watersking scene to the horse bucking him off!!! Also what was funny was that John Candy and Dan Ackroyd were bickering the whole time and it still makes me laugh to this day. Stephanie Farcy did a good job playing Candy's wife. But the kids weren't that good though. The twins were really twisted. The guy who played Ben was too lovesick and the other kid was hardly in it. But it's a really funny comedy to watch!! "},{"Title":"The Great Outdoors","Date":"19 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The combined talents of Candy and Aykroyd cannot save this poorly written comedy from Howard Deutch. There are numerous  sight gags; John Candy waterskiing!!! A bear getting its behind shot off. Candy eating a 96 oz steak. While there are humorous moments, the film as a whole is not tied together too tight.  "},{"Title":"These woods really stink","Date":"29 January 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" A one off for John Hughes. How long did it take for him to write this? Three days. Even judging from the first line of dialogue, this one doesn't get much better. It's slack comedy writing, obviously done in a rush. Like the slightly better Summer Rental, years earlier, Candy and family go to their cabin in the woods, one of his sons becoming lovestruck with a beautiful local girl. Candy of course, becomes hungry. We have the chipmunks to thank for providing the only funny lines of dialogue in this bomb- subtitled of course. I did like it too, when Candy and his little son were trying to get this bear off their hood. Candy's peace is invaded by the arrival of his irritably annoying brother, (you can say that again) Chet, the more successful brother, his wife played by Annette Benning, totally wasted in this unfunny fare. What's freaky is they have two twin daughters, red heads, who don't speak, so the bears are not the only spooky thing, out there in the woods. Only near the end, after a dilemma that brings the two families together, do we hear their voices. That's after Candy shoots the hair off a bear's rump. Candy's bear round the campfire story is long in the tooth too. As a John Hughes fan, make this one an exclusion, or out of interest, watch it to see how bad it is. You might actually like it, though I wouldn't put odds on it. "},{"Title":"Funny comedy about those in-laws who just have to crash the party.","Date":"10 January 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This film was a funny John Candy and Dan Akroyd comedy about a family who is going to the wilderness for a nice little family trip at a cabin. Everything seems to be going fine until the brother-in-law arrives with his family in tow to join the first unsuspecting family during their stay. John Candy heads the family that is at the site first and not really expecting the second family headed by the slightly obnoxious brother-in-law played very well by Dan Akroyd. Though he is a step or two down from the strange obnoxious person he played in the John Belushi comedy Neighbors. He is rather bad, but this is not a case of the two families really disliking each other like in some other movies. Also, Akroyd's family is a bit more welcome than say Randy Quaid's family was in the movie Christmas Vacation. So basically the movie is about the two families misadventures while Akroyd's character undermines John Candy's as he brings lobster instead of eating hot dogs and is determined to rent a speed boat rather than a pontoon. He also encourages Candy's character to take the ultimate steak eating challenge. Very good stuff indeed as this time Candy is the more down to earth character that is a bit put upon, he does the opposite role well too as he was good as the guy causing the trouble in Planes, Trains, and Automobiles. All in all a good comedy that the family can enjoy together, granted there are a few risqué jokes here and there. "},{"Title":"pretty decent John Candy film","Date":"27 November 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" while i don't think this is the best John Candy movie made,it is still pretty good.i guess it's considered a classic by now,being over 20 years old,and i think it deserves that status.it certainly has its funny moments.and John Candy is just so likable,how could you not like him.Dan Akroyd is also in the movie and he does good in his role.it's a quality family movie,but there is a bit of mild language and implied sexual innuendo.still,i don't think it's anything the whole family couldn't watch,except maybe really young kids.there is a lot of improvisation going on in this movie,which i really liked.the only negative thing i can say about this movie is that it takes a bit of time to get going.other than that that,it's a pretty good offering. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Nah","Date":"16 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Where the Johns, Candy and Cusack, seem to rise above their material so often what is it that's really happening?  I don't know, but I can't join the horde of positive Imdb reviewers on this one, about two quarreling families on vacation in the wild.  It barely has enough substance for an average half-hour sitcom and isn't comfortable as either drama or comedy. Candy and Faracy hoist this to 6/10 "},{"Title":"It may not be a great comedy, technically, but I guarantee it will be one that you'll come back to every once and a while, just for familiarity's sake.","Date":"12 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The Great Outdoors is one of those movies that you love to sit down with your family and watch over and over again, the type of movie that isn't necessarily a great film, but is lifted out of mediocrity by a terrific cast and lively joy surrounding it that is undeniably there. There isn't really anything that makes it worth watching, other than the funny comic cast that lends it a certain familiarity. It's not an underrated great comedy like Planes, Trains and Automobiles, but rather an underrated mediocre comedy, one that you can watch over and over, almost as a tradition, and never get tired of, but furthermore, never fully understand its charm.The film stars John Candy as Chet, a down-to-earth kinda guy who wants to give his family (a wife and two sons) a great vacation in the great outdoors, away from civilization and modern conveniences. Chet's family does not necessarily appreciate what he is doing for them but rather the thought, and so they go along with the oblivious Chet out into the middle of nowhere, staying in a log cabin infested by who-knows-what.Chet is happy all the way up until they arrive at their cabin, because upon arrival they are greeted by Chet's glob of a brother, Roman (Dan Aykroyd), who shows up unannounced with his snobby wife (Annette Bening) and strange little twin girls (who serve to be a damper on the film, as they are almost so creepy it hurts the movie.)Chet bites his tongue and watches Roman squirm his way into the cabin. As in most films like these, Chet seems to be the only one who notices how annoying Roman is. Remember What About Bob, when Dr. Marvin (Richard Dreyfuss) seemed to be the only one who resented an oddball patient named Bob (Bill Murray)? It's a bit like this with Chet and Roman. Chet's family doesn't seem to mind Roman, but Chet does. And in resenting Roman, Chet realizes he is being selfish, so he subconsciously, unknowingly pretends his family is bothered by Roman, which justifies him hating Roman and wanting him to leave. I bet you never thought I'd start reviewing this on a psychological level, eh? I guess you got more than you bargained for.The script was written by John Hughes, who directed my favorite comedy of all time, Planes, Trains and Automobiles (1987), which also starred Candy. Hughes and Candy had a long-time collaboration - Hughes was even writing another script for Candy when John passed away in 1994. But what can be said about Hughes is that he tends to create real characters in realistic situations, with a clear sense of focus on what he wants to get across. It is only in recent years his scripts have been becoming more and more muddled (Home Alone 3, 101 Dalmations), and this may very well be because the times have passed on, yet John Hughes is still, in a way, living in the 80s, the decade that made him one of the most successful filmmakers within a short period of time. (His films such as Ferris Bueller's Day Off and The Breakfast Club are icons of the eighties, and still have adamant fans to this day.)A film like The Great Outdoors is mediocre at best, and I don't think anyone will say otherwise. Sure, there are a few funny scenes like when Chet goes on an accidental waterskiing trip, or when Chet and Roman try to rid their house of a bat, only to enter into the cabin wearing a crazy assortment of items. These are the type of cheap comical gags that would sink a normal film, but watching John Candy and Dan Aykroyd go through the motions is something more. Especially Candy, God rest his soul, who could and continues to always make me laugh. I think that there's a certain charm about The Great Outdoors, one that invites the viewer, lets the viewer know what they're in for, but entertains the viewer during the course of the film. The first time I saw The Great Outdoors I shrugged it off as another typical 80s film - which it is, in a way - but I found myself watching it every time it appeared on television since. I even tape recorded it last year and have since watched many of the funny parts over and over. This is an excrutiatingly mediocre comedy, one that goes through all the motions, but at the same time has a strange, undeniable charm about it that entices the viewer. It may not be a great comedy, technically, but I guarantee it will be one that you'll come back to every once and a while, just for familiarity's sake.4/5 stars -John Ulmer "}{"Title":"great John Hughes fun","Date":"15 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Chet Ripley (John Candy) takes his family on a vacation at a lakeside resort. Their enjoyment is seriously compromised when brother in law Roman Craig (Dan Aykroyd) shows up with his wife and kids. The rest of the movie is an ongoing war between Chet's carefree aggregation and Roman's obnoxiously prissy brood, and making things worse, a driving rainstorm forces both families to remain under one roof well past their threshold of patience. The Great Outdoors is pretty predictable, but the cast alone makes this John Hughes movie better than it is. "},{"Title":"A limp 10 for poor Candy","Date":"28 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  John Candy was his funniest playing the sweet simpleton type who always found a way to humiliate himself. Akroyd was only funny when he did the cocky, suave, self-sufficient type who always found a way to humiliate others. Now when these two are cast in their ideal roles for a comedy and the thing isn't funny at all, ya' know that there's something wrong. Seriously wrong. Just like in SUMMER RENTAL, John Candy is wasted amidst a trifle of a movie. He was just one of those performers, too, that never got blamed for his movies being so bad. We as an audience always felt sorry for the guy when we saw him in an awful movie. I think here, though, he may have been at fault just as all the others. But not as much. The directing certainly didn't help. I won't rate this film on a general scale, for I don't want to sound too cruel. So I'll rate it on a scale of one to ten in terms of limpness. A 10! A perfect 10! "},{"Title":"The Great Outdoors ; Some Movies Just Don't Age Well","Date":"4 May 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I recently bought myself a fairly inexpensive copy of this movie and did so because I hadn't seen it in a very long time. In watching it last night finally,I incredibly,found my self laughing at very little. The Raccoons - Still funny. Near beginning of film,getting caught on video camera while making out - also still funny. Trying to catch the bat - yep,still funny. The killer bear story -Funny. Sad to say,not much else is. Don;t get me wrong,I loved this film back then and many years after but now,it just seems dated and even worse,a very uneven balance of comedy & semi-serious sub-plots.Teen-age son likes local girl but local girl isn't that crazy about him...until a few scenes later. Really,who cares? It adds nothing to the story or the film overall. It's like it was just thrown in to make it 90 minutes. Roman's revelation that his family is broke and his story about an investment to candy was a con-job. Why take a character who could be so hilarious and two-faced and humanize him? The other big problems. The twin girls. The Boys see them arrive and we hear the Twlight Zone theme. Which should be a set up,I would think,for the boys vs. the girls in pulling pranks on each other or something. Roman & his wife,should have been unrelenting,unapologetic,obnoxious,money grubbing,self-loving in laws from ****. I'm sorry but once they apologize and make up with the family,there's no more comedy here. Candy being chased by the bear,is only mildly funny but does get saved somewhat for it's backside hair getting blown off with the gun. Lastly,in the closing credits where they dance to Wilson Pickett's Land Of 1000 Dances? That should have been right in the middle of the film. Certainly would have energized it some. If you still love this movie,that's great. For me,like a lot of unfortunate 80s comedies,this one's just to dated (and a bit dull) to still be as funny as it was. 3 out of 10. With all due respect to the late John candy. "},{"Title":"You'll have good fun in the Great Outdoors, thanks to the comic abilities of Ackroyd and Candy","Date":"19 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Chet Ripley (John Candy) has taken his wife and two sons to the northern woods far above Chicago. His own father did the same for him and Chet has many a happy memory of good times in the great outdoors. He tells his two boys that they will love boating, water skiing, and hiking. But, surprise, surprise, Chet's brother, Roman, decides to crash the party, bringing his own wife (Annette Bening) and twin daughters. Feeling he can't turn his sibling away, both families settle into the cabin and begin the fun. This includes special moments like Chet getting the ride of his life on water skiis, thanks to Roman's speeding boat, and the battle of the bat when one of those flying creature comes calling inside the rustic lodgings. Chet also loves to spook the others with stories about giant bears in this part of the nation. But, there may be some secrets harbored by both Chet and Roman while the youngsters find new ways to enjoy themselves, including getting lost in the woods. Will the Great Outdoors prove a place to sprout good or bad memories? This is a fun film, not great, but entertaining nonetheless. The plot is, for the most part, a series of city boy learns a lesson in the wild episodes, which is fine but not overly creative or intriguing. However, the two stars, Ackroyd and Candy, make up for any deficiencies with their great comic abilities. The rest of the cast, including Bening and Robert Prosky, is fine also. One of the best features of the film is the lovely scenery in the northern woods while the costumes and photography are nice as well. All in all, this is quite a fun movie for families who are ready to laugh and slap their thighs, without any heavy lessons. If you are looking for such a flick, get out the door and grab The Great Outdoors tonight. "},{"Title":"Slapstick comedy with typical Hughes themes.","Date":"13 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" John Hughes, though he's delivered some wonderful comedies and dramas, has always managed to be rather nauseatingly consistent with his theme class conflict and an easy resolution.Chet (John Candy) takes his family on a holiday in the woods, where they unexpectedly meet up with his snobbish, wealthier brother-in-law, Roman (Dan Akroyd) and his equally obnoxious family. While Chet tries to make the best of his vacation, he encounters one misadventure after another, while Roman seems to do a good job at making the humble, average family guy look like a total fool. Basically, it's that trademark John Candy slapstick comedy that ends i the typical John Hughes way of sentimental resolution after a class conflict finally comes to a head.I'm not a fan of this movie (the subplot romance between Chet's teenage boy and the local girl are just too cheesy to tolerate), but if you do enjoy it, I recommend seeing Candy as yet another well-meaning vacationing father in 'Summer Rental.' "},{"Title":"Somewhat disappointed.","Date":"8 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  With two great comic actors -- Akroyd and Candy -- this should have been much better.  Instead, it is labored, strained, and lame overall.  So much of the humor is obvious and/or forced.  A good example is when Candy eats the giant steak -- and throws up soon afterwards. Most of the film is just plain uninspired and predictable.  In short, the writing is just below par, though the actors try to do their best.  To me, the best sequence is the end credits, where Akroyd is dancing at the diner.  (I wonder if this was supposed to be in the film and then cut later?)  If the rest of the film was as much fun as that, it could have been a winner. "},{"Title":"That poor bear!","Date":"2 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Its a wonder the humane society wasn't all over the people who made this film the way they abused poor Bart the bear. First of all they shaved his head and then he got shot in the ass in the end and was bald there as well. Incidentally, Bart made another great appearance in The Edge the thriller with Anthony Hopkins and Alec Baldwin before he passed away. This is a fine film that pairs John Candy and Dan Aykroyd two real giants of comedy. John plays his usual nice guy role and Aykroyd plays an obnoxious guy! Stephanie Faracy and Annette Benning (Warren Beatty's wife) give able support as their long suffering spouses. Watching a film like this is like eating a triple decker Wendy's Cheeseburger, your consuming junk food, but its a wonderful experience. They have a lot of good old fashioned music in this film like Take out the papers and the trash in the beginning and na na na na na at the end closing credits. There are so many priceless bits in this film like where John has to eat a 96 ounce steak or the scene where he tells them the story of the notorious bald headed bear. I also wanted to mention that Robert Prosky is in this film. He was chilling as a mobster in Thief with Jimmy Caan, but here he plays it for laughs as an eccentric inn keeper. He is a fine character actor and a joy to watch. Everyone making this film must have had a wonderful time and it shows in the final product. "},{"Title":"an ok Candy film","Date":"2 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  John Candy stars in a tale of a vacation gone bad as a  family takes a vacation by the lake and is ruined by their uninvited troublesome relatives that cause a whole bunch of trouble..some laughs but generally not that good..nothing to write home about..On a scale of one to ten..4 "},{"Title":"A waste of time","Date":"4 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I see no reason whatever to watch this thing unless it's playing on Joe Bob's MonsterVision (poor Joe Bob will have to shoulder the whole job of junk-embellishment himself, now that MST3K is gone). Dumb, plotless and unfunny, except for the raccoons - who get all the best lines. There's a nice little brotherhood story connecting earnest, good-natured Candy to arrogant blowhard Aykroyd, but it's so badly bogged down that it doesn't manage to surface until the last 20 minutes and that's much too late.  One from the bottom of John Hughes' barrel. "},{"Title":"Stupid, Terribly-written, Predictable, Lame Movie!","Date":"22 May 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is so damn disappointing. I love John Candy and I think Dan Ackroyd is okay, but this movie is so terribly written that it's a shame that the two starts agreed to do it. The gags throughout are pathetically lame and I couldn't even sit through to the end of this movie as I found it to be ridiculous! The joke with the bear comes of rubbish and I never even laughed once! Avoid this rubbish! 1/10 "}{"Title":"Just plain bad.","Date":"13 June 1999","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is without a doubt the worst movie I have ever seen.  It's mainly a paper thin story sewn together by some awful potty jokes.  Though it does get credit for the famous blow it scene this movie has nothing to offer for anyone over the age of 2. "},{"Title":"Not Bad, But Not John Candy's Best By A Long Shot","Date":"11 August 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is not John Candy's best movie, nor is it his best partnership. For my money, I'd give that nod to Planes, Trains And Automobiles that came out the year before and teamed Candy with Steve Martin. Neither is this the best or funniest family vacation movie. There are several I'd rank ahead of it pretty much the entire Vacation series of movies comes to mind. In The Great Outdoors Candy is teamed with Dan Aykroyd. Candy plays Chet Ripley, a decent, working class sort of guy who wants to recapture some memories of his childhood with his own father by taking his family on a vacation in the woods of northern Minnesota. The idyllic possibilities are ruined when Chet's snobbish brother in law Roman Craig (Aykroyd) decides to show up unexpectedly with his own family to share the experience. There has to be more going on than that, of course. Roman doesn't strike anyone as the type who would want to take this kind of vacation without any ulterior motive. So you wait patiently for the ulterior motive to come out.In the midst of waiting, there are some funny scenes (the water-skiing scene probably stands out as the best) but there was nothing outrageously funny in my opinion. In the midst of the story about the family vacation there was a teenage romance between Chet's son Buck (Chris Young) and a local girl named Cammie (Lucy Deakins) that for some inexplicable reason was somewhat awkwardly tacked on to the story. It didn't really seem to serve any purpose.Candy and Aykroyd worked well enough together and handled their parts well enough. There's nothing about this (except the unnecessary teen romance) that's particularly wrong. It's just that Candy and Aykroyd have both done better work, and there have been much better movies of this type made. (4/10) "},{"Title":"Should Have Been Called The Below-Average Outdoors","Date":"28 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Far from great, not quite unbearable, but very close, The Great Outdoors is a tedious comedy about a family (led by John Candy) who decide to take a vacation in the country.  However, his brother-in-law (Dan Aykroyd) and his family barge in and basically ruin all the plans.  Predictable, sophomoric, and overall stupid, The Great Outdoors is a terrible film whose premise is never clear.  2 stars out of 5.   "},{"Title":"I want you to do something for me.....","Date":"1 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Just bear with me, I'll get to the review in a bit. First I'd like each of you to reach deep into the recesses of your mind and list your ten favorite movies released between the years 1987-1991. Go ahead and do it.... I'll wait. Took you a while to name ten great ones off the top of your head, didn't it? Well, that's because those years represent a creative black hole from the history of the film-making industry. Most of the movies made then were lame. Most of the clothing and hairstyles were lame, most restaurant food was lame, pop music was being edged out by hip hop, the list goes on. Pop culture, particularly movies, was in a deep pit. For years I was the first to defend the 1980s. It was the time I was coming of age as a teenager. I didn't want to think I was coming of age in such lame times, but I was. Look at my high school yearbook and you'll find more mullets than regular hair. The mullet was cool in this time period! I never had one, though. Honest.There really isn't a lot to say about The Great Outdoors. Like most of the movies made back then, it was also lame. The sad thing is, it didn't need to be. Dan Akroyd is always a welcome sight. He almost makes his scenes work even in this movie. John Candy was likable, and at times really brilliant. Too bad he was simply used as an affable fat guy in most movies. This is really puzzling since a year before we had a wonderfully written character for him also created by John Hughes who wrote this dreck disguised as a script. Candy was funnier in Summer Rental of all things! Did Hughes really write this stuff? There are a couple laughs sprinkled here and there. I've never seen a comedy where I never laughed at all. I'm sure they're out there, but I don't do this for a living and am not required to sit through everything that gets made. There is some good animal related humor, and a few funny lines, but mostly its all a throwaway effort. The physical humor is telegraphed from miles away. For goodness sakes, how long did they think they needed to set up that golf ball to the nose shot?? There is a painful would-be romantic sub plot involving Candy's teen aged son and a local carhop waitress. It goes NOWHERE. And every time both are on screen, a tepid electric guitar tune starts playing. This being 1988, I can actually picture the physical characteristics of the session guitarist in my mind. He has a long, feathered mullet and wears a bolo tie and a shiny black vest over a paisley shirt when playing in his band on the weekends. Maybe he plays weddings. Maybe now he's just working randomly as a music producer out in L.A. if he can afford the rent. Do yourselves a favor and skip The Great Outdoors if you pass by it while channel surfing one afternoon. Annette Benning, you are forgiven because we all have to start somewhere. 4 of 10 stars.The Hound. "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"5 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Dan Aykroyd and John Candy is doing a really great job in this movie. Its not one of the best movies in the world, but its definitely one you have to have watched at least one time in your life. Sorry for this movie that it has become one of the movies you find at your local store for almost nothing or at the movie rental place almost for free, i think this movie deserves a little more than it gets, its definitely one of the best John Candy movies. This movie has a many good things in it and is worth watching. And its alright for you to watch it with your family because children will love this to. I think its good for now days children to watch a movie like this and see what real comedy is like. "},{"Title":"Canuck Comedy Duo","Date":"20 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Well I just finished watching The Great Outdoors starring Dan Akroyd who is Canadian and Mr. John Candy. I thought this movie was humorous and good for the time (1988). This plot is very simple and realistic. It's funny, when John Candy is driving the family car towards the cabin I thought I heard him say they were in the back country of Canada. Anyways, I guess this movie was shot in California on Paramounts lot and Bass Lake. I think Akroyds Rich snobby family is great. The wife is totally spoiled and high class. Akroyd is Mr. Business. He plays an a-hole in this movie. He is an a-hole in real life too. I love him and he's from my hometown of Kingston, Ontario. He can play any role and I love the way he talks. His two twin girls are creepy. Then you got John Candy who is literally the size of a grizzly bear. His tiny cute little blond wife and two boys. The older boy is girl crazy and has a little kit with a little country lass. I loved the scene where Akroyd wants to impress everyone so he rents a fancy jet boat. They get big ol' John Candy ridin' on there and he crashes onto the sand. Poor Candy looks like he could have a heart attack (Not In This Movie anyways). This would have been very low budget shoot at the time as it's just set in the country and there is all kinds of spots that are nice for shooting especially in Canada. They should have shot it instead in BC it would have looked nicer and it's the real Canadian look instead of some American location. Come to Canada were friendly eh. "},{"Title":"Not really worth the trouble","Date":"29 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Rather corny comedy from the pen of mighty John Hughes about a family whose getaway vacation in the woods is ruined by the arrival of uninvited in-laws.John Candy has some moments, but for the most part the comedy is quite poor. Dan Aykroyd and the supporting cast (which included the débutant Annette Bening) are all very disappointing. Even in its more serious moments, Howard Deutch's movie fails to invoke the emotions. Not really a comedy worth your time, except perhaps for the amazingly conversational squirrels. Also Starred Stephanie Faracy and Robert Prosky.Friday, January 15, 1993 - Video "},{"Title":"Predictable comedy. Some amusing sequences, but generally a disappointment.","Date":"23 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"   The Great Outdoors is yet another disaster-vacation comedy along similar lines to every other movie within its limited and predictable genre (e.g. National Lampoon's Vacation, National Lampoon's European Vacation, Carry On Camping, and Summer Rental). It doesn't play like a movie with a coherent plot; more like a series of comic sketches, linked together by the same characters and the same general premise of two bickering families attempting to endure a woodland holiday together. Chet (Candy) takes his city-bred family up into the wilderness of the U.S-Canadian border region for a vacation in a log cabin. Uninvited, his over-bearing business-bigwig brother-in-law Roman (Akroyd) shows up. The mismatched pair, their bitchy wives, and their wacky kids proceed to have various misadventures involving speed boats, grizzly bears, horse riding excursions, raccoons, etc. Candy and Akroyd are able to do this kind of thing on autopilot, and that's exactly the way they approach this film. Neither actor exerts himself, both seeming happy to aim for the easy laughs. The kids in the movie are generally annoying, ranging from Akroyd's eerie twin daughters (who look like they've just stepped out of The Shining) to Candy's eldest son who is desperate to find love in the woods. Some of the sequences are amusing, such as the scene where Candy foolishly attempts to feed the bears and ends up with two gigantic grizzlies sat upon the roof of his car, and the white-haired hillbilly who stutters maniacally about being struck by lightning over fifty times. More often, though, the sequences are predictable and fairly laughless. The Great Outdoors might entertain you if you're new to this kind of film, but if you've seen any of the others you'll find very little that is fresh here. "},{"Title":"Not Bad","Date":"6 July 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie was released on June 17 1988 starring John caddy as Chet Ripley, Stephanie Faracy as Connie Ripley and Dan Aykroyd as Roman Criag. Chet is your normal hard working man with a beautiful wife and two growing sons. Chet decides to takes his family on vacation to Minnesota for a relaxing time in a two story cabin over looking a beautiful lake. Chet is in the kitchen getting frisky with his wife Connie when they turn around only to find people standing in there living room. To Chet disappointing look stands Connie sister Kate and her know it husband and Chet's brother in law Roman. Also with Roman are his two ugly daughters. It doesn't take long before Roman is getting on Chet's nerves and he's ready to pack it in and go back home. However as things play out there's more to roman unsuspecting arrival that no one knows about. Now a few thoughts on this movie! This wasn't a bad comedy, but it was hard at times stay interested in it. John caddy is a good actor and that was about the only thing that made this movie worth it. Based on that, I give this movie 5 weasel stars. "},{"Title":"Background entertainment but nothing more than that &#150; unmemorable and not particularly funny","Date":"21 June 2004","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Chet is a simple man who takes his wife and kids up to a log cabin campsite to get back to nature and bond. Half way through a little 'r&r' with his wife while the kids play outside, Chet is horrified to find his arrogant brother-in-law Roman, and his family have decided to come and join them for the duration of their holiday (for reasons best known to fans of The Odd Couple and hack writers!). While Chet is good enough at messing things up by himself, the interference of Roman just makes things worse. Meanwhile Roman tries to develop his relationship with his silent daughters and Chet's eldest goes off in pursuit of a girl he met playing pool.It may have been directed by Howard Deutch (who directed Some Kind of Wonderful but has since done little of real merit), but this is a John Hughes film through and through. All the elements of his usual formula are present in his script &#150; 'harmless' slapstick, big bubbly characters, a few cute kids, a kid in his/her early teens and warm family lessons to be learnt all round. This is no bad thing though as it is a formula that has made him a very rich man with some of his bigger films, however here it produces a film that is familiar, unspectacular and not particularly memorable. It has a very laughs in the very broad way that Hughes will often write and people like Candy and Aykroyd will deliver &#150; I didn't laugh out loud very many times (if at all) but it has an amusing air to it that served its purpose as the sort of film you put on in the background as opposed to intently watch. It does just what you expect it to do without any real flair and I found it passable but no more than that.The cast reflect this mood and they turn in performances that are nothing special and pretty much what they normally do. Candy does his 'jolly fat man' thing without really being given much more than that to do. He is OK but you can see he is trying hard without having any really funny material to work with. Likewise Aykroyd plays his 'brash relation' right out of the cliché playbook and, again, you can see that he doesn't have much to work with in the comedy stakes. Faracy is OK and Annette Bening is a surprise find in a film like this. The kids are very much par for the course for a John Hughes film and they kind of damage the film as they provide very little humour but Young specifically is lumbered with a romance subplot that is lame and dull.Overall this passes as background music cinema &#150; the sort of film that you can have on while doing the ironing and it won't get in the way or require you to think. It is amusing but rarely laugh out loud funny and it bares all the formulaic weaknesses of Hughes without having any of the strengths that he has shown he can have. A most unmemorable experience.  "}]