[{"Title":"So what if it's a cliche","Date":"11 July 2003","Score":"35 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  It's a fun action-comedy and that's that!  You can make all the arguments you want.  This is definitely not for the discerning viewer.  Maybe I'm just easily satisfied by the buddy cop genre.  Plus, I love Arnold Schwarzenegger's movies, in general.  His action scenes are always fun to watch, and he always seems to come up with great one-liners.  In this case, he spouts out a few dryly humorous lines as his stonefaced Russian character.  Jim Belushi provides most of the laughs, though, as his unorthodox partner.  They both do a good job, though Arnold's Russian accent seems quite strained.  Then again, as the film heats up, you really don't pay attention to details like that.  Also look out for the beautiful Gena Gershon in an early performance.  Those in the mood for Henry V should definitely steer clear.  Those in the mood for mindless buddy cop fluff that'll keep you excited and keep you laughing should check this movie out. My score  7 (out of 10) "},{"Title":"A buddy film that works and works well","Date":"12 March 2003","Score":"25 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Red Heat is a surprisingly good movie. Arnold Schwarzenegger and James Belushi have good chemistry in this Russian cop/cop buddy film. In this film at least it makes sense for Arnie to have an accent. There is some good lines and the back and forth between these two is pretty funny sometimes. When Jim Belushi plays a cop he puts on this irreverant I don't like the rules but I get things done style. It is this style combined with Arnold's complete objective at all costs style that makes this film work. The footage that was shot in Red Square is breathtaking, and overall the movie manages to take a basic plot and make it entertaining. On a side note, the holdout gun used by the villian (Ed O'Ross) in the movie is pretty damn cool if you're into that kind of thing. Bottom Line This is worth getting, or you can rent it every once and awhile if you can only take Arnold for so long. "},{"Title":"Name? Danko. You're Welcome!","Date":"25 April 2007","Score":"19 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" A highly entertaining film that stars Anrold Schwarzanagger as tough and dutiful Russian cop Ivan Danko and James Belushi as the undisciplined passionate American cop Art Ridzik. Ed O'Ross is great as the evil drug running Viktor Rosta who escapes to America after Danko busts him in Russia. Danko follows Rosta to America where Commander Lou Donnelly(The late Peter Boyle) assigns Ridzik and his partner Sergeant Gallagher(Richard Bright) to help Danko out with his investigation. When Gallagher is killed by Rosta and his gang, Ridzik flies into a rage and decides to do things Danko's way-Shoot first and think later. With stalwart supporting performances from O'Ross, Boyle, and a younger Laurence Fishburne, and fine directing from Walter Hill, Red Heat is definitely recommended for all Arnie or Belushi fans. A previous comment stated that there were no good 1-liners in this film. That statement is incorrect. It's just that Arnold played the straight man, setting up Jim Belushi for the great lines. 9/10 "},{"Title":"These guys eat too much red meat!","Date":"24 March 2011","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Walter Hill is a director known for his tough guy action movies (The Warriors, Extreme Prejudice, Southern Comfort) and in the early 80s he scored big with 48 Hours, a story of mis-matched partners working together to catch the bad guys. He repeated that formula again in 1988 with Red Heat, though it had become a regular cliché by this point.Ivan Danko is a no-nonsense Soviet cop sent to Chicago to extradite a notorious Russian criminal back to Communist soil. While in America he is teamed-up with easy-going Detective Art Ridzik as they jump over new hurdles and suffer multiple setbacks. As an action comedy it offers a fare amount (but just not enough) of laughs and thrills. Big Arn is amusing a the brick-faced Danko and Belushi (in his first of three appearances in Arnie movies) is likable enough. Peter Boyle and a young Laurence Fishburne help appear in smaller roles as Ridzik's cynical superiors, but are not given much else to do. Gina Gershon (yum yum) shows up as a damsel in distress, but extends the plot without deepening it. Even James Horner's score is kind of middle-ground, neither good nor terrible.There's no real problem or fault with Red Heat except that is just doesn't offer an exhilarating amount of what it sets up. It's so straight-forward and lacking in mystery and intrigue when it could so easily have written in. A bit of a missed-opportunity, but certainly worth watching and owning for action and Arnie fans. "},{"Title":"Good Movie","Date":"26 March 2008","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I really liked this movie. I have a thing for late 80's action flicks like Beverly Hills Cop or 48 hrs. I thought this was pretty good movie. One of the members on here said Belushi's character was the worst part of the movie. I thought Belushi was pretty good and comedic. I love the dialogue in the movie between Danko and Ridzik at the coffee shop. Overall I would definitely recommend this movie. I also find the content to be appealing. Russian Mob and drug smuggling. I also thought the bad guy Viktor was a really cool part played by Ed O'Ross who also plays Dutch Schultz right hand man in Hoodlum which is not nearly as good as Red Heat. "},{"Title":"Solid action movie","Date":"21 February 2003","Score":"13 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Walter Hill knows how to direct action movies, and he does'nt let up with this solid thriller.  Arnie and Jim Belushi take on a Russian drug dealer(Ed O'Ross) who is now working with some gangtas in Chicago.  The shootout's are good and the ending bus chase is cool and theres some good dialogue. The only problem is Arnie's character is too much like the Terminator and there are no one-liners like in his other films.  But besides that, this is a solid action movie and I recommend it highly.  4/5  "},{"Title":"I don't want this guy rolling through town like the Red Army","Date":"14 November 2006","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" **SPOILERS** Filmed in Moscow USSR, the first US movie even filmed in what's now the former Soviet Union, and Chicago USA Red Heat is a lot more then the usual buddy/cops movies of those days. Where there were two cops totally incompatible with each other having, or being forced, to work together. The movie is more like a clash of political philosophies, Capitalism Vrs Communism, then anything else.We get to see Moscow police captain Ivan Danko, Governor Arnold Schwarzennegger, flex his bulging muscles when he goes into a bath-house looking for a gang of Georgain drug dealers. In no time at all Danko turns he entire place into a wild and crazy free for all taking out a number of muscle men, in and out of he bath-house. Danko gets the information that he was looking for on where the gang leader Victor Rosta, Ed O'Ross,is to be found; in the Durzhba Café in the little Georgia section of Moscow.Later Danko and his partner Yuri Ogarkov,Oleg Vidov, confronts the Georgian drug dealers and their boss Rosta where there a a wild shootout where Yuri is killed and Rosta and a number of is gang escapes. It's later when the Moscow PD gets the news that Rosta was arrested, for a minor traffic violation, in of all places Chicago that Danko is sent to the United States to expedite him back to the Soviet Union. Danko is told by his superiors not to mentions a word to the US and Chicago law enforcement officials to what Rosta is wanted for. The Soviet leaders don't want it to get out that they, like the US, have a serious and home grown drug problem.Danko looking stiff an a bit uncomfortable at the Chicago O'Hare Airport is assigned Chicago Det. Art Ridzik, James Belushi,to show him around the city until he finally gets all the papers in order to take Rosta back to the USSR. Everything goes according to plan until Rosta is rescued, with Danko almost losing his life in the shooting, by this notorious black Chicago drug gang called the Shaveheads whom Rosta was working with. The movie then really starts to pick up with Danko now not only in trouble with the Chicago PD, for his very un-Maranda-like police tactics, but also with his Soviet police superiors for letting Rosta get away.Top rate police action thriller with Danko and Ridzik turning the city of Chicago upside down in trying to find the fugitive Rosta who's involved in a major drug deal, with the Shaveheads, that's about to go down at a city bus depot. Danko shows that he's as mentally smart as he's physically powerful by him figuring out what Rosta & Co are up to by renting Rosta's former hotel room #302, knowing that he left evidence of his drug dealings there. Danko wisely putting down on the hotel register a wrong number #303 to trick Rosa and his boys who later blast into room #303 thinking that Danko was there and ending up getting wasted by him in the resulting shootout.Rosta turns out to be as ruthless and deceptive as he ever was back in the Soviet Union. Double-crossing his allies the Shaveheads by taking the money he was to give them for the drugs that they were to supply him with. Rosta even having his American wife, that he paid $10,000.00 to marry him so he can be a US citizen, part-time aerobics instructor and full-time hooker Cat Manzetti, Gina Gershon, murdered together with one of his Georgian Confederates after he felt that they were no longer of any use to him.Danko now completely out of control with Det. Ridzik now fully supporting him, Ridzik by now saw that Danko's way of doing things was far better then that of the Chicago PD, has it out with Rosta in a mad and dangerous bus chase and demolition derby game. This wild and insane action almost causes as much damage to the city of Chicago as the great fire of 1871 did with Rosta finally being put down and out in a High Noon western style shootout. Just as good, if not better, as most of Arnold's more popular films it's in Red Heat that he finally puts it all together not just in the actions sequences but in his comical interacting with his American police partner James Belushi playing Det. Ridzik. With all the shooting and destruction over and Danko about to fly back home to Moscow he, it's traditional among departing friends he tells him, hand over his very expensive-looking watch to Ridzik who gladly give him his thinking that he got the best of the bargain. It turns out that Danko had a cheap $20.00 East-German made watch when Ridzik in exchange gave him and expensive $1,000.00 US/Swiss made one! The anti-capitalistic Soviet Ivan Danko learned how to be a capitalist a lot faster and better then the pro-capitalistic American Art Ridzik did. "},{"Title":"Marx all the right buddy-cop movie boxes.","Date":"11 August 2009","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Man-mountain Ah-nuld Schwarzenegger plays a Russian cop (Captain Danko) sent to Chicago to track down and deal with a nefarious drug dealer (played by Ed O'Ross who is all sweaty, unshaven bad guy). It's personal, it's gonna get ballistic and it's all made more entertaining by the fact that he's paired up with James Belushi back when James Belushi was still pretty funny.Ahhhhh, it's easy to slip on those glasses with the slightly rose tint and praise this as a modern action classic the way they used to make 'em. And the fact is . . . . . . it IS.The set-up is simplicity itself, there aren't really any twists and turns to tax your brain, Walter Hill directs the action assuredly and all the fun is to be had from watching Ah-nuld and Belushi wreak havoc as they try to bring the bad guys to task.Throw in a supporting cast that includes Peter Boyle as the standard put-upon boss, Larry Fishburne (before he was Lawrence), Gina Gershon and the magnificent Brion James (R.I.P) in a small but memorable scene and you have guaranteed good times for those wanting a testosterone-fuelled action movie with some amusing lines thrown in every so often.Not the funniest comedy or the best action movie, not even the best movie featuring either of the leads, but undemanding fun from the late 80s with rampant carnage that will inevitably lead to a considerable amount of paperwork (ref Hot Fuzz, oh yes).See this if you like Hot Fuzz, Lethal Weapon 3, Commando. "},{"Title":"Good For What It Is","Date":"22 January 2005","Score":"18 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" RED HEAT is yet another of those buddy movies from the 1980s . Cops set up a sting , the bad guy kills a cop during an escape , turns out that the dead cop is the hero's best buddy and he's going to stop at nothing to get the bad guy with all this happening in the first 15 minutes of the movie . If all this sounds similar to 48 HOURS that's possibly because it was directed and co written by Walter Hill who also directed and co wrote the aforementioned movie . It might not be original in structure but it's certainly entertaining due in no small part of the two protagonists - Serious communist cop from the Ukraine , wise cracking Chicago cop - playing off each other in a story that could have so often become predictable and boring due to its familiar plot . It's hardly groundbreaking in concept but when a film made in 1988 starts hinting that gangsters from the Soviet Union will be taking charge of much of the black market in drugs , this alone gives it an edge missing in so many of its contemporaries "},{"Title":"Typical 80's buddy cop film that misses more than hits","Date":"13 July 2007","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" My mom bought Red Heat on DVD a few weeks ago and she had mentioned how much she loved the movie to me and that I should check it out. I had an hour and a half to waste last night so I figured I would give the movie a shot and I'm wondering why my mom is so in love with this film like it was the best film of the 80's. But I guess everyone has their different tastes. See, I had absolutely no problem with Arnold, he did everything he was supposed to do, but it was his chemistry with Belushi, it didn't really work since Belushi is more annoying than funny. Belushi just ruined the chemistry they could have had to make this a memorable buddy cop film.Ivan is from Russia, he goes to Chicago, Illinois to find a villain who is slowly turning Russia into the next Miami. Well, Ivan must work with Art Ridzik, a cop from Chicago, when the villain gets away. Together they must find out how to capture him, but Art is going to have a hard time with the iron jawed soldier who likes to do things his own way. Not to mention Ivan with Art who has to stick by the American book of police brutality.Red Heat isn't a bad movie, it was cool seeing one of Gina Gershon's first roles in film, she actually did a decent job in Red Heat; it wasn't a surprise that she made it big afterwards. Arnold did a good job as well, I loved how monotone his lines were, he was great. But it was Belushi who just killed it for me, no offense to Jim, but he's not John, I recommend that he just stays away from comedies.5/10 "}{"Title":"That was a f*cking Chicago landmark. Decent enough 80's action thriller.","Date":"1 July 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Red Heat starts in Russia where drug baron Viktor 'Rosta' Rostavili (Ed O'Ross) is busted by cop Captain Ivan Danko (Arnold Schwarzenegger) but he manages to escape shooting & killing Danko's partner & friend Yuri (Oleg Vidow), on the run Viktor then flees to Chicago & starts to set up a huge drug deal with a local gang but is arrested on a minor traffic charge. Russia wants Viktor back & sends Captain Danko to Chicago to take custody of Viktor & escort him back home, however Viktor's people manage to bust him out in a shoot-out in which Chicago cop Detective Sergeant Tom Gallagher (Richard Bright) is killed. With the Russian's humiliated, a Chicago cop killed & Viktor free again Captain Danko teams up with Gallager's partner Art Ridzik (James Belushi) to bring Viktor to justice...Co-written, co-produced & directed by Walter Hill this buddy buddy mismatched cop action thriller is not too dissimilar to his earlier film 48 Hrs. (1982), as an overblown late 80's Hollywood action film Red Heat is watchable & entertaining but not outstanding. I think that if you were to ask anyone to name one Schwarzenegger film from the 80's nobody would say Red Heat, this is minor Arnie that doesn't particularly distinguish itself but is still a decent watch all the same. The script is a fairly routine rehash of the genre clichés, the two opposing character's who have to overcome a personality clash & other differences to take down some bad guy, one goes by the book while the other is a loose cannon on the edge cop who cracks lots of one-liners, there's the blatant disregard for credibility as a police commander actually lets this Russian & one of his cops run around with guns, there's either an action scene or shoot-out at regular intervals to take your mind off the wobbly story that is rather predictable & feels wholly routine & the inevitable ending where the two mismatched partners actually realise they can work together & develop a new found respect for each other despite their differences. To be fair for what it is & what it sets out to do, basically be an entertaining buddy buddy mismatched cop action thriller, Red Heat passes the time harmlessly enough & if it wasn't for the fact that it does feel a little generic it would probably be quite highly thought of amongst 80's action film junkies. The dialogue is quite snappy & amusing at times especially Belushi's foul mouthed wise cracking cop. There's nothing wrong with Red Heat as it were but at the same time it's not a film that really stands out, still perfectly watchable though.Director Hill does alright, the production team was actually refused permission to film is Russia although they sneaked Arnie in & filmed him in Red Square while no-one was looking... The action scenes are well shot & edited, you can clearly see what's going on & there's none of that modern shaky hand-held camera movement or ultra quick cut editing which makes it impossible to see what's going on. This is the way an action film should be shot. Most of the set-pieces consist of shoot-outs & fights until the end when there's a pretty cool bus chase through Chicago some of which was later edited into the rubbish killer Cockroach film They Crawl (2001). Probably one of the few big budget Hollywood action flicks where nothing explodes or gets blown up. The film is dedicated to experienced stunt coordinator Bennie Dobbins who died on set on February 5th 1988 in Vienna while staging the opening scene of the fight in the snow. I must admit that I actually found the opening titles really annoying & the way that the 'R's & 'N's in people's names were reversed, I don't know why I just found it highly irritating to read. Also one has to mention the over-the-top sound effects which can sound really silly at times, just check out the sound effects at the start as Arnie beats the guy up in the snow to hear what I mean.Technically the film is good, it has good production values & is well made. The cast is pretty good, Arnie is rather wooden, Belushi is fun, Gina Gershon is alright in a small role, Ed O'Ross makes for a good villain although I'm not sure about his accent while Laurence Fishburne does OK in an early role before he hit the big time with The Matrix trilogy.Red Heat is a film that you can't really say much about, it's a fairly generic buddy buddy mismatched cop action thriller although taken for what it is it's above average for the genre. I liked it & I am sure most action fans will too. "},{"Title":"From the golden period of Schwarzenegger","Date":"12 December 2009","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The movie is a very good and stylish action, but such movies are not appreciated in comparison with the recent action movies which is pretty strange. For example, even the rating of awful Transporter 3 is higher than Red Heat. You probably know that critics hate Schwarzenegger, Stallone and Van Damme, also they hate action genre probably, so according to them, Schwarzenegger is an untalented muscle mass who can impress only children and his movies are shame. Schwarzenegger is not a Jack Lemmon or Sean Penn or Brad Pitt, but he has a pulling power and is great acting necessary for action movies? I ask this already asked question. By the way, I think that his performance in The Terminator 2 was outstanding. And as an action star, he is much better than new action stars. He made very bad movies yes, but everyone does that, doesn't? One of the criticisms of the critics is that he kills people, so the movie supports individual justice (killing criminals instead of imprisoning etc.) Well, most of action movies are like that, but they do not object, when it comes Tarantino movies or David Cronenberg movies like A History of Violence. Red Heat does not include a lot of action scenes, or action scenes are not 'big', but it is very stylish thanks to Walter Hill, one of my all time favorite directors and fun. There is a key scene, when I was a child, I used to become Arnold Schwarzenegger and do what he does in the scene. He was one of my childhood heroes. Those days and his films are pleasant memories for me. Returning to Red Heat, it is from Schwarzenegger's golden period. Today, they cannot make action movies like Red Heat. "},{"Title":"Well done for a cop-buddy action film","Date":"22 April 2003","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie was excellent for it's kind.  Two good guys were thrown together in a dangerous situation of good vs. evil.  The film's title Red Heat refers to a war between cops and druglord's in the former USSR and also Chicago.  Arnold of course played the tough guy character and Jim plays the comedy relief.  My favorite movie of it's kind besides Bad Boys. I highly recommend it if you're a fan of this type of film. "},{"Title":"Minor cult classic in Russia, I'm lead to believe","Date":"7 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Red Heat, starring Arnold Sir Accents-a-lot Schwarzenegger, is a peculiar film on many levels. Released just a year before the fall of the Soviet Union, it stars a famous American actor with Austrian origins as a tough Russian cop traveling to USA in order to fetch a Soviet criminal that has escaped there. Just, think about that for a moment. Arnold as a Soviet cop, trying to do a Russian accent. If that doesn't sell the movie to you, nothing will.But, does it work? Well, in a word, yes. It follows the usual Schwarzenegger formula in that there's a lot of action, one-liners, muscular men going mano-a-mano, cheesy 80s music and wanton destruction of civic property. It's not the best movie Arnold has ever done, but it is a good example of his typical ware.The side characters are also a lot of fun, and I do like that the script paints Arnold as a good guy, making this one of the few Cold War era Hollywood films where the main actor is both a Soviet and the good guy. There's no snark aimed at his nation. There are of course jokes about him being from the Soviet Union, but just as many jokes are played at the expense of the Americans, and they're never mean-spirited or trying to put the two nations against one another.All in all Red Heat is a classic 80s action film with some surprising elements that elevate it above its peers. Worth a watch for all action fans. "},{"Title":"Somewhat subdued when compared to a lot of Arnie action films, but it isn't bad","Date":"22 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This has never been one of my favorite Arnold films. I own it on DVD, because I am such a huge a fan of Arnold's, but it has never thrilled me like a lot of Arnold films do. Don't get me wrong. It is certainly enjoyable at times, the chemistry between Arnold & Belushi is actually quite decent, I just don't think it has anywhere near the impact to be hailed as one of Arnold's best films. There is plenty of humor, especially from the sarcastic, James Belushil, it also throws in plenty of bang for your buck. If you're looking for loud explosions and constant action, prepare to be a little bit disappointed. As I said, it has enough action to get the bang for your buck, but it isn't as big as you might think. The finale is excellent with Arnold causing chaos by driving a bus. Weirdly enough, my favorite might just be the one near the beginning of the film. There is a hilarious fight scene where Arnie tussles with a Russian in the snow, half-naked (!) It also has plenty of stereotyping, clichés galore and a plethora of violence, mostly from gunshot wounds. It has good use of locations (They actually did shoot in Russia a bit), so the cinematography is fantastic. Arnold isn't at his best here, but it's Arnold, so he is still fun. I just felt he was a tad limited with his Russian character. There is only so many times you can stare stoically at someone before the amusement wears off. He is so charismatic that he manages to make the part work, but I don't consider it one of his best roles. He does look badass no-selling a hot rock in his hand, though. He even punches someone with it, when the rock is still in his hand! James Belushi plays off Arnold very well. He is often very funny and enjoyable to watch. I don't get why he tends to get a lot of hate. I think he's hilarious. He had some great lines in this one. Peter Boyle is good in his gruff role. Ed O'Ross is perennially angry in his part and has a crummy accent to boot. I thought he was OK at best. Laurence Fishburne is good in an early role, only without a stomach full of cheeseburgers. Gina Gershon looks sexy in workout gear and plays her role well. Final Thoughts I enjoy this movie to a certain extent. It is certainly fairly entertaining at junctures, just not very memorable. Arnold and Belushi will make it worth your while, then forget about it after you're through with it. It's that kind of movie5.7/10 "},{"Title":"what a real waste of a lot of potential!","Date":"6 May 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Don't get me wrong, I'm a huge fan of Walter Hill. He basically paralleled John Carpenter in terms of years of his career in which he could do no wrong, and in the mid-80's he started to seriously falter.RED HEAT is a solid 80's action movie complete with all the usual high-octane action sequences, greasy villain, one-liners, degradation of women, and homo-erotic deification of the male form. There's even a good chunk of pre-Clintonian P.C. casting choices in making the villain's henchmen largely minorities with terrible aim while our two Caucasian leads make quick and easy work of them. This comes from another, more innocent time, when the Iron Curtain weighed heavily on our fears and movie-goers lived under the real threat of a man-made Armageddon breaking out any minute. It was from this that a few Glasnost-era films emerged to soften Russia's image, and unsurprisingly it was up to Arnie to handle the action side of things.Unfortunately this just doesn't hold up to most of the rest of his 80's canon, including the weak retreads RED SONJA, CONAN THE DESTOYER, and the forgettable RAW DEAL. His character is largely silent, standoffish, and unlikeable, and the action just isn't there with too low of a corpse count and film's climax feeling too copied from 48 HRS. The comedy pairing of him and Jim Belushi falls flat too - the banter isn't particularly witty and the plot gets too muddled with the frequent random appearances of Gina Gershon's confused and cliché'd character and over-reliance on a MacGuffin locker key.However, the film is easily digestible to fans of any 80's action with a brisk pace, solid scoring from James Horner, and the casting aside from Arnie (whose accent is distractingly horrible) is simply delicious. Look fast for Bondarchuk alum Oleg Vidov as Arnold's partner at the start of the film, plus Brion James as a characteristically hostile suspect, and Pruitt Taylor Vince as a twitchy hotel manager. "},{"Title":"Good!","Date":"29 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" It's a fun action-comedy and that's that! You can make all the arguments you want. This is definitely not for the discerning viewer. Maybe I'm just easily satisfied by the buddy cop genre. Plus, I love Arnold Schwarzenegger's movies, in general. His action scenes are always fun to watch, and he always seems to come up with great one-liners. In this case, he spouts out a few dryly humorous lines as his stonefaced Russian character. Jim Belushi provides most of the laughs, though, as his unorthodox partner. They both do a good job, though Arnold's Russian accent seems quite strained. Then again, as the film heats up, you really don't pay attention to details like that. Also look out for the beautiful Gena Gershon in an early performance. Those in the mood for Henry V should definitely steer clear. Those in the mood for mindless buddy cop fluff that'll keep you excited and keep you laughing should check this movie out. "},{"Title":"Marginally amusing but forgettable cop flick","Date":"13 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  While an entertaining buddy-cop flick, Red Heat doesn't really have the luster or charm to keep you coming back for more as other similar films are able to do.Red Heat has the usual mish-mash of action scenes sprinkled with the expected one-liners. The cold war aspect is the basis for the majority of the humor between Schwarzenegger and Belushi. The action scenes while acceptable, just don't do enough to keep the viewer satisfied for the full duration. In addition, the majority of the humor just doesn't work. Schwarzenegger and Belushi just don't have the charm of Murphy and Nolte in 48 HRS, Tucker and Chan in Rush Hour and really, most other films of this genre. In terms of the acting, Schwarzenegger just seems too mechanical and awkward in most of his scenes, and while Belushi is more convincing, he tends to overact in some sections.Overall, it's a standard fare for some light-hearted entertainment, but quickly forgotten. Not one of Schwarzenegger's better efforts.I give it 3.5/10.  "},{"Title":"Average Arnold film","Date":"27 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Walter Hills Read Heat is quite similar to his earlier hit 48 hrs, sadly its not quite as good. Its not bad though, Swarzenegger and Belushi make quite a good pairing and the action is as good as you would expect from director Hill. Arnie and James have some funny lines and scenes together. I loved this when it first came out, but its not up to the standard of some of Arnolds other 80's films like The Terminator and Predator, it is however superior to The Running Man and Raw Deal. Arnolds dead pan delivery makes his performance as close to The Terminator as its possible to be. James Belushi is quite a good actor but seems to live in the shadow of his late, great brother John. His most famous film outwith this one is probably K-9, which actually is terrible. He is funny in a small role in Trading Places though. The action scenes are pretty over the top in Red Heat especially the opening scene where Arnie has a fight which starts in a sauna and ends up in the snow. Entertaining stuff, look out for Laurence Fishbourne of The Matrix fame in a earlyish role. ***6/10*** "},{"Title":"I ain't tellin ya' s***! (the late Brion James as Streak, yelling at Arnie)","Date":"1 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Oh, how I love mindless action! Don't know why but I've always liked Arnold. I think that is because he doesn't take himself too seriously, unlike Van Damme (whose movies are now 'get drunk with pals and make fun of it' fare, if anything) and Steven Seagal, who shouldn't be allowed to be on any screen. ever. Besides, Arnie's had his share of triumphs. Hook him up with a director who knows what he's doin' and it might turn out just fine. Milius's Conan The Barbarian, Cameron's Terminator, Terminator 2 and True Lies, McTiernan's Predator, Verhoeven's Total Recall and this years' Terminator 3. All good stuff. Hell, I liked The Running Man too and went to see his recent movies, The Sixth Day (really bad), End Of Days (liked it at the time) and the unintentionally funny Collateral Damage ('You vant collateral damage?!' and then he smashes up a room with a baseball-bat. priceless). I hope that, despite him running for governor of California, he's got time to do True Lies 2 (yeah, I want that), King Conan Crown Of Iron, Crusades and, what the hell, that Westworld remake. And maybe they can scoop up that lost Doc Savage flick and, oh. don't forget a fourth Terminator! His up 'n coming cameos in Around The World In 80 Days and The Rundown won't do him any harm either.SPOILERS - not that it matters.But anyway, on to Walter Hill's Red Heat. A movie that ain't too good a flick. But it is fun. Hell, this is lots of fun. I knew what I was in for at the beginning when Arnie confronts some guys in what appears to be testosterone heaven. All these bodybuildin' guys lifting weights while naked chicks swim around in baths. Fun times! So Arnie starts fighting and he and two other fellows end up outside in the snow. What follows is the most idiotic, pre-credits fight I've ever seen with sound effects so exaggerated it would make Tony Soprano cringe. I was in stitches. I love that kind o' crap! From there on the plot involves an evil Russian drug lord (played by Ed O' Ross - Six Feet Under's Nikolai) and Arnie tracking him down in Chicago with a little help from the local cops. James Belushi is assigned to be his partner and guess what, the two don't get along. Peter Boyle is wasted as the chief o' police and Laurence 'here Larry' Fishburne isn't exactly 'Morpheusing' his way through the movie either. Still, I had a blast. That's it. Gina Gershon pops up but all she does is scream and say `I got nothing to do with any of this' a lot. Still. one hot chick and a fine actress (The Insider anyone?). The movie ends with a bus chase and a way too short shoot-out but none o' that really matters. I was hooked the moment Arnie enters a sleazy hotel to stay there. He gets up to the desk only to find Pruitt Taylor Vince there (Natural Born Killers, Wild At Heart. the 'weird eyes guy' - good actor). Arnie checks in, goes up to his room and slips a few coins in the television. What comes on is porn. Arnie looks at it without any form of emotion and then says in his trademark voice (with slight Russian accent) `Capitalism'. I'm tellin' ya' folks, I was laughing so hard I thought I was gonna burst.This movie doesn't matter, this movie doesn't care. It's one giant plot hole and performances are non-existent. James Horner's overly dramatic and clearly eighties influenced score only adds to the stupidity and by the time that end credits Russian choral suite kicks in, I was sittin' there with a giant goofy grin. It is hilarious. If you're in the mood for this, grab a beer, a pack o' chips, call some friends and you'll have a great time.Call me,Drexl "}{"Title":"Schwarzenegger and Belushi 'Heat' things up.","Date":"21 June 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" My Take An amusing cop-buddy action movie with good laughs, fine action. Cop-buddy action films are an old ball-and-chain, but they all rely on how they are delivered. In basis of delivery, Walter Hill's RED HEAT is an enjoyable piece of entertainment. Absurd, violent, over-the-top and downright entertaining, this is a fun (and funny) thriller playing the old cop-buddy formula so good, the film is very fun even if it's been used before, whether good (LETHAL WEAPON) or bad (THE PRESIDIO). RED HEAT stands out as one of the good ones.Arnold Schwarzenegger is hilarious as he wears a furry hat as a soviet police officer sent to America to track down a Russian drug lord (Ed O'Ross), who is also responsible for the death of his partner. He is then partnered to a wacky Chicago cop named Art Ridzik (Jim Belushi) in search of the drug tycoon and his thugs in Chicago. Although dark and violent, director Hill manages to inject as much humor as possible. Schwarzenegger is a weak actor, but he's funny in this film. Belushi is a hoot as the crazy police partner.The action is impressive, from car chases, fast-paced shootouts and even trains crashing on buses. But it's the humor that really gets to you more here, and there's a lot. Since buddy-cop movies are pretty common 80's attraction, this one is delivered with style and a whole lot of wit.Rating *** out of 5. "},{"Title":"Arnold and James's Lethal Weapon/Tango & Cash/Tough Guys/Rush Hour, etc.","Date":"22 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Or one of those odd couple cop movies, anyway. I remember seeing Red Heat when I was a kid and I didn't really like it, but I think I was just too young to appreciate a movie where Arnold plays anything other than the Terminator or Douglas Quaid.  In Red Heat, he stars alongside James Belushi, who is so small, iconographically, in a movie with Arnold that you almost forget he's in it at all. Arnold plays the part of Russian supercop Ivan Danko, a role that he fits perfectly because of his size, his looks, and his accent. Audiences in Russia may notice that his accent is not quite Russian, but it fits well enough for his purposes. Where Belushi is concerned, the movie is more comedy than action, since every single scene he appears in is tailored to allow for some pert one-liners. He's not quite the comedian his brother was, but I challenge anyone not to get a laugh out of the scene where he flirts with a woman passing by in the airport while he's waiting for Captain Danko to arrive from Russia (`Good thinkin'!'). The plot is centered on Danko's assignment to travel to America and bring back Viktor Rosta, who is wanted in Russia for a whole string of offenses, and the catch is that he's supposed to do it without letting anyone know why the guy is wanted. He explains to Sgt. Ridzik (Belushi) later in the film, saying something about how Russia does not like to hang it's dirty laundry out in public. There are some interesting comparisons between Soviet and American governments, particularly communism there vs. capitalism here. My favorite was when Danko checks into a hotel and turns on the TV and when he sees that the first thing he gets is the porn channel, he shakes his head and says, `Capitalism.'Not all of the comparisons are this low-brow, however. I actually think that some of the best parts about the movie are where America and Russia and seriously compared. The odd cop couple was not a new concept when Red Heat was released, but it has a simple story that is fleshed out into a superior action film and features one of Arnold's better performances. I guess he can never get away from the stolidity with which he delivers his lines, but in this case it fits his character perfectly and provides a new blend of comic relief, although one that was almost re-created, and improved, a few years later in the Terminator movies. I hope that Danko and Ridzik are not meant to represent Russia and America, respectively, because if so, we look like a bunch of belligerent, foul-mouthed goofballs, hitting on every woman in sight. More likely, the two characters are probably made so different to set up so many situations in which their differences make people laugh. That's important in a movie like this, which is just as much a comedy as an action film, if not more. And given that there is a chicken-fight near the end of the film that is fought using tour buses, that's saying a lot.  "},{"Title":"Dumb fun!","Date":"2 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" RED HEAT is nothing but a good, fun cop/buddy movie. They don't make them like this anymore. The amazing thing about this movie is that there's chemistry between Ah-nold and James Belushi's less talented younger brother. They're no Chris Rock and Jackie Chan but there is some witty banter between them. It mostly works because Ah-nold dead pans each and every single piece of dialogue he's given. This was before Ah-nold started trying to act.  "},{"Title":"when walter hill was king of the action flicks","Date":"15 November 2007","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" top 80's buddy movie with arnie and belushi directored by the great walter hill who doesn't need more than 2hrs to tell a story.this is punchy and to the point. the action fast hard and real, like walters 48hrs. it was arnies first movie out side of sci-fi / fantasy so playing Russian KGB was the obvious choose. belushi also had this first action flick and pulled of it well.this is a true guys flick from the late 80's it was not a big hit in the cinemas but was huge on video made belushi a big video star. he did not have much success in cinema but in oz he ruled the video shelf in the late 80,s. and we all no what happened to arnie. as for walter hill he never had another hit after another 48hrs shame but he must of made a killing from producing those alien flicks.it may not be the best buddy movie out there but not to be missed either. "},{"Title":"functional cop movie","Date":"10 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Moscow Police Captain Ivan Danko (Arnold Schwarzenegger) loses his partner while trying to take down drug lord Viktor Rosta. Viktor escapes to America. Later, he is captured in Chicago and Ivan arrives to extradite him. Viktor is out to avenge his brother killed by Ivan. Det. Sgt. Art Ridzik (James Belushi) is forced to partner with the Russian after Viktor escapes with the help of his crew.This Walter Hill film is a functional buddy cop movie. The comedy isn't that great. Arnie is a solid Russian but he's not that funny in this role. Belushi is a jokey loud-mouth. They are lots of old style gun action. This is nothing special although Arnie is pretty good as a robotic communist. I'm not sure that's a surprise. "},{"Title":"A Fun Buddy-Cop Flick!","Date":"15 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" 'Red Heat' is non-stop entertainment, that sums up as A Fun Buddy-Cop Flick! Its pure old-school & its so seamlessly true to its genre, that I couldn't help but enjoy myself.'Red Heat' Synopsis A tough Russian policeman is forced to partner up with a cocky Chicago police detective when he is sent to Chicago to apprehend a Georgian drug lord who killed his partner and fled the country.'Red Heat' is crisp, explosive & engrossing. The camaraderie between its protagonists is simply fantastic, while the Writing is sharp enough to hold your attention. The Action-Sequences are all-out, no-holds-barred, while Walter Hill, Harry Kleiner & Troy Kennedy Martin's Screenplay blends action with comedy, admirably. Hill's Direction is rustic, adapting properly to the film's mood. Matthew F. Leonetti's Cinematography captures the constant violence, distinctively. The Editing is crisply done. James Horner's Score is perfect.Performance-Wise Arnold Schwarzenegger & James Belushi are in great form. Arnie is buff than ever & kicks ass, while Belushi contributes to the film's funniest & best scenes. And as I mentioned earlier, The camaraderie between the two, is fantastic. Ed O'Ross is tremendously wicked. Gina Gershon looks gorgeous & delivers a committed performance. Larry Fishburne is passable. The Late/Great Peter Boyle shines.On the whole, 'Red Heat' is vintage entertainment! "},{"Title":"The heat is off.","Date":"25 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Tough Russian cop Captain Ivan Danko (Arnold Schwarzenegger) is sent to America to capture Georgian criminal Viktor Rostavili (Ed O'Ross), who is in Chicago master-minding a massive international drugs operation. Unaccustomed to U.S. police procedure, the fish-out-of-water cop employs no-nonsense, Soviet-style law enforcement to get his job done, much to the dismay of brash American detective Art Ridzik (James Belushi), with whom he has been partnered.The problem with this film is that it doesn't live up to its title instead of a red hot action flick that burns up the screen with intense ballistic gunfights and spectacular scenes of destruction and chaos, we get a rather tepid buddy cop movie, heavy on the humour and frustratingly light on the carnage. This mightn't have been so bad if the comedy had worked well, or if there had at least been some kind of chemistry between the leads, but the predictable script rarely delivers decent laughs and James Belushi makes for an uncharismatic foil to Arnie's efficient, stoic bad-ass.When the action does kick in, it's all too brief and staged with surprisingly little style or imagination by director Walter Hill. The film's closing action scene, which sees Danko and Viktor careering through Chicago in buses, lacks the much needed wow factor, feeling more like a routine mid-film moment rather than a satisfyingly climactic finalé. All told, Red Heat is far from Arnie's best and not a patch on Lethal Weapon, the previous year's buddy cop blockbuster. "},{"Title":"Routine buddy cop action comedy with Arnold","Date":"26 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Red heat is somewhere in the middle when it comes to Schwarzenegger movies. It 's not one of his greatest movies but it's definitely far from being terrible. If you like action comedies , you'll like this one. It's nothing new , but the formula works.Red heat was made in the age of glasnost and perestroika . That explains the idea of combining a Russian cop with an American one. It's a tribute to the increasing spirit of détente between East and West. It also could be a reason why the movie was successful at the box office , while Rambo 3 failed (Stallone didn't noticed that fighting Russians isn't cool anymore). Red Heat became the first American film for which permission was granted by the Soviet authorities to shoot in Red Square itself.Arnold Schwarzenegger plays the part of Russian supercop Ivan Danko. He fits the role perfectly , because of his size and looks. Even his accent works , although it does sound more German than Slavic. Arnold is stoic , quiet and violent. He is simply believable. His partner in this movie is Polish American cop Art Ridzik played by Jim Belushi. Belushi is likable enough as the foul mouthed cop from Chicago. His a typical comic relief that tries to put a funny one liner as often as it possible. Belushi sometimes overacts and sometimes is more annoying than funny , but overall he does a good job here. The most laughs however come from Arnold and the cultural differences between Russia and USA.Director Walter Hill reuses the same formula from 48 hours. Here the contrasts are not just between the personalities of the cop duo , but also between the American and Soviet systems of law enforcement. This Chicago is very strange city. Your crime is organized, but your police is not. The film itself is just alright, neither good not bad. There's no real problem or fault with Red Heat except that it offers a fare amount (but just not enough) of laughs and thrills. There is no real chemistry between Belushi and Schwarzenegger. The plot is rather muddled and doesn't offer any real mystery. There are some familiar faces in the supporting roles &#x96; Peter Boyle (Dream team) , Laurence Fishburne (Matrix) , Gina Gershon and Brion James (Blade runner) , but they aren't given anything interesting to do. The score by James Horner is neither good or bad (you can hear the echo of Gorky Park score here).The action scenes are well shot and edited. You can clearly see what's going on and there's none of that modern shaky hand-held camera movement or ultra quick cut editing. Thank God. The movie has few memorable scenes  the fight in sauna (hilarious) , the leg scene (awesome, just watch the movie) and the bus chase (quite exciting , if not copied from 48 hours) .I give it 6/10. Some comedic value , some action , some nice one-liners . It doesn't break any new ground , but it delivers quite well what it promises . Fans of the genre should be satisfied. "},{"Title":"I finally 'got' this film","Date":"2 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Like many, I became a fan of Arnie in the late eighties/early nineties, however, despite about three viewings of 'Red Heat' I never really liked it. Until now. My initial disapproval of the film was the 'lack of action.' I guess I was too used to the big man mowing down hordes of bad-guys with machine guns, ala Commando, Predator and Terminator.But, although the action scenes are definitely subdued (when comparing them to Schwarzenegger's other output), there is actually some in there somewhere. I guess that 'Red Heat' normally gets lumped into Arnie's other work and so a lot of people call it an 'action' movie. As I said, there are a few shoot-outs and car chase, but 'action' is second to its primary genre, which is 'buddy cop' film.When you ignore the lack of cracking skulls and just focus on the relationship between the two mismatched leads, i.e. the tough Russian cop and wacky Chicago detective, then you'll find this could well be the most perfectly-formed buddy cop movie ever. The Schwarzenegger and Belushi combo works brilliantly. Their opposite personas play of each other and Red Heat could almost be considered a comedy rather than an action movie based on how many one-liners there are in there.Basically, if you're looking for out and out action, then this movie will probably fall short of your expectations (like it did with me for so many years). However, if you're looking for a no-frills buddy cop film that is just simple and effective, then this one will fill an hour and a half of your life. It's not 'classic' Schwarzenegger, but it does the job. "},{"Title":"Director Walter Hill Fizzles, Arnold Sleepwalks, and James Belushi is Awful","Date":"30 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Walter Hill is an Underrated Director of B-Movies. But when Given an A-Budget His Films Tend to Suffer and this is a Prime Example. It is Not Awful but is More Embarrassing than it Needs to Be. The Comedy is Inconsistent with a Couple of Funny Lines but James Belushi Overacts so Shamelessly that Most of the Time He is Just a Cringe Magnet.Arnold is OK and His Terminator Like Performance, of a Stereotypical Russian, Works Well. But the Chemistry with Belushi Never Clicks. Ed O'Ross as the Villain is Quite Scary. The Typical Walter Hill Violence is in Evidence but is Rather Ho Hum and Repetitive. Even the Bus Chase and Standoff Finale Fizzles and isn't Filmed with Much Pizazz.Overall, this is a Huge Waste of Talent and that Includes Laurence Fishburne, Gina Gershon, and Peter Boyle. A Mess Really, this is One that the Director Probably would Like to Have Back Because Considering the Money Spent and the Talent on Display, Walter Hill is Much too Good to Make a Flick this Bad.It was a Money Maker and was Made at the Height of Eighties Buddy Cop Movies and Arnold's Career was Peeking. But Overall this is Average at Best and at Worst One of the Director's More Glaring Failures. "}{"Title":"Red Heat","Date":"17 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Title Red HeatCondensed Storyline A Russian cop has to partner up with a Chicago cop to take down a drug lord who is hiding in America Notable Acting Arnold Schwarzenegger plays the Russian cop who has a take-no-shit attitude and has to be kept under control by James Belushi who plays the cocky quick witted Chicago cop. It is a buddy cop movie with a twist, so the cops are pretty much to ones who steal the whole show. This is good in the fact that they have the mot screen time, but it is bad because of how interesting they are compared to everyone else. They are both big name actors, but they over shadow most of the other actors while they are at it. Noticeable Camera work Birds eye shot of the soldier matching in formation. I can also say for any of those who haven't had to do marching in formation before, it is harder than it looks. But as with most action movies they focus on giving you good, clear shots of the action compared to artistic shots, so everything has nice framing but not many good interesting angles to talk about Incorrect Science With it being an Arnold movie there are guns with abnormal amounts of bullets, needless to say. Ivan Danko's police uniform is a combination of at least six different uniforms, someone didn't do their background checks, but this is excusable for the fact that it is an 80's movie and the internet didn't take off until the 90's. The opening credit use Я for a standard R, but this is a personal language bet-peeve of mine, Я is Russian for I. So as comical or clever the title guy thought he was, he was just being incorrect and messing up two languages, this range for a lot of different Russian characters and all of them are just as wrong. Overall Feel If you like body cop movies, you'll like this one. Even if you don't, there will be some parts of this movie that you'll enjoy. This isn't the best of movies that Arnold has done, but it isn't the worst either. The movie still has the signature cheesy action vibe that all action movies staring Arnold have. But it is a cheesy action movie in its own right, because that is expected. I would like to notice everyone else's acting more, but everyone is either given weak lines or is overshadowed by the two main cops. "},{"Title":"An almost great 80's classic held back by key flaws","Date":"16 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" What do I mean by almost perfect? Well Red Heat has a ton of the key ingredients of making this an 80's staple. First of all...Arnold Schwarzenegger? Check. Sarcastic, comedic, sidekick...storyline featuring crack cocaine/drug smuggling, police partners from different worlds, shootouts, one liners....Red Heat has all that. Look at Lethal Weapon and then look at Red Heat. It shares a lot in common. The thing that Red Heat is missing is just that magic, maybe its chemistry or a little something in the story but it just doesn't blow you away. Still for big fans of Schwarzenegger (like me) and fans of quintessential 80's movies (like me) its a must see. Ironically one of the things that I think hurt the film in another way is also one of the best things about it...that is the performance from Arnold Schwarzenegger (more on that in a moment.) The story is a smart, fast paced mystery thriller that comes together very well and is sort of ahead of its time considering its all about a Russian cop and an American cop working together. There is plenty of action and a good story on top of that. Everything works...it just works mediocre like.This is really an interesting role for action superstar Arnold Schwarzenegger. He is stoic and subtle and quiet and violent. Its really unlike anything he's ever done. Some would call the performance campy but I think he does a terrific job. He is believable and being Russian actually works quite well for him. This is worth seeing just to watch him doing this performance. The problem is the character is a little too subtle. He isn't loud and over the top and its not what you would expect from him so some might be turned off by it and yet I enjoyed seeing him do something different. James Belushi plays loud mouthed, sarcastic Chicago cop Ridzik. The character is very stereotypical for what you'd expect from this role. He is very loud and obnoxious and overplays it just a little (something far too easy to do in a role like that) and he is almost too much to handle. He is almost unlikable making it hard to enjoy his performance because Belushi is normally charismatic and likable. The chemistry between them is good...not great and that is a reason this could never be Lethal Weapon status. Ed O'Ross plays our villain Viktor. He is good in the role but I feel like the script doesn't give him the opportunity to be truly great. He is still a decent villain but could have been better. There are a few familiar faces on the supporting cast including Peter Boyle and Laurence Fishburne but they are mostly left without a lot of development.I feel like director Walter Hill has always struggled to be more than just good. He has done some iconic, cult classic films (48 Hours, Last Man Standing-one of my favourites and Bullet To The Head.) He has had a lot of ups and downs but never seems to do anything truly amazing. Despite having years of experience he doesn't seem to have a firm handle on what makes an epic action flick. Still I enjoyed Red Heat a lot and Schwarzenegger fans will appreciate it for what it is. I just think the concept and story has a lot of missed potential. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Red heat is fun , exciting ,  an cop duo 80s feast .","Date":"22 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Wow arnie was good yes he was corny but he was serious an he produced excitement by being brutal because this film was serious on story , Belushi was funny he made a great duo and this is a real 80s feast there is elements , acting , dialouge , sound , and visuals if you buy it will be a great experience this is not actionits a thriller but a great one so glad it was made so just sit back and watch you will watch over and over and never get bored . Classic duo detective film.This came out after raw deal and the ideas of this became an great idea the musics classy and the sound effects are great there is loud thuds when they fight punching its so realistic. "},{"Title":"This Chicago is very strange city. Your crime is organised, but your police is not.","Date":"15 September 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Like Gorky Park from five years earlier, Red Heat is a cop thriller whose main character is a Russian police officer from Moscow. The two men even have similar surnames, Renko in the earlier film, Danko in the later one. Yet the two films are very different in style, and the differences between them reflect the way in Soviet Russia, and perceptions of Soviet Russia in the West, were changing during the 1980s.Gorky Park was made in 1983, during the brief Andropov/Chernenko hiatus between the death of Brezhnev and the rise of Gorbachev. It is a bleak neo-noir whose bleakness reflects the increasing disillusionment with an increasingly corrupt Soviet system, a system which had long since exhausted any sense of revolutionary idealism but which remained totalitarian and oppressive. Red Heat, by contrast, was made in 1988 as a relatively light-hearted buddy cop film. This particular sub-genre of the crime thriller was a popular one in the eighties; one of the pioneering examples was 48 Hours, also directed by Walter Hill. In the age of glasnost and perestroika the idea of combining a Russian cop with an American one must have seemed like an appropriate tribute to the increasing spirit of détente between East and West. Whereas there was never any question of shooting Gorky Park in Moscow- Helsinki stood in for the Russian capital- Red Heat became the first American film for which permission was granted by the Soviet authorities to shoot in Red Square itself.Arnold Schwarzenegger plays the hero, Moscow drugs officer Ivan Danko, who travels to America to seek the extradition of Viktor Rostavili a Georgian drug dealer who has fled the Soviet Union after murdering several cops, including Danko's partner. Rostavili has been arrested in Chicago, but when he escapes from custody Danko and Detective-Sergeant Art Rid&#x9E;ić of the Chicago Police Department have to track him down.Doubtless the film-makers thought that by casting Schwarzenegger as a Russian they could explain away his heavy foreign accent which made it difficult for audiences to accept him as an American, but he always sounds more Germanic than Slavic. Large parts of the dialogue are actually in Russian, and I understand that Red Heat has become something of a cult movie in Russia because of the many mispronunciations perpetrated by Arnie and other non-Russian speakers among the cast.Nevertheless, for English-speakers the film works fairly well. It is a frequent convention of buddy cop films that the two mismatched partners should have sharply contrasting characters, and the contrasts and conflicts between them as they learn to work together as partners is often used as a source of humour. Here the contrasts are not just between the personalities of the rather serious Danko and the mouthy, worldly-wise Rid&#x9E;ić but also between the American and Soviet systems of law enforcement. Rid&#x9E;ić is horrified by Danko's uncompromising approach and his disregard of suspects' rights; Danko is equally horrified by what he sees as the excessively laid-back approach of the American police. (This Chicago is very strange city. Your crime is organised, but your police is not.) There are also some exciting action scenes, especially that high-speed chase through the streets of Chicago in two Greyhound buses, Danko at the wheel of one and Rostavili at the wheel of the other. Red Heat lacks the depth and intelligence of Gorky Park, but it is an entertaining and at times amusing thriller. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Wonderful present for Russians!","Date":"4 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I also can't understand why this movie is so (realtiv) badly voted, but that is not the point - first of all I would like to thank all the makers (and actors of course) for the amazing moments, this movie gave us, Russian-speaking fans. Why are I and many of my friends so excited about this movie? Because the Russian part of conversations is a true masterpiece! Practically all the conversations in Russian are so amazing funny, so that most of these phrases are up to now cult in former Soviet union. Unfortunately I don't know, who was a writer of Russian dialogs, but thank you - it was a great job! Kakie vashi dokazatelstva?, Chto budet s nashej stranoj?, Huligani... "},{"Title":"In Soviet Russia, film watch you","Date":"8 May 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I'm gonna get us something from all four food groups hamburgers, french fries, coffee and doughnuts. &#x96; James Belushi (Red Heat) Walter Hill directs this mediocre buddy movie. He'd reinvented the genre with 48 Hours years earlier, and here he tries to inject life back into his dwindling career by resurrecting the format. Problem is, even at its best, the buddy cop genre is pretty stupid.Here Hill has Arnold Schwarzenegger play a Russian police officer who finds himself teamed up with James Belushi, a foul mouthed cop from Chicago. The duo investigate a case, make jokes, act cool in the face of danger, break all the rules, are berated by their superiors for their non conformity, and eventually save the day. It's all very clichéd, the buddy movie having recycled the same basic plot elements for over 3 decades now.I wonder where all these dead-pan, wisecracking cops come from? Are Bogart and Eastwood the roots of all these clichés? In any case, this film is only worth watching today for Hill's customarily well shot bursts of violence and to see Arnold Schwarzenegger out-act James Belushi. Belushi was cast as the funny man to Arnie's straight guy persona, but in reality, it is Arnie who is comedy gold.6/10 &#x96; Some comedic value, some good action, some nice one-lines, but mostly this is clichéd dreck. "},{"Title":"A piece of history, literally.","Date":"26 December 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Don't expect rapid fire action from this one as it is quite the opposite, sort of like a mixture between Sea of love and Rocky 4 sans boxing gloves and Soviet-baiting.Schwarzenegger plays Danko a Soviet inspector sent to America to track down a Georgian (the Eurasian country that is) drug dealer making cocaine deals in the USSR. When arriving in the United States he makes friends (if you can call it that) with Belushis character Art Ridzik, setting the stage for a typical buddy film case of Opposites Attract. Art is a stressed, ballsy fastmouthed cop constantly sending snarky comments Dankos way, about the corruption in the Soviet elite. Danko is a cold, hard-as-nails police with a determination to catch the crook, also sarcastic but in a colder, brooding way seemingly shocked by the (by Soviet standards) decadence of the USA (one memorable scene features Danko turning on the TV in his hotel room only to be greeted by a porn movie. Stunned, he mutters Capitalism.)I have mixed feelings for this movie. On one hand its a decent fun thriller and a veritable time-capsule. When it was made Perestroika was in full effect and thawing of US-Soviet relations, also. The movie ends on a sentimental note with Danko proclaiming that they are policemen not politicians and that it is okay to like each other. Belushi also evolves during the movie, from a man very suspicious of Danko to a more understanding person even calling Lawrence Fishburnes major Russophobic character out in a scene. On the other hand why put Arnold in this movie? It might be an underestimation of his talent but Arnold should either kill every Son-of-a-bitch in sight or make fun of himself for doing it. There ain't nothing wrong with more restrained cop movies but don't put Arnold in them in that case. "},{"Title":"Far from being a classic Red Heat still has its moments","Date":"7 May 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This isn't one of Arnie's better offerings, but is still worth seeing once or twice when it crops up on TV. Arnie plays a Soviet cop who is all uptight and stony faced, his partner being wiseguy Yank James Belushi who puts in a decent performance as the pair hunt down some pesky Russky drug peddler. Of course the duo start out as opposites and don't get along very well, but naturally by the end of the film they're buddies to such an extent that they can swap watches. Shucks! There is a fair amount of shooting in this and some funny lines, a notable early appearance in a blockbuster for Larry Fishburne also being witnessed. The plot is a little clichéd and every now and then Arnie and Belushi's banter can wear a little thin, but there is still enough to keep you entertained. The on-location filming in Russia adds plenty of character to the film and is nice to see, instead of the studio making a mock-up of the Soviet Union. The music however is particularly poor. The film's conclusion is a little stale, a bus chase not having quite the same thrill as a head-to-head between some flashy cars, but at least it's something you don't see that often in movies! On the whole, not too bad, but don't expect it to change your life............. "},{"Title":"they don't make em like they used to","Date":"14 October 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" **SOME SPOILERS**This is quintessential Arnie 80's madness.The violence is brutal and raw while being totally improbable. In one scene Arnie is performing a shootout with a .44 magnum, and must shoot about 50 rounds without reloading. Only in the 80's was this possible.It has a workout scene, some naked women, Arnie punching through a window, big guns, he even says Trust me (In Russian). You can't go wrong.It has rough edges, but that is part of it's charm. It's really a well put together film, nice cinematography, a great score by James Horner.Also Arnie sports one of his best film hair-dos, like Guile from street fighter. "},{"Title":"It wasn't THAT bad!","Date":"31 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  My opinion is a little subjective since I'm a big Ahhhnold fan. But this movie isn't his worst. Try Commando or Raw Deal. So he fires 8 or 9 shots from a Smith & Wesson model 29 (without reloading of course). So what? It's just mindless action. And I love the opening scene. Wish there was a gym like that around my neighborhood! "}{"Title":"STOOOPID and fun!","Date":"15 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I don't even care what anyone says, this is the quintessential buddy cop movie, made before the genre became quite so darn tired!  Belushi overacts his way through a million one-liners, and Ah-nuld does his deadpan Russian with a straight face all the way through the movie.  Little known supporting roles by folks like Gina Gershon and Larry Fishburne are also fun to watch. Very funny and very rentable.  "},{"Title":"A Forgotten Arnold Film","Date":"23 April 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" A tough Russian policeman (Arnold Schwarzenegger) is forced to partner up with a cocky Chicago police detective (James Belushi) when he is sent to Chicago to apprehend a Georgian drug lord (Ed O'Ross) who killed his partner and fled the country.Coming out the same year as Twins, this film (despite being successful) was overshadowed and largely forgotten. When listing Arnold's actions films, this is not one that springs immediately to mind.The film itself is just alright, neither good not bad. The fights and action sequences are fantastic, and O'Ross is an unbelievably good Russian villain. Arnold is less convincing, seemingly taking his cue from Ivan Drago. Belushi tries too hard to be Bill Murray, but has a few shining moments. "},{"Title":"Classic 80's buddy cop action","Date":"10 April 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Red Heat is in my opinion anyways, an underrated buddy cop action classic directed by Walter Hill. Red Heat is very similar in style and tone to Walter's classic 48 Hours. Arnold Scwarzenegger is Ivan Danko, he comes to America in pursuit of Victor Rosta. Rosta is a vicious career criminal and dirty dope dealer who killed Danko's partner in a shootout, escaped and resumed his criminal activities in Chicago. Victor Rosta(Ed O'Ross)is the main villain of the film and is super convincing as both a Russian and ruthless criminal. After filming The Principal(awesome movie, another favorite of mine), James Belushi stays in action mode playing a tough, trash talking Chicago cop Art Ridzik. Arnold and Belushi team up to take down Victor Rosta. Red Heat is a a very well made action film that is exceptionally shot, fast paced, with great performances and tons of action. Ivan(Arnold)is a fish out of water and most of the comedy of the film, draws from that element. Ivan Danko is however not an idiot. He is a highly skilled , super bad ass detective.(a Soviet Dirty Harry) The odd pairing of Belushi and Scwarzenegger works well. Plus strong support cast of Peter Boyle, Larry Fishburne and Gina Gershon can't hurt. As well as a memorable cameo from Brion James. Of Arnolds films of the 80's, Red Heat holds up as one of my favorites and is easily the best of Arnold's non fantasy/science fiction movies. "},{"Title":"Entertaining mismatched buddy cop action flick","Date":"15 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Extremely disciplined and businesslike Russian cop Ivan Danko (an earnest and effective performance by Arnold Scwarzeneggar) and sloppy, but competent Chicago detective Art Ridzik (a nicely coarse portrayal by James Belushi) have to put their differences aside and work together in order to catch ruthless drug smuggler Viktor Rosta Rostavili (superbly essayed with smack on the money snarly relish by Ed O'Ross). Director Walter Hill, who co-wrote the familiar, but still perfectly serviceable script with Harry Kleiner and Troy Kennedy, handles the enjoyable premise with his customary tight and streamlined manner the quick pace rarely flags for a minute, the style is slick and polished, the action set pieces are exciting and expertly staged (a wild climactic bus chase rates as the definite stirring highlight), and there's a funny sense of crude humor sprinkled throughout. Big Arnie and Belushi display an engagingly relaxed and natural chemistry; the begrudging respect and friendship that develops between these two radically contrasting police officers gives this picture a substantial emotional heft and helps the movie transcend its formula plot. A fine cast qualifies as another major asset Gina Gershon as Viktor's foxy and unsuspecting dance instructor wife Catherine Cat Manzetti, Peter Boyle as the stressed-out Commander Lou Donnelly, Laurence Fishburne as the nerdy, bespectacled Lt. Charlie Strobbs, Richard Bright as Ridzik's gabby partner Detective Sargeant Gallagher, and, in a truly stand-out cameo, Brent Jennings as smooth and assured blind jailbird criminal kingpin Abdul Elijah. Popping up in nifty bits are Hill film regulars Peter Jason, Luis Contreras (reprising his Lupo character from Extreme Prejudice), and Brion James (the latter in a deliciously wormy part as a slimy and sniveling snitch). Further enhanced by Matthew F. Leonetti's glittery cinematography and a rattling and spirited score by James Horner, this movie may not break any new ground, but it does overall still size up as a solid and satisfying outing. "},{"Title":"Russian Narcissist meets American Couch Potato....................","Date":"21 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Body-building is one thing - fighting is quite another,requiring entirely different disciplines and strengths.All those Russian blokes posing and puffing,gazing lovingly at their own bodies in the opening sequence would run a mile from a serious fight in case they got a few bruises.As soon as Arnie went on the rampage that room would have emptied in double quick time.And,really,isn't Arnie himself just a little musclebound?He can hardly bend over for goodness sake! Even 20 years ago the plot was a bit hoary,cop/cowboy chases all over the world/West to catch his partner's killer. Teams up with ill - matched fellow cop/cowboy to get revenge.Well,Mr Hill churns it all out quite efficiently,Arnie is slow but sure and doesn't have many lines to remember but in the DVD I watched the sub - titles for the Russian dialogue were so brief as to be meaningless. I daresay in 1988 Mr James Belushi's foul - mouthed smart - alec sexist moron of a cop may have been seen as the mutt's nuts but it hasn't travelled well and is now merely embarrassing,you cringe every time he opens his mouth,which he does quite a lot. Apart from being an ill - mannered ignorant slob it is hard to see what Sergeant Ridzick brings to the party. With the fall of the Berlin Wall and the diaspora of the Russian Mafia Red Heat is as about as riveting as last year's Old Moore's Almanac and fully deserves its place in the bottom of the parrot's cage. "},{"Title":"The West & The East in 1988","Date":"2 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Almost a relic of a film, Red Heat is hard to accept from a 90's audience who doesn't recall the issues the USA and the former USSR had. The fear or communism and a nuclear war was an issue with every politician in Washington DC. Many believed that the third world war would be between the Russians and the Western Allies. For 1988, a movie like Red Heat was a comedy with a giant political message. Hollywood hit a home run by casting Arnold Schwarzenegger as the Russian soldier who is loyal to his communist country and his role as a law enforcer. For an American audience, Arnold Schwarzenegger represented a nice guy. Schwarzenegger was use to playing the American soldier who fought fort justice in the name of America and goodwill. Here, he was fighting for the same ideals but for a different country. Having a friendly face (Arnold) playing the role of a Russian, helped convince many audience members that even though Arnold's character was a Russian, he was not anti-American and anti-democracy. It is movies like Red Heat that gave a different way of looking at the former USSR and its people.  "},{"Title":"Luke Warm at Best.","Date":"30 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Russian cop Arnold Schwarzenegger makes a trip to Chicago to capture an escaped Soviet drug dealer (Ed O'Ross) in this loud and ultimately disappointing 1980s cop flick. Schwarzenegger joins forces with detective James Belushi and the duo seemingly creates more chaos throughout the windy city than the bad guys. Stuck in the middle is O' Ross' exotic, but highly mysterious wife (Gina Gershon). Red Heat is not much of a production when all is completed as comedy mixes with some rough drama and with some downright ugly violence. This odd combination ends up being a very poor man's Beverly Hills Cop with none of the performers being able to overcome highly suspect direction and a by-the-numbers script. 2 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"Adequate Schwarzenegger vehicle","Date":"30 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  STAR RATING*****Unmissable****Very Good***Okay**You Could Go Out For A Meal Instead*Avoid At All CostsIn another one of his earlier films,the Austrian oak stars as a Russian agent who teams up with a New York detective,played by James Belushi,to capture an evil drug pusher.There is some amusing chemistry between Scwarzenegger and Belushi,but the plot is a bit too spaced out and wavey and there is a disappointing lack of action.Still,it's certainly not Arnie's worst film.** "},{"Title":"James Belushi is an ill suited lead co star","Date":"6 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This must be one of the most dull Schwarzenegger vehicles ever. The opening is truly bizarre, I mean what sort of gym was that? Quite why Arnie needed to go there isn't entirely clear, but hey that's the sort of information you do not need in an Arnie film. It's pointless stuff to set up him going on the rampage. At least it is in Commando, The Running Man and Raw Deal. Unfortunately Red Heat contains none of their insane mayhem. What it contains is scenes of plot exposition through dull dialogue no-one understands, to lead up to a completely uninspired conclusion, which is a rip off of Walter Hill's own earlier and far superior 48 Hours. The kiss off moment is so sudden I can barely remember it now. Arnie's performance is memorable for him trying to pronounce the name Viktor in a Russian accent. I'm not sure why he bothered. Sadly the film is also memorable for Belushi's poor acting. His character is obnoxious throughout and he lacks any charm whatsoever. There's a moment where he puts a gun to a bad guy with the words Freeze motherf*****, with no threat at all. Just think of Sam Jackson saying that to emphasize how poor Belushi is. In fact all his lines end with some sort of phrase and they are never funny. It makes me laugh to think of a script doctor going through adding the one liners and actually thinking someone may find them funny.  Do I have a good word to say about Red Heat? No.   "},{"Title":"the sound, oh man!","Date":"3 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie features the most exaggerated fist-in-the-face sound effects I have ever heard! Its so amazing it had me laughing out loud several times! The sound-man must be a real joker! (and by the way this film really sucks big time. Don't ever spend money on it!) "}{"Title":"Arnold with a crew-cut","Date":"24 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  He is a Moscow cop who gets a sidekick-James Belushi. He is the funniest person in movie. Its a good action movie with pretty cool action scenes. The bus scene at the end was cool. Worth having for Arnold fans. Plus, Arnold has a crew-cut which I think was cool. "},{"Title":"Oh, PA-LEEZ!!!","Date":"19 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The only thing that is worth than a Stereotypical Hollywood Bad Russian is a Stereotypical Hollywood Good Russian, in my eyes. Now, why couldn't Arnold be a good Austrian cop on a manhunt for one of those evil Austrian or Bavarian mafioso? That, at least, would've been so much more believable. I mean the guy looks as much like a Russian cop as... Geez, I don't know... I guess, as much as Dolph Lundgren a Russian boxer. Maybe it works for silly American action fans who are ready to believe that anything big and with a vaguely European accent could be classified as a tough russki, bringing the message of Perestroika and cooperation to his American comrades. Baloney! Damn, at least they shouldn't have made Arnie try to speak Russian. The guy has enough trouble learning English, for crying out loud! And what is up with him coming to America wearing a full militia uniform, like he is on a Militia Day parade on the Red Square? And what is up with a militia man coming to America at all, even to hunt down a drug lord? Aren't such things usually done by KGB agents? And what is up with all the russki stereotypes? It is truly one of the stupidest pieces of garbage I've ever seen, right next to Rambo III and Delta Force 3.   "},{"Title":"Arnold with an accent","Date":"19 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  In this movie Arnold is an USSR cop who speaks with a russian accent. It wasn't enough with his austrian-english, obviously. Anyways, Arnold needs to go to USA to capture a villain who killed his police-friend. Immediatley there is a culture collision. Arnold interogates people by breaking their hands, and says zhat iz how ve do it in russia. I wonder how it would turn out if russians made movies about american cops.I don't know how much political this movie was at the time (1988), but the bosses in Kremlin probably didnt like it too much. On the other side, a racist film like Rambo 3, where the american director seems to have forgotten Vietnam, is much worse. See it if only for the sauna fight at the start. "},{"Title":"A real good fun","Date":"15 May 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Here's a pretty decent action picture of the 1980's that doesn't disappoint fans of the genre. Red Heat team up Walter Hill, Arnold Schwarzenegger and James Belushi on a plot about a Soviet captain (Arnold) and an American cop (Belushi) whose task is to arrest a violent drug dealer (Ed O'Ross) that came all the way from Russia to Chicago, after killing a cop, friend of Schwarzenegger.So,here's a buddy movie where two opposite forces join each other in order to achieve their common goal and catch the bad guy, back in the hard days of Cold War. Most of the film is about covering the strange partnership between the detective of the Capitalist nation and the tough captain that comes from the Comunist Russia, their cultural differences and different ways of treating their criminals, and the usual fights and shootings. A real fun to watch if you're not much demanding. Some might find silly or annoying the fact of seeing the Soviet cop always better,always smarter and always stronger than the American cop, who is more like a clown filled with unfunny jokes. Others might enjoy the fact of a simple action film foreseeing the collapse of the Communism, three years before the real act. And for a Walter Hill movie this was quite light, not much violent (or not making it so impressively) and filled with lots of dialogs.Part of our fun in watching Red Heat is seeing the Governator posing like a Russian officer, so superior but giving some funny moments.Cast also includes Peter Boyle, Gina Gershon, Laurence Fishburne, Richard Bright and Pruitt Taylor Vince, all in good supporting roles.Man, I miss movies like this. Those were the good days for watching such classics. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Look out Chicago, Arnie & Jimmy are loose on the streets.","Date":"5 August 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Captain Ivan Danko (Arnold Schwarzenegger) is a no nonsense Soviet cop who is sent to Chicago to pick up a murdering Russian drug dealer. Upon arriving in the windy city, Danko is teamed with Art Ridzik (James Belushi), a wise-cracking street cop notorious for cutting corners to get the job done. Complete polar opposites, both men form an unlikely alliance as Danko's Soviet methods blend with Ridzik's free spirited street wise techniques.There were quite a few buddy buddy films around in the 1980s, certainly the teaming of unlikely cop partners was nothing new at the time of Red Heat's release. Yet for all it's obvious reliance on clichés, and its out dated Russian/American guffaws, Red Heat is a romping, violent and funny picture. Pairing the big Austrian Oak Schwarzenegger with the Americana that is James Belushi pays off in bundles. Yes it's sometimes crass, but Belushi's cocky mannerisms play off Schwarzenegger's robotic frame with comedic joy. All played out in amongst carnage and murder created by director Walter Hill, who is quite frankly, and thankfully, just extending the formula that he started in 1982 with 48 Hrs.The support cast is not to be sniffed at either. Peter Boyle, Ed O'Ross, Laurence Fishburne, Pruitt Taylor Vince, Brion James and Gina Gershon. All line up to add fuel to the Arnie and Jimmy fire. Also good to see is that Hill shot on location in Illinois and Moscow to give the film some scenic impetus, whilst James Horner's score is suitably bombastic and at one with the material. It's no rocket scientist who observes a film like this and calls it popcorn fodder, because it so obviously is. But within its buddy buddy framework lies a very quotable film that's essential for fans of Arnie & Jimmy. Sometimes that's all one needs from a film like this. 7/10 "},{"Title":"One of the best cop-buddy films ever made.","Date":"21 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Director Walter Hill does a pretty admirable job re-tooling his previous hit, 48 HRS., to create this action/comedy.  Arnold Schwazenegger is a stoic Soviet police officer who travels to Chicago to find a drug czar.  But, it's Jim Belushi who steals the show as a wisecracking Chicago cop assigned to aid Schwarzenegger in his hunt.  Final thought an exceptionally good comedy-cop thriller. "},{"Title":"Bloody awful movie.","Date":"24 April 2011","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Arnold Schwarzenegger movies should generally be taken with a grain of salt; switch your mind off, sit back and enjoy the ride (or cheese, take your pick). But, truth be told they are usually not that bad - very few will ever be regarded as some of the greatest movies ever made but they are generally enjoyable to watch (Commando, Total Recall, True Lies, etc.). This cask of crap is something else. I trust that James Belushi is ashamed of himself for his performance in this movie. He was ridiculous. Every time he appeared on screen I hoped a bad guy would pop up and shoot him. His performance is so bad I was convinced he was trying to make a statement to the director about the fact he was to be killed off during the film, but it didn't happen. Sometimes life disappoints, just like this awful movie. It's not even laughably bad, it's just bad. "},{"Title":"Not even a spark...","Date":"4 September 2006","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Arnold Schwarzenegger stars as Ivan Danko a Soviet cop who teams up with Chicago cop Art Ridzik (James Belushi) to avenge both of their partner's death (One Soviet and one American) at the hands of a ruthless drug-lord Victor Rasta (Ed O'Ross) while battling the red tape provided by their superiors (Peter Boyle and Laurence Fishbourne). When you look at the talent involved, not only Schwarzenegger, Belushi(Always underrated in my opinion, when he isn't on sitcoms), Boyle, O'Ross and Fishbourne you would expect greatness. With Walter Hill helming the picture, Red Heat contained much promise. Unfortunately the movie is an unwatchable dud. Red Heat has no overall verve in the story to propel it into the action sequences and while these are occasionally exciting the movie's pace is off and Hill has clearly fashioned his superior 48 HRS routine on a pair of actors that have zero chemistry when the cameras are on. Indeed Schwarzenegger is so gruff that he makes his turn in The Terminator seem positively lively and it goes without saying that the glasnost influenced teaming does little to disguise the fact that this all extremely dull material made up to be a vehicle for two stars that looked (but failed) to add a more dramatic actioner to their staples.* out of 4-(Bad) "},{"Title":"An excellent making of the cop-buddy genre.","Date":"22 April 2003","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Out of all the cop-buddy genres I've seen I felt that this movie was the best besides Bad Boys.  This movie had Arnold as the tough guy and Jim as the comedy relief.  An entertaining chemistry well perfected.  I recommend this movie highly if you're into the action-comedy buddy movies. "},{"Title":"I really enjoy watching this film again and again","Date":"24 November 2008","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" > Red Heat was altogether different in its depiction of the Russian culture - quite a bit more realistic. I'm really surprised that there are such people in the US who really do believe this. Are you serious? Well, that's even more funnier than the movie. You know, Red Heat is a kind of hieratic film in Russia today. It's a great way to have a nice time, making fun of stupid stereotypes about Russia. And the most funny thing is that these stereotypes (as we can see from such comments) are still alive. Close to reality, lol, how do you know that? Anyway, Red Heat is one of the greatest representatives of so-called klukva-art. And the less of bears, balalaikas and matrioshkas sure can't bring it closer to reality.P.S. Doviray mnie, tovarisch! "}{"Title":"I vill not leeeve dis cuntree vivout viktuuur.","Date":"1 May 2001","Score":"11 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Irritatingly unfunny action-comedy sees James Belushi and Arnold Schwarzenegger teamed up as a mismatched US/Soviet cop team, with hilarious consequences.Belushi, an hysterically funny, off-the-wall zany comic... in his own mind... overplays his formula loose cannon role with irksome predictability. Arnhuld does little better with Ivan Danko, a character you might call one-dimensional if he were that complex.The film is one of constant contradictions. The brief nudity and frequent bad language work against the MOR buddy cop comedy. The settings are low-key and squalid, yet directed with a brash, mainstream feel. There are good actors, such as Laurence Fishburne, yet wasted on severely underwritten lines, sloppy editing and indifferent direction.  All the items commonly associated with half-assed low brow actioners are present hysterically screaming, half-dressed women; characters yelling with comic effect as a vehicle goes out of control and flies through the air; plus police chiefs that threaten you'll be back to a desk job on Monday.The cold war politics are dealt with in a childishly patronising way, while the plot is a series of perfunctory set pieces loosely strung together. There doesn't even appear to be three full acts, the climax drawing short and having little emotional resonance. Yet it's impossible to really slate the film, as it was really just one in a long line of seemed good at the time weak star vehicles for then up-and-coming Arnie. It might not be any good, but he does get to take his shirt off, shoot a few people and get into fights. Well that's all right then. 4/10. "},{"Title":"Buddy routine cop classic underrated 80's action flick!","Date":"7 November 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Red Heat (1988) is American Bad Ass action film my favorite action classic childhood movie. Every time I see it I kept getting excited to see in it again. Red Heat is a buddy routine classic underrated action flick! I grew up with this film and I still love watching it today. Classic 80's action flick with Arnold doing his bad Russian accent and Belushi's hyper kinetics' acting. None the less they have good chemistry together and there's plenty of good one liners and action sequences to make this one very entertaining. Seeing the styles and fashions of the day is pretty funny and brings back lots of good memories from that period. After The Running Man Arnold made Red Heat. At that time it was a quite good film but now the movie looks a little out dated. Between The Terminator and Raw Deal there is Schwarzenegger's Red Heat, the 1988 action peace which also co-stars Jim Belushi who provides the comic relief from the Director who gave us Eddie Murphy in 48 hrs. Red Heat is the typical 80's action cop genre picture Arnold entertained us with during the 80's. This also would mark his last 80's picture he would then be back in 1990's Total Recall and the phenomenal sequel Terminator 2 a year later. But back to this gem. Red Heat is one of Arnie's finest movies. Though not taken seriously by a lot of his fans and fans of the 80's movies. Both Belushi and Arnold deliver really fine performances that match each other well. Of course a very young Gina Gershon makes a little appearance. Still looking exactly the same as she does today. This is one of my favorite Arnold & Belushi movie. Also Gina Gershon and Laurence Fishburne are co staring in this film. Also I think Gina Gershon did terrific job in here she also co started in Steven Seagal's film Out For Justice (1991). This film is very bashed and hated, I grew up with this film. I love that Arnold plays A Russian Cop who fly's in to the States to find and track down a ruthless criminal Viktor Rostavili (Ed O'Ross) to bring him back to Russia. I still think Red Heat is one of Walter Hill's best movies, his first film was 48 Hrs. (1982) with Nick Nolte and Eddie Murphy. I love James Belushi as a street wise detective Art Ridzik. I love his sense of humor and his charm and his outstanding lines. I think he acted very well as Detective in here. The shootouts are a awesome. I love the action scenes especially the opening fight scene in the snow, the hotel shootout and the bus chase (which is one of the more creative ideas I have seen in an action movie chase scene). Another thing I really liked was the Podbyrin 9.2mm pistol since I have an interest in guns. Tim Lafrance who was also the armorer on Miami Vice built the gun for the film using parts from the famous Walther P-38 to beef up the Desert Eagle, since Walter Hill told him he wanted A P-38 on steroids. The most funny scene for me is that guy comes to the car when Arnold sits in it and wants to carjack him so Ivan ask Do you know Miranda? the hooligan answers back Never heard of the bitch. pow, Ivan punches him unconscious. I love the music score by James Horner, he made a perfect music theme for the film.The rating I am giving is 10/10 this movie deserves it. Red Heat is a 1988 American buddy cop action film directed by Walter Hill. The film stars Arnold Schwarzenegger, as Moscow narc Ivan Danko, and James Belushi, as Chicago detective Art Ridzik. Finding themselves on the same case, Danko and Ridzik work as partners to catch a cunning and deadly Soviet Georgian drug kingpin, Viktor Rostavili (Ed O'Ross), who also happens to be the killer of Danko's previous partner back in Soviet Russia.10/10 Score A Studio Carolco Pictures StudioCanal, TriStar Pictures Starring Arnold Schwarzenegger, James Belushi, Peter Boyle, Ed O'Ross, Laurence Fishburne, Gina Gershon, Brion James Director Walter Hill Producers Walter Hill, Gordon Carroll, Mario Kassar, Andrew G. Vajna Screenplay Walter Hill, Harry Kleiner, Troy Kennedy Martin Story by Walter Hill Rated R Running Time 1 Hr. 44 Mins. Budget $29,000,000 Box Office $34,994,648 "},{"Title":"Arnold As A Russian.","Date":"24 September 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Arnold Schwarzenegger plays a Russian policeman sent to Chicago to extradite a captured Georgian drug ring leader. His local contact is a tough, wise-cracking cop(played by Jim Belushi). Unfortunately, the prisoner escapes, and now the two very different men must work together to recapture him, and save their reputations, and public safety.Potentially routine action/comedy is bolstered by two appealing lead performances, and some spectacular action scenes(especially the bus chase). Director Walter Hill reuses the same formula from 48 HRS., but with greater success. Humor, while crude in places, is still funny, and story builds to a satisfying conclusion. Granted, this is still somewhat over-the-top, but works anyway. "},{"Title":"Go and kiss your mothers behind......","Date":"9 December 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Arne hit his peak in the eighties with Prdator, and although this is still a cracking movie, he appears to take a step back with this film.For the majority of the film, he's on autopilot, almost like his performance in the Terminator, but with more repeats of certain words like 'yes' and 'no', which in the context, is quite funny with the narrative, but it's too easy for him.Story is not too dissimilar to various other films released this decade, bad guy does something with drugs, kills the main characters partner, main character joins forces with someone the total opposite to him, and so on and so on.Andon to Belushi, who puts in his greatest performance, and steals the movie away from everyone else, and not many can do this with Schwarzenegger. Whenever Belushi is on screen, the film springs to life, and it turns from an average cop movie, to something a little bit more special.The rt of the cast are okay, and Hill has made this a really old school movie, there's no real standout scenes, apart from a bus chase, and a gender confused nurse, it just tells a straightforward narrative, but with added xenophobia.A good thriller, but I can understand the low score. "},{"Title":"Pretty Good 80's Action Flick!","Date":"15 June 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Arnold Schwarzenegger, James Belushi, Ed O'Ross and Gina Gershon star in this 1988 action film. A Soviet detective and a Chicago cop work together to catch a drug-dealer. This begins in The Soviet Union and Schwarzenegger plays Ivan Danko, a tough Russian detective who is sent to Chicago to find drug-dealer, Victor Rostavili (O'Ross) who fled the country. He meets wisecracking cop, Art Ridzik (Belushi) and they can't stand each other at first, but become friends while searching the streets for Victor. Gershon plays Victor's wife, Catherine and Peter Boyle and Laurence Fishburne also co-star. This is a pretty good 80's action flick and Arnold and James are great together. I recommend this. "},{"Title":"Hilariously funny after the death of Bin Laden","Date":"30 August 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The film was funny just before the fall of the Berlin Wall, but I must say it has become hilarious today after the fall. It is not even a real caricature because there is a nostalgic dimension to it. Nostalgic about a time when things were simple in the world where there was us and there was them. We were necessarily on the right side by identifying with the side we were geographically on. And the rest was only politics.But with the distance, there is no us and no them, there is only one global mess and we all have to live in it, parakeet or not, East-German watch or not, Georgian mafia against Chicagoan mafia. And now this mafia or these mafias have turned into terrorist armies. All over the world the game &#x96; because it is a game, a killing game &#x96; is no longer Miranda versus totalitarianism. It is kill them first versus totalitarianism.These mafiosi are choir boys when compared with the Ben Laden and the Prabhakaran of today, and note I took two dead examples for whom there were no Miranda rights. These people are responsible for thousands of people killed, hundreds of thousands of people mutilated by mines or other assault weapons. They have no rights any more. They lost them when they decided to enter a war against humanity, a war of pure violence and crime.The film is showing that so well including with allusions to Dirty Harry or Dr Zhivago. These people do not sell drugs to make money but they are selling drugs to break the law, make money and kill anyone they can come across on their way. They kill for the pleasure of killing. When the Berlin Wall fell, the Soviet system came down, and we were liberated of the good terrorists who were fighting for the liberation of humanity. For those people who admired such patriotic heroes people like Gaddafi or Prabhakaran were revolutionaries. All that has changed and they have become what they were all the time, nasty terrorists.After the fall of the Berlin Wall, little by little all the self-calling revolutionary movements in the world have had to change identity and enter the political arena with only political weapons and drop the other weapons in some kind of ditch forever. The guerilla movements in Angola and Mozambique were forced to drop their weapons, the IRA was forced to move towards a political solution, the various diamonds wars in Africa were also forced to drop their weapons and their diamonds had to go back on the market without any blood stain, the Sandinistas were obliged to concede a defeat before then regaining power in elections.We could multiply examples. The Basque ETA is a die-hard movement like the Corsican independence movement. The LTTE was in Sri Lanka the first major victory against that terrorism and since then many things have changed in the Arab world and as for Al Qaida. That's why this film has become so funny with years.Some could have said it was a Cold War comic film at the end of those events. But now it is the most hilarious film on the subject of the end of a revolutionary vision that was not really revolutionary but just violent. But today it is the Soviet of the old days who are right criminals may have Miranda rights, but that is only if they survive their arrest. If they don't they have no other right than to shut up. That's why these criminals are not supposed to survive their arrest. Just make sure they have the fair chance to shoot or try to shoot first and that they are the real big ones, not some manipulated non-entities.In 1988 the film was advocating Dirty Harry's methods. Today it justifies the use of such methods these scumbags have to be brought home, but in a corpse bag if possible. The bullets are already too much of an expense to bring them back home, so let's avoid the trial that would ensue if they were still able to speak or at least move one single toe. Something changed in 1989, even if the Bushes Sr. and Jr. did not understand it properly. I can imagine the mess the Bushes would have done in Libya sending the Cavalry for sure.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU "},{"Title":"Rips Fake Leg Off Cocainum!!! Awesome, just awesome!","Date":"10 July 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Very cool and a lot of fun, Red Heat is a very solid entry in late 80's action movies. Arnold Schwarzenegger is perfectly cast as Danko a Russian cop who goes to the USA to capture the man who killed his partner. He is assisted by Ridzik a tough American cop, who doesn't care about rules, played superbly by James Belushi. Belushi and Arnold have great chemistry and the script takes full advantage of the culture clash you would expect with Danko being serious and tough and Belushi more of a loud mouth American cowboy. They play off each other and it works wonderfully. A word of praise to Ed O'Ross who really nails the villain and makes Viktor Rosta an admirable foe for Danko. Also keep an eye out for a very young Laurence Fishburne in a supporting role and Gina Gershon from Showgirls infamy. The script is tight, with loads of cool one-liners and a steady stream of action, all very well directed by Walter Hill. This is just a perfect choice for fans of cheesy 80's action. It has it all, from Arnold in great shape, to a menacing cool villain, gun fights, naked fist fights in the snow (got to love the 80's) and everything else you could expect from the genre. It could have benefited from a bigger body count and a bit more action in the middle, and its not great in the skin department, even if there is some nudity from some female extras, so its not a masterpiece and you can find better in Arnold's career but its a safe choice for an afternoon of cheesy awesomeness. Just plain old fun. "},{"Title":"Jackie Burch casting is perfect","Date":"8 September 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Walterhill is on directing form in this Arnold Schwarzenegger action flick. Red Heat despite some political shifts still holds up today. Schwarzenegger looks leaner and meaner than ever in the role of Ivan Danko a Captain who is sent to the U.S.A to bring back fleeing Russian drug dealer back to Moscow assisted by Det. Sgt. Art Ridzik (James Belushi).The supporting cast are an array of familiar faces including Gina Gershon, Laurence Fishburne and Peter Boyle. Ed O'Ross is convincing as the menacing drug dealer Viktor. Jackie Burch casting is perfect, Schwarzenegger's Danko character is the just right as the fish out water Russian and James Belushi is on top form as the wise cracking cynical detective, it's the perfect 'buddy' cop movie. The one liners flow fast at the expense of the culture differences between the USA and USSR.Aside from James Horners rehashed music score from another Arnold Schwarzenegger vehicle, Commando (1985), Red Heat feels original and surpasses predecessors, setting the foundation for many copycat films that followed.There's a witty script but it's far meatier than your average action film, befitting from a shot on location feel, giving it some believability and atmosphere.All in all it's a better than expected, an enjoyable action film with Arnold in his prime. "},{"Title":"Buddy cop movie, nothing new, but still works.","Date":"9 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This movie is just your typical pairing of two different officers to solve a crime, but it works mainly thanks to Arnold and Belushi's presence in the film. Arnold is an officer from Russia looking to get at an escaped drug dealer that made him look like a fool. Jim Belushi is a cop from Chicago that forms an unlikely pairing with the Russian to catch said drug dealer. Cue the action and the funny lines in this one. Jim is more of the comedy guy and Arnold is the action guy, but that is not all that surprising. Their pairing does work well as this movie was interesting thanks in part to them. The story is really nothing new and not one of Arnold's finest films, but usually anything with him in it that is not strictly a comedy is enjoyable to watch. There is just something about watching the Austrian go around killing and beating up the bad guy so much fun. Belushi is good too though, I liked him in a couple of other movies too and I feel he does not get enough praise for his acting ability. Both make this a good movie that is nothing you have not seen before, but these days you usually do not see this type of movie at all. "},{"Title":"I'm gonna get us something from all four food groups hamburgers, french fries, coffee and donuts.","Date":"30 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This is a familiar formula. We saw it done very effectively in 48 Hours.Belushi is certainly no Eddie Murphy, but he does the job of a slob cop well.Schwarzenegger is dead on a Russian cop that is all business. He is like a guided missile heading direct to his target, and god help anyone that gets in his way.There is not a lot of plot; there isn't supposed to be. The idea is watching the two opposites play off each other, and hope for lots of laughs, along with the fights, chase scenes and gun play.Director Walter Hill gave us 48 Hours, and he doesn't duplicate his previous movie here.We can't end this without mentioning Gina Gershon. She didn't have a huge part, but I always enjoy watching her. Maybe they could have added Jennifer Tilly to spice it up. "}{"Title":"great odd couple buddy cop movie(east vs west)","Date":"2 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" if you like buddy cop movies,you should like this one.the film stars Arnie as strait laced, no nonsense Moscow detective Captain Ivan Danko,who must team up with loose cannon,goof ball,undisciplined Chicago cop Sgt.Art Ridzik(James Belushi). i won't give away why they have to team up.i'll let you watch the movie to find out yourself.these two are about as mismatched a pair as possible.the movie is ripe with misunderstandings and comedic moments owing to the different tactics each employ on the case.Belushi and Arnie work great off each other.this is really a fun movie.in my mind,it's better than that other buddy movie 48 Hours which pairs up Nick Nolte and Eddie Murphy.if you like that movie,i can't see how you would not like Red Heat.one of the elements that make this film work is the fact it takes place in 1988,where the political climate between Russia and the U.S was much different than today.anyway,for me,this movie is funny,action packed and all around entertaining.i give Red Heat 8/10 "},{"Title":"Review By starwarskid1992","Date":"2 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Red Heat, the first and only Arnold Schwarzenegger buddy-cop film.The Oak is a Russian cop named Ivan Danko who comes to Chicago to bring back a drug dealer, Viktor (Ed O' Ross). Art Ridzik (Jim Beushi) has to babysit Danko after his partner gets killed. Danko and Ridzik begin to like each other while hunting Viktor and end up having to stop a major drug deal.Red Heat is an underrated masterpiece, mainly because it's trashed for being a rip-off of 48 Hrs.The bus chase is something that was remembered from this movie. Jim Beushi is also great comic relief.I give a 5 out of 5 "},{"Title":"Quick Reviews!!","Date":"23 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Another of Arnie's minor 80's hits which sees him play a KGB agent who must team up with wise-cracking Art played by James Belushi to find an escaped Russian drug dealer. There is plenty of comedy between the two, Arnie keeps his most stern face, and the action is OK. It just lacks the real spark or something special which made his classics...special classics...The cast is pretty good, with Fishbourne and Gershon giving good support and O'Ross is an average bad guy. The plot is basic, and the script is good but there is not enough action to keep the film moving at a fast pace. Some good one-liners, and it is all light-hearted, but this was the time of buddy movies, and there are better-Arnie himself has made better. It is true that Arnie is beginning to show his comic side- he is a funny guy, and would go on to make both better action movies, and comedies. Arnie fans will enjoy it, others will find some entertainment from it, but it has few memorable moments to keep us watching again and again.6.5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Vulgar, Violent, but some good ideas","Date":"29 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  In this pastiche of cliches and jumble of ideas, beyond the hodgepodge of swear words, bullet holes, and fight scenes, are two interesting philosophies 1) that both communism and capitalism cannot withstand the pressures of criminal enterprise because both communism and capitalism are flawed ideologies; and 2) that the criminal element is as easily contained as knocking off the head of the monster.  Granted, both of these philosophies are barely advanced in the plot and script, but the thoughtful viewer can discern it for himself.  Because of this, I found this rather pedestrian film to be of interest, since I am interested in socio-political ideas, especially the idea of waking the sleeping giant within society, i.e., you and me.  Will this film lead to provocative exchange of ideas? Unlikely.  So, let's move on to the action part of this movie SPOILERS AHEAD....... there are a couple of half-way-interesting gunfights, a bus chase scene which involves both Russians squaring off, and some limited fight scenes involving Ah-nold.  The tough-guy dialogue is fairly lame, although Victor comes off as a pretty scary character.  Jim Belushi has a field day with wisecracks and puts a wicked punctuation on each line of script, but the writing in this department is hit-and-miss.  Arnold does little more than predate his android antics in Terminator-- in fact, one bloody scene has Schwarzenegger hauntingly resembling T2.  All in all, I guess I'd give this movie a 7 and may watch it again. "},{"Title":"Nothing special, but fun. It's got comedy, thrills, and action. With friction like this, you're bound to get RED HEAT!","Date":"7 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Red Heat stars Arnold Schwarzenegger as a Russian cop, sent to America to hunt down a deadly Russian drug lord. James Belushi is teamed as Schwarzenegger's partner, and Belushi's character is the opposite of Schwarznegger. He doesn't follow standard procedure; he speaks exactly what's on his mind, and does things basically the dumb way. Mixed with action, thrills and comedy, Red Heat has enough fun in it to keep you entertained two hours.  Arnold Schwarzenegger breaks away from his basic roles before this film. He had played an indestructible cyborg, an invincible Conan the Barbarian, and an elite military leader in Columbian jungles. If you had to compare this character to any other, it is most like Dutch Schaefer from 'Predator' James Belushi plays his normal role, but once again, James is funny, which is exactly what we want in a film like this. People compare him to his deceased brother John, but what people do not realize is, he is not his brother, and with that aside I think more people would really realize he is funny. If only they would open their eyes. Peter Boyle and Laurence Fishbourne co-star, giving some comedy vets (Boyle) and new actors (Fishbourne) a chance for something decent. Red Heat is not your basic cop-buddy film, which makes it unique. It does not have cheap gimmicks, and halfhearted laughs. It has the perfect blend of action, thriller, and comedy, all with enough friction together to create Red Heat. If you like the cop-buddy genre, you will really enjoy Red Heat. It is by no means great, but it packs a wallop, and it is as entertaining as a cop-buddy film can go. Schwarzenegger and Belushi form a good chemistry, and that is almost always the most important thing to make a comedy good. You must have good chemistry, especially in a cop-buddy film, and Red Heat has it. Have a good, fun time watching Red Heat. I recommend it to you. It is not great, but fun entertainment. And that is exactly what I want out of a film like Red Heat. 3/5 STARS-JOHN ULMERRed Heat is rated R for Violence and Language.  "},{"Title":"The first 1/2 is great, the 2nd one fades into oblivion","Date":"1 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The thing with action comedies is that they always start off good, they amuse and entertain, but at the ending, when the good guys have to kill the bad guys, always turn into very bad movies and the supposed action part of the movie always disappoints. Always. This was the case with the otherwise brilliant Bas Boys, the Lethal Weapon series, Bird on a wire, and countless others.This one is no exception. The first half is highly enjoyable, delivering many memorable scenes and dialogues between the two cops. The acting is good and Belushi steals the show.  But as I was watching it I couldn't help but dread how the movie was going to end.  I knew that they would end it with no climax, rather a downfall, killing the bad guy quickly and in a typically boring fashion. Because of this the movie fails to uphold it's tempo and ends rather badly. What is the deal with these movies. Is there a rule I am not aware of.Otherwise an excellent movie.      6/10   "},{"Title":"One of the first but most original cop buddy movies","Date":"28 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Whilst this movie has many stereotypes, with Arnie in his terminator 1 role and James Belushi running through wise crack lines at one a minute, I liked this film a lot.  The initial part in Russia was a stylish backdrop, and the action sequences such as the greyhound bus sequence and the shootouts were well done.  I think this ranks as one of the best of its genre compared with 48 Hours, Black Rain and Beverly Hills Cop. "},{"Title":"Russian cop and very funny Chicago cop hunt the bad guy","Date":"29 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Although there may be better films with a very similar storyline I can't think of one right now.  Arnold may not come across as a Russian cop as well as other actors could, but Jim Belushi makes one hell of a Chicago cop assigned to help Arnold.  Anything that can go wrong does usually in a humorous way.  I thought the bad guy (Ed O'Ross) portrayed a Russian criminal very well!One thing puzzles me at the end Arnold is standing in Red Square in his uniform.  Then there is a dedication to Bennie Dobbins.  I know he was a stuntman and director of stuntmen but I wonder if he died during the making of the movie. Does anyone know?  "},{"Title":"Good Arnold movie","Date":"8 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This Arnold is actually quite different than his other films.It has action and a good plot.Arnold was good,James Belushi was funny,Peter Boyle performed good,and Ed O'Ross played a cool bad @$$ villain and looked really rugged!The then Larry now Laurence Fishburne was good.Gina Gershon was good and played a different role than her one in Out For Justice.Kurt Fuller didn't have a big part but it was really cool to see Sven-Ole Thorsen in yet another Arnold movie and he has a short but awseome fist fight in the beginning with Arnold!The music by James Horner is very good!Red Heat is a good movie and if you like the above mention cast and haven't seen it then rent it or even buy it because its worth it!Other Arnold recommendations ConanThe Barbarian,Conan The Destroyer,Red Sonja,The Terminator, Terminator 2 Judgment Day,The Running Man,Raw Deal,Commando,Predator,Total Recall,Kindergarten Cop,Last Action Hero,True Lies,Eraser,Jingle All the Way ,Batman and Robin,The 6th Day,and Collateral Damage!  "},{"Title":"Arnold Schwarznegger and Laurence Fishburne","Date":"26 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  After riding the crest of the waves with 'Dream Warriors', Laurence Fishburne was cast alongside Arnold Schwarznegger in 'Red Heat' who had previous successes like 'Conan the Barbarian', 'Commando' and 'Terminator'. Audiences were just swallowing up action movies in the late 80's, and Fishburne was riding the crest of the waves in order to pad out his c.v. "}{"Title":"Red Meltdown,","Date":"16 August 2003","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I can't understand why this gets any good reviews. This is a Red Turkey! Arnold acts (I'm sure it's on purpose) as the Terminator/Red cop. His co-star isn't a good actor, at all. But what really stinks about it, is the writing. F this, F that & most of the humor is forced & falls flat.  "},{"Title":"With this many cliches, there's got to be a bad director behind it all...WALTER HILL!","Date":"19 January 2004","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Red Heat is a by-the-numbers cop-buddy film, complete with over-exaggerated stunts, big-budget car chases, and a climatic hero-vs. -baddie showdown. Only this time, it's Russian style.The first film ever filmed in Moscow's famed Red Square, Red Heat is about a Russian cop named Ivan Danko (Arnold Schwarzenegger) who joins forces with Chicago's craziest cop, Art Ridzik (James Belushi), in an effort to bring down a Russian drug smuggler named Viktor (Ed O'Ross) who is sneaking drugs in the United States.Ridzik is what I refer to as the Martin Riggs Cliché He's the trigger-happy, irreverent, carefree cop who does whatever it takes to get the job done.What Riggs is to Ridzik, Roger Murtaugh is to Ivan Danko. I expected to hear him say the family equivalent of Murtaugh's tagline at any moment I'm too old for this stuff. Maybe it's the routine.Red Heat is fun, to a certain extent, but it's a bad movie. James Belushi is a funny guy, and he certainly carries whatever there is to carry in this film with the help of Arnie, who does his best impression of a Russian Terminator. In fact, maybe the secret to be revealed in Red Heat 2 is that he was a T-R (Terminator-Russian) all along, sent back through time to eliminate Viktor before he enslaved mankind.Maybe not.Peter Boyle (Wizard from Taxi Driver) pops up a few times throughout the film as the Chief of Police in Chicago, as well as Laurence Fishburne in a pre-Matrix role. Boyle is the guy who yells at the cops for making mistakes and costing the force thousands of dollars for a simple careless event. Fishburne is the cop who hates Belushi and rolls his eyes a lot.Speaking of actors, Arnold Schwarzenegger is an underrated action hero. Why? Because people like to make fun of his acting skills, unable to open their eyes and see the performances he gave in films such as Total Recall and Predator (okay, not really a great performance, but certainly better than one Sly Stallone would give). Hey, he does a lot of muscle flexing in his movies, and the so-called acting in Hercules in New York was atrocious, but the guy has an undeniable charm and talent that separates him from Sly and Van Damme and even Willis. To prove his skills were more than just being able to rip off his shirt and shoot people, he took a daring role in Total Recall -- a role Patrick Swayze was once signed on to -- and showed that he could play Average Joes. Well, muscular Average Joes.James Belushi is a funny guy, too, and he is underrated because too many people compare him to his late brother, John, from Saturday Night Live and The Blues Brothers. Well, okay, he's not exactly the same -- but I still think he's very funny and rather good at playing the lazy, under/overwhelmed characters.Walter Hill, the really bad action director who made a few good films during the 80s, but mostly a bunch of bad, clichéd ones, directed the film. (He also wrote the terrible Alien3.) He's a good action director, when given the proper material, but he's no James Cameron or John McTiernan or Renny Harlin -- he just borrows from the maestros. In an interview, he claimed that he had wanted to work with Schwarzenegger for a long time, and wanted to make him into a vulnerable, human character for once -- one of the likes that Arnie had never played before. Hmm...didn't he see Raw Deal? I guess not.Walter Hill Are all the clichés in place? Loose cannon cop who doesn't have a reason to live (check!), straight cop who doesn't take any BS (check!); gruff Chief of Police (check!), eye-rolling sidekick (check!), big explosions (check!), lots of fist-fights (check!), lots of sex and nudity (check!), lots of coarse language like *Bleep* yo' mamma (check!), lots of bare muscular chests (check!), a sentimental ending with all the aspirations of being the next Midnight Run or Planes, Trains and Automobiles (check!). Hey, it looks like everything is in place, then! Roll camera!I own this film on DVD and watch it very rarely. Compared to Lethal Weapon or The Hard Way, this movie is a complete failure. And compared to The Terminator or Total Recall, it ranks as one of Arnie's worst efforts. But hey, it's a lot better than Batman and Robin. And at least this one is fun -- in its own sort of way.If it's on TV, give it a go. It has some redeeming qualities, if only a small amount.3/5 stars.- John Ulmer "},{"Title":"This movie proves that communism is more effective than capitalism","Date":"6 September 1999","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is one of the best action movies created during the cold war era.  Red Heat is one of the few movies to show the Soviet Union in a positive light.  I liked this movie because it showed how the soviet system was much more effective. "},{"Title":"Red Heat is brilliantly executed action goodness.","Date":"29 November 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" We need some pretty major differences to justify why it is so zany and unlikely that these guys should end up partners, let alone becoming *Sigh* friends.Well how about strait-laced regimented by the book Russian cop Vs slobby, disorganised What's a book American? And did I mention that for decades Americans and Russians HATED each other with a passion.And now these guys are partners? Wa-Heyyy. (I think Americans actually watched only because they knew Schwarzenneger wasn't actually a Russian. Or maybe they thought he'd get shot? Whatever.)Arnold Schwarzenegger is Russian cop Ivan Danko, and James Belushi is American cop Art Ritzig. When this was released Arnold's star was well on the rise, with Terminator, The Running Man, Commando and Predator already behind him, and Belushi wasn't well enough known to be annoying yet. Arnold nabs a nasty drug dealing murderer in Russia after a lengthy operation that costs Arnold a friend and the naughty Russian (sounds like a drink) his brother.The naughty Russian, named Viktor Rostavilli (Viktor from now on) flees to the United States to broker an even bigger drug deal, only he is nabbed on a trivial crime and held for extradition. The Russian bigwigs hand pick Danko to go and personally escort him back.In the States, specifically Chicago, Ritzig is given the shitty assignment of ferrying Danko around to make sure things go smoothly, which simply can't happen or we wouldn't have a movie right?So, in order* Viktor escapes with the help of a drug syndicate called the Cleanheads.* Danko secures a key that is vital to the drug deal.* Viktor wants the key. Danko wants Viktor.* The Chicago police are content (initially) to let Danko stomp around Chicago trying to nab Viktor, thinking he will do their work for them and keep Ritzig out of their hair for a while&#x85;Of course Danko and Ritzig end up spending half the movie shooting at, and chasing bad guys all over Chicago, destroying much of the background scenery in the process.The strength of Red Heat over say Commando, is that Danko is not a wisecracking superhero, he is an efficient by the book cop, playing the straight man to much of Ritzig's rambling and sarcasm. The two have many exchanges that are amusing for the fact that they aren't usually on the same wavelength, Danko can't seem to grasp what Ritzig is either worried about or trying to say, and Ritzig can't understand why Danko doesn't think more like him, (as do all Americans). There is Rush Hour level marginally racist banter that runs back and forth, and the differences in the two cultures are highlighted again and again for comic relief and contrast, though never too much so that someone might get offended. In all the movie is actually quite funny, Danko gets his straight lines right so they are humorous and Belushi proves he can be funny, something that several seasons of According to Jim seems to dispute.The action scenes are great, guys point guns and shoot instead of triple backflipping on rollerblades while throwing ninja stars. (Or whatever is deemed cool at present, right now it seems to be the building jumping thing called parcourt, a couple years ago it was C4 explosives etc.) So we get the satisfying sight of watching the bad guys get shot, falling over and dying, always good when the purpose of the movie is to kill bad guys.The supporting cast is brilliant, this was the day when the filmmakers didn't just settle for it stars (reality TV actors, various Kardashians) and chose career actors, hence we get Peter Boyle and Laurence (don't call me Larry) Fishburne as cops, Gina Gershon as a women caught up in between and multiple other oh it's that guy bit parts. Best of all is Ed O'Ross as Viktor, he is a genuinely menacing bad guy, and because he doesn't ham it up or try to stand out he a great nemesis for Danko, he also has an accent so genuine that you wouldn't know he is actually an American actor. Although since I have seen this film recently I actually recognised him in a couple of other 80s films, from memory The Hidden and Another 48 Hours.Final Rating &#x96; 9 / 10. All the classic ingredients are here. A mismatched duo, a real bad guy, and the right mix of action and humour. Red Heat is the sh*t, and has been severely underrated over the years in favour of your Lethal Weapons and countless imitators.If you liked this review (or even if you didn't) check out oneguyrambling.com "},{"Title":"The best depiction of USSR of its time","Date":"14 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I first saw this movie in 1990 in the Soviet Union (I was born and grew up there). Prior to watching this movie I had seen other cinematic depictions of Russians or Soviets by Hollywood mostly, villains on horses with big red stars on their hats, wearing ancient uniforms (of 1920's) and armed with spears. It was laughable! Red Heat was altogether different in its depiction of the Russian culture - quite a bit more realistic. Of course, some scenes were just fictional inventions (like the opening scene in the baths), but the overall impression was very close to reality. I love this movie, and have watched it dozens of times and watch it regularly to this day. I would also like to point out a mistake in one of the descriptions on this site To my knowledge the permit to film the Red Square scene(s) was denied, so the crew had to sneak-film it. They dressed Arnold up in the uniform and filmed him as though making an amateur/home movie with just a couple of crew people present. "},{"Title":"boring lethal weapon rip-off","Date":"18 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I've got to be honest i actually quite liked this when i was a kid. Being only eight year's old at the time,i'd watch any arnie film. But time's change,and arnie's starting to become old hat nowdays and like sly stalone,he isn't the shining star he once was. In the eighties,arnie was so popular,his fan's would watch any old rubbish he was in,and this was one of those films. There's no screen cemestry between arnie and belushi(this is a buddy movie after all) ,there's very little action and the action that's in the film is pretty routine,including some fight scene's with some of the most over the top punching sound effects i have ever heard. Pretty dire all in all.RATING **/***** "},{"Title":"Stale","Date":"10 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  There has been too many cop films, but I can explain why this one dies. Not a bad film, but it's a copy of Lethal Weapon formula; of two different types of police partners.  It's a did that, done it before type of film.  With no surprises, and the typical big ending.  It's well directed, and acted, but the story kills this one. "},{"Title":"Another in a long line ...","Date":"20 April 2001","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Of terrible 1980s Arnie films.  The only really redeeming factor of Red Heat is the occasionally poignant wisecracking of Belushi.Perhaps the best moment was during the very silly high speed bus chase, when Belushi comes up with Do you know what this is called?  Chicken -- except you're not supposed to play it with busesWatch it for a silly night in on video, if you take it seriously you're obviously a complete muppet!  Now, where's my bottle of cheap £2 vodka... "},{"Title":"Worst Arnold Movie Ever","Date":"7 August 2006","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Now don't get me wrong, I love Arnold. He is my Governor (although I'm not THAT proud of that) and a great action actor. I have a collection of about 13 of his twenty-something movies, and Red Heat is by far the worst. Considering Arnold can't play an American at all, he is playing a Russian even more horribly. Jim Belushi isn't that much better either. The movie is also pretty boring, it's not the usual Arnold flick in which he is carrying ridiculous-sized automatic weapons and shooting baddies without mercy. He is carrying a weak pistol shooting at clean-heads while praising mother Russia with his new best friend. Yeah, it's that bad.I've given all of his movies at least a 6 or 7 (even Hercules in New York for its sheer comical value). I suggest checking out some of his other underrated movies like Raw Deal and The Running Man. "},{"Title":"Red Heat","Date":"8 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Apparently this was the film not long before the ex-bodybuilder movie star became a superstar, and it is quite a good one. Basically Russian policeman Captain Ivan Danko (Arnold Schwarzenegger) is sent after a Russian drug dealer, named Viktor Rostavili (Ed O'Ross), who has escaped to the United States. He is paired up with temporary partner, loud-mouthed Det Sgt Art Ridzik (James Belushi) to catch this Viktor. There is good support from the co-stars, including Peter Boyle as Lou Donnelly, The Matrix's Laurence Fishburne as Lieutenant Stobbs and Bound's Gina Gershon as Catherine Manzetti. The film might not have the greatest plot, but the disagreeing partnership of Schwarzenegger and Belushi, and many chase sequences make it a very intriguing action thriller, with some small giggles thrown in. Good! "}]