[{"Title":"That's enough! No more PA for me.","Date":"27 January 2007","Score":"10 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" The first Police Academy movie was good. The second one was interesting. The third and fourth were forgettable. But this one is abysmal. Note to the producers this is suppose to be funny. There's a few scenes that merit a smile, but the movie is generally boring. Great to see Harris and Lessard, but I miss Mahoney and Sweetchuck. Thank God it's got a short running time. And thank God I got it for free at my local library. This is it for me folks, I'll stop at the 5th installment of the series and leave the rest to those who want to waste their time. Seen at home, in Toronto, on January 21st, 2007.54/100 (BOMB) "},{"Title":"The academy failing even more than earlier!","Date":"9 March 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I really don't get it with these movies; thought the makers that after so many bad movies that THIS, this fifth would really break threw with it's extremely original story and laughs - well, no.The movies don't get a bit better, they just keep getting worse. The laughs are so childish, so boring and stupid that it's very difficult seeing the fun in this at times. The characters that were in the first one original and entertaining, hasn't grown one day older and it gets stuck. It doesn't leap forward, nothing really interesting or entertaining happens, so it's just so fabulously bad! The whole Police Academy thing isn't that an awful idea, but it's the way that they simply kept stretching the limits of the whole plot. The thing gets really silly, really childish and awfully bad, and what's with the thing that always the makers wants to have this new, bad thing popping up at the end? "},{"Title":"Laughter Academy!","Date":"2 October 2007","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This film had me in stitches!!! Literally. In my outrage at how awful the film was, I left the cinema early, grumbling and grasping around in the darkened auditorium. I passed a famous golfer who was sitting in my aisle, however I slipped on one of his loose golf balls and tumbled to the floor. The whole cinema audience started laughing! They were pleased that they had gained at least one laugh from their miserable experience. Such a shame that a man breaking his back in real life is funnier than Police Academy 5. I was visited by the golfer some months later, he arrived at my hospital ward. He had brought me some grapes and a copy of Police Academy 7... "},{"Title":"Deplorable","Date":"6 September 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" It's a tiresome continuation of the same depressingly futile, execrable material that plagued the series from #3. A hopeless pantomime consisting of extended camp chases, the Captain being coated in various effluvia, oafs falling over and so forth. The PG certificate squeezes out the raunchy spirit which enlivened the original.The Alzheimer-ish buffoon Commandant Lassard is propelled to the fore with no effect upon the quality, which would be laudable if there was any. Guttenberg's libidinous, puerile cretin character, Mahoney, is missing yet unmissed. The rest of the shamelessly worthless crew are back exhibiting timing which would embarrass a wristwatch from the Poundshop. "},{"Title":"Michael Winslow becomes the Miami Sound Machine while the gang try to catch more than just rays.","Date":"28 October 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" If you're a fan of the Police Academy movies, or even if you've just been forced to endure them for reasons you'd rather not go into, then the fifth film in the series isn't the worst film you'll ever see. It's not the worst film in the series. It is certainly below average though.Most of the gang return, though this is the first instalment without Steve Guttenberg or his character (Mahoney) in the mix, and this time the flimsy plot concerns Commandant Lassard (George Gaynes) heading to sunny Miami for a tribute to his good work. He takes along the regular cast members and also manages to pick up the wrong luggage at some point, luggage that belongs to some incompetent robbers who would really like to get their stolen goods back.I'd be lying if I said that I didn't chuckle on a few occasions while watching this movie but the laughs came despite the obvious, weak gags. Familiarity doesn't always breed contempt though I'm sure others completely disagree with me on that point. Although they're looking a bit tired by now, Michael Winslow, Marion Ramsey, David Graf, Bubba Smith, Leslie Easterbrook, G. W. Bailey, Lance Kinsey and even George R. Robertson (who played Chief/Commissioner Hurst in six of the movies) still manage to coast along with their portrayal of characters that audiences have grown to enjoy spending time with. Matt McCoy as Nick Lassard (the commandant's nephew) is a major weak link, just too bland to prove an able replacement for the character of Mahoney, but Rene Auberjonois almost makes up for this in the last half hour or so when his villain gets to engage in some great banter while trying to evade capture.Writer Stephen Curwick and director Alan Myerson both fail to bring anything worthwhile to the series. The former provides a limp script that works best when rehashing the gags we've all seen before while the latter just doesn't put any real effort into the execution of the material. But, then again, who could come in at this point and make the whole thing feel fresh and new again? Probably nobody, which tells you all you need to know about how much mileage there was to be had in the first place. "},{"Title":"I shat myself watching this one. It was great!","Date":"28 March 2012","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Amusing golf ball slippage indeed. I split my pant laughing. Funny noise man- I shat myself. Tall man - I burst my kidney. Quiet woman who shouts at the end - I leaked urine with laughter. Gun man who likes guns - I burst my colon and shat myself so amusing.This was was notable for the silly men slipping on golf balls and for Captain Harris' trouser falling down in the airport.I am laughing still. Laughing, soiling, leaking urine and reminiscing about this pant splitter of a movie. I love it.I shall recommend it to all of you as one big mother of a pant splitter. You will laugh, cry, soil, split and above all leak at this movie. "},{"Title":"I just soiled my trouser laughing.","Date":"12 September 2011","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Goodness me, this is probably the funniest film I have seen since Police Academy 4, which I watched immediately before this. I cannot describe how pant sh*ttingly amusing this film is. Several times during watching it, I swear I sh*t my pants laughing. I accidentally ripped my trouser in my fit of joviality.I sh*t bricks, leaked urine and gained a pain in my jaw from my incessant grinning and trouser splitting jollification.Kubrick couldn't have done a better job with this. Directed by Kubrick, this would have been a grey, stagnant and cold piece with little thought for characters slipping on golf balls and such.What a beautiful, valid piece of cinema. This had to be seen in the cinema as mass laughter is better than solitary laughter in your living room. The audience virtually burst my eardrums in the cinema. It was incredible. Lots of people, all ripping and soiling their trousers due to expanded stomachs and gasping for air, due to jollification and leaking urine in unison.I'll never forget this one. "},{"Title":"Wasn't Nearly as Bad as It Could Have Been","Date":"27 February 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This movie begins with Captain Harris (G. W. Bailey) and his mindless subordinate, Proctor (Lance Kinsey) breaking into the office of Commandant Lassard (George Gaynes) in search of anything that might be used to their advantage. What they discover is a document which contains information that the Commandant has reached an age which mandates his retirement. Needless to say, this news comes as a very, very welcome surprise to Captain Harris--to the extent that even the announcement of the Commandant being selected as the Police Officer of the Year doesn't disturb him in the least. If anything, it spurs Captain Harris to fly to Miami Beach where the award is to be presented so that he can hob-nob with the police commissioner in order to further his ambitions of becoming successor to Commandant Lassard. Now rather than reveal any more I will just say that this film suffers from not having either Steve Guttenberg (who played Officer Mahoney) or my personal favorite, Bobcat Goldthwait (Zed) in it. Fortunately, Matt McCoy (as Nick) managed to fill the vacancy of Steve Guttenberg to a certain degree and some of the other characters&#x97;most notably Leslie Easterbrook (Officer Callahan) and the afore-mentioned George Gaynes&#x97;managed to step up a bit as well. So it wasn't nearly as bad as it could have been. Even so, being the 5th movie of the series this film still had a hard time duplicating the success of the first or second pictures and as a result I have rated it accordingly. Slightly below average. "},{"Title":"Police Academy 5 Assignment Miami Beach","Date":"23 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Fifth times a charm? well actually this film does get back on track somewhat after the terrible fourth. The first Academy film without Guttenberg as the wet ass Mahoney, so we get another Mahoney-esque character in Nick Lassard...cos they need that all round good looking good guy who pesters/stalks the sexy women in these films.The plot is quite straight forward as usual, Cmdt Lassard is up for retirement (after Harris brought it to everyone's attention) and is being given a heroes send off in Miami. So off he goes with his regular band of loyal officers. Everything gets spoilt though when an accidental bag switch with some criminals equals Lassard having some stolen jewels and the criminals getting his pet goldfish.While this still continues the trend of a PG film there is still a reasonable amount of fun to be had with the highjinx. The plot being set in Miami of course equals lots of obligatory tanned ladies in bikini's and clichéd poolside slapstick. While its not dirty or seedy its relatively easy going and watchable which is surprisingly really. I think this film is much closer to a Pink Panther type film with the trio of incompetent criminals trying to nab Lassard's bag, that combined with the standard predictable pranks on Harris.Once again though we have the repetitive training aspect of these films...yes again. Because the guys are at a convention for Lassard's award there is yet more police procedural demonstrations which once again gives all the characters the chance to demonstrate their quirky skills. Tackleberry and his guns, voice commands with Hooks....do I really need to go through this again? The only new addition to the team this time is Thacker as Conklin from the previous film, as you may have already guessed his huge weight comes into effect for some visual gags.This time around its actually the bad guys that save the day in my opinion. Usually its Harris and Proctor who are still good fun here but the trio of crooks are admittedly amusing. There is a really nice air of quality slapstick with these guys, especially the boss played by Rene Auberjonois whose obsession with his hair and nasal voice make for a perfect greasy bad guy. His two sidekicks are both kinda dumb and your standard heavy handed mobster types but there is a credible Three Stooges act going on there.This doesn't excuse a lot of childish crap though, you know they are starting to scrape the bottom of the barrel when they actually use a fart in the elevator joke. Then there's the old drugged unconscious gag with Harris, setting his straw hat on fire, writing 'dork' on his chest with sunblock and a really nasty 'Jaws' send up.The finale is yet again another chase sequence on water (clearly run out of ideas) with all the predictable stuff that you'd expect to see on water. Again it does look good as a visual spectacle as do most of the PA chase sequences, but its so very hollow and comes across more like a stunt man's show. Everything is tied up in a neat little bow with Lassard being allowed to carry on for another hundred years or so despite the fact he's useless and all is good with the world again.Its very very bland and very very hokey, most of it is performed and filmed like an instructional video on how to make (attempt) slapstick, but from the third film onwards we know that don't we. Despite all that its a fairly enjoyable romp and is certainly better than the fourth film, at least we get a breath of fresh air with the location. I do like how they do the films titles each time though, quite like this one in particular.5/10 "},{"Title":"There ought to be a law!","Date":"5 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Crossed up by Harris, our heroes - led by a wimpy Bobby Sherman look-a-like - must clean up his mess and rescue Lassard. As every second counts, what do they do? Coordinate with Miami PD and the FBI? Heck, no! They change into Police Academy shorts and t-shirts! This and the very idea of Lassard as Officer of the Decade is fair warning you better check your brain at the door before watching PA 5 or your head will explode! Of course, if our heroes had any brains, they (and Harris) would be ecstatic that someone was actually stupid enough to take Lassard off of their hands! Too bad the movie is so lame, because it's actually ahead of its time Harris never goes anywhere without Proctor; Harris mocks Proctor's pass at a woman; Harris and Proctor get foam on their noses while sipping potato coladas; Proctor wears a wet suit showing his ass-ests; the wimpy Bobby Sherman look-a-like becomes Wayne Gretzky's ball-busting fiancée's bitch; the Bobby Sherman look-a-like writes on Harris with semen-like sunblock. There ought to be a law! Hee! Hee! "}{"Title":"Police Academy 5 Assignment Miami Beach","Date":"29 September 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" As with the previous three sequels, this one is no different, the first is still the best, and there are pretty much no moments that make you laugh. Basically head of the police academy Cmndt. Eric Lassard (George Gaynes) has reached retirement age, to the delight of Capt. Thaddeus Harris (G.W. Bailey), planning to take over his job, but not before Lassard receiver a prestigious lifetime award in Miami, Florida. Accompanying Lassard (and Harris) are ex-graduates Sgt. Moses Hightower (Bubba Smith), Sgt. Larvelle Jones (Michael Winslow), Sgt. Eugene Tackleberry (David Graf), Lt. Debbie Callahan (Leslie Easterbrook) and Sgt. Laverne Hooks (Marion Ramsey). Unfortunately in the arrivals of the airport, Lassard accidentally swapped his bag with some criminals for an identical bag containing a container of diamonds. After a while of trying to find the bag the bad guys eventually kidnap Lassard, and demand the academy help them get away. Also starring Janet Jones as Kate Stratton, Lance Kinsey as Lt. Proctor, Matt McCoy as Sgt. Nick Lassard, René Auberjonois as Tony Stark, George R. Robertson as Commissioner Hurst, Tab Thacker as Officer Thomas 'House' Conklin, Archie Hahn as Mouse, James Hampton as Mayor of Miami and Jerry Lazarus as Sugar. Steve Guttenberg said a firm no to being in this or any other sequels that may (and did) follow, good choice, this is probably the worst of the sequels, not even the self-made sound effects of Winslow can save it, nothing to laugh at, lovable characters not doing anything exciting, just a complete waste of time. Poor! "},{"Title":"I split my pant laughing.","Date":"16 August 2008","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This movie was very funny. Hilarious pant splitter.I like the golf balls and the silly men falling on them. Very nicely done. Very funny. The policemen go to Miami and have some fun on a beach. I split my pant laughing.They slip on golf balls and hurt themselves. I am laughing now. This is funny. Pant splittingly so.Later, they are swimming in the sea and slip on a golf ball. Three villains are after them all and decide to leave some golf balls on the floor. The silly policemen fall on the golf balls again. Very funny again. I wet my pant laughing. Genius.I am loving this movie. Still laughing at it as I write. Very nice indeed. I must go now, I have ripped my trouser. Damn, I must go now. "},{"Title":"The musical number... ah, the irony...","Date":"24 August 2004","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Approximately halfway into this film... or is it a third of the way? Time seems quite distended and relative when watching any Police Academy film, but the awfulness of PA5 tends to send one into an alternate dimension where seconds seem to take weeks. Kind of like watching the Benny Hinn show with a fantastic hangover in the middle of a hospital ward, in other words.Anyways, at some point in the film, our cast decide to indulge in a limbo-dancing event. As G.W. Bailey and Lance Kinsey lament the fact that the time to fire their agent has well and truly passed, and the rest of the cast seem to celebrate the fact that they get to eat this year, the music in the background repeatedly asks us how low can we go. If that isn't irony, I don't know what is.It is scenes like the one I've just described that Steve Guttenberg and Bobcat Goldthwait obviously read before telling their agent that not working at all was preferable to appearing in this drivel. As we endure endless scenes with extras falling over for no readily apparent reason (although the golf balls sell the illusion effectively enough) or characters tanning the word dork onto each others' chests (and that is about as adult as the humour gets here), one of the great theories about family-friendliness is proven. The makers of Police Academy 5 might have made a Police Academy film that is suitable for four-year-olds to watch, but in so doing, they have made a film that only four-year-olds would want to watch.If your four-year-old is able to read at what we laughingly refer to as an adult level such as I was at that age, they will most likely turn to you when the credits roll and say something along the lines of well that was stupid, wasn't it?.The plot revolves around something that probably should have been done at the end of the last film putting George Gaynes out to pasture. After seeing him in previous Police Academy films and Punky Brewster (often within days of each other), I have a tremendous respect for the man, but he really is just getting too old to do this. By the time Police Academy 8 rolls out, he will be 88. Granted, there are actors who put in great performances at similar ages (Christopher Lee is only about five years his junior), but given that George has started to speak at a rate of about one word an hour, I don't think he's got another film left in him. Getting back to the plot, anyway, as Commandant Lassard is scheduled to retire, Captain Harris senses an opportunity to become Commandant of the Academy, while his old trainees sense an opportunity to pay respect to a man who had quite the positive impact in their lives.It sounds like a very flimsy foundation for a film, and to be quite frank, when you've got writers of this calibre putting it together, it is. As has been said earlier, the suitable-for-all-ages mentality is one element that makes the film boring. The performances are another. George Gaynes, in spite of being so old that you aren't sure anymore that he's pretending to be completely unaware, is the only actor in this mess who *doesn't* phone in his performance.Matt McCoy is a poor substitute for Steve Guttenberg, as is exemplified by the quality of the jokes played on Captain Harris demonstrates. Mahoney wouldn't merely sunburn a word into Harris' chest. We've seen Mahoney smear shoe-polish on a megaphone, cast dispersions on Harris' sexuality, as well as make a laughing stock of the man by spreading the word about an unfortunate accident involving a motorbike and a horse. And that's just in the first film. Sorry, Nick, but to call your effort weak is a form of flattery.All in all, I gave Police Academy 5 a one out of ten. I don't know what is scarier. That they are making a number 8, or that people have actually voted 10 for this load of dung. "},{"Title":"Not A Bad Sequel!","Date":"16 July 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Bubba Smith, Michael Winslow, David Graf, Leslie Easterbrook, Marion Ramsay, Matt McCoy, Janet Jones, Rene Auberjonois, G.W. Bailey, Lance Kinsey and George Gaynes star in this 1988 comedy sequel. Commandant Lassard (Gaynes) is selected to visit Miami, Florida for a convention honoring him as policeman of the decade and learns he has reached the retirement age. He invites cops, Hightower (Smith), Jones (Winslow), Tackleberry (Graf), Callahan (Easterbrook) and Hooks (Ramsay) with him. Harris (Bailey) and Proctor (Kinsey) decide to take a private plane and get into mishaps. The misfits also encounter a jewel thief (Auberjoinois) and his 2 lackeys who kidnap Lassard who thinks it's all a police demonstration, but eventually realizes it's the real deal. McCoy plays Lassard's nephew, Nick who is a cop and Jones plays Kate, a cop who Nick Falls for. This isn't a bad sequel and Rene is great in it. I still recommend this. "},{"Title":"Crap Sequel","Date":"22 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Commandant Lassard is forced to retire when he reaches the state's mandatory retirement age. He heads to Florida to receive a special award for his service and the Academy gang follows along. While there, they meet Lassard's nephew Nick (Matt McCoy), who is a poor replacement for Mahoney.And so here we are the first Police Academy movie without Steve Guttenberg and the first sequel without Bobcat Goldthwait. It's also the first that is completely unfunny and just outright terrible. Although Guttenberg and Bobcat are absent, there are many returning cast members from the series. Bubba Smith, Michael Winslow, David Graf, Leslie Easterbrook, G.W. Bailey, Marion Ramsey, and George Gaynes all return. Sadly, these actors who were all so likable in the series up until now are kind of annoying here. Terrible direction for a series that just gets worse from here on out. "},{"Title":"Not the worst of the bunch","Date":"4 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Assignment Miami Beach is the first one in the franchise that doesn't have Steve Guttenberg, and I've got mixed feelings about that. In one way it's sort of a blessing, because we can finally spend some quality time with Lassard in this one. George Gaynes has always been the best actor of any installment's cast, so it's nice to see a sequel where everything revolves around him. Granted, all he really gets to do is have people fall over a bunch of times, but somehow he still makes it work. On the other hand, the movie clearly misses a decent straight man to counterbalance all the oddballs. I guess that was new guy Matt McCoy's task, but given that the guy has no screen presence whatsoever and barely made the final cut it doesn't quite work. Overall though, I didn't hate this. I mean, they do the same seven or eight bits they do in all the other ones, but here they do them on a different location! Michael Winslow does his Bruce Lee schtick for the fifth time in five movies, but now on a different location! I was sorta surprised Miami didn't have a Blue Oyster Bar, to be honest. Police Academy 5 is not the greatest movie you'll ever see, but it'll give you about what you would expect. "},{"Title":"Police Academy 5 Assignment Miami Beach (1988)","Date":"29 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Choosing plot over simply adding in numerous characters proves to be the downfall of the Police Academy series. Without Guttenberg there's no clear anchor for the film. We get the clichéd and simple (though still charming) side characters in abundance. Matt McCoy tries to fill Guttenberg's shoes, but we're not buying it. Callahan gets a bit more screen time which is always nice, and a Miami setting does her character justice. The final scenes of the series have included foot chases, airplanes, jet skis.etc. So now we have a hovercraft chase. Gaynes has more to do, but people such as Winslow are just on repeat. It's amazing that they will try the kung-fu voice over joke 5 films in a row and expect it to work. Not a difficult watch, and it does have an alligator fight, but this vehicle is low on fuel. "},{"Title":"I thought they almost had it in this film.","Date":"12 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Granted I did not think it was the best comedy ever, I just thought it came closest to being good since the second movie in the series. It had quite a few laughs to make me chuckle, the change of scenery was a nice change of pace too, and I was glad Guttenberg was gone. He was okay, but enough already with almost the entire cast in tow. I also thought the ending with the one guy being kidnapped was a welcome change from previous endings. However, it still needed more work, for one Bubba Smith was never my favorite character yet he gets to much focus now that Guttenberg is gone, the jokes are still repeated to much, and the franchise had way to many sequels in way to short a time span. Also, what is the deal with the typical Tackleberry joke in this one? In the first movie they depict him shooting a cat out of a tree and here they once again have him not shoot something, but just scare it away. I just wanted to see him open fire like he did in the first movie. Still, it had a more interesting plot than the previous two sequels and more laughs, if they maybe took a couple of years to write a story and shoot the film the movie might have been a more polished less repeated jokes movie. "},{"Title":"Not bad at all!","Date":"4 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I got very disappointed when I saw Police Academy 4 Citizens on Patrol. All the characters we got to know in part 2 and 3 suddenly just got too much (ex. Zed). The first PA was greater than great. Part 2 was great. Part 3 were very funny. Part 4 was not that fun at all. So, as you can see it was a downhill. But then I saw Police Academy 5 Assignment Miami Beach. And I laughed. And laughed. And laughed.It didn't matter that there was no Steve Guttenberg. The three best characters in the PA was still there, Hightower, Tackleberry and Jones. The story and the scenario in PA 5 is a great environment for PA. The jokes are in the same class as the first PA. The climax in this movie is so funny you cant stop laughing. Seriously, this is superb!An immediate return to the classic PA-style, better than the last three. The recipe of success was still there when the great movie Police Academy 6 City Under Siege came. That one too is superb. Just too bad that the PAs didn't stop there. Number 7, Mission to Moscow, is just horrible. "},{"Title":"fantastic","Date":"4 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Police academy 5 Assignment Miami Beach was made in 1988, this movie was set in Miami, the police academers had to take another mission to fly to Miami and do their mission there. This i thought was a good movie. I give this movie 10 out of 10. "}{"Title":"not bad at all for the 5th installment","Date":"26 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  sometimes there are movies that come on at 3am that let you rest flipping through the channels...this certainly fits the bill and wasn't disappointment.  the series probably should've died w/ steve guttenberg's departure of the series, but it did not.  so we're left w/ not exactly a masterpiece, but something to pass the time if you're not into an analytical mood. "},{"Title":"too childish now","Date":"16 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Man is this ever aimed at kids.  Jokes dealing with being rolled into a cactus, having dork written on your bare chest, women's breasts rising and falling during a limbo contest, (ok that one's not so bad) Kinsey being dragged on a waterski till his butt is exposed, oh I could go on and on. Gaynes, who had been in the background most of the time in these films, becomes the main focus as he's forced into retirement, but also being honored as police officer of the decade (or was it century?).  As most know, Guttenberg elected to stay away here, and though his character is not replaced with a new actor, Matt McCoy is the goofball/prankster who joins the ranks.  But no matter who is doing the jokes, the writing is just too underpar to keep you grinning.  This does feature the most elaborate chase of any of the other films endings, as they ride air boats through the Florida Everglades, about the only excitement in the whole film. "},{"Title":"Assignment Miami Beach","Date":"23 July 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" OK, I'm starting to see the slump in the police academy sequels, it is number 5, Assignment Miami Beach, where we've lost Steve Guttenberg and the jokes are not as funny as they used to be. Now, don't get me wrong, this movie did make me laugh, but so far this was definitely the more weaker of the sequels. Again, the only thing that makes it worth it though is the original cast members, like Bubba Smith, Michael Winslow, and G.W. Bailey, but it seems like they're almost getting sick of the sequels too. But the story is really weak, that's the downfall, it's just not doing it for me, even though none of the Police Academy movies are realistic, this movie goes above being unrealistic, it has Bubba Smith fighting a crocodile for Pete's sake. Not to mention, not only do they not have Steve Guttenberg back, but there is no Zed or Sweetchuck, I loved those characters.The Class of '84 are going to see their favorite Commandant Lasard get an award for all his hard service in Miami, they are all invited together. But Captain Harris is displeased with his placement and wants to be commandant, so he figures since they are pushing Lasard into retirement, he can be a hero down there, and will do anything to get that promotion he feels he deserves. Off the flight, Lasard gets the wrong bag where he thinks his fish is, but instead has a camera with hidden jewels, not knowing he is being followed by thugs to get the diamonds back.Police Academy 5 Assignment Miami Beach isn't a bad movie by any means, like I said there are still some good laughs in it. I loved how Lasard gets kidnapped, but he thinks it's all part of the program and just goes with it saying to the thugs thank you, you have been a wonderful kidnapper, it was so stupid, but I loved watching him play along. Also Harris is always a blast to watch, he's such a great jerk, you love to hate him, but you still end up wanting him back for more. So if you're going to watch this movie, I'd recommend watching it if you're just looking to finish the sequels, it's the weakest I've seen so far, but still worth a look.4/10 "},{"Title":"Quick Reviews!!","Date":"15 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" For fans of the series, this is the point when it all began to go wrong. Mahoney and Zed jumped ship leaving two massive gaps in the cast, and their replacements are not good enough. Of the remaining cast, most seem bored with the formula, and only Proctor, Lassard and Harris seem to be putting in any effort. It is them that get most laughs. The plot sees the recruits flying to Miami as Lassard is retiring and they are holding a huge celebration for him. When Lassard accidentally takes a stash of diamonds with him, the crooks follow him trying to get their diamonds back before their boss kills them. They eventually kidnap Lassard who thinks it is all part of the celebration, and the cops race to get him back, along with Lassard's nephew Nick. Naturally Harris and Proctor are around to sabotage things.As well as the notable loss of Bobcat and Guttenberg, we are missing Kirkand's family, Sweetchuck, Fackler, and all the Citizens on Patrol except House. Tackleberry, Hightower, Jones, Hooks, and Callahan all seem tired and are only there to say a few lines and show once again their individual traits in decreasing comedic quality. Lassard, Proctor, and Harris get the best laughs and at least try with their performances. McCoy as Guttenberg's replacement is weak, lacks charm and his stunts are not as funny. Everything becomes increasingly childish, and the whole film looks and feels like a series of short sketches. The bad guys have their moments, and there are a few moments worthy of parts 1-4. Part 6 would be slightly better, 7 would be rubbish, ensuring that they should have left it at 4. However, now that 8 has been announced, and with the recent resurgence of this kind of humour, it could be good. Tackleberry is gone though, and any entry would not be the same without him.6 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Complete garbage","Date":"10 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I remember watching the first and pretty much the only good one of these movies when I was younger. It was so funny all the trouble that was going on and the jokes and stuff. Well number 5 is nothing to laugh at. I really mean it. I didn't laugh once. In fact, I thought it was over and then I pressed the play button on the TiVo and it said I was an hour into it. I ended up fast forwarding through the last half hour and it was still pretty painful. How could anybody, especially a high ranked police officer think they are being kidnapped for however long this crap went on for. I don't understand whey they kept making these horrible movies. I just don't get it. "},{"Title":"Uncle Eric ! Those are REAL crooks !! ","Date":"19 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I don't care what the critics make of Police Academy 5. I loved it and laughed all the way through. It's simple slapstick humour and sure to keep the kids glued to the screen, even 40 year-old kids like me. The plot involves Commandant Lazzard and his team traveling to a major police conference in Miami where Lazzard will accept the Police Officer Of The Decade award. At the airport he gets his bag swapped with an identical one containing a fortune in diamonds which gangsters are transporting. The big boss gives his underlings 24 hours to get the gems back, but every attempt is thwarted as much by Lazzard's (accidental) ineptitude as their own. Finally they take him hostage in despair. Meanwhile Captain Harris and his idiotic sidekick are also stumbling around seeking photo opportunities and the chance to get themselves seen by the right people. They certainly DO get seen, but for all the wrong reasons. George Gaynes was wonderful as the innocent Lazzard, always seeing the best in people and completely oblivious to events going on around him. I did get a little bit tired with Hooks, Hightower and Jones repeating WELL-worn gags, but G W Bailey is still refreshingly horrible as the creepy self-serving Harris who gets hoisted by his own petard at every turn. The scene where he tries to muscle in on a photo op' and accidentally gets injected with a sedative by the gangsters led to several very funny situations. It all leads to the hysterical section where Lazzard is taken hostage at gunpoint and thinks it's all part of an elaborate police procedures exercise. The gangsters find themselves being helped to ice cream and booze in Lazzard's suite while he helps them fine-tune their escape. Rene' Auberjovois was hilarious as the lead gangster, constantly adjusting his ridiculous wig, terrified of being bumped off by the boss and increasingly driven towards insanity by Lazzard inadvertently thwarting all his plans. His two bungling 'heavies' were good too. There's absolutely nothing intellectual or complicated about Police Academy 5, but it IS a good comedy and I thoroughly enjoyed watching it. "},{"Title":"Fantastic Fifth Installment","Date":"20 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  After the disappointing Part 4, it was great to see Police Academy 5 return to form.Fans of Mahoney from the first four films will be disappointed to learn he is not in it. But it's a great story and truly funny.Commandant Eric Lassard and the gang take a trip to Miami to attend a police convention. They end up crossing paths with three bumbling crooks who end up kidnapping the Commandant. As usual, Captain Harris and Lieutenant Proctor are out to grab all the glory.Scenes to watch out for include the crook who farts in the lift, the battle between Hightower and an alligator (or crocodile maybe)and the end chase in boats.Police Academy 5 was enjoyable. "},{"Title":"You are all a bunch of whinging babies!!","Date":"28 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Apart from maybe 2 or 3 comments, every other comment on this page has  been negative.  WHY????  The Police Academy series are, in my opinion on par with the Star Wars series (apart from Police Academy 7, very bad!).  Why can't you just enjoy the film for all of it's many qualities it has the same type of humour as the others so should not affect your enjoyment.  The only down side is the lack of Steve Guttenberg, but you can't have everything!  Obviously the quality of films do decrease as you go on in the series decreases, but it is not such a drastic change in direction that it makes this film terrible.  Give it a go, now!   "},{"Title":"Y'know, I loved the Police Academy movies when I was a child...","Date":"6 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" ...except for this one.  I always loathed and despised this installment in the infamous comedy series.  Though at times the word comedy is loosely applied, as the essence of comedy is to invoke laughter (which these movies do in children...ie, my initial statement).  What was it about this movie that always made me loathe it with every fiber of my being, even at age six? Was it the stupid plot?  Was it the lack of Steve Gutenberg?  Or is it that I've always hated Florida?No, no, no.  The reason I hate this movie?  It's simply not Police Academy. It's just a really, really, really, really bad movie with a really stupid and preposterous boat chase at the end.  I give it a one out of ten.  OFF WITH THEIR HEADS! "},{"Title":"Beach pollution....","Date":"27 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The Police are back and Miami's got them!And they can have 'em.Police Academy 5 would be a disappointment if a college film class had produced, directed and starred in it.  But to think that this was committed by Hollywood suits who thought there was a shred of humor in any of this....Wait, cleansing breath....  Okay, let's continue.Guttenberg cut out in the last movie, which leaves McCoy as the romantic/humorous lead.  But not to worry the rest of the usual gang of idiots comes along, too.  Smith, Winslow, Graf, Easterbrook, Ramsey et al, pop up in Miami to help honor their Commandant (Gaynes) who is being honored as Policeman of the Decade on the eve of his forced retirement.  Of course, there's the usual complications of jewel smuggling, kidnapping, chases in the Everglades, purse snatchers in drag....You want the truth, here's the truth the best part of this entire movie is watching Jones gallivant around in a swimsuit.  Now SHE'S a piece of police-work.  And Easterbrook is always good to watch lounging by the pool.And Winslow's vocal wizardry is good for a few chuckles.  That's about it.Two and a half stars.  And the next time someone calls you a dork while on the beach, check your chest. "}{"Title":"Good for fans.","Date":"8 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  If you truly hated this series, you should have stopped with the second one.As for me, I love'em, stupid repetitive gags included.  Best bit the perils of Captain Harris while hitting on a blonde at the beach. Matt McCoy DOES suck, though.  "},{"Title":"Hilarious Comedy","Date":"22 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  As always, the Police Academy team make another humorous comedy, Captain Harris and Procter were hilarious (particularly when Procter goes on the Ski Jump and Harris gets DORK written on him)  as usual and Comandant Lassard was also really funny, a great blend of humour. 10 out of 10 "},{"Title":"This Shouldn't ruin the film for you. I've never been good with summaries.","Date":"10 April 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This may not have been THE best of the Police Academy film series, but it also wasn't the worst. As with most comedy film series, old and new elements(and characters) are mixed together to bring you a new chapter to the continuing story. Some of the gags may be similar, but unless you're going to sit down and watch all seven of the films back-to-back-to-back-to-back.., you may not notice. The Academy Officers go down to Florida to honor Commodant Eric Lassard (George Gaynes).  Eric's nephew joins in as the new male lead, taking over for Steve Guttenberg's 'Carey MaHony' character. Comedy insues along with a chase, or two. It's great when a sequel comes along, and most (if not all) of the original cast shows up, too!  In this case, most do! ) "},{"Title":"Below Awful...","Date":"9 January 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"   Police Academy V Assignment Miami Beach continues the on-going Police Academy comedies, if you wish. I call them trash.The first had a few laughs, but was basically a rip-off of Stripes with Bill Murray. The second film was decent, and had just enough laughs to watch for. The third was one of those Sunday afternoon flicks. The rest are absolute, slobbering, grimy, putrid trash.  The plot involves Police Chief Lassard heading off to Miami Beach to accept an award. At the airport, he accidentedly switches suitcases with jewel thieves, who want their diamonds back...This is the excuse for laughs not even half-baked. As always, the things one laughs at are those that the writers did not intend the audience to laugh at, like the end action sequence involving alligators, crocodiles, or whatever those fake puppets were. I don't know how the Police Academy series ever got any more productions after the second or third film, but they did. Perhaps, in a sick, demented way, it's for the better. It ruined Steve Guttenberg's career, and gave all aspiring comedy writers something to not do when writing a comedy.1/5 stars--John Ulmer "},{"Title":"Come on people lighten up, this film is fun.","Date":"19 May 2007","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" There are too many wannabe Siskals, trying to pick every film to death. If you are looking for critical film successes, do not look here. If you are looking for a film that does not take itself seriously, and thereby is fun, then this whole series of films is for you. By the time of this fifth Police Academy film we can view these misfits as old and familiar friends. they each do what they do best. George Gaynes excels as the clueless Eric Lassard, who wanders through life creating chaos in his wake, but always managing to come out on top. He is America's answer to the French Clouseau. Rene Aubejonois is just great as the lead crook in this film. And G.W. Bailey. It takes an actor of rare quality to play the loathed but always accident prone character that he plays. These films are fun, and this one was one of the best. "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"18 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Steve Guttenberg said no to being in this or any other sequels that may follow, a good choice. Cmndt. Lassard (George Gaynes) has reached retirement age, to the delight of Capt. Harris (G.W. Bailey), who is planning to take over his job. The cinematography is stark and bare, with only the soundtrack adding some effect. From an artistic standpoint, there were some plot elements and character developments I didn't think were totally needed. They do however drive the story, which seemed to be their purpose, so I can accept them. This is probably the worst of the sequels, with nothing to laugh at. Heartfelt and riveting from the first frame to the last. "},{"Title":"Yet more","Date":"26 June 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Alas, most of the funny actors have moved on and as a result this instalment of the ongoing 'Police Academy' saga is almost poignant in its attempts to wring laughs from a cast largely made up of actors with no talent for comedy, and in some cases, acting in general. Not that it makes a massive difference to the laugh count in the first of his two scripts for the series, writer Stephen J. Curwick takes the novel approach of including hardly any gags, which oddly enough works rather well, as the irritation of watching laboured set-ups lead to nonexistent pay-offs has vanished. To be fair, there are a few bits that work a cheap but funny farting-in-a-lift gag; Lassard getting kidnapped and helping his abductors because he thinks it's all a prank; and a 'Jaws' spoof in which Tackleberry scares the shark away by threatening it with a gun ('Cease and desist, mister!'). G.W. Bailey runs through the usual Harris shtick - pratfalls, practical jokes - and he's watchable, as always, but has virtually nothing to play with. The other regulars do very little. In fact the entire cast does very little, but somehow the movie last 85 charmless minutes. All the conventions are in place the Mahoney-like new recruit, bland love interest, tedious chase finale, slapstick directed with all the panache of a corporate video. It's all very predictable and unfunny and uninspired but painlessly bland, with none of the offensive humour of the others, and before it was even over it had merged in my memory with the other films to form an amorphous 'Police Academy' blob. "},{"Title":"sadly the series made it to a movie nr.5","Date":"19 December 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" sadly there is a nr.5 movie in the series about the police academy. i didn't watch the other ones (thank god?), in a long time, so i cant really tell if this one falls 100% in line with the others. the story is simple enough, too simple for my taste. the acting is real bad, and all the characters are portrayed like they only got an IQ of 50, so you really feel retarded when watching it. the humor is god awful, or in other words really really bad. all the jokes are chopped down in many small scenes, and always about a character trait from the character featured in the scene. the humor is so bad, and the editing makes it more like a really bad sketch show on TV. but one good thing is there to say about this movie. you can see on the actors that they had a fun time making the movie, and thats a good thing. it gives you a positive feeling, despite all the negative things about the movie. so i will say 3/10, because of the joy on the actors faces, and that it is sad that they didn't stop the series earlier (the first ones were decent), but even continued after this one. "},{"Title":"It's no James Bond, but still good, clean, dumb fun.","Date":"17 April 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Okay, so something happens in the first few minutes of Police Academy 5 that must surely be the most meaningful and artistic bit of creative story-telling that has happened before or since in the entire series. As Captain Harris and Proctor are breaking into Chief Hurst's office to get their hands on his files, Proctor worries that they're breaking the law. We're not breaking the law, Proctor, Harris assures him. We are STRETCHING it. After he says this we cut to Proctor, who pulls on a piece of bubble gum between his fingers which stretches&#x85;and then breaks. In a rare moment of thoughtfulness, Proctor appeared to me to look at the gum and discover the stretching and breaking are pretty much the same thing.At any rate, it's telling that such a simple thing should come across as one of the most creatively meaningful things in the series, but I do have to say that Police Academy 5 is not nearly as bad as I have read that it is. In fact, I would go so far as to say that it's one of the better sequels in the whole bonehead franchise.In his search, Harris has discovered that Lassard has reached the state's mandatory retirement age and thus sets about on a mission to force him into retirement so that he can take over the job himself. The only problem, of course, is that Harris still doesn't command a scrap of respect from anyone in sight, while Lassard lovingly oversees his academy like a clueless grandfather. You see, he is so good at obtaining the respect of his men through the timely feeding of his ever-present goldfish that he has earned himself the coveted Police Officer of the Decade award (normally I would think that such an award would go to an actual police officer, but that's just me).So a ceremony is scheduled to be held in his honor in beautiful Miama Beach, so the whole Police Academy Crew packs up and heads on down to the sunny south for the festivities. Harris, of course, employs Proctor's considerable wisdom and skill to book them two first class tickets to Miami, and the two end up traveling on a rickety plane full of farm animals with loose bowels. The crime this time is a group of astonishingly stupid diamond thieves, who manage to pull off a brilliant diamond heist and get away without a trace, but can't make it through an airport without tripping all over themselves and accidentally swapping their diamond-laden bag with Lassard's goldfish-laden bag. You have your small-time crime boss with the slicked back hair and quick tongue, and his two meathead sidekicks who hop along behind him going whatever you say boss and boss are you okay boss? If only they had taken these bumbling morons down a notch or two, they could easily have been the funniest thing in the whole movie. The rest of the movie follows the diamond thieves as they try to get their diamonds back before the real crime boss kills them all, and before Lassard figures out that that video camera that he's using isn't a present from the guys but the hiding spot for the stolen diamonds. As you know, this is the first Police Academy movie that's missing Steve Guttenberg as Mahoney, and he's replaced by the charming Matt McCoy, who plays Commandant Lassard's nephew Nick, an ace Sergeant on the Miami Beach force. The character is a noble effort, but Mahoney is definitely missed. I must have watched this one the most when I was a kid because I remember it more than any of the others in the series, and I watched them all over the last couple weeks. I particularly remember the scene when Tackleberry fires off the assault weapons in shooting practice and then when they try to take the guns back he says, NO!! I NEED these!! Classic! This particular installment in the series is famously bad, but anyone who tells you it's not any fun definitely needs to lighten up a little bit. The plot culminates in an exciting sequence when the little crime boss gives in to the frustrations of multiple failed attempts to get their bag back and just decides to kidnap Lassard in front of the whole congregation. Lassard of course, true to form, thinks it's all a demonstration and even helps the bad guys out along the way, winning their friendship and respect in probably the funniest element of the whole movie. Of course the fourth sequel in the Police Academy franchise is not a good movie, but it was never made with any Academy Awards in mind. In fact, since there are no wet t-shirt moments like in part 4 (actually I was a little disappointed by this), you might even say it's a kid's movie, since it's the kids who are going to enjoy it the most, except for those of us who haven't seen it since we loved it as kids ourselves.By the way, if you manage to get it on DVD, make sure to check out the little ten minute documentary about it, it's hilarious! I loved the ones about the earlier films, where they get most of the original cast together to talk about their experiences in making the movies. My favorite is Mission to Moscow, where producer Paul Maslansky talks about what a great film-making event it was making Police Academy 7, finally and officially revealing himself to be genuinely delusional. But this one comes close! Here's an actual quote from director Alan Myerson speaking about part 5 &#x96; For it's day, it was just short of a James Bond movie.Uh-huh.Note - at one point, one of the bad guys calls Harris sharkbait. If they had copyrighted that, think of the killing they could have made off of Finding Nemo! "},{"Title":"Poor","Date":"2 December 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Police Academy 5 (1988) * 1/2 (out of 4) Cmndt. Lassard (George Gaynes) is forced into retirement but he does get a trip to Miami Beach and of course his gang goes along. Lassard picks up the wrong luggage at the airport and soon jewel thieves are after him. The series was going downhill pretty fast here and with the absence of Steve Guttenberg there's really not too much anyone can do. Not to mention that the look and feel of this has TV movie written all over it. The biggest problem is that the jokes just aren't here. The screenplay is full of childish moments but none of them gets laughs and I might go even further and say the film is lazy by recycling more jokes from previous films. The best sequence is when Harris (G.W. Bailey) falls into the water and gives a loud scream when an alligator starts to come after him. Smith, Graf, Winslow and Easterbrook are all back but there's no lead here strong enough to carry the picture and none of these actors can do it on their own. I'm sure fans of the film, including myself, will get a few grins out of the movie and the cast members do have a certain amount of charm but this should have been it for the series. "}{"Title":"The series ran out of steam","Date":"27 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" The first three police academies were very good silly comedy, they had some great moments were great underdog stories and made you laugh quite a bit, at least me, but by the previous one it just ran out of steam, there was nothing left in the whole Police Academy genre. This one finds a bunch more character combined with out old friends to go to Miami Beach for a convention. Was the worst of the original six. I would not recommend seeing it, although the next one wasn't all that bad.Steve Guttenberg being out of the series definitely made a difference and a lot of the gimmicks that made the original work were not present in this one. Part of the problem is that it went from being raucous adult comedy to a silly kid's comedy. None of the dirty humor is there anymore and that is sad. Stick with the first three those are very funny. "},{"Title":"The Police Academy Is In Miami!","Date":"17 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" That's Right. The Police Academy. Is Back. In Miami. Miami Beach, in fact. Miami Beach, Florida, where lots and lots and lots of crime are to be found, and are needed by the police academy to go where they belong - to the slammer! The criminals need to go to the slammer for good! Oh, sure, the police academy does that - as well as many other funny things in this movie! There are seven parts to it - I've seen a little bit of part one and I think it's hilarious! I should expect all the other Police Academy movies to be that way as well. So do yourself a favor and rent this one for your viewing pleasure. It's like being in crime-ridden Miami without the risk of getting...well, you know... "},{"Title":"Spoilers? Trust me I'm doing you a favor....","Date":"28 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I know I know. You are a big fan of the first four films and you are wondering, how can 5 be THAT bad. OK, maybe that is not you, but if you have seen the first four, you know why this one sucks. Let me back peddle a minute here. One is funny in that 80's niche movie kinda way. IN NO WAY did it merit a sequel. Did anyone, as the credits were rolling on 1, say Man, but what happened to Mahoney? When will I get that High Tower/Harris match-up? Let me answer my own question... NO. But 2 didn't suck either. It was fresh and had some new joke potential. The third one is a CARBON COPY of the first one. Almost scene for scene. Don't believe me? Check out the FIRST scene. OK enough already! Let rip 5 apart! YOU KNOW YOUR MOVIE SUCKS WHEN..... Steve Guttenberg turns you down! This guy did an Olsen Twins movie! And no, he was not HOT in 1988. He was NOT. So they get Llyod Braun to fill his shoes? He blows chunks. So, if you want to see Proctor screw things up for the umpteenth time, by all means, waste your time watching this movie! I did! That Michael Winslow cracks me up... "},{"Title":"Simply the WORST!","Date":"22 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The movie, Steve Guttenberg wouldn't do. And rightly so!This is just painful. Michael Winslow still manages to get a few chuckles, if not laughs, all the rest is a convoluted mess of scenes, which are supposed to be funny but could have been shot better by a bunch of teenagers with a camcorder and too much time on their hands.Some kind of story involving a trio of dimwitted international thieves hiding their loot in Commander Lassard's luggage is thrown in around the edges. But the movie makes little use of this.Here's something you really - like, really-really-really - don't want to watch! This was the lowest point the series could possibly get, but why did it have to go there at all? A lot of pain could have been spared on millions of people, including the actors. "},{"Title":"CRAP","Date":"14 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This was the Police academy installment that was supposed to feature Motley Crue singer Vince Neil in a cameo. I remember reading all the hoopla about Vince shooting this thing. Now I myself am NOT a POLICE ACADEMY person, but I thought I'd check it out to see Vince. Well GUESS WHAT? His bits in it had made it to the editing room floor somehow! The movie itself was crap. Even had Vince been in it  would have been Crap. This is a franchise that just shouldve ended much earlier in the game. "},{"Title":"OK","Date":"22 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  number 5 is ok. Not as funny as the rest of them like this should be. Lassard has to retire yet he still has an award to go to Miami. Even though it says bubba smith stars, he was barely in this. Matt McCoy should have starred.5/10  "},{"Title":"Eh. just more of the same.","Date":"5 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  It's yet another average movie in the police academy saga of films. Yes, it's pretty amusing but It's really not worth the time to pick up. I originaly thought to give this movie a 6.5/10 but i bopped it down to 5/10 because while it is amusing, it's just not that great. go see 1 or 4 for fun, the rest of them are just average. nothing bad, nothing really good. just run of the mill. If you need to see it. I guess you will have a good time. I mean, I did. It's just more of the same really.This has the 2nd best plot of all of them. Lassard recives an award and has to go to miami beach, changes his bag and the crooks who stole some diamonds have to get them back. They kidnap him and he thinks its a gag. blah blah blah.it was just amusing, not great. just passable. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Total Bomb","Date":"30 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Police Academy the original was hilarious ,sequels were unnecessary.This type of movie can only be played out once for laughs ,,after that the novel has worn off,, Hollywood always tries to cash in on a sequel when most movies dont warrant one ,,case in point grease2 , austin powers 2 and 3..jaws 2,3,4. et all .....  i loved the original but the sequels to police academy should never have been made ,,it tarnishes the original. Dont waste your time with this VIP meets Baywatch crap. Rent the original and have fun ...  "},{"Title":"The WORST","Date":"13 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  People who say that Police Academy Mission to Moscow is the worst clearly haven't seen this one.  This is easily one of the most pointless movies I've ever seen. It appears the producers just said Hey, we're bored, let's make a movie. There is little to no effort in continuity, storyline, or even the lightest definition of professionalism. Giving this movie one star is a sort of forced generosity on IMDb.com's part, as the ratings don't go any lower. "},{"Title":"Not as funny","Date":"15 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The Police Academy series continued to spiral downward with Police Academy 5 Assignment Miami Beach. The humor here is more juvenile than it was in Police Academy 4. The nice Miami locations save this movie from being a disaster. There are a couple of laughs in Police Academy 5, and the one positive thing about this movie is that its funnier than Police Academy 6.** (out of four)  "}{"Title":"almost no laughs,but i still can watch it","Date":"29 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  this movie almost has no laughs,and it's the second worst in the series. but i still can watch it,because i like the the first 4,and part 6 wasn't bad. part 5 has too much desperate humor. but it still is a little fun in parts,but it's the stupid desperate humor that brings it down. i give police academy 5 assignment miami beach ** out of **** "},{"Title":"Welcome to Miami, please leave the script at the gate","Date":"22 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  As a fan of the earliest Police Academy movies when I was a child, I feel ashamed that this movie is so bad and unfunny. The one continuous joke throughout the second half of the movie is not only unfunny, but also stupid. The acting is, well, I felt myself wishing that Steve Gutenburg would make an appearance. I guess when you put George Gaynes and Bubba Smith in lead roles, you don't get ground breaking performance. Probably, the only thing actually worth watching is the beautiful Florida locale. It is too bad that the actors get in the way of it most of the time.  "},{"Title":"Even Guttenberg had the sense to leave this one...and if Guttenberg says no to a movie, that's pretty bad, folks...","Date":"24 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  There is slapstick, and then there is *slapstick*. Police Academy 5 Assignment Miami Beach falls into the latter category. This is slapstick worse than the likes of Mr. Magoo. This is slapstick antics taken to a whole new level -- a level of utter chaotic mess. The Three Stooges would blush at this. But at least the Stooges were funny. The bumbling cops of Police Academy are, very unfortunately, not.Steve Guttenberg has, by this time, finally come to the over-due conclusion that the series is going nowhere, and so he has left the ongoing string of sequels to enter into fresher territory -- by appearing not very many years later in joyless remakes of older films (It Takes Two, a.k.a. The Parent Trap 4), and recycled underdog stories (The Big Green). When is your big break gonna come, Steve? Oh, wait, it did, and it was your first film (Diner), and you blew it by appearing in this schmaltz.The rest of the inept cops from the first four (*gulp*) films have returned here to wreak havoc on all that remains unspoofed by the series. Finally realizing that the police officer's daily routine gags are no longer fair ground for comedy, the filmmakers have moved the series to Miami Beach, land of ample spoofing and lampooning! Er, not for these guys. As the police of the film can never seem to do anything right, the series itself can never seem to be funny.The plot involves Commandant Lassard (George Gaynes) being called to Miami to receive a special lifetime achievment award of some sort (the biggest plot hole being, of course, that he does not deserve it at all after the many disasters instilled by him in the predecessors. Would you give a major award to a man incapable of holding onto his luggage? I don't think so.)And so Commandant Lassard does, of course, lose his luggage in the airport. (The awful joke I wrote above comes into play, here!) But instead of just losing his luggage at the airport, he accidentally picks up a similar briefcase belonging to a band of jewel thieves -- and they're pretty eager on getting their stash of diamonds returned to them.Commandant Lassard is kidnapped and the doofus cops from the previous entries (save Guttenberg's Carey Mahoney and Bobcat Goldthwait's missing Zed) embark on a mission to save him. This mission comes to an embarrassingly unfunny and ridiculous climax involving alligator puppets and a fat man. Don't ask.Police Academy 5 Assignment Miami Beach proves that everything is ample ground for comedy -- Florida, jewel thieves, fat men, and alligators. But who cares? What is the point? The fact that anything and everything  is open to spoofing has been established before by other rude (and so much better) comedies like Animal House. (Or any National Lampoon film, for that matter.) I've seen funnier documentaries than this mess. I admit I laughed once -- once, mind you -- but not really at anything I was supposed to laugh at. I laughed at the sheer stupidity of one or two things, and not simply because they were funny, but because they were supposed to be funny, and they weren't -- at all. And I laughed at George Gaynes in one scene. There, I said it. But that does not reserve my harsh rating on the film.Is there any hesitation to say no to endless sequels in Hollywood anymore? Is the thought of quality ever measured over quantity anymore? Obviously not. If anything, the entire Police Academy series just stands as a landmark reminder that Hollywood has been taken over by ruthless film executives who want nothing but money. As for the Police Academy films themselves? It was Forrest Gump who once said, Stupid is as stupid does. Ain't that the truth.0/5 stars.- John Ulmer "},{"Title":"It's amusing.","Date":"2 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  OK OK. So it's not as good as the original or part 4 but it's better then 2,3 and 7 if you ask me. it's funny at times like when the crooks kidnap lassard and he thinks its all a gag, that was funny and it's the usual stuff again but it still gets a laugh. it's dumb fun and thats all i got to say about it.**1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"Another Tiring Entry in the Tiring Series","Date":"3 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Police Academy 5 is a pure mess of a film.  This time our heroes travel to Miami to honor their commandant.  However, they end up chasing three dim-witted jewel thieves who are just as annoying as the primary cast.  A film that should be avoided at all costs.  Turkey (0 out of 5 stars). "},{"Title":"All smiles!","Date":"15 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I like this flick for a variety of reasons, but one is the way everyone seems to be happy with everyone else in movie.  The hijinks of the group are similar to the others in the series, complete with the goofy chase at the end.  Still, I find the gags especially effective this time around.  The plot?  Well, Lazard is being crowned police officer of the decade, and the ceremony takes place in Miami. "},{"Title":"Moronic Monstrosity of a Movie","Date":"29 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Where to begin with this one? It's hard to describe how bad this film really is. I was never a fan of the way-too-long-running 'Police Academy' series back in their Eighties heyday, and always did my best to avoid them. Recently, though, I was at a friend's house when he insisted on watching the whole of this catastrophic waste of celluloid as it was being screened on ITV2 on a Sunday afternoon. Even by the low standards set by previous entries in this series, this has to be far worse than anyone could reasonably expect. I'm not without a sense of humour; slapstick and farce, when done by film-makers who actually know what they're doing, can be hilarious - see the 'Naked Gun' films. But the makers of this stinker seem to have no idea about any of the technical aspects that make a comedy movie work. This film is badly directed, has hardly any plot, and plays out like a string of poorly-staged practical jokes thrown together by an untalented bunch of film students. Most of the jokes are so puerile and pathetic that it's insulting to expect anyone older than about 8 years old to find them funny, and some of the dialogue gives the impression that it's been made-up on the spot because it's so weak and unfunny you can't believe it's actually been scripted. At least Steve Guttenburg had some idea about comic timing and delivery of lines - his absence here shows-up most of the rest of the cast looking awkward and embarrassing, delivering some of the weakest one-liners since 'The Krankies'. Anyone who finds this moronic monstrosity of a movie funny, desperately needs a sense of humour transplant. "},{"Title":"Should've stopped here.","Date":"29 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  As far as I was concerned, the movie was barely passable.  If I had to give it a grade, I'd say either D+ or D.  There was some humor in the film, but otherwise the plot was pretty thin.  I think they should've let it go here instead of making two more films - especially without Guttenberg around. "},{"Title":"What is worse?","Date":"6 April 2012","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Which is worse? A. A zombie apocalypse, or B. being forced at gunpoint to watch all Police Academy movies in succession? You have 10 minutes to decide. With option A, The zombies are the fast, brain-eating kinds. With option B, you do get bathroom breaks and occasional snacks and beverages. You are not allowed to look away, and you must not cover your ears or eyes through the entire duration. Since nobody has ever survived either option, this is a very difficult decision. I would go with option A, since death would come quickly. With option B, you would live for many more years, forever haunted with the reality of the extreme, inhuman - yet also amazingly shallow - depths of what some consider entertainment. "},{"Title":"Oh Thrill!","Date":"27 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" The only thing that saved this from a total waste was the presence of Leslie Easterbrook, who made two very interesting points throughout the entire film. I especially liked her Ride of the Valkyries yell as she sped up in the swamp boat. Of course, parts of her arrived long before the boat.I was glad to see her return as well as G.W. Bailey along with the regulars Bubba Smith, David Graf, Michael Winslow Leslie Easterbrook, and George Gaynes. Most of the movie was unfortunately focused on Easterbrook's breasts and Bailey's bumbling attempts at gaining attention. Tackleberry was funny as usual with his over-the-top gung-ho attitude.But really not worth the time. "}{"Title":"* Out Of Five","Date":"29 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This time the remaining recruits (Smith,Winslow, Ramsey and Graf, Guttenberg and Goldthwait obviously abandoned a sinking ship) go to Florida (You know things are lame when we are ripping off Revenge Of The Nerds II) to assist Lassard (Gaynes) in accepting a career lifetime reward, while jewel thieves pop up in this painful sequel. As people notice Steve Guttenberg was barely in Police Academy 4, here he's not even in this muck. Instead we have Matt McCoy (An actual decent actor) who is supposed to be Guttenberg's replacement. Naturally this is unfunny garbage and the only real laugh comes from watching comedy that fails so bad that it actually becomes funny again. It's not much but even # 6 didn't have this.1/5 Matt Bronson "},{"Title":"'Miami Vice' + fart jokes = genius","Date":"31 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  So I'm not going to lie, I was raised on most of the Police Academy movies. Granted this one was somewhat of a new chapter for the Police Academy epic. With the departure of Steve Guttenberg and a dominant lead character, many feared the fifth movie would not be as good as the rest. But were they ever wrong! Mishaps galore when the gang head to beautiful sunny Miami Beach for the presentation of an award to the retiring Cmdnt. Lassard.  The airport scenes provide many a great chance for buffoonery, what with Motormouth Jones getting the best of G.W. Baily's Capt. Harris with his crazy sound effects mimicking the sound of the airport metal alarms. Good golly Moses was that funny! And when the overweight character on the plane moves over and forces the whole plane to...well just watch for yourself and see. Once in Miami we meet Mahoney's replacement male lead, Nick Lassard (the Cmdnt's nephew, played superbly by Matt McCoy, who would eventually play Lloyd Braun the mental patient arch-enemy of George Costanza on 'Seinfeld'). When the Cmdnt. mixes his bag at the airport with that of jewel thieves, naturally they come after him to get their bounty back. Throw Captain Harris (MASH's G.W. Baily) and Proctor in town in hopes of getting Harris the promotion to Lassard's old job by placing him in a good light with the up and up's (a hilarious scene on the beach involves someone writing DORK on Harris' chest in sunscreen while he is asleep...oh might mighty me is it great!) make the mix one heck of a ride for our boys in blue. As a child I loved the laughter, I often cried. The scene where one hood lets go of a bodily function in the crowded elevator is so laugh-out-loud funny you will remember it for years to come--I still have a stitch in my side. At first one might think there is no replacement for Steve Guttenberg's lead, but the strong previous supporting characters step up to the plate in hurrah and succeed brilliantly! The bathing beauties make for some nice scenery, and all in all this film deserves better credit for making a young boy laugh so many years ago. And now that the young boy has grown into a man, he still is laughing at the solemn, simple humor that makes this film a classic for anyone who enjoys a good laugh. 10 out of 10, and I ain't foolin'! "},{"Title":"Even funnier than the first four!","Date":"27 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Though it may be hard to believe, POLICE ACADEMY 5 ASSIGNMENT MIAMI BEACH is even funnier than the first four POLICE ACADEMY movies. Every scene is filled with laughs. Most of the laughs revolve around slapstick, but it is funny slapstick. It's one of the best in the series! "}]