[{"Title":"One of the best.  Underrated and unappreciated.","Date":"22 October 2005","Score":"30 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Drama","Review":" I lived in Santa Fe, NM for 20 years which is only about 20 miles from Truchas, NM where TMBW was filmed. This movie was right on the money in its portrayal of Northern New Mexico, both in its culture and in its politics. The movie itself is one of the most sublime films I've ever seen in the true sense of the word. It has grandeur of thought, emotion and spirit. It has been bashed in this comment area by those raised on Star Wars, Predator, and the Matrix. To enjoy a movie like TMBW, you have to have a sense of awe, wonder and joy...and a good sense of humor. If you don't, you may get bored. If you do, then you'll find two hours well spent. I obviously love this movie. The music alone will transport you to a pleasant part of your mind, and the absolutely gorgeous New Mexico scenery will make you want to go there to see if it's really real. Try it, you'll like it. "},{"Title":"A thoroughly delightful movie with Oscar winning music!","Date":"30 September 2004","Score":"22 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Drama","Review":"  I watch this movie on VHS every few months just to renew the good feeling it gives me and expect that I'll wear the tape out eventually. The score won an Oscar for Dave Grusin, yet there is no soundtrack available, which is a real shame. Angel Romero did some great guitar work on this film, and the Milagro Suite is a wonderful piece of music. The story is funny and poignant, and the movie deserves to be better known than it is, as Robert Redford's direction has produced a film story that is much better than the book. There should be a DVD release of this film.Highly recommended.  "},{"Title":"Great movie!","Date":"1 June 2004","Score":"21 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Drama","Review":"  Milagro Bean Field War is a truly great film, one of the must see list. Terrific casting and well filmed. It may have been neglected by viewers and critics because it is about a class of people and time and place we often do not take seriously, but it is a sincere and genuine story, well told. The use of the ghost and the pig as foils are delightful, and it is remarkable what a good movie can be like without gratuitous violence, nudity or foul language. However, it should not be assumed that is intended to say this is a bland movie, far from it. It is tasty and spiced well with action, language, and phrasing, not to mention filming. And it is funny, good fun all around. Enjoy!  "},{"Title":"Captures Rural Northern New Mexico Culture","Date":"17 October 2004","Score":"18 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Drama","Review":" I agree with Dawg! that someone who was not from NM might not get this movie.I like the Fiddler On The Roof guy, the foothills scenery, my first introduction to Sonja Braga.The movie does the best job I've ever seen of capturing the essence of small town Northern New Mexico culture - regular folks with regular problems addressing them the best they can. Every culture has its quirky way of addressing life, and this movie depicts this one pretty accurately.I love it, except for one thing no DVD. "},{"Title":"A wry, dry comic commentary on social values (in the same genre","Date":"26 December 2000","Score":"16 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Drama","Review":"  The Milagro Beanfield War poses a reality straining to become a metaphor to quote a delightful line of Donald Barthelme's. Some refer to this film as a fable -which in the narrow sense it is.  But in the broader view this story is in no way mythical because it documents the eternal struggle of the meek and humble against a rapacious power establishment.Milagro, a 300 year-old village in northern New Mexico, finds itself drying up and blowing away.  The Latino inhabitants have been defrauded of their water rights by the political establishment as part of a plan to encourage them to sell out to developer Ladd Devine (Richard Bradford). Devine wants to turn the area into a country club, gated-community.Fate plunges Joe Mondragon (Chick Vennera) into a pivotal role.  The young man quite accidentally taps into the water lateral that crosses his land but to which Devine Development & Company exclusively owns water rights.The bean field Mondragon inherited from his father has lain dry and barren these many years. Suddenly it has the opportunity to take back life. Should Mondragon shut off the flow of water that illegally irrigates his small farm? Or should he let it flow?  It's a tough ethical dilemma. On the one hand he should obey the law -- which is an ass.  On the other hand he should protest the moral injustice done to his family, his heritage and his neighbors.The bean field is not the only thing to come alive. The Latino inhabitants of dying Milagro also find new life of their own.  Fiery activist Ruby Archuleta (sexy Sonia Braga in a magnificent portrayal) seizes the moment to mobilize the people of the village.  Devine calls in his connections with the governor.  This brings the steely-eyed Kyril Montana, a hard-boiled investigator (Christopher Walken), to quell the rebellion. These forces in collision pose a classic plot.Sounds like a dark and serious tale, no?  Surprisingly it's quite the opposite.  The vehicle turns out to be a fast-moving, dry comedy very much in the tradition of the popular, war-protest `cult-flick', The King of Hearts.Cameo roles abound.  Ruben Blades plays the Sheriff who sees everyone's point of view and struggles to keep peace between warring factions. John Heard plays a fading 60's activist, Charlie Bloom, who owns the small weekly tabloid that has become an icon in every tumbleweed flick. Anthropology student Herbie Platt (Daniel Stern) comes from NYU on a grant to study indigenous cultures of the Southwest and drops unsuspectingly into the maelstrom.Carlos Riquelme steals the show as the octogenarian Amarante Cordova, the oldest man in Milagro. Cordova spends his days and nights talking with his guardian angel that also happens to be the ghost of Joe Mondragon's deceased father.  Depending on camera angle, the audience can either see the guardian angel or can be as mystified as Platt, the young anthropologist.  Platt intently observes Cordova as the old man sits in front of his hacienda earnestly talking to an empty chair that  faces him.  An enormous, pink pig (reminiscent of the Empress of Blandings in P. G. Wodehouse lore) follows Cordova everywhere as his most faithful companion.The Academy gave this movie a well-deserved Oscar for best original music score.  Had I been a voting member, I would also have given Carlos Riquelme best actor that year and Sonia Braga best actress.  And for best supporting actress?  I think the Pig!You have to be quick!  A special charm inspires the kind of laughter that will have you grabbing for the remote to play back many priceless scenes. So many lines are memorable, you will find yourself writing them on a pad.THE GHOST  `That young man of yours does not realize what he is getting into.'AMARANTE CORDOVA  `If we all knew what we were getting into,     nothing would ever get done!'So get it done.  Go buy this for your video collection.  It's a keeper and rates inclusion in that quirky hall of fame called the `cult-flick.'Four Stars!  "},{"Title":"What a delightful experience....","Date":"15 March 1999","Score":"14 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Drama","Review":"  This movie has a wonderful fantasy tone to it. Unlike real life where we take what we get, in this film everything just seems to fall into place as nature intended it to. Wouldn't it be wonderful if we could live in that world? A definite 10!!! "},{"Title":"Milagro was Excellent!","Date":"9 December 2004","Score":"14 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Drama","Review":" The Milagro Beanfield War was excellent! Robert Redford did an excellent job with this movie! It was filmed in a town close to where I live, called Milagro! The settings and the people are true in the movie and live well on the widescreen! The atmosphere in the beginning is awesome and is carried throughout the movie! Much like The Desperado, in setting a mood, with the action and the music! The comedy is great and so is the story! The actors all fit the part well! I am a movie maker and we have several films in the works~~when our first national release comes out soon, I hope it is every bit as good as this one! Definitely a must-see for the movie-goer! "},{"Title":"Charming whimsical movie","Date":"26 June 2001","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Drama","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie, and had never heard of it before I watched it for a class. I was amazed that I hadn't, given the number of stars in it. Christopher Walken, John Heard and Melanie Griffith before they were big names. What I loved most about the film though, was its ambiguity about the extent of true magic in the New Mexican town of Milagro. The very fact that the town is named Milagro, Spanish for miracle, suggests a magical quality about the town. Many things happen that could be explained rationally, but are not clarified or suggest the supernatural. When the water from the local river owned by Devine's Miracle Valley site accidentally flows into the Mondragon bean field, ghosts are at work. When Amarante, the oldest man in the village is talking to saints and angels, other people see a senile old man and never imagine that he truly could be talking to ghosts apparent to his eyes only. When crosses mentioning El Brazo Onofre, the thieving trickster of local lore, Devine and his men assume that its the work of dissenting townspeople, though no one ever admits to the crime or is implicated in any way. These ordinary forms of magic show a charmingly realistic depiction of the supernatural. Even the music, beautifully scored by the talented Dave Gruisin suggests a mysterious air. The music sounds like carnival music, alternating from major to minor keys suddenly and ethereally, just as the elements of nature and reality contort to suit the needs of the miracle town.  "},{"Title":"well crafted and engrossing","Date":"21 July 2000","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Drama","Review":"  Maybe I'm a little biased, but any movie where Christopher Walken pops up when you don't expect him to just becomes ten times better.  His role isn't big, but it's very important and he does a great job.  I like Christopher Walken.But he's only a small part of a great movie.  Milagro Beanfield War is about a group of New Mexicans trying to save their homes from being bought by developers who want to turn it into a resort.  The interaction between the townspeople is wonderful, and you probably won't find this kind of community spirit in any other movie.  At some times it's touching, at others it's humorous.  In fact it was a funnier movie than I expected it to be, so if you're looking for a mix of light comedy and serious subject matter, this is for you.You can find a downside to most films, but it's tough to find one with Milagro Beanfield War.  The directing is great, the script is great, the actors are endearing, the music is great and it makes you think and feel like no other movie. "},{"Title":"The DVD is out-enjoy!!!!!","Date":"4 June 2005","Score":"10 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Drama","Review":" The other reviews detail the opinions of others and the plot outline, so I won't duplicate their efforts. The movie has always been one of my favorites since I first saw it in the theatres and the dearth of a DVD version has saddened me for many years. With the release of a DVD, the wait is now over. I have owned, and wore out, several VHS copies of the movie, and they all had a kind of fog surrounding the video presentation. I could never figure that out. On the other hand, the DVD producers have managed to make the DVD version with a crystal-clear video presentation and very acceptable audio presentation. In addition, the Dave Grusin soundtrack is superbly reproduced. Thanks to those who took the time to let our wishes for a DVD become known to the studio, and special thanks to the producers who took some extra time to give this film it's due. "}{"Title":"A Quiet, Magical Masterpiece","Date":"5 February 2004","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Drama","Review":"  Beautiful film from (then very fresh) director Robert Redford. This film depicts the epic struggle between good and evil with some very nice twists. Excellent roles that were handled well by Ruben Blades, Sonia Braga, James Gammon, and a host of many other great characters that were depicted quite well. Chris Walken presents to us the governmental enforcer to a sheer tee. Richard Bradford (joined by Melanie Griffith) also gives us the perfect fat cat & (his) band of bad guys that are trying to hoard an already conspicuous pipeline of water through a dry valley near the Mexican border when one of the (near povertied) residents of Milagro makes a grave, yet somehow worthy mistake. Milagro is a community inhabited by crazy townfolk, idealistic views, & even a familiar face (Freddy Fender) as town mayor. Get ready for ghosts, legends, and an inspiring  story and cast that will keep you smiling, thinking, and loving this film for many years to come! *A grammy won that year for the haunting soundtrack was also quite well deserved. "},{"Title":"The lost Redford film...","Date":"2 December 2003","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Drama","Review":"  Although I have not seen this film for over a decade, it still resonates in my  memory.  Given the success of all Redford's other directing projects (yes, I know  that The Legend of Bagger Vance did not perform well at the box office relative  to the marketing and stars involved, but it was quite a good film-- despite the  mediocre reviews), it always astounded me that The Milagro Beanfield War gets  little mention even in the recapping of Redford's career.  Redford's other three  films not aforementioned, Ordinary People, A River Runs Through It, and QuizShow, all were critical darlings and each received nominations at the Academy  Awards.  I know that The Milagro Beanfield War won for its score, but that was its  lone nomination.The film is somewhat obscure relative to its storyline.  Yet, there is quite a  magical quality to the manner in which the narrative unfolds.  It most closely  resembles The Legend of Bagger Vance in regards to its tone (not necessarilyits social commentary though).  I am constantly surprised that this film is not  shown on cable, both basic cable and subscription movie channels.  Althoughits impact on the viewer is not nearly as emotionally intimate as OrdinaryPeople, it is almost as good, a little better if you consider the uniqueness of the  story.  It is far superior in comparison to A River Runs Through It, especially  given that A River Runs Through It has serious problems with Craig Scheffer's  perfomance and the horrible casting of Emily Lloyd.  Of course, I find A River  Runs Through It almost unwatchable, with the exception of the beautiful Oscar- winning cinematography by Rousselot, one of the best cinematographersworking today (He has outclassed many of his peers in a variety of films We're  No Angels; Dangerous Liasons; Interview With a Vampire; Mary Reilly; andFlesh and Bone).I know very few people who have seen this film and I always try to persuadethem to search it out at their local DVD/video store.  If you have not seen this  film, check it out.  It is not a masterpiece, but Redford is one of the mostconsistent filmmakers (in his role as director, not as an actor).   "},{"Title":"I'll stop when I think I'm doing the wrong thing.","Date":"17 September 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Drama","Review":" I think I'll file this one under 'best movies no one ever heard of', oddly enough right next to Nobody's Fool, which stars Robert Redford's buddy Paul Newman. Redford does a great job here of mixing together unknowns with a name supporting cast to tell a compelling spiritual tale that leaves you feeling good at the end. Fortunately, the film doesn't need a prayer to St. Jude, the patron saint of desperate causes.It's wonderful to see how Joe Mondragon's (Chick Vennera) accidental swipe at a sluice gate shakes up a town and makes his father's bean field a community event. Together with some of the Dancing Angel's divine intervention to spread the word in Charlie Bloom's (John Heard) newspaper, the town of Milagro rises up to oppose the area's development by greedy corporate fat cats. You know it's only a matter of time before the locals win out, but the fun is in seeing how they get there.Interestingly, the film's 'star' talent doesn't seem to get in the way of the story; Christopher Walken, Daniel Stern, John Heard, and Melanie Griffith all blend into their characters without stepping on the toes of the Milagro cast. Along the way, each of their portrayals learn something of themselves and the power of the human spirit. But the one to really keep an eye on is the town patriarch Amarante (Carlos Riquelme), who combines the wisdom of the angels with the temerity to buy his bullets with food stamps. One gets the impression that he might be the next angel in training, almost certainly so as the movie comes to a close.The Milagro Beanfield War is certainly deserving of a wider audience. Kudos to Robert Redford for an inspiring piece of work that steps outside the boundaries of traditional Hollywood fare. "},{"Title":"when everything works","Date":"3 September 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Drama","Review":" It's not that often a movie comes around about nothing special and still it just works.Some scenes, and old man in a chair talking to....nobody.., well, manages to be great entertainment. Robert Redford really did a great job. People, pictures and atmosphere, everything just feels true and interesting. Sometimes you end up watching a movie with all the things lined up, big budget, big names and a great story and still end up feeling empty. This is the opposite. Moving and funny at once. A simple story about life and expectations maybe. This is what cinema is about.Regardless of genre, a great movie is a great movie and this is a really great movie. I waited years for it finally being available on DVD. "},{"Title":"A truly feel-good movie","Date":"15 March 2004","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Drama","Review":"  I gave this movie a 10 simply because every time I watch it, I can't help but feel good. It's simple, predictable and not very deep. But like I said, it just makes you feel good. Nice music, beautiful scenery, and colorful characters. A few scenes are a bit muddled and the movie doesn't always flow smoothly, but hey ... did I mention that it makes you feel good?This was the first time I saw Ruben Blades. He had a simple role, yet it really allowed him to strut his stuff. And as always, Christopher Walken was fantastic. Enjoy the movie! "},{"Title":"AsÃ­ es Nuevo MÃ©xico (New Mexico is like that)","Date":"5 January 2004","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Drama","Review":"  The movie is grand, reasonably true to the very complex (and very good) book and accurately captures the politics of New Mexico.If you have ever lived in northern New Mexico, then you instantly recognize and understand what is going on. This work of fiction is more true than many will ever know.General Lew Wallace, who wrote 'Ben Hur' while serving as the Territorial Governor of New Mexico (1878-1881) and trying to negotiate an end to the Lincoln County War of which Billy the Kid was the most well known participant, succintly described the situation All experience gained elsewhere, fails in New Mexico. That is still true today and is a core theme of the film.Read the book, see the movie. "},{"Title":"Life, the very essence of it..","Date":"22 November 2003","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Drama","Review":" I checked the entertainment booklet, read the recap and thought 'Will I ever catch a trans-atlantic flight with a good movie..?'. My wish was granted instantly..'The Milagro Beanfield War' may be the most underrated movie of all times. I've never met anyone who saw it. Yet everyone I show it to loves it..Go see it, say I "},{"Title":"An endlessly charming story.  Like wine, it gets better and better!!!","Date":"7 July 2000","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Drama","Review":"  This movie captured the aura of how something small can become something really big in a small town.  Everyone in Milagro takes the audience along to battle for the beanfield!  Somehow they are all so familiar that  we already know these people when we sit down to watch.  This movie gets better and better every time you watch it!  Definitely a favorite.  Thanks Mr. Redford you gave cinema a wonderful gift. "},{"Title":"To Be Treasured!","Date":"15 May 2000","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Drama","Review":"  Joy, joy, joy. What a magnificent little movie! A fable-like tale that pulls at one's heart-strings and evokes a celebration of simple yet grand values such as family, community, honor, justice, and last but not least love. The story's greatness is in its simplicity. Robert Redford should have earned an Oscar for his eloquent direction of this movie (a contemporary tale of David and Goliath). Redford was as superb here as he was with Ordinary People. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Good","Date":"12 March 2000","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Drama","Review":"  I was pleasantly surprised by this movie, having enjoyed it immensely.  I can't understand at all why they rated it an R.  R because people are standing up for what they believe in?  R because they weave in a little religion/spirituality? In Milagro you are entertained and it sends a good message about humanity.  Great discussion film.  Rent it. "}{"Title":"Quite possibly, the perfect movie.","Date":"18 November 1998","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Drama","Review":"  TMBW is a delightful study of a group of small town people who have never had to face a radical change in their entire lives.  When a series of quirky events yanks them out if their sleepy existence the results are sometimes comical, sometimes poignant but always endearing.  By the end of the movie you want to hug each and every character.  "},{"Title":"Joe Mondragon was my great-granddad","Date":"17 July 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Drama","Review":" Growing up in my family it was a birth rite to see this movie. The movie is about my great grand dad Joe Mondragon. i remember seeing this movie in school and everyone asking me about it. I don't remember much about my great grand father cuz i was like 6 what i do remember was that i only got to meet him once. But what i associate with him all comes from this movie i hope that it is at least mostly true.This movie has meant a lot to me and i hope that i continues to mean a lot to every one who sees it. It helps us remember our past and our future and also reminds us to be tolerant of others and that we should try to help keep the little guys way of life. "},{"Title":"a very beautiful film, but quite neglected","Date":"19 January 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Drama","Review":" I love this movie. It reminds me of summers spent on the Chama in the wilds of New Mexico and reflects the locals in a gentle and realistic light. The situation is, unfortunately, believable and realistic, and the subsequent events, while approaching the absurd, leave the viewer satisfied and on an up-note.In spite of the fact that this movie is miles above most of the material available on late night cable or on the shelves of the video store, it has never had closed captions, and is still not available on DVD. I check Amazon regularly and hope that one day I will be surprised. This is definitely a film I would like to have for my library. "},{"Title":"A  good movie which was a surprise to me.","Date":"9 March 2006","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Drama","Review":" I had never heard of this movie and bought the video tape at a yard sale. I'm not going to tell you what the movie is about, there are plenty of others doing that. Just allow me to tell you it is worth seeing. I almost turned it off in the beginning, but got busy with something, left it on, and then started getting interested and ended up stopping what I was doing and watched the whole thing. I thought it was going to be some simple minded movie, but don't go by first appearances with an old Mexican guy playing his music box and dancing around an old - near ghost town looking - Southwest town. When you find out later who he is you understand. By starting out that way though, it was then more difficult to keep a person watching. I think Hollywood forgets that today, people watch movies on DVD and VHS and can turn them off quickly as it is too busy a world to waste time. I'm no fan of Robert Redford but have to hand it to him, he did a good job of directing. The only other thing he did that I liked was Jeremiah Johnson. The rest of the time he was either over acting or deluding himself that he knows better than the rest of us. In fact, he should have received an award from his buddies in Hollywood on this one. The acting was top notch too. Every person in the movie was very believable and made you care, except maybe Christopher Walken who was a little wooden in his part as the big, mean bad guy. Melanie Griffith was a little shallow but perhaps I am being unfair as that is the part she was playing - the shallow wife of the big shot money man. I am not familiar with the actresses who played the two top parts, but they were excellent and attractive besides. Joe, the fellow who grows the bean field did a good job as well as the old fellow who talks to Saints who was especially talented. Anyway, a two thumbs up from me which means it is worth watching and time well spent in enjoying a movie. "},{"Title":"sociology-anthropology","Date":"18 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Drama","Review":" When I entered Lewis & Clark College in autumn, 2002, I took a sociology-anthropology class. The teacher told us about water distribution systems and recommended The Milagro Beanfield War as a look at this topic. Since I had seen a number of Robert Redford's (who turns 71 today) movies during the past year and had thus taken an interest in his work, I decided to watch the movie.I have to say that it really impressed me. I don't know whether to describe it as mystifying, ethereal, or something else. I could go forever in trying to praise it, though I don't consider it the greatest movie ever. But I definitely extend the recommendation that the teacher gave the class.Starring Ruben Blades, Daniel Stern, Melanie Griffith, John Heard and Chick Venera. "},{"Title":"A Magical Movie","Date":"7 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Drama","Review":" Having lived in New Mexico, this movie depicts the local people like no other movie made about New Mexico. I love this movie. The music is great. Too bad there wasn't a soundtrack. I moved from R.I. to N.M. People told me before I moved that N.M. would grab you with its people, its culture, its food and not let go. I live in Ca. now and after watching this movie, I know why N.M. grabs you and doesen't let go. It is truly the land of Enchantment. This movie is sensational. The acting in this movie is great. From Freddy Fender to the Lt. Governor of N.M. all the actors are just wonderful. Christopher Walken play the perfect stooge until the very end where he makes up for being an idiot. "},{"Title":"My favorite Redford directed film.(Spoilers)","Date":"30 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Drama","Review":"  This movie makes me smile everytime I see it. It's a cute, funny, sometimes serious movie (though it never takes itself TOO seriously, which is part of it's charm). I enjoyed this far more than Quiz Show and A River Runs Through It The scenery is very beautiful and everyone in the cast does a great job. The timing of this movie, being released at the end of the Reagan/yuppie era of the eighties suits it perfectly. The film is about people who just want to live simple lives farming and raising their children in their town as they had for generations. The film also is smart not to try and turn the condo developer(Divine)into a cold evil man. Instead he is someone who had good intentions but didn't fully understand the traditions of the people he was dealing with. And it was SO REFRESHING to see a movie that presents a conflict that is actually resolved peacefully. I wish it would come out on DVD. It seems to have been overlooked and now forgotten.  "},{"Title":"A great film and an even better book","Date":"30 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Drama","Review":"  If you enjoyed this film, you will enjoy the book more.A simple tale of the sruggle of the weak against the strong. Yet a salient example of how the weak only become strong when they stick together. The film lacks the menace that is in the book, the way that the people turn against devine is somewhat sanitised for the film. Perhaps the message in the book is a little too scary for Hollywood.This is potentilly a highly charged political film, made in to a heart warming whimisical comedy by RR - but don't see that as a criticism, as it is a good work in it's own right.One of my favourite films and in my top ten for books. "},{"Title":"Heartwarming","Date":"9 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Drama","Review":"  I have seen many of the actors & actresses that are in this movie in other films.  This movie brings out the BEST in all of them.  Blades & Sterns were excellent.  This is one movie were Melinie Griffins doesn't come off as a sex pot.  It gave such a nice warm feeling to be part of this small town. The back ground music was light but added a lot.  I own this movie and watch it often.  Thanks "},{"Title":"A personal favorite","Date":"23 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Drama","Review":" The Milagro Beanfield War is a work of art. It has a premise upon which the story flows so engagingly for the viewer.Unlike all of the action adventure films of today, relying on superfluous violence and car crash scenes, the film develops the intricacies of characters, including poor migrant workers, old men, small town people, ex-hippies, et al.Everything works theme, music, plot, characters, setting, photography, actors. Redford shows he is a highly competent director meshing all into an engaging and enjoyable experience.Without the old men in this film, it would have failed. They symbolize all that we have lost of our ancestors simple values; simple lives; honor; social consciousness; enjoyment of life; appreciation of just being alive.Great cast,great film. I watch it every time it comes on the air, mesmerized by the world into which it lulls you with its other worldly music.Thank you, Robert Redford, for making this film. Please do some more like it. "}{"Title":"People Power","Date":"19 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Drama","Review":" ***SPOILERS*** In the movie  The Milagro Beanfied War we have an unlikely hero in Joe Mondragon,Chick Vennera,who in his David against Goliath fight against big land developer Ladd Devine, Richard Bradford,rallies all the people of that little New Mexican town without him even realizing that he's doing it. All Joe wanted was to irrigate and plant crops, beans, on his small strip of land so he could have enough money to pay his bills. Land that was being flooded with precious life giving water by Joe accidentally striking a water pipe! Just like Moses by striking a rock provided the children of Israel with water in the Sinai Desert. Joe who was planning together with his family to move out of his home and go north to find work is now determined to stay in place, the town of Milagro,and start a new life as a bean grower. But with big time land developer Devine determined to get his condos golf courses and swimming pools built Joe now knows he has his work cut out for him but, with really nothing to lose, he's more then willing to go all the way to do it!Robert Redford's, who directed and financed the movie, attempt to show the movie audience in how big business or big land developers use both money and the power of local government officials,up to the governor of the state, to drive people out of their homes that they lived in for generations. In the case of the people of Milagro we see how those with power use every flimsy law on the books, that was put there to help them get what they want, to drive people like Joe not just out of business but out of town as well. It's when everything fails Devine gets his top gun Kyril Montana,Christopher Walker, together with the local sheriff's posse to get the dirty job done for him. Only to have Montana & co. facing the ends of the barrels of the outraged people in town who just when things look as bad as they could be came to Joe's, who was charged with a slew of crimes like breaking the land and water code laws to attempted murder, rescue. And it was the law that Devine used against Joe as well as themselves that that put that witch hunt against the people of Milagro to an end.The movie shows that when people get organized and refused to be intimated they can accomplish a lot more then just leaving it up to local politicians, who are in the pay of big business interests, to do the job for them. Joe Mondragon was forced to make a stand when he saw that an injustice was being done to both him and the people of the town of Milagro. Without even realizing it Joe's actions energized the townspeople who at first were more then willing to give up their homes feeling that It was a hopeless cause on their part but later stand their ground and fight back against the likes of the powerful and well connected land developer Ladd Devine. But once they flexed their political muscles as well as their trigger fingers Devine & Co. knew that they just didn't stand a chance! "},{"Title":" It's  a special place in New Mexico where Milagro means just that ","Date":"15 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Drama","Review":" Robert Redford has accomplished much in his lifetime. To his credit is a long list of proud achievements, such as Movie Star, Producer, director, he can now add social activist. Take this film for instance, it's called  The Milagro Beanfield War.  It arises from the John Nichols's novel and involves a small rural town in New Mexico. Having read the novel, I was much taken by the fact, it nearly mirrors the book throughly. The book itself tells the story of how a little New Mexican village is haunted by the spirit of an aging former resident with hopes of revitalizing it's inhabitants into saving their town. The Old man begins by influencing a dispirited farmer named Joe Mondragon (Chick Vennera) to take advantage of an accidental flooding of his family's bean field by a water control system belonging to a rich land developer. The town Sheriff, Bernabe Montoya (Ruben Blades), learns as do all the town's residents of the illegal irrigation, but are curious as to see what Ladd Devine (Richard Bradford) the powerful land baron will do in response. What follows is a escalating collection of serious missteps, comical responses and official repercussions. All in all the cast which includes John Heard, Daniel Stern and Christopher Walker do well to lift this incredible film effort to the shelf of notable Classics. In point of fact, Mr. Redford can add this entertaining movie to his monumental collection of social achievements . Well done! **** "},{"Title":"Rural Gentrification","Date":"2 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Drama","Review":" The biggest name associated with The Milagro Beanfield War is its director Robert Redford. He does not step in front of the camera at any time during this film. Instead Redford assembled and directed a capable cast of players in a colorful and quaint tale about fighting city hall.But it's not municipal, but the state government itself in Milagro, New Mexico's struggle with developer Richard Bradford. Their tiny little town has been selected by him with the backing of New Mexico's governor M. Emmet Walsh for a resort development. The first part of said development is the construction of a small dam that stops water from getting to the beanfields of the Chicano farmers who have lived there and scratched a living from the soil for many generations. Bradford's plans will result in a kind of rural gentrification as these farmers will not be able to live on property that will increase in value as the taxes go up on it as well. But when Chick Vennera punches a hole in the dam and irrigates his beanfield that starts a populist type war in Milagro. Vennera becomes a symbol and rallying point for the Chicano farmers against the Anglo developers. Caught in the middle of all this is the town magistrate Ruben Blades who sympathizes with Vennera's struggle.Vennera has some other allies in community activists John Heard and Sonia Braga and visiting sociology student Daniel Stern. But Bradford sends his ace troubleshooter Christopher Walken in and he plays kind of rough.Redford directed The Milagro Beanfield War with a light touch, but still made his points well. Robert Redford's reputation as one who has devoted himself to conservation issues is well known and this film gives him quite the venue. The Milagro Beanfield War won an Oscar in the only category it was nominated in for Best Original Music Score. The score utilized some traditional Mexican folk themes and the arrangements are quite nice.So is the cinematography done completely on location in New Mexico, in the west that Robert Redford would like to see more of preserved and ordinary people just given a chance to make a living. "},{"Title":"Liesurely story of conflict over land.","Date":"13 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Drama","Review":" A small town of mostly Mexican residents is about to be ruined by a land developer who has visions of hotels, motels, condos, and ski lodges dancing in his head. The few hundred men and women in Milagro are divided about what to do. Some see construction jobs bringing in money and excitement. Others feel that our town is a family. The developer and his team of henchmen are all in this together, but the conflict between the townspeople grows until an accidental shooting takes place. The main mean guy, Christopher Walken, hunts down the accidental shootist, Chick Vennera, but the victim of the shooting recovers and refuses to press charges. Richard Bradford is the head of the development company and gives up his attempt to buy the land, raging against his advisers. This summary makes it sound like some angry docu-drama, but it's a surprisingly gentle and whimsical movie.This is a kind of tricky area to deal with in any kind of fiction. The tendency is to make the villagers and the interlopers generic. How many times have we seen these romanticized peasants? They always go about their business in a languid informal manner. They sing a lot. They eat with gusto. They don't mind a drink now and then. They have a great sense of humor and a mystical feeling for the land. Often there's a highly respected, or at any rate easily tolerated, dotty ancient man or woman.And how often have we seen the equivalent of these land developers? They dress in suits and ties. They're full of guile. They press the law to its limits and maybe a little beyond. They have no particular feelings for each other. Their only interest is pelf.The director, Robert Redford, doesn't entirely avoid these clichés, but he keep them about as toned down as this kind of story permits. Some of the actors aren't that convincing, but Christopher Walken certainly is. Every performance he gives seems like a polished gem. The film has virtues beyond the plot and the other usual elements. The photography captures a magnificent landscape. Not staggeringly majestic -- not the Grand Canyon -- not that raw -- but a silent and self-satisfied ocean of pinyon and juniper clotted rolling hills. You can almost smell the Pinesol.Alas, though, the tony resort development is a canard. That's not the problem facing these small-town good guys. It's the people who are going to live in those condos and ski on those slopes that present the problem and the problem extends far beyond the town limits of Milagro or even San Juan County. And it's not a pleasant problem to contemplate because it involves us.The people who will live in those condos must live somewhere, and some day they will have to live here, and, as the local editor, John Heard, points out, they'll demand clean water and restaurants. Taxes will skyrocket and urban sprawl will sprawl.In 1950, the population of the earth was roughly 2 billion. It's now 6 billion and by 2050 will have doubled.Robert Bradford and the Ladd Devine Development company may give up in disgust but can anyone doubt that there will be another such entity offering greater bribes ten years from now? Or that eventually one or another such entity will get what it wants? Or that such entities are only the thin end of the wedge of a change process whose proportions are monumental?The good folks of Milagro are going to lose their village, just like everybody else. But how can we argue against population growth? You might as well argue against motherhood and apple pie. "},{"Title":"Reality from Hollywood!","Date":"23 September 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Drama","Review":" I have been reading IMDb reviews for several months, but this is the first time I have felt a need to add one of my own. This is mostly a response to the detractors of this film. Since Milagro is one of my favourite movies I have ever seen, I was amazed at the vitriol it inspired in some people. At first it made me angry -- but then, it just made me sad to know that so many people are so ignorant of real life, and of the magical realities that exist in this mundane world. This film is probably the most real film about the most real people I have ever seen. Fat, rich, and greedy white men do indeed oppress good people of colour and limited means all over the world all the time, and I suspect that the critic's vitriol had its base in the fact that this movie so effectively portrays this oppression. To anyone who wants an inspiring, witty, funny, and heartfelt story about the 'little man' who successfully stands up to the Machine, this movie is a must see. "},{"Title":"trivia","Date":"22 November 2005","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Drama","Review":" This should go under trivia for this movie I noticed in one scene in the local grocery store, a woman asks in Spanish if this salad dressing is any good. The dressing she was asking about was Paul Newman's brand. A man near her, I assume the owner, answered her in English No, that kind is no good, get the other one. I thought that was funny. I'm sure it was an intentional good-natured jab at Robert Redford's long time friend Paul Newman.A moving film. Shouldn't be rated R. I hope New Mexicans aren't really as unfriendly as they are depicted in this movie. You may as well live in New England. I grew up in Texas and now I've lived in New England for over 17 years and I hate it. I want to move back to the southeastern or southwestern part of the US someday. In Texas when I grew up, the Mexicans and Mexican Americans I knew were wonderful people. There were no class lines. We lived and worked together. "},{"Title":"Political Propaganda That's Full Of Beans","Date":"27 October 2006","Score":"14 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Drama","Review":" This started off so well, with some absolutely beautiful New Mexico scenery, I had high hopes. Unfortunately, they were dashed the rest of the way as director Robert Redford had to shout his Left Wing politics loud and clear in our face.So what we wind up with is a low-down, dishonest greedy Right Wing big businessman running the poor little guys out of town and only those good-guy liberal activist minorities saving the day. We even get a dose of Christian bigotry here where those poor picked-on-pagan gods are run out by Christians! Well, you just know what side is going to win yes, those wonderful left wingers, adored by the film industry.This VHS went into a garbage can where it belonged. Adios!! "},{"Title":"Land developers want to overrun a quaint Chicano village in New Mexico","Date":"31 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Drama","Review":" Released in 1988, The Milagro Beanfield War is a whimsical drama about a Hispanic town in Northern New Mexico that's being invaded by land developers who want to turn the town into a resort and drive out the Chicano villagers. Chick Vennera plays the owner of the beanfield, Sonia Braga the champion of his cause, John Heard an aging ex-hippie lawyer who supports them and Daniel Stern a New York college student who takes up living on the beanfield property; Christopher Walken and Richard Bradford play the villains while Melanie Griffith has a cameo.This was Robert Redford's second movie in the director chair after the successful Ordinary People (1980). It failed at the box office perhaps because, while Milagro isn't bad at all, it's not great either; it's somewhere in between. It's professionally made with a great cast and locations, but it's only mildly engrossing. The problem is that there are so many characters, Braga's being the best, none of them are portrayed with much depth. It would've been a better movie if they cut out the fat and focused on a few of the characters, throwing in a dramatic hook, like Jack & Rose in Titanic. A good example of something that could've been cut is Daniel Stern's character. Although Stern does fine in the role it's really an unnecessary character since the story already features a gringo who sides with the villagers. Despite this negative, I enjoyed the film and it leaves you with a good feeling. It's reminiscent of 1984's The River in tone and quality, albeit chipper and quirkier.The film runs 117 minutes and was shot in Espanola, Los Alamos, Truchas and Santa Fe, New Mexico.GRADE B- "},{"Title":"Fascinating Film!","Date":"28 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Drama","Review":" The Milagro Beanfield War is a fascinating, very entertaining film that surprised me when I found out how little known this film was even though it was directed by Robert Redford, whom is a very prolific actor and director. I liked how this film has a penchant for pretty sunrises and sunsets and I feel like it adds to the film. Is this a political film? It could be because it certainly has political overtones, but I was more entertained than politically guided with this film.Robert Redford's film is about a small town in New Mexico where it's predominated by Hispanics and Catholics. There is this one man named Joe Mondragon who illegally uses water to irrigate his beanfield and does what he can to protect it against the interests of big business.This film surprised me by having the acting it's best asset. I haven't heard of half of the cast, but they do a great job. There are several I've heard of such as John Heard, Christopher Walken, and Daniel Stern and I think they do a pretty good job. To be honest, I thought Stern would be funnier here since he is known as a funnyman.Overall, The Milagro Beanfield War is a vastly underrated film. It can be pretty funny at times without being too overly dramatic. It takes a while to get hooked into the film, but eventually you'll not want this film not to be ovefr. Not only does it have a good story, it's pretty to look at thanks to some fine cinematography and has a wonderful score by Dave Grusin. I think more people should get to see this film because it's very good. I rate this film 9/10. "},{"Title":"Milagro Beanfield War","Date":"23 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Drama","Review":" In my point of view, this film not only talks about just a community but also shows the sights and sounds of one of the most prevalent issues that our world faces today. The film's main argument is about the major crisis of water shortage that we face today and how the multinational corporations are taking advantage of this to make themselves a fortune. In the process these global organizations are not only remorselessly exploiting and starving the poor people to death but also destroying our pristine Eco-system. Water is vitally important resource; yet it seems as though no one pays any attention to it. This film shows a disappointed community due to lack of work opportunity. All frustration comes from 'water law' which is not clear to general people and power holder takes that advantage from that law. Unfortunately, most of the developing nations' minority class like farmers and villagers has been victimized in this situation. I would like to mention one very small character, a woman through stone to people when they passing through her yard and short view where all people brought bullet with their food stamp. Director used it for showing deepness of frustration of that community people. Both are illegal but the community peoples point of view, it was really a time demand. In last scene, that woman and all people were celebrating that bean together. Coming from one of these developing or so called Third World countries, I was aware of this crisis from experience. I have grown up watching the plight and misery of people caused by various global concerns and water shortage was one of them. However, I have to admit that before watching this film, I was completely unaware of the degree and extent to which this problem have been taken due to the involvement of these greedy multinational companies. The film makers' suggestion is for us to fight for your right, if you are in right way you will get support from general people. However, this is not going to help a lot since the situation has worsened so much that only drastic measures may be the only option for us to re-stabilize the planet's problems and its Eco-system. "}{"Title":"Milagro is America","Date":"24 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Drama","Review":" It is interesting to compare the opening of The Milagro Beanfield War to Chocolat. The music is similar, there is an odd wind blowing throw the sleepy village. Both are about the transformation of a town, from a collection of individuals into a community. No matter how bad I feel, this movie never fails to cheer me up. Just the opening alone is enough to change my attitude An old, unshaven man opens his eyes, looks around at his poor hovel, pulls himself out of bed slowly, moves with difficulty to a mirror, and says, Thank you, God, for letting me have another day.Although made in 1988, it has a lesson for America in 2011. If we as a community come together we can save our country; if not, the powerful business interests will kill it. But everyone has excuses to not get involved. Sonya is trying to get the newspaper editor to talk at the town meeting, but he wants no part of it Talk to the people? I don't think so. Well, it's very hard to get people to agree on anything in this town. First there would be an argument, then there would be a fight. I don't think so.That's America, circa 2011. No one can agree on anything in this country. In 1988, there was still optimism that the people could win; now I'm not so sure. America is dying, like the town of Milagro. It will take a miracle to save it now. But miracles are possible. Remember Lake Placid?Please watch this movie. And watch Robert Redford's Lions for Lambs for an updated statement on the subject. If you are interested in a wonderful early work of Christopher Walken, see Who Am I This Time? "},{"Title":"There is a soundtrack release for this movie.  I have it","Date":"9 October 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Drama","Review":" There is a soundtrack for the movie, I own it and it's great. It's not as good as the movie and includes a few that are just the background stuff but there is some excellent music. keep searching, I bought mine a while ago (mid 80's?).The movie is one of my favorites and I'd recommend it to anyone. It's also a great movie to watch with a chic. They like the romantic aspects and the drama while the guys like the comedy and the 'chase'. It's a bit like British comedy in that there are a lot of subtle jokes but it is thoroughly entertaining for men as well as women.I need one more line of text so here it is . . . one more line of text. "},{"Title":"Odd but charming","Date":"18 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Drama","Review":" The tiny New Mexico town of Milagro is about to be taken over by developers. However farmer Joe Mondragon (Chick Vennera) builds a beanfield using their water. This sparks off a war that threatens to get more and dangerous between the developers and townspeople.This came (and went) very quickly in 1988. The only reason it was made at all was because director Robert Redford's previous film (Ordinary People) had been a big hit and won multiple Oscars. The title alone probably turned away most moviegoers. That's too bad because this is a sweet, lyrical movie. It somehow manages to draw the viewer into this small town and the inhabitants and make you care and side with them. It helps that there is some simply gorgeous cinematography and it has an Oscar-winning score that perfectly matches the films mood and tone. Also there is a huge cast of American and Latino actors--all of them are just great! The beautiful Sonia Braga is on hand and takes a minor role and really brings it to life. Also there's a simply wonderful scene where John Heard tells off evil Christopher Walken (Walken's always dazed expression perfectly fits this scene). A one of a kind beautiful film.The films R rating is unnecessary. There's no nudity, sex and minor bloodless violence. There's a little swearing but it's casual and done so quickly you're not even aware of it. It deserves a PG-13. Worth catching but not for everybody. "},{"Title":"A good Social Justice Movie","Date":"10 July 2009","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Drama","Review":" This movie was very powerful in the sense that it showed how much as Americans we value real estate. The Devine plan for Milagro was to put up a resort, a lake, and a golf course; and by doing so it had no regards for the native population of Milagro. They had been there for hundreds of years, but the town had changed during that time. In the past years, poverty had become noticeable in their personalities. It had always been their style of life, but now it dictated how people acted. This is a classic example of rich people wanting to buy up all the land, so they offer money to all the land owners to buy them out. As far as who held the key to the plot of the story, it was Sheriff Montoya. Although he was dealing with Ladd Devine, he ended up staying true to his native people by defending them. Twice, he stepped in during life/death situations and prevented total chaos from breaking out. Also, as far as playing their role very well, Christopher Walken did a great job playing Kryil Montana, the loose cannon, stop at nothing, wild-west vigilante out to get Mondragon. It was interesting to see how much pride Montana took in finally arresting Mondragon, but how he still had a level of respect for him when he let him go. Ruby Archuleta was the activist who made this all happen. She took a stand to defend her native people, even when at times, they didn't understand what was happening to them. She got the injustice into the hands of the right man, Charlie Bloom, an ex-lawyer and civil rights activist. He stood up for the town that wasn't even his own and printed the news about everything that was going on. It was interesting to see that some people in the town were willing to let the development happen. The US Forest Service rangers, whose families had been in Milagro all their life, were willing to turn their backs on their people and got paid off by Devine. This created most of the conflict in the movie because the first scene in which people actually pointed their guns at each other involved the rangers. They had taken Joe's cow onto national land, so they could detain it, therefore costing him $100 to retrieve it. Well everyone knew that this was by design, and the old men in Milagro were there to defend Joe all the way. Luckily Sheriff Montoya stepped in, or we would be looking at a whole different plot line. The other incident which made the movie into what it was involved Montana buying up all of Bloom's local papers and trying to burn them. But while this was going on, a gust of wind picked up all the newspapers and spread them all over town for everyone to read. As far as social justice movies go, this would go somewhere at the top of the list. It was a little different than I would have expected, in that I expected Devine to just buy Mondragon out of his property. All Joe was looking for was a decent job to pay off his bills and feed his family, so if Devine was willing to just offer Mondragon a lucrative settlement, then this wouldn't have happened. The only thing that would have made this movie better would to have been to see Bloom go to court as a civil attorney and make the whole state of New Mexico aware of the injustices that were occurring. "},{"Title":"OK slow-moving movie","Date":"18 August 2008","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Drama","Review":" This is one of those intelligent slow-moving tales with almost no commercial potential that somehow find themselves being made thanks to the involvement of a major star or director &#150; Robert Redford in this case, who just happens to be both a major actor and director. The plot is fairly thin, but Redford's more interested in developing character and admiring the scenery as he does so. There's a mix of Hollywood types (Walken, Heard, Griffith, etc) and lesser-known actors, and you'd expect the bigger names to look out of place. They do look different from the town-folk of Milagro, to be sure, but, for the most part they're supposed to. Walken is a cop drafted in by land developers to step on the minor irritation initially provided by a nothing farmer when he almost inadvertently diverts water that doesn't belong to him to grow the beans that cause the frictions between the townspeople and the developers to come to a head; Heard is an outcast from the city, a 60s radical and former lawyer preciously licking his wounds in a place where he thinks trouble can't find him. They're both good, as you'd expect, but they can't compete with the fascinating character contained in the lined and sun-baked faces of the locals.It's almost a fable, this story, with some mystical elements that don't always sit comfortably with other aspects of the tale. Most of these are provided by the hermit-like old neighbour of Joe Mandragon, the film's protagonist, who holds conversations with a long-dead brother who casts shadows on walls. Richard Bradford is quite memorable as the chief bad guy, a slick white-haired type. The townspeople should be allied against him but, even as the beanfield farmer makes a stand they are too apathetic and blinkered to do so. They can't believe bad things will happen to them until they do. Had they shown a little more resolve they would have found that the people plotting to destroy their village in the process of developing a leisure resort really aren't that clever themselves &#150; it's only their own listlessness &#150; even Mondragon wavers when the developers offer him some construction work &#150; that puts them in the position they find themselves.Two minor weak points Chick Vennerra as Mondragon has a tendency to overact at times and Daniel Stern as a stranded sociology major seems almost completely superfluous to the plot. "},{"Title":"Redford's second film flops","Date":"8 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Drama","Review":"  When I first read about this film I thought I would enjoy, It looked offbeat and has an excellent cast.  I was wrong, what I got was a boring, pointless mess of a movie.  I think the problem was actually Redford's directing, everything seemed so boring and out of place.  The only unique thing about this film was the casting, not to say that most of the actors werent miscast, because they were but Redford put unknown actors in the lead, and name actors in smaller supporting roles, I thought that was an interesting touch.  Overall a very lame movie.  *1/2 out of *****. "},{"Title":"It's a shame to turn such a fantastic book into such a mediocre movie.","Date":"9 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Drama","Review":"  It seems unlikely that anyone could do a better job turning this book into a movie. There is just too much content in the book and too little time in the movie, too much story in the book and too little depth in the movie, etc. This movie is probably as good as it gets, but it damns the book with its mediocrity. "},{"Title":"Southwest snooze fest","Date":"7 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Drama","Review":" I saw this movie a long time ago, and it was so boring it stuck in my mind ever since. It's on the order of Solaris (starring George Clooney and directed by Steven Sodenbergh). Sleepy town, underwhelmed characters, boring story, unexciting plot, nothing to catch or hold your attention, just a lot of limp-as-a-dishrag apathy. I'm not a person who has to have fast action shoot em ups all the time, either. I'm just fine with quiet, intelligent, thoughtful films too. But there has to be something. And this movie has nothing. So do yourself a favor. Run away. Run away fast. Or take a long nap. You'll get just as much out of it, and save yourself money too. Or at least a slot in your Netflix queue. "},{"Title":"Unbelievable but entertaining to say the least...","Date":"22 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Drama","Review":"  This fantasy story has some of the best cinematography ever seen.  Redford, always a perfectionist, went over budget on this film and it was a big flop. However, it is still an enjoyable moving and the cinematography is breathtaking.  The story of a little community in New Mexico being bullied over by a big businessman looking for profit in the southwestern desert. These natives stand up for themselves through the help of a small time farmer who ignores the water laws and irrigates his beanfield.  The film is lifted with the performances of the two old men who have very unique personalities.  Also, you will never fall so much in love with a pig, with the exception of Babe.  The Milagro Beanfield War is a very entertaining and enjoyable film.  "},{"Title":"beans and hot air","Date":"7 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Drama","Review":" The word milagro means miracle, but don't expect any from this artificial staging of author John Nichols' comic Southwestern fable about a poor farmer in a sleepy mountain village who challenges a network of greedy real estate tycoons hoping to plunder the pristine New Mexican countryside. It's ironic that such an outspoken champion of independent filmmaking would produce and direct such a trite and simplistic movie, affecting a fanciful, light-hearted tone even while it falls victim to emotional and dramatic overkill. The issues are presented in a transparent conflict between noble, good-natured small town folk and evil ecological rapists, carrying an idealistic message wielded with all the grace and subtlety of a giant rubber mallet. The northern New Mexico scenery is postcard perfect, but everything in the foreground (characters, dialogue, and plot) is coated with enough sugary sentiment to make even the most dedicated liberal feel queasy. "}{"Title":"Little too slow for some.  Good movie overall.","Date":"14 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Drama","Review":"  Spoilers??First 20 minutes or so may turn away some.  So don't judge the movie on the first 20 minutes.  It does get better.  I did think some of the white's took some of the power away from the Milagro people.  The white characters really served little purpose.  This is probably the only movie of  Christopher Walken's that you can't tell if he's a jacka** or not.  First he shoots at the lead character and then someone tells him to uncuff him.  Being true to Walken's nature you'd think he'd be smiling right up to the point where he kills the guy.  But he doesn't and follows orders..   Not to mention it's got a rather conflicting ending.  I really don't know what the directors intention is.  Either the old man's going to take a shortcut to the party or the angel's taking him to heaven.  You try to figure it out. )6/10Quality 7/10 Entertainment 4/10 Replayable 4/10 "},{"Title":"Huh?","Date":"5 March 2005","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Drama","Review":" I sat down to watch the Milagro Beanfield War at the Newport Cinema in Mead, Washington eighteen years ago and I still am not sure what happened. I sort of associate the movie with the time I was coming out of a general anesthetic and felt as if I had been robbed of the sensation of time passing, a profoundly important feeling for me. I still remember thinking that Robert Redford had stolen some time from me and that if I sued him, he would win . . . and take more time from me. This is the sort of movie that your extremely deep, touchy-feely friends say you MUST see! I went with my extremely deep, touchy-feely sister and when I came out of the theater and said, Huh?, she got extremely and deeply angry with me for not being touchy-feely enough.I wiped the drool from the corner of my mouth and checked three clocks to reestablish my connection with linear time.Huh? "},{"Title":"Not Worth It!","Date":"26 May 2005","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Drama","Review":" I cannot see how this movie was ever allowed to be seen in any movie theaters. Most spectators would probably want their money back. Robert Redford seems to like ethnic American movies like this one and Smoke Signals,which was at least better than Milagro Beanfield War. This movie played into stereotype characters too much but Redford wants to seem like an enlightened man who is sensitive to other cultures. This movie was a bit too racist for me to enjoy and it was not a comedy the dumb blonde woman stereotype; the backward Mexican peasants; the White-Anglo New England anthropologist having to explain the mixture of pagan/Catholic religious beliefs to a Mexican who should already know this stuff! "},{"Title":"I can´t believe you guys!","Date":"17 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Drama","Review":"  Come on! I´m completely surprised of you people! I just saw this movie, and being in the best and most looking-forward mood I´ve been in two weeks, I found myself sleeping at the end of this movie.It´s sooooo very boring.There´s not problem with the performances, neither the cinematography, nor the music score (which, by the way, I liked).The problem comes with the script, therefore the directing part of it too, and the editing.I know Redford could have pulled out a better story. Not this drama thats shows us totally unconnected story lines.Something else the publicity cheats. Maybe I´m a little bit disapointed because I expected a more EXCITING little movie (i.e. The Full Monty, Wide Awake, Pleasantville, etc.), but, no... I end up with a slow-paced story with boring characters.Haven´t read the book, so i can´t really judge it, but this movie sure didn´t do well.I know, I know you guys (and gals) who liked it may be saying some things about my mother already, but I really can´t understand why you some much even enjoy it.One more thing What´s up with this angel character. What did he ever do for the plot? Maybe the moviemakers needed more advising than the town people. "}]