[{"Title":"Great! What are you all talking about?","Date":"15 August 2001","Score":"38 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I'm wondering if everyone who reviewed this was watching the same film that I've seen because there is no way this movie can endanger your mental growth. This movie is great! It's got a funny script and an interesting storyline...I don't know if people were expecting some kind of Close Encounters of the Third Kind challenger, but you all need to see this movie for what it is...somehow I doubt it was meant to deliver some deep message about society or help you delve into your soul...it's a comedy that is meant to entertain! Lighten up, people.... "},{"Title":"Enjoyable light fluff","Date":"18 August 2002","Score":"16 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Ok, I admit to a guilty pleasure at 1)enjoying and 2) recommending this movie.The plot is weak, the situation implausible and the secondary characters are weak.  So why do I give this movie a 7/10?Dan Aykroyd and Kim Basinger, who have some of the funniest lines in any movie.They are both excellent as 'fish out of water' he as a nerdy social misfit and she as the space travelling investigator who has to find out how Dan Aykroyd's character was able to contact her planet from a primitive Earth.It is a movie that definitely grows on you with repeated viewings.  "},{"Title":"Still delivers big laughs, one to watch when your world has some gray skies","Date":"29 May 2008","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Widower Dr. Steve Mills (Dan Ackroyd) is a two-bit astronomer who wants desperately to send a light beam out of the solar system. He fervently believes there is life on other planets but his experiments have been known to damage expensive equipment. Therefore, his boss has told Steve that he will get the boot if he breaks anything else. Needing lightning to bolster his beam, Dr. Steve begins his next attempt at intergalactic communication in a thunderstorm when the system suddenly gets a superboost of power, which he can't explain. The result is that the radar shows his light went into another GALAXY, hurrah, but, soon after, the entire system goes south. Steve gets thrown out on his ear, of course. He goes home to his thirteen year old daughter, Jessie (Alyson Hannigan) and contemplates his next move. His womanizing brother, Ron (Jon Lovitz, absolutely hilarious) throws a party to cheer him up, too. But, crashing the get-together, is a beautiful blonde, Celeste (Kim Basinger) who flirts with Steve and wants to know his science secrets. That's because she is an alien whose planet was damaged by Dr. Mills' light beam. She has only a short time to get the good astronomer to send the jolt again so that her world will be saved. But, naturally, Steve must not know she is not an earthling. From alien eyes in handbags to drinking car batteries to convincing Steve to marry her, will Celeste succeed in her rescue attempts? If you are world weary, I heartily recommend this old charmer. It is very funny, probably Richard Benjamin's best effort, and it has a terrific cast, too. Ackroyd is wonderful but, then, so is Basinger in a role for which she has probably never garnered any praise, which is a big shame, for she is very funny and sweet. As for Lovitz, he could make a stone laugh and he is in excellent form in this one. All of the other cast members, including Hannigan, in her first big role, are fine. There is an abundance of terrific sight gags and special effects and the script is humorous, polished, and offbeat. As for the costumes, they are impressive, with Basinger looking like a dream. In short, do not be an alien to this film. There have been many films in cinematic history which have been praised high above this one but there are very few that actually deliver the laughs and enjoyment of this truly winning flick. "},{"Title":"Not bad at all (if you can accept something totally silly).","Date":"23 February 2006","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" During the period when Richard Benjamin wasn't acting in any movies, he turned to directing, and My Stepmother Is an Alien was one of the results. It features nerdy astronomer Steven Mills (Dan Aykroyd) accidentally doing something that causes alien Celeste Martin (Kim Basinger) to get sent to earth. Naturally, she has to learn about everything step by step, causing some really wacky situations.This movie's nothing special, but good for a laugh. You probably really like the scene where Celeste asks her purse What is sex?. Also starring Alyson Hannigan, Jon Lovitz, and Seth Green. Oh, and most of us probably know that Aykroyd had already played Mr. Conehead on SNL. "},{"Title":"Hey, it's not that bad!","Date":"11 March 2002","Score":"13 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I rate this film as so bad, it's kinda good.  It reeks of everything I feel the Eighties was trying to get away from when it became the Nineties, however nostalgia will forever hallow certain themes, in a beauty is in the eye of the beholder sort of way. Certainly by today's standards this movie is very corny and lacks any real depth sought by movie lovers everywhere, but it has a lot of tongue in cheek charm that other movies lack.  It's possible I only say these things because I first saw the film when quite young and I remember liking it... that's a great way to end up liking films that other people really cannot get along with. As a summary, I couldn't sit down and watch this film with any of my friends, but it would be a perfect companion on a slow evening when I'm ill and had a few beers and need my mind taking off things.  Like this evening. "},{"Title":"Awesome 80's movie","Date":"7 November 2005","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I thought this movie was hilarious! I don't understand how this movie got an average of 4 stars. I remember liking this movie when I was a kid and I still love this movie today. I bought the DVD and watch it often. Kim Basinger and Dan Akroyd are wonderful in this delightful film together. Not too many movies can make me laugh out loud. Sure this may be a cheesy film but what 80's movie wasn't cheesy? The eyeball is also hilarious! One of my fav scenes in the movie is when the eyeball is teaching Celeste what sex is, both of their reactions throughout that scene are so funny and unforgettable. I would definitely recommend this movie to anyone who likes comedies. "},{"Title":"charming little story","Date":"26 October 2001","Score":"13 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie was fun.  I don't know why everyone is ragging on it. Deserving, nerdy guy gets the girl and saves the world. Nice salutes to movies of the '40s. If the plot's weak, it's because there's not much conflict, no diabolical scheming bad guy.  The characters are all sweet and real enough that you care about them. Ms. Basinger is pretty, but if you want to see her do sexy, see _Cool World_.  "},{"Title":"Great comedy ,Great science fiction and great characters","Date":"25 April 2000","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  My stepmother is an alien is a  wonderful comedy packed with great jokes and great characters.Dan Arkroyd plays Steven Mills a scientist who believes there is life on other planets one night he makes an experiment that will change his life forever.Kim Basinger plays Celeste an alien from an other planet who comes to earth to try to save her planet with the help of Steve Mills.Alyson Hannigan is also great as Jessie Mills who suspects Celeste is not quite normal.9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Now That's A Nice-Lookin' Alien!","Date":"3 November 2006","Score":"18 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I don't believe in aliens, but one ever existed and I ran into it, I hope it looks like Kim Bassinger!Ditsy but humorous in spots and a generally likable movie is how I saw this film. Basinger hardly ever looked better, which is saying a lot. At the time, it was unusual to see her in a comedy after viewing her in tough crime or sex-type movies for awhile. (I didn't see this film until 10 years after it had been released.) She's a decent comedienne, like her ex-husband (Alec Baldwin) has turned out to be, too.The comedy is more chuckles than guffaws. There is the usual too-liberal values espoused here, in which sex on the first date is cool, even considered that b the teen daughter! The latter, however, Jessie (Alyson Hannigan) is a cute kid and not annoying as most teen girls on in modern-day films. The casual sex and general secular attitude toward everything including that science is everything were all annoying to me but it's still a likeble movie. The profanity isn't too much, except by Jon Lovitz, who provides much of it. In all, a dumb story but a nice, feel-good ending helps. "},{"Title":"Oh, Dr. Steve, that was sooo good.","Date":"9 March 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie definitely falls under the so bad it's funny category. It is easily one of the most absurd Hollywood movies ever. Some of it almost feels like a Bugs Bunny cartoon starring SNL alums. The writer and director were either in the middle of a massive hallucinogen binge or had just gotten done watching like forty billion bad 1950s movies in a row.Akroyd is mostly boring, but the look on his face when the ultra sexy Basinger puts the moves on him is priceless -- you can tell he's been in that situation before. The best acting in the movie probably comes from the dog, but as far as human actors go, Alyson Hannigan (the daughter) is an entertaining and refreshing break from the pouty, my parents are so lame cardboard cutouts found in most 80s and 90s comedies.One of the funniest things I've ever seen comes at the party after the wedding. It lasts about a split second, but the band's keyboard player does the goofiest, most ridiculous 'pretending to make music' acting job ever.Bottom line the story and dialogue are so completely ludicrous that depending on how goofy a sense of humor you have, this will either be the worst or the funniest movie you'll ever see. "}{"Title":"its supposed to be stupid, dont you get it?","Date":"10 December 1999","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If there is anyone out there who takes this movie seriously has real problems. Your not supposed to take this movie seriously, its a comedy, a COMEDY, cant you just laugh at how dumb it is? The lead cast is god, but its a cool movie because there are a lot of bit parts from people who are now stars in this film. Juliette Lewis has one line, and is the flower girl. Seth Green and Alison Flannigan from Buffy the Vampire Slayer have roles as well. Its not as bad a movie as people say, just dont take it literally. "},{"Title":"Lame '80s humour","Date":"28 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" MY STEPMOTHER IS AN ALIEN is one of those films with a great title but little in the way of a real plot to go with it. It's a typical lame '80s comedy in which a bunch of dated aliens beam down on Earth and one of them adopts the rather unlikely form of Kim Basinger in order to infiltrate mankind's society. What follows is an endless barrage of dated jokes, unfunny jokes, and just plain weirdness.I'll admit from the outset to not being a fan of Basinger, although she's well cast as an alien character here; there's always been something a bit weird about her, after all. Dan Aykroyd is stuck in the 'everyman hero' type role and can do little with it, although there's novelty value that arises from seeing future stars like Alyson Hannigan, Seth Green, and Juliette Lewis when they were but children.The special effects in the film have dated, not to mention the fashions and hairstyles, and overall it only raised a few chuckles along the way. Overall I think the '80s wave of alien comedies (such as MORONS FROM OUTER SPACE and EARTH GIRLS ARE EASY) was a disappointing one, an assembly of movies that did little to progress either the sci-fi or comedy genres in any way. "},{"Title":"Hey... it's not THAT bad!  It was really kinda funny! =)","Date":"4 June 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I rather enjoyed this film!  I actually thought that it was a crack-up! Okay, so it's  not the funniest movie that was ever made.  So what?!  Not every comedy was written by Neil Simon or Woody Allen.  Of course, the fact that I saw it when it was first released (more than 10 years ago) might have something to do with my enjoyment factor.  The special effects, especially by today's standards, are pretty corny.  But, all in all, it was enjoyable. And hey, after all, where else can you get to see T.V.'s Buffy the Vampire Slayer stars, Alyson Hannigan and Seth Green, when they first appeared as boyfriend and girlfriend, years before their television romance began?! "},{"Title":"Buffy fans should revisit this one","Date":"8 December 2000","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Look, this is a very silly film, but it's worth another look on video for this reason Buffy stars Allyson Hannigan (wicca Willow) and Seth Green (the werewolf with the puppydog eyes) are in it, dating, I think. "},{"Title":"Possesses some charm, but is ultimately just a very poor entry","Date":"30 August 2005","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I'm not much for the 80's. I was too young to remember them(was 4 when they ended), and listening to the music, looking at the hairstyles and watching the movies... it's just not the same. This particular brand of 80's comedy hits a particularly bad note with me; the fish-out-of-the-water, combined with ridiculous sci-fi and with many of the jokes heavily, pitifully overdone. As such, this movie is hard for me to objectively review... so you will have to forgive me if this turns a tad too cruel. Having seen this at least once before, a few years ago, I mainly watched this to see the popular teen actors at a younger age... Lewis, Hannigan and Green. It was quite amusing to see them so young, and I don't regret investing a hundred minutes of half-attentive time on it... again. The film itself is OK... the plot is about as far out as they go, but I guess it's somewhat original and surely an interesting idea. The pacing seems mostly off, and you're often pondering when a scene will move on. This may be that I'm used to newer, more fast-paced movies... but I have few(if any) problems with Hitchcock's films, even his oldest... so I suspect that it's the direction rather than my attention span. The humor is mostly poor, or at least overdone. The gags are maybe funny at first, but when you get down to it, it's basically one joke told over and over, and it's just not that funny or original. The acting seems somewhat shoddy, as well. The characters are mostly one-note jokes, walking clichés, stereotypes, whichever expression you prefer. All in all, this is a fair comedy, considering the time it was made, but it's not really worth watching unless you're a big fan of some of the actors. I recommend this only to very big fans of several of the people involved in making it. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Easily one of the Fifty Worst Movies Ever Made","Date":"28 December 2004","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" It's easy to say a movie is one of the worst I've ever seen. Often, the person saying it doesn't really mean it. They're just exaggerating. I've done this myself, when speaking of movies such as BRAM STOKER'S Dracula or BAD BOYS. I'm fully aware that they are not nearly as objectively bad as, say, ROBOT MONSTER or CAT WOMEN OF THE MOON, but I personally found them awful.The same can not be said for MY STEPMOTHER IS AN ALIEN. It is a genuinely dreadful waste of time, money and talent, so much so that it's existence seems to defy the laws of reality. How did this moronic trash heap of a movie ever get made, or even released? How did the negative of this movie not wind up burning in an incinerator somewhere? I need not go into the plot, which is basically summed up in the title. Literally, that's pretty much it. It's SPLASH with an alien instead of a mermaid.The fact that this movie is actually derived from an original (dramatic) screenplay about a girl unable to cope with the fact that her father has a new girlfriend in the wake of her mother's death staggers me. It just goes to show that the people who make the decisions at big studios about how to make screenplays they've acquired more marketable are a bunch of clueless idiots.It lumbers along like a wounded walrus until the unbelievably idiotic finale, in which Dan Aykroyd and Kim Basinger convince the aliens that she should stay on Earth by performing a duet of a Jimmy Durante song. I am not kidding.This is one of those movies in which the studio barely hides its contempt for its audience. Theoretical studio meeting dialog Let's see. This thing's kind of a downer. People prefer to laugh. Dan Aykroyd's funny. Oh, and so is Jon Lovitz. Put them in there. Hmmm. This whole new stepmother thing is king of leaving me cold. Ooooo, what if she were an alien! Kids love aliens. E.T.? STARMAN? Can you say 'Box Office Hit'? Oh, Kim Basinger's really popular this month. Put her in there. The screenplay? Ummm, I didn't think of that. Whatever, get the usual hacks to throw something together. Oh, and my kid saw Jimmy Durante in TV the other night, so figure out a way to stick that in there, too. I don't care if doesn't make any sense, do it. I guess that's it! Meeting adjourned. "},{"Title":"Daft but enjoyable","Date":"30 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Single dad widower scientist Steve accidentally sends an intergalactic zapping thingie which will destroy the planet at the other end unless he sends another one. As he doesn't realise he did it, they send a representative in the form of a hot woman (with a hostile handbag),and he falls for her and marries her. Hi-jinks ensue.This film is very silly but, if you are happy with silliness, it is quite good fun. Dan Aykroyd is likable as the hapless scientist, and a pre-Buffy Alyson Hannigan does very well as his daughter you can sympathise with her rather than wanting to hit her with a heavy object as is the case with so many movie teens. But Kim Basinger, as alien Celeste, is very funny indeed. It's a shame her gift for comedy wasn't used more. "},{"Title":"watch for having fun","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  One of my fav movies as a child I still watch it once in a while just to have 105 minutes of fun. The story may not be the most original, but you can see a well-acting Kim Basinger as an alien who has to discover the complexity of humans. "},{"Title":"A Timeless Comedy For All Ages","Date":"10 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  My Stepmother is an Alien is one of the best family comedies I have ever seen.  Not only is the acting superb, but the writing is top notch.  This movie is most definitly Russo-booked.  It has a wild plot that takes you on a ride and keeps you guessing, all the while providing good, clean comedy that is solid entertainment for all ages.  I do believe that this film is kettle to it's very core.  Everyone should check it out. "},{"Title":"What is the point of this film?","Date":"27 June 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" It is sometimes said that men are from Mars and women from Venus, and My Stepmother is an Alien is a romantic comedy about two lovers who are, quite literally, from different planets. Dan Aykroyd plays Steve Mills, a scientist searching for extra-terrestrial life. Kim Basinger plays the extra-terrestrial life he succeeds in finding. The basic idea is that one of Mills's experiments results in a beam of light being sent to a distant planet where, by some unexplained freak of physics, it causes catastrophic damage to that planet's gravitational system. By an even odder freak, that damage can only be reversed by another beam of light, so the planet's rulers dispatch the beautiful Celeste to Earth to try and persuade Mills to repeat his experiment. Mills, a lonely widower with a teenage daughter, ends up falling in love with, and then marrying, Celeste, not realising that she is not of this earth. The only person who does realise- hence the title of the film- is Mills's daughter Jessie (played by Alyson Hannigan of Buffy fame in her first film appearance).Celeste has supposedly been briefed about life on Earth before her mission, but although the inhabitants of her planet are supposedly very wise their information about Earth is either ludicrously out-of-date or ludicrously inaccurate, and most of the jokes in the film arise from Celeste's misunderstandings about earthlings and their ways. (For example, at a party she helps herself to an ashtray full of fag-ends in the belief that these are something to eat. Her own race appear to subsist on a staple diet of battery acid). During the course of her stay on earth, Celeste discovers a number of things that do not exist on her home planet- most notably sex (her people reproduce asexually), but also sandwiches, Shakespeare, sneezing and Jimmy Durante.Scientists in comedies are often portrayed as batty, eccentric, absent-minded professors (e.g. Robin Williams's character in Flubber). Despite his background as a comedian, however, Aykroyd does not play Mills in this way. Indeed, he generally seems to be playing straight man to Basinger's funny woman. Celeste's wayward behaviour does not arouse Mills's suspicions; he is so besotted with her that, whatever she does, he explains away as a Dutch custom (Celeste has told him that she is from the Netherlands) or puts down to lovable eccentricity.Kim Basinger can be a gifted comedienne, as she showed in films like Blind Date and Nadine, but a comedienne is only as good as her material, and here much of the humour falls very flat, although there are some amusing scenes, such as the one where Celeste discovers what kissing is. (She is enlightened by her companion Bag, a talking, one-eyed snake-like creature who lives in her handbag, who shows her a series of film clips involving kissing, all of which she re-enacts with Mills).As other reviewers have pointed out, the plot of My Stepmother is an Alien resembles that of Splash (which starred the Basinger lookalike Daryl Hannah), but it lacks the earlier film's charm. When it was recently shown on British television, it was advertised as a Sunday afternoon family movie, but much of the humour- especially the love-scene and the scenes involving Mills's disreputable, womanising brother Ron- seems too sexual in nature for most family audiences. On the other hand, the overall tone is too mild and sentimental for the film to work as a bawdy comedy. It is not an outstandingly bad film, but it is difficult to see exactly what the point of it is. 5/10 "}{"Title":"Sort of okay","Date":"19 June 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" A tacky but mildly enjoyable comedy in which alien Kim Basinger lands on Earth with her one-eyed handbag to reverse a death ray unwittingly sent towards her planet by astronomer Dan Aykroyd, and yes, the plot is nonsense. Aykroyd falls for Basinger despite the fact that she has nowhere to live, has an American accent but claims to be from Holland, and acts like a mental patient. Then again, if Basinger wanted to bed down with you three hours after you'd met, would you argue?Anyway, after some 'Splash' type antics the film becomes pretty lame, with Basinger drinking battery acid and the dog stealing the show. The two leads and Jon Lovitz are more fun than the script deserves, but it manages to be pretty watchable despite being, essentially, a load of rubbish. "},{"Title":"It's OK... I enjoyed it.","Date":"13 February 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" MY STEPMOTHER IS AN ALIENOK, so this is not a great classic movie, but I did watch it when I was a kid and loved it... so when I found it on DVD really really cheap I had to get it.The movie is about a scientist who is sending signals into space, but when the signal leaves our galaxy and threatens to destroy a planet in our neighbour galaxy an alien is sent to Earth to find the scientist and find out what he knows to save their planet. The problem is, when the alien gets there she learns a lot about the planet and the scientist falls in love with her.It is a comedy and there are some laugh out loud moments, but nothing that will stick in your mind for too long. The story is a bit unusual and obviously completely unrealistic, but when the scientist wants to marry the alien the very next day after meeting her I thought it was a bit over the top.It is funny seeing the alien learning all things human, including eating, sneezing, cooking, kissing and even sex. Her one eyed handbag was great. I loved the little creature inside that bag. I thought it looked so fake, but that just added to the fun of the film.The acting was not too great, but it is what you should expect from an 80s comedy. The movie stars Dan Aykroyd and Kim Basinger. I like both of these actors and think they are both legends... but not for this movie. There are also some other famous actors and actresses in this film that were not famous back when it was made. Future Buffy stars Alyson Hannigan and Seth Green both are in this movie and are both very young. Jon Lovitz also stars.The movie runs at a smooth pace. It does not drag on too long and it knows when to quit. It is entertaining and fun to watch and I would watch it again.I will give this film 6 out of 10.If you want my secrets, you'll eat my sandwich!For more reviews, please like my Facebook pagehttps//www.facebook.com/pages/Ordinary-Person-Movie- Reviews/456572047728204?ref=hl# "},{"Title":"What makes like worth living","Date":"17 October 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I have seen this movie numerous times and it does invite the occasional chuckle, but in essence there is nothing all that spectacular about it. A scientist, Dr Mills (Dan Akroyd) is trying to send a message to another star but a freak accident causes the signal to go to a nearby galaxy severely endangering a planet. So they send Celeste (Kim Bassinger) to Earth to find Dr Mills and have him send the signal again. What happens is that Celeste, while trying to pass off normally in Earth (read American) society falls in love with Dr Mills and marries him.The whole point of this movie is to show the pleasures of this world and make us feel happy that we have these pleasures. The aliens have removed all form of pleasure and have become an long lived scientific race. They have no experience of sex, kissing, or even eating a sandwich. This, so the movie says, is what makes Earth a beautiful place. The movie though focuses mostly on the beautiful aspects of Earth, and I do agree that the pleasures that we have is what makes life enjoyable, but it excludes the pain that comes with these pleasures, the pain that keeps our focus away from indulging in the pleasures of Earth and remembering that which comes in heaven (and this is explored more in Shadowlands).As this is an American movie, the pleasures are sort of American, but this movie does not have the ideas of freedom and liberty that American movies try to push, but rather is digs deeper into the base pleasures sex, food, and laughter. These pleasures are the same no matter what culture you are in. Unfortunately, people do consider such pleasures as distracting from spiritual enlightenment, but the truth is we have these pleasures to make life beautiful, and all of these pleasures were given to us long before the fall of humanity. "},{"Title":"So Dumb It's Genius","Date":"24 June 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is the type of film one just looks forward to hating.I remember when I saw the original trailer in theaters. I almost walked out before the actual feature had even started.Everything from the premise to the acting to the dialogue is so bad it's good.It's still unclear if the film makers were intending to make something this ridiculous or if they lost be bet and were seriously attempting to make real movie and did everything wrong and just accidentally got it right.This is truly either a work of genius or utter stupidity. But it surprisingly works.The entire story takes place within only 48 hours. As the title states the plot revolves around an everyman widower scientist Dan Aykroyd whose bizarre experiments accidentally send a devastating death ray to a super intelligent aliens race in another galaxy.Kim Basinger quickly arrives as a femme fatal alien agent sent to reverse the ray. Hence most of the jokes revolve around Basinger's alieness such as drinking battery acid out of cars and reading books by touching them, as well as her super powers such sending people literally flying away, and of course her complete lack of understanding of human culture, mainly her lack of understanding sexual innuendos.It's as if 'My Favorite Martian' was a blonde bombshell.Basinger's sidekick, her sassy alien super powered handbag is actually a major star of the film as it provides many of the jokes.The speed of the plot itself set much of the slapstick tone. Aykroyd and Basinger marry within 12 hours! It's because the plot cannot be taken seriously that so many of the gags work. A few examples When as security guard asks Basinger for some ID, her bag prints out a gun belt of 30 IDs each with the same photo of her present hair and clothing.When she goes grocery shopping at 300am she attempts to pay with a softball sized diamond, then a $5,000 bill. When the cashier asks her for something smaller she predictably produces a smaller $5,000 bill.When she asks her bag to describe sex, well you can pretty much guess what it punches out.When Aykroyd's boss catches her snooping around his lab she sends him literally flying all the way back to his car. He's in such shock he say, Yes, yes, on my way home. Must get home. As I said, these gags shouldn't logically work but they do.A few of the father daughter scenes are downright creepy. Even creepier than the scenes in 'Poltergeist' when the parents smoke pot around their kids and Craig T. Nelson later reveals his wife is 32 and their daughter is 16.Aykroyd brags to his daughter, a young Willow from 'Buffy The Vampire Slayer' about his scoring with Basinger, more than one to which she is happy for him. Creepy! This film also enjoys some cult status due to its early performances by very young Juliet Lewis and Seth Green.As it was said about 'The Naked Gun,' no one over the age of seven can possibly enjoy it. The same is true here. Just embrace how dumb this movie is and it really is a lot of fun. "},{"Title":"The Vidiot Reviews...","Date":"14 November 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" My Stepmother Is an AlienEvery kid thinks their dad's new wife is an alien - a buxom blonde alien that graduated from their high school last year.However, in the case of this sci-fi/comedy, all concerns of step-parental unearthliness are valid.When Steven's (Dan Aykroyd) experiment involving transmitting radio waves into space disrupts an alien planets atmosphere, an envoy, Celeste (Kim Basinger), is dispatched to investigate the potential threat.On Earth, she takes on the guise of a shapely female, who the recently widowed scientist takes an instant shine to.However, Celeste's unorthodox behaviour causes Steven's daughter (Alyson Hannigan) to question her new mother's origins.Meanwhile, Celeste's human experiences cause her to question her planet's imminent invasion.Though marred by hokey effects, a hackneyed script and cornball performances, My Stepmother Is an Alien does have a generous dose of kitschy 80s charm.Incidentally, an extraterrestrial/human marriage involves way fewer appendages than a polyamory one. (Yellow Light)vidiotreviews.blogspot.ca "},{"Title":"Inoffensive watchable rubbish","Date":"30 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Whilst certainly not the greatest film ever made, it nonetheless has its humorous moments.  If you've nothing better to do, and it's on TV, waste an hour on it - if only to see Kim Basinger 'discover' sex -) "},{"Title":"More Kim Basinger Crap From Outer Space","Date":"7 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Well, darlings - Here we go again - Kim Basinger plays Celeste Martin, the dumbest-bimbo-of-an-alien to ever set foot on the face of this goddamn planet.This so-called Sci-Fi/Romance/Comedy was obviously geared to totally capitalize on Basinger's chilling facade of beauty. And at every opportunity it did just that.You know, I, for one, am sure relieved that this flick didn't try to capitalize on Basinger's brains - 'Cause if that were the case we'd all really be in for the scare of a lifetime.Celeste's ridiculous mission here on Earth is to find the means to reverse the effects of a ray that was sent from our planet to hers, which has drastically altered the gravity situation there.Unfortunately, the idiot creator of this ray, scientist, Steven Mills (played by that big, fat, lard-assed, doofus, Dan Aykroyd) doesn't even know how the hell to re-create it. Thinking Mills to be a total liar, Celeste, naturally, resorts to (what else?, but) sexual seduction and (get this) the promise of marriage to get Mills to cough up the secret.Like, talk about low-brow comedy at its all-time lowest. There wasn't a single, solitary funny, or worthwhile joke in this entire film.You know, I had always thought that beings from other worlds would be of a far superior intelligence to that of human beings. But this flick proves this assumption to be utterly erroneous - Especially when you've got the likes of that bimbo-brained Basinger at the helm, as a space traveler. "},{"Title":"My Stepmother Is an Alien","Date":"30 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I mainly heard of this film because of the leading star, and the fact that this was the first film to feature body double Shelley Michelle, any nudity was cut for pre-watershed TV, but never mind. Anyway, basically slob widower Dr. Steven Mills (Dan Aykroyd) accidentally sends a great surge of energy into outer space, threatening the existence and life on another planet. This other planet has dispatched one of the agents, disguised as a human, named Celeste Martin (Kim Basinger), to sort things out, along with her superior, her talking handbag (voiced by Ann Prentiss). Steven is indeed attracted by Celeste, and with her little knowledge of Earth stuff, he, and in secret the bag, teach her everything she should know, Steven obviously finds her funny and fascinating. Eventually they do get to sex, and Celeste over time (and she was only meant to stay for 24 hours) grows to like Earth. Then there's the marriage, and until she reveals it herself, Steven's daughter Jessie (introducing young American Pie's Alyson Hannigan) was the only person that knew Celeste was an alien, so when Steven does find out, he realises the reason she's there, and helps her. In the end, the bag is destroyed, and instead of Celeste going home and telling about everything Earthy, they take Steven's womanising brother Ron (Jon Lovitz), more specifically because of the alien women taking him, so a happy ending, Ron gets endless women, and Steven, Celeste and Jessie become a proper family. Also starring Joseph Maher as Dr. Lucas Budlong, Seth Green as Fred Glass, Wesley Mann as Grady, Adrian Sparks as Dr. Morosini, Juliette Lewis as Lexie and Harry Shearer as the voice of Carl Sagan. I can agree (with the critics) it is not the story that is important, it is Basinger's charming E.T. character, and there are some good giggly moments, my favourite and most hilarious being Celeste learning to kiss using clips from well known media. Worth watching! "},{"Title":"Hannigan","Date":"16 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The movie as a whole is a little lame for a light family comedy. But some scenes between the four main characters are really funny.And Alyson Hannigan really showed a lot of talent in the longer takes (I also think she besides Amber Benson was the best actress in the buffy cast), like when she helped her father dress for the wedding or at the breakfast or when Basinger reveals her true mission and Dan comes home from work. I noticed this long before hannigan became well known.So, instead of a 3-4/10 this gets 5 from me.  "},{"Title":"Utter crap!","Date":"14 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is so bad that... it stinks! If you can keep looking at the TV after watching Kim Basinger sing the theme song from Popeye, then you're in it for some dreadful moments. Whoever wrote this script ought to be shot, and still up to this day I fail to conceive why actors such as Aykroyd and Basinger ever agreed to do this piece of crap.If for some reason you are forced to watch this amazingly bad movie, then look out for Alyson Hannigan and Seth Green, both very young indeed. Alyson is by far the best actress in the movie, not because she deserves as oscar, but because the said movie does stink. At least it helps a bit to think that at least two persons involved in this rubbish went on to better things.A terrible movie... 0 out of 10. "}{"Title":"An Ok family movie","Date":"11 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  k, so I watched this movie for the first time on television. I was actually looking forward to see Alyson Hannigan and Seth Green in that movie. It was actually fun watching them at age about 13 or so, wow, they were going out in that movie! It's like, ages ago. Alyson was playing her part really well, though I couldn't catch Seth on the screen that much. It turned out that I actually thought this movie was okay. The chocolate factory and kiss were hilarious. 5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Pretty bad, but tolerable if you have nothing else to do.","Date":"18 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A scientist (Dan Akroyd) sends a radar signal to outer space, disrupts a planet, who sends an agent (in the form of Kim Basinger) to make the scientist re-send the signal to fix the planet. She marries him and then saves the world.The plot is not wonderful, neither is the acting but it is an interesting movie to watch if you have time to kill. Fans of Buffy the Vampire Slayer will find amusing Alyson Hannigan and Seth Green (later Willow and Oz) going out together, and the fact that he was still shorter than her, even then.6.5/10  "},{"Title":"Loved it!","Date":"14 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I don't know why everyone is poo-pooing this movie so much, I loved it, I thought it was funny and charming, sure its 80s, but I love the 80s/early 90s stuff, it was so fun and care free.  I think people take this movie too literally and don't enjoy it for what it really is, a comedy!  I thought it had great special effects for that time, also Kim Bassinger looked great in the red dress.  I would suggest renting it first however because you never want to get a movie and then not like it later on, as this movie could be the case.  Also when watching this movie, watch for the two performances by Alyson Hannigan and Seth Green, geez time sure flies.  Anyways watch this movie and enjoy it, because I know you'll love it. "},{"Title":"Not Bad","Date":"5 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie wasn't that bad. I saw this with my friend while I was home flipping through the channels. It had some funny parts, but mostly i found myself thinking, What the hell is this? Weird movie, but I thought it was worth it to see younger versions of Seth Green and Alyson Hannigan. Don't go out and rent this movie, but if its on tv, you might want to take a quick look. "},{"Title":"I, and my children, enjoyed this movie - several times!","Date":"12 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  We rented this movie for the first time when both our children were still at home.  Since then, we own a copy and have watched it several times.  It is a very entertaining movie and we just love Kim Basinger & Dan Aykroyd.  We just watched it again today and realized that Alyson Hannigan & Seth Green (Willow & Oz from Buffy the Vampire Slayer, and many other movies) were in this show.  That was so amazing to come to that realization.  What a blast!!!Anyway, it's good Family entertainment in a world that has seemed to forgotten what that means.  Thanks for your time, and give this movie a whirl if you want some good, clean entertainment with a twist... "},{"Title":"Good entertainment","Date":"8 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a movie which grows on you.  At first viewing you might think it is just a lot of silly nonsense, but then see it again and take a more considered view.  Of course it is light entertainment, and not meant to be taken too seriously.  But, in my opinion, it has a good story-line, and is well acted - Dan Aykroyd, Kim Basinger, etc - and holds your interest throughout.  It is a better movie than many people give it credit for, and should become a classic.  It has its poignant moments too.  It has become one of my favourite films, and I reckon it's worth 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Good movie concept but loses it through mediocre acting","Date":"26 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Kim Basinger looks out of place and out of sync at times as the alien stepmother. While the basic premise of this movie is good, the movie sometimes moves off in weird tangents that the plot is lost. It is still a pretty okay comedy - what I like are the dialogues between Basinger and the witty-smart-aleck handbag, some of the scenes where Basinger uses her powers, and the kids' reactions and the adults' disbelief. A pity it could not be supported by better acting. "},{"Title":"Sci-Fi Comedy Junk for the Dim-Witted 1980s Crowd.","Date":"3 November 2003","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Astronomer Dan Aykroyd unwittingly puts a planet in danger and they send down one of their own (in the form of Kim Basinger). Naturally the typical fish-out-of-water story starts with Basinger finding she has a thing with sex and of course Aykroyd tries to accommodate her desires. Aykroyd's daughter (a very young Alyson Hannigan) is immediately suspicious, as is Aykroyd's brother (Jon Lovitz). But a bond starts between Basinger and Hannigan while Lovitz develops a serious crush on her as well. Will Basinger stay a human and live on Earth or go back to her native planet? Silly and somewhat stupid venture for everyone involved as the direction is out of this world (and not in a good way) and the screenplay feels like it was thrown together by a Trekkie at a boring weekend convention. Basinger's sexual antics are not enough to endear this one to me, but it may be enough with some others. 2 stars out of 5.  "},{"Title":"One of the funniest scenes ever","Date":"11 August 2000","Score":"8 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a movie that I like except for one thing the horrible Mr Lovitz, who is never really funny.  Luckily all the other actors are very good and extremely funny.  This movie even has the one of the funniest scene I ever saw in it when Celeste goes up on the satellite dish and needs a crash course in kissing.  This scene always cracks me up and I even need to put the movie on hold just to stop laughing.  This movie does just what it should do make you laugh.  "},{"Title":"I was generous and rated it a 2","Date":"29 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I only wish I hadn't already seen what must be every single movie worse than this one, and already rated them all a 1 here at the IMDB.  Because since this movie actually had one palatable characteristic (Jon Lovitz), I had to give it a 2. But it hurt me to give it a 2 and you should know that.  This truly is one of the worst movies made for a major studio.  (And that's saying quite a bit.) "}{"Title":"Stupid movie with one great Alyson Hannigan","Date":"29 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Oh, please! Give me a break. For a scientist, Steven (Dan Akroyd) is a pretty dumb guy. With all of her strange behavior, and his daughter (Alyson Hannigan) screaming it at him, he still couldn't realize that Celeste (Kim Basinger) is an Alien??? Besides that, the movie also insults the viewer's intelligent with the dumbest scenes you have ever seen. The only reason I watched it is to see Alyson Hannigan and Seth Green, who are actors from my favorite show, Buffy the Vampire Slayer. Alyson looked exactly like she does now, although Seth looks totally different. If you're a Buffy fan, it's worth seeing the hole stupid movie for the few scenes that they're in. But don't rent it. Watch it on TV, or get it from a friend that has it on tape, cause it's just not worth the money! "},{"Title":"Why did they even bother?","Date":"28 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Oh dear. This has got to be the worst film I have ever seen. The plot is hardly original, the jokes fall flat, and Dan Ackroyd is the star. Why they ever spent money on this movie is a mystery to me. It's one redeeming feature are the appearances of pre 'Buffy...' era Seth Green and Alyson Hannigan. Their costumes have got to be the funniest part of the whole movie.If you want to see a decent movie, rent out anything but this. If you are suffering from insomnia on the other hand... "},{"Title":"It is horrible","Date":"22 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Boy can i say that this movie really is stupid.  There is not even a good thing about this movie.  The only thing that is interesting is that Seth Green and Alyson are dating each other just like in Buffy.  Who would of thought they would act as lovers in a series about 10 years later. Keypoint to this movie is This really Sucks. "},{"Title":"Yet another very horrible movie","Date":"21 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film is just stupid. An alien from outer space married a human; she has a worm shape alien with one big eye as a pet. That sounds pretty stupid, don't you think, so is the entire movie. Watch this movie and found out why this movie sucks so much.You will regret it. Trust me, This movie sucks the big one!No Stars "},{"Title":"Quaint and Predictable. (minor spoilers)","Date":"23 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" 'My Stepmother Is An Alien' is likely to find it's lasting following among 80s fans who probably grew up watching it repeatedly in the way that others might be fond (sometimes, obsessed) with other titles that have become sentimental cult classics. The movie itself offers little more than a rushed, quaint, and predictable story that is much than longer than it should be (relative to substance) and unconvincing.Dan Akroyd plays a nerdy workaholic scientist who's latest project accidentally penetrates an alien planet. The aliens see this as an opportunity to find a solution to their impending doom they face a planet on the edge of extinction. So, they transport to Earth an alien (Kim Basinger) and her talking eyeball sidekick that she carries around in her less-than-ordinary handbag. The alien's job is to basically get close to the scientist (and the courting, marriage, honeymoon and sappy ending all occur in the course of just a few hours) so that she can get what she needs to in order to save her planet. So of course she and the scientist fall in love while the aliens expect to destroy the humans for the alien planet's own protection and I'm sure you can figure the rest out.It's not really a movie that has enough going on to keep the viewer entertained. Better alien assimilation movies can be found in titles like 'Earth Girls Are Easy' (which doesn't take itself too seriously) or even the family-oriented 'Step-Monster'. And even much more cornier, obviously poor efforts are still more entertaining (as unintentional humor) than this, though viewers will probably be drawn (if not out of nostalgia, than curiosity) to see young Alyson Hannigan as Akroyd's daughter, Juliette Lewis as her friend, and Seth Green as her date to the school dance. There's not much other reason to keep reminding people about this movie. "},{"Title":"Ever get the cheesy feeling?","Date":"17 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is probably the most cheesy movie I have ever seen. It's about Steve is a single father who loses his job as an astrophysicist. Celeste is a clueless alien from outer space with a snake/eye in her purse. After one hot night of passion, Steve decides that he is going to marry Celeste. That is just too weird but it fits the title of the movie so it goes on and Celeste talks to the snake in her purse and the snake is like some mother or something.Pretty cheesy stuff. The movie is terrible but in a way it's sort of cute. The breakfast scene is hilarious and the ending is way too weird. I never thought that a movie could be this corny but it exists.So get the feeling and make a huge breakfast. "},{"Title":"One of the worst movies I have ever seen","Date":"15 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Don't go there. Renting it should be forbidden. Viewing this film can endanger your mental growth. Bad acting, stupid story.  "},{"Title":"Essential Buffy Pie? - Version 1.3","Date":"17 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Update at November 2008 The title is so perfect for this particular Buffy &#150; Pie fan.Viewing this feature by the standards of the best Science Fiction and Giddy Fiction in the 2000's will show this to be flawed, but I do not love this just for itself.This is dated 1988 and by the standards of SF features of around 1960 it is actually awesome. I do not know how much of that early stuff I could still watch today. I can watch and enjoy this.Alyson is often the flaw in this feature, but is also occasionally a gem. Both of those sides occur in Buffy, along with some other facets, but with the flaws a lot less dominant. In that context I find even the flaws to be optimistic. Hannigan has matured so much.This is a starting point in a big role. Alyson, age 14ish, is clearly Alyson in both this and Buffy, that is until Black Willow took over.I had understood the Buffy unaired pilot to be essential, but checking detail on that it is more a rough of part of season 1 episode 1, more a historian sort of thing. This, Alyson 2 by the filmography that I have seen, is a few notches above that level. There are hidden puzzles such as the second date, but there is more, as if reality noticed this feature and blatantly paid homage.Alyson 1 is Impure Thoughts, 1985 or 1986 depending on the measure. AH is around age 11 and has a really small role. To me it is okay, but anyone who did not have a Catholic education might find it to be the opposite of essential viewing as regards Buffy background. "},{"Title":"Quite possibly the worst Kim Bassinger film ever made","Date":"15 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Kim Bassinger has made some truly terrible movies. I am torn between two titles which is her absolute worst. Its either BLIND DATE or MY STEPMOTHER IS AN ALIEN. Im leaning towards MY STEPMOTHER IS AN ALIEN. Kim is a sexy woman from outer space who marrys Earth single Dad Dan Ackroyd. He doesnt realize she's a space girl, just thinks her little quirks are cute, I guess. Well anyway...the movie is billed as a comedy even though there is not ONE laugh to be found and that is why I hate it so. Even John Lovitz isnt funny in this film. Did ANY of them bother to read the script???? "},{"Title":"tedious rubbish","Date":"12 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I remember watching this film at a freind's house. It was bland and uninteresting. It just didn't seem to go anywhere, right up to the point at about 2 hours when I just stood up and went home, bored stupid by this lame film. I wouldn't recommend it to anybody, except possibly my worst enemy ;) Truely awful. "}{"Title":"Dreadful lame comedy that wastes a usually funny cast","Date":"28 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Astrophysicist Steven Mills is working on boasting intergalactic signals.  A freak power boost causes him to be even more successful that he expected.  This draws the attention of Celeste, who comes to earth to find the secret of his powerful transmission.  To get close she marries him under the suspicious eye of his daughter &#150; however does she have enough time to get the secret and save her planet.We all have our bench mark for bad films &#150; sometimes we see something so lame that other bad movies don't seem so bad.  For me this was one of those movies&#133;.The plot is simply daft (to be expected) &#150; but it's all about the comedy.  Unfortunately the comedy is terrible &#150; at times it is embarrassing (the scene where Basinger recites advert slogans is a real low).  Only once did I laugh, once! And that was 25 minutes in &#150; a professor is thrown 100 meters by Basinger into his car, a bit shaken up he says `well, I must be going home' and then with more conviction says `yes, I must get home &#150; to that good pie', it's such a surreal line that I laughed &#150; but the rest was lame.The film uses Basinger's strength well &#150; she's sexy, and the scene where she first lays Aykroyd is very hot -&#150;but outside of that she's terrible here.  Aykroyd, so naturally funny is totally at a loss here &#150; he simply has nothing to work with.  Likewise Jon Lovitz has a small role where he mutters funny lines and walks off &#150; he's done it tonnes of times, but here he has no funny lines to work with and is totally wasted.  Outside of them the only other thing of interest is a very young Hannigan (American Pie) and Seth Green (Dr Evil's son).Overall this is lame &#150; the only reason you'll laugh more than once is if you're drunk (and even then it'll be at that vase on top of your TV). "},{"Title":"Could not be worse","Date":"9 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I don't feel very good about saying this but this movie really sucks! I like Alyson Hannigan very much (Buffy rules) so I wanted to see this movie where she plays Jessie; big mistake. After I saw the movie I could not believe that such a talented actress can be in such a movie! Don't see it, don't waste your time, unless you want to laugh with a very bad movie. "},{"Title":"one of the worst movies ever made","Date":"5 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" My Stepmother is an Alien has to be one of the worst movies ever made in the eighties. Alyson Hannigan makes her film debut. Now she's a lesbian witch on Bffy The Vampire Slaver, this movie is dreadful with a fine cast of actors like Saturday Night Live's Jon Lovitz, Dan Ackroyd,and the beautiful Kim Basinger as the title character. It is almost unbearable to watch it now. I have seen on TV and I thought it was much better than on video. I'm sorry I bought the videotape. Now, I want my money back because it's just horribly written maybe that was it's true intent but the film never really becomes worth watching even for the humorous moments. I'm glad that the cast has long moved away from this film's history. Basinger is now an Oscar winner and Golden Globe winner for her performance in L.A. Confidential. Hannigan has become a regular television actress in comedies now. Jon and Dan have gone on to do much more. "},{"Title":"impossible to describe how bad this is","Date":"20 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" My brother has a very different way of picking movies than I do. In 1988 he opened a paper and ignorantly selected this. Since I'm generally willing to embrace the role of randomness in the universe, we checked it out. Even I was surprised at how freaking abhorrent it is. Kim Basinger having sex with Dan Aykroyd? No thank you. A purse with a penis-shaped alien in it? The alien has Alice Ghostly voice? A Jimmy Durante song performed more than once? This is really a mawkish pile of crusty, stale, day-old offal... and there isn't enough alcohol in the universe to remove the image of Aykroyd's nasty shirtless self from my memory. His chin here is on its way to becoming a repulsive goiter. Yes, this is one of the Worst Movies Ever Made. Impossibly, Aykroyd then went on to make 'Nothing but Trouble' which, I assure you, actually IS the worst movie ever made. Years later I couldn't see L.A. Confidential until reams of accolades rolled in for it, due to an unwillingness contracted here (and from watching 'Cool World') to ever lay eyes on Kim Basinger again.My brothers hit/miss ratio has improved, but another friend has taken his place. A few years back he took us to Dark Water, an abysmal by-the-books stinker which all of us groaned through and agreed was something that should have been forced back into the anal cavity it dropped out of. "}]