[{"Title":"Freddy''s Funniest Film","Date":"15 April 2006","Score":"42 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This doesn't have the well-known cast of the previous Nightmare 3 movie but the special effects are still good.....each very different and some of them very funny. They make this perhaps the most entertaining entry in the series.Memorable scenes include a junkyard, a water bed, a classroom, faces in a pizza, a girl bench pressing and faces coming out of Freddy's flesh. The storyline, however, features its usual dumb and ridiculous theology and has its usual share of unlikable obnoxious teens. Their parents weren't pictured as any better, perhaps worse.In fact, the kids and parents are so bad you wind up rooting for Freddy to do them in. Perhaps that's the idea! "},{"Title":"The plot was like a cheesy TV series","Date":"11 November 2003","Score":"45 out of 65 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" A Nightmare on Elm Street 4 The Dream Master, the fourth installment in the Nightmare on Elm Street series. I was lucky enough to get the boxed DVD set of Nightmare on Elm Street series and I just finished all the sequels and while the fourth isn't a bad sequel or continuation of the story, it was pretty silly. It was cool to continue on with the dream warriors who were clever enough to defeat Freddy in the third Nightmare on Elm Street. But Freddy's back and he is more ticked off than ever and you know that's not good. But while the story was a good idea, the way it was executed, I wasn't really that into it, just the acting I think is what killed it for me. The way the movie was made was what made it feel like it was more of a cheesy TV show like on the Sci-fi Channel than an actual movie.We start off where the third installment of the Nightmare on Elm Street series left off, the kids from the hospital are now grown up and are all on their own. But they are quickly killed off by Freddy hoping to get Kirsten back to help them, but they are too late. But when Kirsten finds a girl, Alice, she finds out that Alice has the same powers as she does. She has the ability to pull other people into her dreams and of course Alice is scared to find out how to use her powers, but she may just have to use them since Freddy is now after her and other kids too.A Nightmare on Elm Street 4 The Dream Master was a good enough sequel, but it just could have been better. I liked it, but so far it's not my top favorite sequel. Again, we've got some very cool deaths, don't think I could choose one, I think the water bed one was very cool. But once again, I don't wanna spoil it. Of course if you wanna see the Nightmare on Elm Street sequels, this is recommended, but as a horror movie on it's own, it's OK.6/10 "},{"Title":"Deserves more than an average of 4,8/10","Date":"26 April 2004","Score":"27 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is the first elm street film I saw and it fascinated me back then. Of course I was only 10 at that time but it still is great. The flick is not scary like the original, but is more grotesque. Robert Englund is excellent as Freddy Krueger because he enjoys playing that character. You always sense Krueger presence with his twisted nightmares. Dark humor is my taste and I always laugh when he pops his quotes You shouldnt have buried me; I'm not dead! Now how's that for a wet dream? Welcome to Wonderland, Alice! There are a few things that blows; Patricia Arquette should have been recast as Kirsten Parker and the resurrection is a bit lame but then the S/F effects rocks, the director likes action scenes and the music is well above average for a 1998 film.Definetly recommended "},{"Title":"Well it ain't Dr. Seuss","Date":"10 December 2007","Score":"18 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Renny Harlin (Die Hard 2) directs Dream Master, the fourth entry in the franchise about a maniacal dreamstalker named Freddy Kruger. The entry is extremely passable and enjoyable.The survivors of Dream Warriors are still haunted by memories of Freddy Kruger. But Freddy isn't quite dead as he picks up his glove and takes up where he left off...with vengeance. The only flaw in his plan a shy outcast named Alice who harbors powers that will enable her to do battle with Kruger as she assumes qualities of past Freddy victims.Although some of the more interesting characters are sacrificed first, the Nightmare franchise proves to be deeper and more original than any other slasher series around. Some inventive deaths and imagery on display as Robert Englund devours the scenery as Freddy. "},{"Title":"Freddy Krueger Is Back","Date":"30 March 2009","Score":"16 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Kristen Parker (Tuesday Knight), Roland Kincaid (Ken Sagoes) and Joey Crusel (Rodney Eastman) are having normal lives and studying in Springwood, Ohio, after defeating the evil Freddy Krueger (Robert Englund). Kristen is very close to her boyfriend Rick Johnson (Andras Jones) and his sister Alice (Lisa Wilcox) is her best friend. Kristen has a premonition with Freddy Krueger, who has resurrected and is chasing the trio of survivors of the Elm Street. When Freddy kills the three survivors, Kristen transfers her ability to draw other people to her dreams to Alice, and Freddy uses the power of the teenager to gather the souls of her school friends.A Nightmare on Elm Street art 4 The Dream Master is a weak sequel to the classic A Nightmare on Elm Street. Patricia Arquette, who performed Kristen Parker in the previous A Nightmare on Elm Street 3 Dream Warriors, was pregnant and not able to film this sequel. The actress and musician Tuesday Knight that replaced Patricia Arquette recorded the song Nightmare used during the film's opening credits. My vote is five.Title (Brazil) A Hora do Pesadelo 4 &#150; O Mestre dos Sonhos (The Hour of the Nightmare 4 &#150; The Master of the Dreams) "},{"Title":"One of the best - highly imaginative!","Date":"18 November 1999","Score":"13 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Nightmare on Elm Street 4 is one of the best entries in the series. Okay, the first is considered a classic, maybe because it had a feeling of poetic surrealism that is indeed lost here. But, come on, it is the FOURTH Freddy film, did you REALLY expect it to be scary? Freddy delivers indeed too many puns, however some of them actually hit the mark. After all, the quality of a slasher film doesn't depend exclusively on how serious and vicious the killer is - he was more serious in Part 2, which was an embarrassment, he was less serious in Part 3, which was an imaginative, entertaining film. As for Part 4, it has way-above-average acting, a polished look (just compare it to some early Friday The 13th cheapies) and some gruesome, stunning visual effects. Above all, the movie exploits more possibilities about the links between reality and dreams than the classic original did. It is worth seeing.  "},{"Title":"You shouldn't have buried him. He's not dead.","Date":"12 January 2010","Score":"11 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I make no apologies on awarding A Nightmare on Elm Street 4 5/5 stars. And I certainly don't consider it a guilty pleasure. Let's say I grew up on this movie. It was one of my initial Movie Event of the Year films as I watched it 5 times in the theatre in 1988, all at the now defunct AMC Gateway. (Twice alone, twice with my sister and the final time with my father who wanted to know what evil I was watching so many times.) Also, since I was so young (14, and I am puzzled on how I frequently got into a rated R flick &#x96; even my sister was younger than 17) not only was this my first introduction to Freddy &#x96; I hadn't seen 1-3 yet, this movie made a huge impact on my future movie-going experiences as well as my life.It's strange to even think about rewarding a #4 in a 1980s horror franchise more than, say 2½ stars, but I absolutely loved this movie. The soundtrack (which I had bought and have listened to hundreds of times, we'll get more on that later), the score, the comedic tones, the frights, the fights, the inventiveness and the acting. They really up'd the ante this time with an obvious budget and special effects. But more so, Freddy finally came out of the closet, so to speak.Not only was he absolutely hilarious, we finally got to see more of him and his glove. I obviously didn't know at the time how privileged the audience was to finally see him out of the shadows and into the limelight where he (and his clever one-liners) belong. I guess some might have problem with that &#x96; they probably felt he was more scary hidden away. I didn't. I felt he was too strong of a character not to show.Well, Freddy's back, but mostly because Kristen (the newly replaced Tuesday Knight, due to Arquette being pregnant, and Knight also did the wonderful opening song) couldn't leave well enough alone and kept thinking of him in her dreams. She also has a bad knack for involving others in her dreams, including #3's survivors Joey & Kincaid.When Freddy eventually stalks them and murders them (including one of the series most memorable/creative death &#x96; How's this for a wet dream?) the series actually keeps continuity by stating Freddy's mission was to murder all of the original Elm Street Children and these were the final three. Kristen does manage to transfer her power of pulling someone into the dream to another innocent she pulled into the dream, Alice (Wilcox.) Positive this gives someone else the opportunity to defeat Freddy. Negative most likely Freddy would've been done with his task complete.Alice, sweet Alice, doesn't know what to think of all this, barely being informed of the back story earlier. In fact, had she been a little more prepared, she might not of inadvertently brought her friends into her own dreams for Freddy to collect souls. As Alice attempts to put the pieces together there's another side effect &#x96; just like with Kristen, she collects their powers, or personalities, habits (smoking, bad!) and strengths. Freddy's not stupid and plans to stop her before she stops him. Does he succeed? Does she happen to remember an old nursery rhyme at the most opportune time to defeat the man of their nightmares? Duh.I loved this movie on so many levels. I have the entire movie memorized, shot-by-shot, frame-by-frame and all the dialogue in between. So much so, I have to consciously stop myself from quoting it so I can enjoy the 30th time viewing it. I loved the soundtrack, but some songs were vacant. For those, I had to search &#x96; way pre-internet &#x96; by asking around school while just humming some of the lyrics. (The ones missing went onto become some of my favorite songs Anything, Anything by Dramarama and I Want Your Hands On Me by Sinead O'Connor. Do you know how hard life is without the internet to look things up!?!?) I always love a good female combatant, but the nerdy-girl Alice (the very BEST Nightmare heroine, sorry, Nancy fans) turned warrior wasn't just awesome, but beautiful and a great challenge for the exciting climax/showdown in the church in the closing. In addition, since I was about the same age, give or take a couple of years, of most of the teens in this movie, I can safely say they got how teens act and what they say down to a tee, much like any of the John Hughes movies.The death/nightmare scenes weren't just clever and topical (for the time) but they kept the story going, whether you were laughing or reminiscing in the moments. Freddy proved himself as the number one villain of all 1980s horror franchises. It's no wonder this was the top grossing of all the Nightmare films (if you don't count Freddy Vs. Jason.) I loved seeing Freddy at his best and especially his glove &#x96; many a scene they acted like his claws/knifes sprung like Wolverine's. I loved seeing him in different costumes and with as many one-liners as most comedies.On a personal note, as a critic (in my own mind-dammit) I generally will always try to be unbiased. Such as, a movie of this stature would be 4 to 4½ stars with all the (non-personal remembrance) positives I mentioned. But, for once, I am taking this to a personal level and how much this movie meant to me. To hell with the majority of critics, the audience and my own personal impartial views &#x96; even when the movie is dear to me. I am selfishly rewarding this the highest rating due to how much it means to me.See it anyways. It's fun horror. Something they rarely get right in today's time. "},{"Title":"After Part 3, this is a let-down.","Date":"14 June 1999","Score":"17 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  It's a pity that Wes Craven's initial idea for another sequel to his film, involving time travel in dreams, wasn't used.  Instead of another Craven-directed masterpiece like Part 1 and Part 3 we get this gaudy pantomime instead.  The makers of NOES 4 admitted that they designed and filmed all the special-effects sequences and then found some excuse to cement them together.  It shows.  Freddy is resurrected, though quite how is never explained.  Wasn't it fire that killed him, not brought him back to life?  Anyhow, he begins another killing spree.  There are some interesting ideas - a narcissist being turned into a cockroach, an asthmatic having the air sucked out of her, but the whole thing lacks the tension and nightmarish qualities of the previous film.  Early scenes involving the survivors from Part 3 hold promise, but when Freddy appears he's no more than a wise-cracking buffoon, and the ninja-style violence is pointless and unnecessary.  The climax, if you can call it that, involves Freddy dying as a result of being shown his reflection.  As there's no build-up to it at all it just stands out as an obvious excuse for another special-effects set-piece.Overall, this film might provide entertainment, but it's just disappointing, badly-acted dross, the sort of thing you watch if you've nothing better to do. "},{"Title":"Freddy's a terrible stand-up comedian, but he sure knows how to kill a bug","Date":"3 July 2009","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" A funny thing happened to Freddy Krueger somewhere between the cross-cultural push for A Nightmare On Elm Street 3 The Dream Warriors and this fourth chapter Our latex-faced pun factory somehow became a Pop culture icon. Posters, dolls, and even squirt guns hit store shelves, and the Elm Street franchise became more about marketing blitz than horror. Scary scenes gave way to scary amounts of merchandising money, and a character who once lurked in the shadows of our subconscious nightmares was soon just as at home as a blurry bit of pixelation on your NES console.Though memory is a bit fuzzy as to which Freddy products came out before, during, and after A Nightmare On Elm Street 4, the film was regardless the first in the series produced under the umbrella of Freddy as a viable mainstream property (looking back, it's actually quite amazing there was never an Elm Street Saturday morning cartoon). With more money in the production budget, and a clearer sense of who the core demographic for Freddy's nocturnal mayhem was, The Dream Master looks immediately different than any entry in the series up to that point. This film is Freddy as tailored for the MTV generation (there is even a commercial for the channel in the film... which repeats twice, no less). Somehow, the idea of a maniacal night-stalker being given a high-gloss makeover simply doesn't sound frightening, which would lead many to anticipate this film to be a new low in the already fading franchise.Shockingly, when you remove any expectations of watching a horror movie from this experience, Elm Street 4 actually ends up being one of the best outings in the series, loaded with enough unique ideas to fill several films, and enough special effects to fill a hundred.Tellingly, the opening credits list more FX personnel than actors, as the real star of this show is the visual effects. Our young cast embodies characters who are so one-dimensional that we only learn enough about them to set up their eventual demise (Rick does kung-fu and is killed in a dream dojo, Debbie hates cockroaches and meets her fate in the bizarro Roach Motel sequence, etc.).So, we've clearly shifted gears from a horror franchise to a series of fantasy-based films. But once you adjust to this change, it's hard not to be impressed by how fantastic the fantasy elements are. Freddy's blades are all but retired here, replaced by a new ability to insert our characters into a funhouse designed especially for their singular traits. But the film-makers weave such a rich and clever tapestry of dreamland dementia, it's nearly impossible not to get sucked into it with our doomed teens.The film, admittedly, also has weaknesses galore. Our previous heroine Kristen returns, but instead of the strong and multi-layered character essayed by Patricia Arquette in Dream Warriors, we get a neurotic and generally annoying turn by reliever Tuesday Knight. The MTV elements come to the forefront thanks to a loaded soundtrack (admission I paid 39 dollars for a CD copy of it on eBay) that combines the awesome with the awful, so the film has aged poorly because of its dated tunes. (It's also worth noting that the producers were far too literal in their song selection The film opens with a song with the chorus refrain running from this nightmare and closes with a number that repeats the mantra don't be afraid of your dreams). More disturbingly, Freddy's tendencies toward lame humor, only hinted at in previous outings, now dominate his character, and the cackling antagonist is unable to be on screen for 10 seconds without delivering a groaning zinger.But, dude, those effects! The smörgåsbord on display here runs like a textbook, and almost no area of special effects is left undiscovered by the film's end. The film-makers also enlisted several different teams to produce all of these wonders, so each nightmare sequence has a unique stamp that fits with the individualized nature of each death.Problematic? Yes. But this entry is far better in terms of simple entertainment than most give it credit for. Taken on its own, it holds up remarkably well, even if as part of a franchise that once generated genuine scares, it doesn't quite live up to expectations.We're removed from the media blitz now (at least until the re-imagining of the original Elm Street comes out), so it's a good time to take another look at an outing that sets a high bar for imagination and ingenuity that would never be matched again in a Nightmare film. Give it one more shot. "},{"Title":"Freddy goes POP!!!","Date":"18 March 2008","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" A Nightmare on Elm Street 4 Dream Master Director Renny Harlin (The Long Kiss Goodnight)***out of****ReviewFreddy is at the top of his game. After the immensely popular Dream Warriors, Freddy had reached his peak of pop culture. This movie brashly illustrates the pop culture, with Freddy being less scary, and more of an icon. I admit once again of seeing all the horror franchises at a (very) young age and I don't think I was alone as by this point in the franchise as there was a wave of Freddy toys, sheets, lunch boxes, posters, etc. Basically the statistics were rolled in, and marketing knew its age group. So yes, before I start this review, I'll say that Freddy isn't scary, the movie doesn't even try to scare you, but alas, it wants to entertain, and boy does it ever. The movie continues on from 3, with the survivors trying to get on with their lives (Kristen, Joe, Kincaid) and the beginning has Kristen (now played by the less competent Tuesday Knight) having the dream at the Elm street house (which is EVEN more pimping then 3). She gets frightened and pulls the other two in, but they get angry and don't believe her (after everything they went through together you'd think they wouldn't give it a second thought, but never mind). We then go into the now familiar territory of the introduction of our new batch of teens since the Elm street children are near extinct. Alice is the only one we should really invest in since she eventually is going to take the lead as Freddie's new opponent. Anyways, Freddy indeed does resurrect (in one kick ass surreal regeneration scene which is started by flaming dog urine!?!) and continues to dispatch our reaming survivors. The mythology for this sequel indeed makes sense and tries to expand off 3. It seems if Freddy kills all the final Elm street children he will forever be trapped in the dream world with no more victims so he now must find someone he can use to bring new victims, and he finds that in the very shy and insecure Alice, who inherits Kristen's gift (after her grisly furnace death). One thing Freddy didn't count on is that every time he kills someone, she inherits their special power, and gets stronger and stronger, but when Freddy kills a very close family member, Alice must use everything she's got in a final kick ass showdown. Although many people feel this movie is a cheat and that the series should have ended after 3, I beg to differ and felt that the closure for 3 was to poorly done, making the ending very underwhelming, I WANTED MORE! So the sequel is a somewhat decent companion piece to 3. Bringing back the warriors was genius, and I enjoyed the continuity. Sure, I can make a stink about them getting killed, but personally since I cared so much about them from 3, their deaths upped the stakes for me. Also the new characters, although noting that layered, the actors portraying them were competent and very likable none the less, like three, I cared about the kids. Also Lisa Wilcox is a revelation, making the most interesting Elm Street character ever. I was rooting for her all the way.Another pro for this sequel is Renny Harlin in the directing seat. Not only did he create the most visually appealing sequel of the entire series, he made the movie and extremely effortless watch as well. This movie ahs flaws, but boring us is not one of the them. It's so fast paced, you feel like you need to stop for a breath of air. The camera is very fluid and I loved the style. The colors are also very vibrant, lot's of green and red lighting. Thank you Mr. Harlin, you certainly can punch a wallop with your scenes. As with 3, there is so much scenes that stand out in my mind with picture clarity, the Junkyard scene, the watered scene, the beach scene, the classroom scene, the elevator scene, the movie theater, Freddy eating the Pizza, Alice and Dan spinning through the tunnel, Roach motel scene, Freddy's death, all classic scenes and after watching them you can see why the movie made the most money in the entire series (ex Freddy Vs Jason). Some flaws I have with the movie are 1) Although the deaths had good SFX, the gore and mean streak so prominent in previous sequels was seriously lacking, Should have made Freddy mean like 3 did, 2) the movie's narrative gets a little shaky in places, making some dream sequences not following up with logic, comes off as a tad distracting, and 3) the movie does get a little heavy handed making some scenes very cheesy (you'll probably groan) like Alice gearing up to go into hand and hand combat. To much man, I ended up laughing at it. Overall though, this is the last decent hurrah for Freddy. The movie sells his soul but at least it's still quite fun watching it go down, swinging. It only gets lesser and lesser after this one, and Robert Englund has even admitted he felt strongly about this movie ending the series, as Freddy's death certainly makes sense and is a fitting touch. What a kick ass scene too. This is where Elm street ends for me, even though I still watch 5, I consider this to be Freddy's final adventure. Of course, commercialism and the mighty buck thought otherwise, but you can still consider this the final Freddy, and should wisely do so. "}{"Title":"The King of Comedy","Date":"4 February 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This was the first Nightmare on Elm Street I actually saw. I was 9 years old, Collingwood had just own their first premiership in 32 years. It was giddy times for a young man. And I saw this and was hooked straight away on the Freddy Krueger character.I thought I must have got something wrong with my understanding of who Freddy Krueger was. He was not scary as I thought he would be, he was funny. He was hip. Freddy Krueger, in the late 80s early 90s was cutting edge.I had no idea at the time that Part IV was the first film in the Elm Street series to take that slant on the Freddy character. Krueger had gone from being a fear inspiring creature of evil to a pop icon with this one movie.And really why wouldn't he mellow out? He'd killed off that police chief, his wife and his daughter, who'd caused the trouble in the first place, he'd killed the final three dream warriors and had his own TV show. It doesn't get any better than that. He'd even got a new weird nick name The bastard son of a hundred maniacs. This was awesome stuff.Looking back now, the film has a lot of holes in it. The script was being written as the film was made, the ending made little sense. THe poem the entire conclusion was based around was hokey nonsense and the death scene, while brilliantly produced and filmed, was a real let down. All she needed to do the whole movie was stand Freddy in front of a mirror? But who cares? This is fun. Tne story here is that the three surviving characters from Dream Warriors; Kristen, Roland and Joey are in school and leading happy lives, until Freddy comes from the dead again. Now Kristen's best friend Alice (played well by Lisa Wilcox) is a dream master, she can control her dreams and inherits Kristen's gift of drawing others into her dream as Kristen is killed.But this unwittingly makes Alice a very good source of fresh victims for Freddy and she draws her friends into her dreams for Freddy to kill. As they die, she inherits their various personality traits and skills and eventually goes into dreamland for a final confrontation.This is a fun, well produced movie with an average script, decent acting and quality special effects.There is nudity, but no sex I can remember. Nice movie, worth a look today. Lots of fun and plenty of silliness. "},{"Title":"This was the first Freddy I saw when I was a kid and will always be my favorite","Date":"21 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Its funny how I stumbled on to the Nightmare on Elm Street Serises. I was about 8 or 9 at the time. My father and I had a great relationship. He would take me to a movie every week. I was the envy of all the other kids because he didn't care if a movie was rated R or what. So here I am looking to go to our Friday movie and my dad is looking in the paper asking me what I want to see. He asked me if I was ready for my first scary movie. I jumped for joy when he asked me that. At that time I hadn't really seen a true scary movie yet. Just the ones that where on during Halloween. So off we went me and my dad. I remember how nervous I was because I didn't know what to expect. Here I am 9 years old in the movie line with all these teenagers grabbing there girlfriend waste and making scary faces trying to scare them. I just grabbed my fathers hand very tight and made my way in.Wow! My first scary movie I thought to myself well here it goes. I remember asking my dad if Freddy was real about 10 times during the movie. I laughed, I cried, I screamed, I was in love with horror. I Was Freddys number 1 fan after this movie. I bought all the older movies. I really liked number 1 and thought number 2 was really weird back then. Anyways I love this movie for all the right reasons. There is a lot of gore. A lot of cheesy acting and just plain fun. I am not going to give anything away just go wacth it for yourself. You will love it. "},{"Title":"GREAT!","Date":"28 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  All of the Elm street movies have something special about them , and i believe ALL of them are above average.This one reflects on alot of the 80's culture , its so terrific. The storyline is smooth freddy invades kids minds, this one is somewhat complex, and great dream sequences.rated R. "},{"Title":"Freddy's back in the best of the Elm Street sequels","Date":"5 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The funny, creative Nightmare on Elm Street series hits a high point with this installment.  While the series had not been truly frightning since episode one, part four keeps a good balance of suspense, horror, and special effects.  With a strong lead performance by Lisa Wilcox and some new ideas about the Freddy mythology, this is the only truly worthy Nightmare on Elm Street other than the original. "},{"Title":"An Ok Entry","Date":"23 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Freddy is ressurected once again,to kill teens. Once he's killed all the elm street kids. He is powerless,until he meets The Dream Master Alice. Then a war begins. Englund leans more to comedy in this entry,but is still creepy. Not very good.2.5/4 "},{"Title":"(The story of) how Freddy got too much screen time","Date":"28 August 2014","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" It gets as worse as it remains in next parts from these part, too much time for Freddy on the screen (with bad jokes), stupid killings and mindless plot. As always, Rennys style to shoot is quite childish and way too brutal. This is best of his directions I've seen but not quite convincing. There's much more 80's music and dancing scenes (like in Footloose and such 80's musical movies) than any other parts of A Nightmare on Elm Street series. The best part is when nearly every main character from previous movie was killed (because they were quite irritating). Also even the first part was kind of brutal (wich I liked) this one goes too far; its kind of childish. Also plot is quite stupid, Freddy has been buried 3 times before this and even still he terrorizes kids dreams. And his recovering story isn't even good or clever. There is also some lazy things like first deaths; earlier only way you could die in dreams and real life in same time was that Freddy killed you with certain way and then you don't for example burn in real life, your body is just burn but don't burn like you could see it in real life. Now those deaths and ways to die come to real life and also real life and dreams/nightmares mixes together. This movie is little bit unfinished. "},{"Title":"This made money?","Date":"15 September 2007","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This fourth installment of the Elm Street nightmares is poor in all regards. It fails to generate any interest in the storyline, and one couldn't care less as teen after teen gets 'gobbled up' by Freddy.Renny Harlin barely manages to raise an eyebrow, let alone a scare, from his audience, which is hardly surprising considering the lame plot and the fact that we've seen it all before. Lisa Wilcox adds minimal interest and Robert Englund returns, but it makes no difference.Yet Elm Street 4 made a nice profit at the box office, thanks to Krueger's cult status and more than a few addicted teenage fans. Amazing!Sunday, June 14, 1992 - Video "},{"Title":"You shouldn't have buried me, I'm not dead","Date":"4 January 2010","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Dream demon Freddy Krueger is resurrected from his apparent demise, and rapidly tracks down and kills the remainder of the Elm Street kids. However, Kristen (who can draw others into her dreams) wills her special ability to her friend Alice. Alice soon realizes that Freddy is taking advantage of that unknown power to pull a new group of children into his foul domain.Apart from WES CRAVEN'S NEW NIGHTMARE (ANOES 7), I believe ANOES 4 is the most superior sequel in the entire franchise and I say this with zeal. Why is that? I can't help but say this film is the most imaginative, clever, and ingenious in the franchise. After all, this is the film that made the most money in the box office, but I'm not saying money equals how good a film is.The first 20 minutes of this film is quite frustrating to me. I will not spoil it, but it does an ALIEN 3 on you. As the film continued, I stopped getting angry and went along with it. To my surprise, it started to get good. Really good. I believe this sequel focuses the most on characters. It's an ensemble film where the group of teenagers mattered rather than seeing how they will die. I was rather touched in some parts of it because I was not in for some personal scenes dealing with characters and dialogue rather than a dream killer slashing up kids in creative ways.Even though the franchise is at its fourth film, it's the most creative. There are some really ingenious death scenes here, and one of it is the best in the franchise, in my opinion. You can also tell the budget is bigger because there are more visual effects and more elaborate nightmare sequences. Lisa Wilcox is a newcomer to the franchise among the cast and she does a fine job as the new heroine. Andras Jones, Danny Hassle, and Brooke Theiss are all pretty good in their role. However, Toy Newkirk has to be my favorite character in the entire franchise. She's just so lovable.I think director Renny Harlin gets a bad rap these days, but I find his movies to be entertaining. I certainly think this film is one of Harlin's better works. ANOES 4 is great because it has the most fleshed out characters in the franchise and because everything is just so well made. If you're a fan of the franchise, this would probably be the last good sequel you'll ever see (apart from ANOES 7). "},{"Title":"NOES 4 commentary on the person who found it a bad movie.","Date":"21 July 2005","Score":"13 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I just think that this part of the NOES series, is just one of the best ever made. I mean , if he stayed only on Elmstreet for the 6 movies, it would get boring. I am just happy that his territory got bigger. And about the resurrection, so what? Haven't you seen the beginning of the movie? Kristen dreamed a lot of that house. And that's why Freddy got resurrected because Kristen BELIEVED that he wasn't dead. It gave him power. NOES 4 is a great movie, the special effects are fantastic and the storyline is OK. It's a classic of the horror movies! I hope that they will make more sequels. I mean ,  A Nightmare on Elmstreet  was the beginning of a new epoch for the horror movies. So next time when you give comment on a movie, see it with your full eyes and a lot of attention before you make a comment. "},{"Title":"When dreaming's all you have, you kinda become an expert","Date":"13 February 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" After the events of the previous movie, the surviving Dream Warriors, Kristen, Kincaid and Joey are moving on and getting on with their lives. Kristen even has a new boyfriend, martial artist Rick and a new best friend in Rick's shy sister, Alice.However she can't shake the feeling that Freddy isn't really dead and constantly pulls Kincaid and Joey into her dreams to share her worries with them. Annoyed, they dismiss her fears only to be killed shortly after, much to Kristen's horror.Realising that she is the last original Elm Street child, she resists sleep until her mother spikes her food with sleeping pills. Knowing she is about to die she accidentally pulls Alice into the dream with her.As her remaining friends start to die around her, even the ones who had nothing to do with Freddy's original demise, Alice realises that she has inherited Kristen's ability to pull others into her dreams and she is now inadvertently bringing new victims to Freddy for him to kill.Alice discovers her dream power is the ability to absorb and take on the powers and abilities of dead Dream Warriors, making her the Dream Master.Watching Alice's transformation from shy, mousy girl into a kick-ass Dream Warrior was one of the high points of the movie as is Tuesday Knight's opening theme song 'Running from this Nightmare.'The Dream Master is the point in the Nightmare on Elm Street series where any horror had left the movies entirely and had become almost entirely dark fantasy. With the exception of Alice, who I feel is a very under-appreciated horror heroine, the characters are there just to be killed off. Despite some creative visuals and ideas, the movie feels very sterile to me and lacks the atmosphere of the previous films. "}{"Title":"Wanna suck face?","Date":"27 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The first truly terrible entry in the Nightmare on Elm Street series. I know some would argue part 2 was but I think it had some good parts despite its flaws. This one is pure crap, beginning with the moronic idea to kill off three popular characters who survived part 3. You don't crap on the Dream Warriors and still be considered a good movie. The plot to this one involves the gifted girl from the last film (played by Tuesday Knight, replacing Patricia Arquette) passing on her gift to a friend from school before being killed by Freddy. From that point on it's a by-the-numbers Elm Street sequel with Freddy going after the new girl and all her whitebread friends. The biggest surprise for this stinker is that it's directed by Renny Harlin. Hardly a cinematic legend, Harlin is still a more recognizable name than the other Elm Street directors (excluding Wes Craven, of course). He was on the rise at this time and still had his biggest hits ahead of him (mostly action films). His direction here is not bad and he does craft some decent nightmare scenes. But the script is a dog and the cast is among the worst of any of the sequels in this series. The standout being, of course, the returning Ken Sagoes as the scene-stealing Kincaid. Unfortunately, he's not in the movie for very long. The best thing about the movie, I suppose, is that there are a lot of cheesy laughs from Freddy. We're in full-on camp territory for Freddy at this point. Some fans love that and some do not. I think I fall into the do not category. It just takes away from him being scary in any way when he's constantly making bad jokes. Despite how much this one sucks, it is (sadly) not the worst of the series. Things were going to go from bad to worse with part 5. "},{"Title":"A film further plunging its franchise down into a neverending trench of inconsistency","Date":"22 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" A Nightmare on Elm Street 4 The Dream Master is the point in the franchise where comedy began to eclipse the franchise's almost unbridled devotion to horror sensibilities. It was the film that turned Freddy Krueger into a pop culture figure, capable of regurgitating every lackluster pun imaginable like an MTV VJ rather than a horror figure you'd hate to see in your nightmares. Finally, it was the film to bear the franchise's peak budget, showing it off by including very elaborate and immaculately detailed dream sequences that toyed with the perception of reality in a manner so believable that you swore you were being haunted yourself. It's safe to say that the series most expensive installment also turned out to be its most divisive and revolutionary.The story picks up on characters from Dream Warriors, the previous installment, such as Kristen (Tuesday Knight), Kincaid (Ken Sagoes), and Joey (Rodney Eastman), all of whom have been released from the mental hospital that confined them for the past months and back into the public school system and their normal homes. Kristen winds up reacquainting her friend Alice (Lisa Wilcox) and her boyfriend Rick (Andras Jones), and is enjoying living her normal life until she realizes that dreaming of, or even expressing paranoia over, Freddy Krueger, the burned-faced, sweater-clad killer that haunted them before, could potentially make him return. When Freddy (Robert Englund, the only constant in this series, so it seems) winds up returning to haunt the victims in his dreams, the focus lies in Alice, as she's the most ignorant of Freddy's ways.Consistency has long been a problem with this franchise and The Dream Master shows a refusal for it to accept any kind of remote pattern. Because of the constant directorial and screen writing shakeups, and Craven's varying and largely debatable involvement with each individual film, little in the way of tonal or narrative cohesion could be retained. The overall scope and reach of the Freddy Krueger character got hazy with the second film and found itself resorting back into the laws of the first film, with no acknowledgement of the second film other than a vague, ambiguous line of dialog from A Nightmare on Elm Street 3 Dream Warriors. The Dream Master's refusal to assert itself by accepting the emphasis on fear and vulnerability ideas from the first and third film or the metaphorical significance of the Freddy Krueger character is evident by the film's emphasis on comedy from what was previously the franchise's main source for terror.Being that The Dream Master is the most expensive film from the Nightmare on Elm Street franchise, one can see where director Renny Harlin and his set/production designers wanted to put their emphases - the dream sequences. To the film's credit, the dream sequences are the most elaborate and well-conceived dream sequences the franchise has yet to see, even more-so believable and immersive than in Dream Warriors. Consider the scene where Kincaid is trapped in a nightmarish junkyard that molds and crafts itself at what is ostensibly the snap of Freddy's fingers, effectively trapping him in a sea of broken-down cars that is revealed to be a lot bigger in scope than we could've imagined. The scene works beautifully because it focuses on the core idea of being trapped in a dream lucid enough for you to actively move around and possess your own decision-making skills but not lucid enough where you can control the dream. The result is especially terrifying and this is one of the few dream sequences where Freddy is mostly serious.The remainder of the dream scenes only get more decorated in appearance, and continue to live up to this first major one in size and scope. The problem is, with each sequence, Freddy gets less and less convincing. Writers Brian Helgeland (who would go on to direct Oscar-nominated screenplays for films like L.A. Confidential and Mystic River) and Scott Pierce turn Freddy into a pun/quip machine, who seems to always be in search for the next cheeky line to say rather than anything that provokes a kind of uneasiness for the audience. This desecration of a frightening character, turning him into a second rate comedian, significantly lessens his effectiveness as a character, especially when we see him command some of the most visually stunning locations he has yet to be apart of in the entire series.Finally, though it's a relatively minor, almost moot, point, the acting here has noticeably taken a turn for the worst. The Dream Master feels like a lackluster display of amateur-hour, Second City acting, particularly from the likes of Tuesday Knight and Andras Jones, who just do an immensely poor job at being believable screen presences. While acting in horror films is traditionally never the first thing one judges on, when it's so wooden, as it is here, it can't help be a jarring feature, especially when the film itself already isn't particularly good.A Nightmare on Elm Street 4 works in the way it decides to further construct and elaborate on the many worlds of which Freddy inhabits, in addition with taking on some seriously twisted and quirky scenes the franchise has never seen before. However, it does a miserable job of sticking to whatever guns the series had drawn at this point by sacrificing scares for cheap quips and capable actors for whomever could fill the part quickly and inexpensively. The result is a film that was evidently rushed on every level that wasn't visual effects or production design.Starring Lisa Wilcox, Robert Englund, Tuesday Knight, Andras Jones, Ken Sagoes, and Rodney Eastman. Directed by Renny Harlin. "},{"Title":"Not a bad film, just a little scary and disturbing in a few areas","Date":"27 April 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" After Dream Warriors, the next film would be called A Nightmare on Elm Street 4 The Dream Master. The film was released in 1988 in theaters and was released.The story of Kristen Parker continues in this film, but this time, Kristen unwittingly releases Freddy, who immediately kills Kincaid and Joey. Before Freddy can kill Kristen, she transfers her dream powers to Alice, a friend from school.Alice begins inadvertently providing victims for Freddy when she begins pulling people into her dreams while she sleeps. Alice, who begins taking on the friends who were murdered, confronts Freddy. She uses the power of the Dream Master to release all the souls Freddy has taken. They subsequently rip themselves from Freddy's body, killing him in the process.The story is really not bad and I really like the dialogue written for each character and the film is just wonderfully shot and edited. The visuals back then in 1988 were really tough to pull off, but it was really cool and amazing for today's world in this day and age.The music is really dark and sinister and the Freddy Krueger theme does play at some point. I love the dark and sinister tone of the film and also comedic at certain points. Freddy Krueger's make-up design is still good as it was in the previous films.The acting is back and fourth at some points. The credit is all given to Robert Englund as Freddy Krueger and he is alright in his fourth portrayal as Freddy Krueger and I really got to see more humor and there is one scene and that is Kristen's nightmare at the beach and he really does kill it with his awesome humor.Since Patricia Arquette could not return due to her being involved in other projects, Tuesday Knight fills in for her as Kristen Parker and she definitely nails her performance and it could have been worse, but it is a damn good performance for this character.Lisa Wilcox plays our new primary protagonist, Alice Johnson and she does a damn good job in playing the role of Alice and it is not Oscar worthy, but it is really good and she was the perfect choice to a new enemy to our antagonist, Freddy Krueger.Danny Hassle plays Alice's boyfriend, Dan Jordan and he is top-notch and just like Lisa Wilcox, he could not have done any better. They have great chemistry on the screen and it definitely shows all the way throughout this entire fourth Nightmare on Elm Street film in the scary film franchise.The rest of the cast is just out there and they make either a huge or very little effort to put on a darn good performance and it is really intense and I really can't blame them because they try they're absolute best but does not deliver when they really need too.The nightmares in this film are just incredible You have Freddy Krueger sucking the life out of one girl, turning her into a cockroach and that was pretty cool. The other nightmare is Kristen's two nightmares at the beginning and middle of the film and those are way too scary, but I love them because they are like this. Another nightmare is Kincaid's nightmare. He is trapped in a salvage yard and he is brutally stabbed in the stomach and it is very dark and serious and really cool.The other nightmares I will keep short Joey's nightmare involves him on a waterbed and is tricked into thinking a supermodel is swimming before Freddy kills him and that was just too cool. Sheila is killed by an intense asthma attack. Rick is in a mixed-martial arts nightmare fight and that was really intense and violent. All of the nightmares are not bad, but they are just very dark and serious in a few areas, but Robert Englund's comedy is really amazing and spectacular.Overall, A Nightmare on Elm Street 4 The Dream Master is just amazing and really scary. It just brings a lot cool stuff into it and the nightmares are really cool and disturbing, but the comedy is in this film a lot more. Alice Johnson's story would continue the next film, which I talk about my mixed feelings, A Nightmare on Elm Street 5 The Dream Child. and this film is really amazing with blending horror and comedy together throughout the whole movie.I give this film a 7 out of 10 stars. Not a bad film, just a little bit scary and disturbing in a few areas. "},{"Title":"Part 4 is scarier then the first 3","Date":"16 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Don't get me wrong the first 3 A nightmare on elm street movies are very scary. But this one is scarier. This is one of scariest movies made before 1989. There are scarier movies. A nightmare on elm street 5 the dream child is scarier. Freddy's dead the final nightmare is also scarier. W.e.s Craven's new nightmare is also scarier. But still this a very scary movie. It has great acting. It also have a great story line. It also has great special effects. Freddy is a ghost so I consider this horror fantasy. This is a great movie. It is very scary. It is a most see. This is a great movie. Great movie great movie great movie great movie. See it. It is so scary. "},{"Title":"Nothing New, but Still Entertaining","Date":"13 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" With the director of Die Hard 2 at the helm (which isn't really much to brag about, that movie sucks), Dream Master is another pretty average entry in the series. It doesn't do too much new and may focus too much on the characters for its own good. In the last film, the Dream Warriors were interesting dynamically, in this film not so much. The tough black guy is turned into a whining baby when facing Freddy for real, Patricia Arquette is replaced by an underwhelming actress, and the new lead, Alice, is pretty boring as well.Obviously this film had some minor inspirations from Karate Kid or something since there is an insistence on ridiculous, God-awful martial arts action. Some of the deaths are pretty good and Freddy's lines would make Roger Moore blush, which I find somewhat endearing. Freddy has character, making him a more enjoyable villain than Jason.I don't think I've seen a bad Nightmare on Elm Street movie so far. They may be exceptionally confusing at points and really stupid at others, but they are pretty solid B-movies, maybe the most solid B-movie horror franchise I've ever seen. "},{"Title":"A Nightmare on Elm Street 4 The Dream Master","Date":"10 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The first film was great, the second film was rubbish, the third film was good, I saw the critics gave this fourth film a relatively good review, and I was looking forward to seeing the iconic villain in the next sequel, from director Renny Harlin (Die Hard 2 Die Harder, The Long Kiss Goodnight, Deep Blue Sea). Basically the story continues from the previous film, where the bones of Freddy Krueger (Robert Englund) were buried, and dream warriors Kristen Parker (Tuesday Knight), Joey Crusel (Rodney Eastman) and Roland Kincaid (Ken Sagoes) have been released from the Westin Hills Asylum and are living normal lives and attending high school. Kristen has made new friends with frequent daydreamer Alice Johnson (Lisa Wilcox), brainy and black Sheila Kopecky (Toy Newkirk) who suffers asthma and bug hating tall girl Debbie Stevens (Brooke Theiss), as well as martial arts enthusiast boyfriend Rick Johnson (Andras Jones). It is Kincaid's dog who entering his dream innocently digs around the junk yard where Freddy's bones were buried, and he unearths them, resurrecting the killer, who kills Kincaid, and in his dream and drowned in his water bed Joey is also killed. Knowing that Freddy is back from the dead to haunt their nightmares, Kristen warns them to try and stay awake so that they will not be killed, but also she tells them of her gift to enter the dreams of others and also control the surroundings of a dream, i.e. make it a good dream rather than bad. She however does not avoid falling asleep herself and Freddy manages to creep his way into a nightmare and she is killed, so Alice is the one trying to pull everyone together and stop them from falling victim to the psycho with the razor hands, but of course they cannot control their sleeping habits, including under sedation. Alice however does research dream stuff, and comes across a nursery rhyme entitled The Dream Master and uses it to her advantage, she gets Freddy is a room of mirrors so he can see his evil reflection, this makes the souls he collected turn against him and leave his body, and he evaporates, but of course the nightmares may not be over on Elm Street. Also starring Danny Hassle as Dan Jordan, Brooke Bundy as Elaine Parker, Nicholas Mele as Mr. Dennis Johnson and Jacquelyn Masche as Mrs. Crusel. Englund still does well being devilishly amusing and sinister with his kills, and by the time of this film became part of popular culture, the story is a little too similar to the previous, obviously the best things about this sequel are the main antagonist and the inventive murders in the dreams, overall it is not a bad horror film. Worth watching! "},{"Title":"How sweet. Fresh meat.","Date":"8 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" A Nightmare on Elm Street 4 The Dream Master is directed by Renny Harlin and written by Brian Helgeland and Scott Pierce. It stars Robert Englund, Lisa Wilcox, Andras Jones, Tuesday Knight, Ken Sagoes, Rodney Eastman and Brooke Theiss. Music is by John Easdale and Craig Safan and cinematography by Steven Fierberg.Freddy Krueger (Englund) is back again to finish off the last of the Dream Warriors, but when he enters the dreams of a new girl, Alice Johnson (Wilcox), he gets more than he bargained for...In spite of part three being something of a return to form for the Elm Street franchise, it still signalled the point where Krueger as a character started to become more fun villain than a terrifying presence. By the time this fourth instalment rolled around, Krueger was iconic for sure, but also he was a marketing tool for merchandise, even getting his own spin-off TV show. Where once was this vile child murderer invading the dreams of children and killing them, now is a guy selling dolls and someone more known for a quip than a kill.Dream Master follows the basic Elm Street formula, Krueger returns to kill more kids in their dreams. The methods range from the icky (insect) to the impressive (pizza), and the effects work is mostly enjoyable. The tying up of loose ends shows some modicum of thought in the writing, while the big finale is actually worth the wait. However, the acting away from a perky Wilcox is pretty poor and familiarity of formula does indeed breed contempt. It's just about above average as a whole, thanks in the main to the inventive kills, but as this third sequel coined it in at the box office, with that comes the basic fact that Kruegerville is a town built only for cash purposes. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Solid Freddy and satisfying enough.","Date":"26 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Freddy is resurrected and sets about to murder the teens who destroyed him and collect their souls. However, the survivors of his last onslaught have the help of a gifted girl Alice Johnson.A year later hot on the heels on Dream Warriors comes A Nightmare on Elm Street 4 The Dream Master. Opening with a cracking little theme song Nightmare sung by Tuesday Knight (who also plays Kristen Parker) with a fairly new director at the time, namely Renny Harlin, he delivers slick setups and visuals, very much reflective of MTV at it's peak. While Patricia Arquette played Kristen intensely, her replacement Knight is sorely overlooked and dismissed due to continuity and aesthetic reasons, she plays Kris with as much conviction integrating her with normality, therefore the character is naturally different. Visionary day dreamer Alice Johnson becomes the new protagonist as the characters and returning actors from part three namely Joey (Rodney Eastman), Ronald (Ken Sagoes) quickly disappear. With Brooke Bundy as Mrs Parker putting in a brief appearance.This 1988 sequel focuses very much on teenage shenanigans, issues and interests - cinema, karate, keeping fit, sex, drinking to name a few and possibly not in that order. There's music track after music track and it sometimes feels like the film is a platform to plug new bands of the time. The ominous tone of the third is partly retained with Harlin injecting a little more stylised lighting and a faster pace into the proceedings. The real life scenes have natural looking lighting in contrast to the nightmare segments which are a mixed bag some effective and some no so (namely the invisible fight scene). The acting is good but sadly is let down by some of the supporting cast whom shall remain nameless, Jake the dog gives a better performance. There's some kills that are reminiscent of previous films that are arguably not as effective. The special effects are again well executed, the practical effects simply outstanding - especially Freddy's Hellraiser-esque return and demise and the wince inducing gross cockroach transformation. Craig Safan's score is more electronic in keeping with new generation feel and compliments Harlin's style.Englund in nurses drag is a blast, Freddy's laughs at many of his own quips and has a little more dialogue and more to do. The producers at this point certainly has realised that he owns the role, even if removing much of the fright factor - replacing it with a menacing playful edge. There's some nice ideas in William Kotzwinkle's story and the Brian Helgeland, Jim Wheat & Ken Wheat screenplay including Alice picking up the traits of the fallen, her being trapped in a film, the aged diner and the on loop gag.Although actress Lisa Wilcox does a great job as Alice unfortunately Elm St 4 wants you to warm to yet another new heroine and annoyingly feels like an ad wanting you to go out and buy the soundtrack.The Dream Master is a solid enough entry and has the one of the most satisfying endings and closures of the series. That's said, at times it all feels a little too forced and you can't but miss the simplicity of the first film. "},{"Title":"Special effects extravaganza","Date":"22 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The third sequel in the long-running series is set firmly in the world of the late 1980s we're talking lame fashions, big hair, rubbery special effects and a rather uneven tone veering midway between comedy and horror. It's all about what's over the top, with everybody involved aiming to outdo the scares and FX of the previous movies, but in the end none of this can disguise the fact that by this stage the story was wearing very thin. This is nothing more than a supernatural slasher that virtually reprises the plot of the first three films in the series with different characters.Of course, watching Robert Englund hamming it up will always be a guilty pleasure, and I have to say that the special effects are also pretty impressive. In the days before CGI, the FX team here went all out in creating bizarre and inventive death scenes, most notably a moment involving a giant cockroach. Freddy's resurrection at the outset is gratuitously silly yet somehow still works, paying homage to the old Chris Lee/Dracula resurrections in spectacular fashion. There are lots of able technicians working hard behind the scenes, including Howard Berger and Screaming Mad George, and in a film this reliant on special effects their diligence pays off.It's hard to review this title objectively, because watching it makes me nostalgic for '80s cinema in all its tacky badness. But I think it's fair to say that this is one of the better sequels out there; it's not frightening in the least, but it is entertaining and it's one of few enjoyable Renny Harlin-directed movies in existence, along with DIE HARD 2 and DEEP BLUE SEA. "},{"Title":"...and here's where it goes downhill a little","Date":"6 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" A Nightmare on Elm Street 3 Dream Warriors really set the bar high as far as the sequels go for this series and I was hoping that A Nightmare on Elm Street 4 The Dream Master would be the same quality as the third movie. Alas, it was not. The story is basically the same as the third minus the psychiatric hospital and with a little twist, basically Freddy is remembered and starts killing in dreams again and Alice must free the tormented teenage souls and to do that, she must kill Freddy. It's all the same thing done with different characters who aren't really very interesting with the exception of Alice who was a little interesting when she daydreamed and, of course, Freddy Krueger. The character development goes down the same weak-teens-become-tough road just like the third and first movie which is fine. The acting is mediocre, Tuesday Knight replaces Patricia Arquette as Kristen and Robert Englund is great as Freddy but the rest of the cast were hit and miss. The nightmare sequences are done great and Freddy yet again makes some humorous one-liners before his kills. The direction is okay and the special effects are rather good but this doesn't beat the first or third, not even close.I did enjoy this movie, I thought it was a decent watch and an okay addition to the series. However, in saying this, I'm half-and-half with the dark humoured Freddy. Don't get me wrong, I think Robert Englund did a fantastic job as the villain from your worst nightmares but I think the movies would have been much more better and scarier if they stuck with Freddy being dark and scary just like in the first movie. The first movie is truly a terrifying experience and a horror masterpiece and every horror movie could take a lesson from it but this wasn't scary in the slightest. The one-liners are a little funny though.Read more reviews on www.dudedazzmoviereviews.wordpress.com "}{"Title":"Probably the most fun nightmare","Date":"31 January 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Nightmare on elm street 4 in my opinion is the most fun Freddy film in the entire series. Sure nightmares 1,2, and 3 were scarier and in a lot of peoples opinions better, but this movie combined a bit of scares with a lot of fun, imaginative kills. The kill count in the movie wasn't as much as nightmare 3, but wasn't as few as 5 or 6. Freddys one liners are funny and you can really see the transition of Krueger as sick twisted villain. He laughs while he's killing you and that's what makes the Freddy character one of my favorite villains of all time. Englund is phenomenal at the role and you can tell he really enjoys it. The soundtrack is excellent as well. Love the song don't be afraid of your dreams by Go West. The cast is really fun and energetic and Englund himself said that this was his favorite Elm Street film to work on. Wilcox (Alice) was a very underrated heroine. Probably my favorite of all the females. Underrated movie and a ton of fun. If you like a fun horror movie that has a little everything then this movie is for you. "},{"Title":"Probably the best sequel.","Date":"14 January 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Don't trust me on this because everyone I know loves nightmare 3, but i hate it. Its just something about it. But other than the original, Nightmare on elm street 4 was the greatest elm street ever. Yes, the remake stands up to the original but thats not what I'm reviewing. I highly recommend this one. It leaves off a little bit off of elm street 3. Same 3 characters that live in the 3rd one. But there not the main ones. Freddy knows that the 3 kids from part 3 are the last ones off of elm street. So he takes Alice in 4 and it goes around her in 4 and 5. But the 6 hovers around her child who was also in 5. But after 6, Elm street goes down the toilet with Wes craven's NEW NIGHTMARE. And then Freddy vs Jason which ruined Jason but I thought made Freddy even cooler. And then the remake came to go right on my horror movie shelf next Elm Street 1-4 combo pack. "},{"Title":"Pure Awesomeness!","Date":"12 August 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This movie is pure 80's awesomeness, I was only born in '87 but I still absolutely love it. The fashion, the style, the hair, the music (Who doesn't do karate while bumping Dramarama(awesome song)), the...comedian. Yes, Freddy the comedian, we've seen a transformation as the series progresses. Freddy still has that creepiness to him, and always will for the most part (if you look at the original), but it's fairly clear to see that the comedy has taken over. The thing is, even though Freddy has got jokes now instead of quick lil' quips, it somehow seems to fit and just work with the whole vibe of the film.The cast is excellent, I would have loved to be on set and a part of it for this one. Maybe it's just me but they really seem like a cool bunch of kids, and I'm pretty sure I wanted to be a ninja like Rick Johnson (Andras Jones) when I was younger, hell, still do. We see the characters from Dream Warriors Kristen, Kincaid and Joey all return. Unfortunately Patricia Arquette does not reprise her role as Kristen, but singer Tuesday Knight steps in and does a decent job (and an amazing job on the intro song runniiiiing from this niiightmare). The new characters added are a fun bunch, got their clichés but memorable none the less. We got the sister of Rick, quiet and shy daydreamer Alice (played by the beautiful Lisa Wilcox. Possibly my favorite character of the series, besides Freddy of course). Then we have Debbie (the popular boy crazy fitness expert(Brooke Theiss)),and Shiela (the asthmatic bookworm(Toy Newkirk)) and Dan Jordan (the likable jock and friend of Rick, played by Danny Hassle).Freddy is on a mission in this one, as he is brought back by flaming dog pee, with no real explanation, but a quick botched one liner you shouldn't have buried me. Hey, it works for me, Freddy's back! Our former Dream Warriors don't seem to do so well this time around, and since it seems like there are basically two casts, it does make sense taking them out first.We quickly see Kincaid have to fight Freddy in a junkyard, I'm guessing same one as in part 3, but this time around in a nightmare. Kincaid is his usual self, talking some smack before being disposed of. Immediately after, it's Joey's turn to go. While falling asleep Johnny Depp esquire with headphones on and TV as well, the water bed starts to shake and a poster model appears from within it but of course it's really Freddy having some fun before pulling him under. Kristen is drugged shortly after by her mother Andelay! because she refuses to sleep, it's pretty clear she's a goner. I don't know what was up with the beach scene in Kristen's nightmare, it just didn't seem to fit, Freddy rocking shades while pretending to be Jaws, just didn't work for me. Before being burned alive, she pulls in Alice (remember that dream power she has), to start things rolling for Freddy on the new batch of victims. Luckily Kristen passes on this trait of hers to Alice.It almost seemed too easy, Freddy couldn't kill any of them in part 3, now he's on a hot streak. And now it's up to the new kids on the block to kill him. Quite a mighty task lays before them, and obviously we know which one will step up to the plate. Freddy's transformation of character isn't the only one we see here, Alice also changes, which does work fairly well. As the movie goes on, she gains the power of each one of her friends and Freddy's victims, leading up to a kick-ass battle in the end.There are some only okay kills like the suck-face death of Sheila and the ninja glove death of Rick, they could have both been stepped up a bit, but they still work. Debbie's death, however, is pretty awesome as she's turned in to a cockroach and gets an oozy squash. What really makes it great, is that we see a bit of foreshadowing when a cockroach runs out of her bag of food when she is first introduced while stating Ew, so disgusting before squashing it.By the end, we got two teens remaining, Alice and Dan who just so happen to be locking eyes throughout the film. It's a race against time as Alice must take out Freddy before he does the same to Dan. I love the scene with Alice getting ready to brawl while clearing her mirror of pictures until she's just looking at herself Fuckin' A. They pick the most perfect place for their showdown, as we see Alice layeth the smacketh downeth in a Chuch, similar to the one in part 5, if not the same one. The final blow works well, as Alice makes Freddy see a reflection of himself which results in all the souls that Freddy has captured come alive and rip him apart from the inside out.We get the perfect ending...Alice ending up with Dan and becoming the Dream Master while Freddy is laid to rest...for now. Definitely a fun sequel, that doesn't live up to the original but continues the story with new ideas presented in a hip way. It's really hard not to like this one, it loses a lil' steam but keeps the series rolling strong.9/10 "},{"Title":"How's this for a wet dream?","Date":"14 January 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This film has a much bigger body account than the previous A Nightmare on Elm Street films, so it wasn't disappointing to me, though like others I noticed a lot of cheesy elements in it. One of them was that there were no skeptics among the kids, even those of them who did not believe in Freddy Krueger, did not try to prove that he doesn't exist, they reacted like it was nothing special, like it is normal for people to tell these kind of stories. Actauly I'm glad that there almost wasn't scenes where one tries to prove to another that Freddy don't exist, because usually it is so boring. If you liked previous A Nightmare on Elm Street films than you'll like this one too. There were lots of great dream scenes (the theater scene was quite realistic) and the acting wasn't so bad, I thing the actress who played Alice was great. "},{"Title":"Another pointless sequel","Date":"12 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Way to go Nightmare 4 in ruining a totally perfect ending in Nightmare 3. This film along with many others (Highlander 2, Terminator 3, and anything in the Alien franchise after Aliens) goes ahead and totally ruins everything the heroes in Nightmare 3(which I believe is the best Nightmare of 'em all) fought for. In the first 10 minutes of this horrible film the kids who survive in the previous film find themselves rubbed out by Freddy. One must ask themselves this question why? Why is it so necessary that films today have to create pointless sequels? I feel the answer is obvious money and no art. The previous film, Nightmare 3, was done by Wes Craven a true horror artist. This film on the other hand was done by people going for the built in audience. "},{"Title":"My favorite Nightmare!","Date":"28 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" While this may not be the scariest movie ever made, its still entertaining, even after the 130th viewing. Thats the most important thing to me. By the time the audience gets to Nightmare 4 or Friday 6, they know the rules, they know the killer, so its not likely they will get scared. Might as well make for an enjoyable film with the things they came to see bodies piling up, their favorite slasher and teens doing unbelievably stupid things that allows them to yell at the screen in protest! The special effects are superb and still hold up, the story continues nicely with the third, unlike the second, which the franchise steered clear from. The surviving Elm Street trio, Kristen, Kincaid and Joey are back and along with them are the most likable characters in horror movie history. See, NOES films were always good about having characters you actually cared about. It makes their deaths more harsh. The deaths, while not all that bloody are some of the more memorable ones. Nightmare on Elm Street 4 is a great edition to the already awesome original and part 3 (again lets not mention the dreaded 2nd film). "},{"Title":"entertaining cheesy horror flick from the eighties...","Date":"15 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Entertaining little movie and the last good sequel (don't get fooled by the good reviews for Craven's New Nightmare, it was a good idea yet badly executed). Worth seeing for the theatre sequence alone !7,5/10 "},{"Title":"Hated it even when I was 14","Date":"15 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I still consider the first Freddy film a classic, and part 3 was decent.  But I was soooo bored watching this.   I remember seeing it ten years ago on cable.  About a half hour into it I wanted to turn it off, but a compulsive part of me wanted to finish it so that I could complete the series.  With fifteen minutes to go I turned it off, and decided to make myself a sandwich ( which promised to be more exciting than the film's ending).     No plot synopsis necessary for this, I'll just say that the characters were absolute cardboard. None of the scenes felt connected to each other.  It was like each scene was a 5 minute short created to show off a unique special effect.  Nothing scary to be found here.  I never saw the sequels that came out after this.  I give it a 2. "},{"Title":"Decent entry, if not overtly spectacular","Date":"2 May 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Still troubled by their experience with Freddy, a group of friends begin to suddenly disappear one-by-one forcing one of them to realize the connection they have to Freddy and forcing them to utilize that in order to defeat him once and for all.This one was decidedly enjoyable if not entirely spectacular. One of the few good parts to this one is that, as in so many of the others in the series this one really gets a large part of it's charm through the stellar use of the dream sequences, which are top-notch as always. The opening return of the gang in the boiler room gets this off to a solid start, though most certainly the highlight here comes from the encounter in the car graveyard which is quite fun with the initial appearance, the dog bringing Freddy back to life and eventually stalking him through the twisting walkways inside and the different confrontations they have which makes for a truly exciting and enjoyable scene here. As well, other big scenes include the beach-front dream that's quite exciting for really going through with a rather gruesome ending, the martial arts battle in the dojo is quite fun and the visions of her and her friends at the movie theater as they watch her playing in the diner which makes for a great overall time here, while later scenes include the seriously chilling and creepy runaround as they try to stop their friend being turned into a cockroach in one of his traps and the fun car-crash which leads into the incredibly enjoyable and twisted finale where they battle him through the church using the collected powers to put up a great fight and getting an incredibly unique climax that works rather nicely here in keeping true to the series' strengths. Again, there's also plenty to like about the Freddy make-up here who looks as imposing as ever and manages to make the kills creative and intriguing with how they play out here leading to some impressive moments, all which manage to hold this one up over the few flaws here. The main thing that really tends to hurt this one is the fact that there's just nothing all that intriguing here about the storyline about yet another group of kids stuck under the spell of Freddy. Using a spectacularly lame and petty contrivance to get him back doesn't really help as the finality of what happened previously seems to get undone in an truly underwhelming manner and never really offers much of a way to get this one going in any kind of official manner for his purpose attacking them. Likewise, this also forces the film into a rather disheartening tone of simply going from kill scene to kill scene without doing much in between to really move this along as each of the grandiose kill scenes come at odds with the rather low-key set-up scenes that really showcase the outlandishness of what's happening at extreme cases to really make this quite uneven. As well, the fact that we're stuck in the Freddy- isms is a little bit of a problem with him being far too cheesy at times to work with the attempt to make him frightening. Beyond these issues, this one isn't that bad.Rated R Graphic Violence, Graphic Language, Brief Nudity and continuous underage smoking. "},{"Title":"Still liked it but it was the fallout to the last film.","Date":"1 May 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Nightmare on elm street 4 is a good film it's kinda of stupid and this is the real point where it gets comedic. As the later films come out they lose the scarier elements and go for the comedic stuff. It is fun to watch and one of the last greats in the series after they just go into the ground and everyone slowly hates them.The plot involves Freddy killing of the reaming dream warriors and why did they kill Kincaid why one does simply not kill Kincaid. The rest f the film is just that in all honesty so there not that much more to talk about.It's a good film and you should watch it since it's like one of the last great's before they start getting bad. "}{"Title":"Quickie Review A Nightmare on Elm Street 4 The Dream Master","Date":"20 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The fourth installment in the Elm Street series kicks off by bringing Freddy back to life because&#x85;um, some dog pisses on his grave, or something. Or perhaps it was because the (peculiarly recast) Kristen kept on dreaming about his house, which fed him power and ultimately prompted his return? Seems a better reason than the first.The first portion of what is a watchable but by-the-numbers entry in the franchise has Freddy taking revenge on all the dream warriors from the third film. In doing so, the film pulls an Alien 3 by killing of likable, established characters and replacing them with blander and interchangeable ones. Our new protagonist is Alice, who inherits Kristen's dream powers after she is bumped off.Some of the kills were fun to watch. The bug kill was particularly creepy and the rest of the special effects are on par with the rest of the movies. It's just whatever happens in between all the gruesome stuff is forgettable and full of dire acting and uninspired dialogue. The series has really started not to care much more in its rules. I think back to that scene where, in the real world, a Kruger claw mark appears on a locker in the school. What was the point of that, and how did it makes sense within the context of the film? The anticlimactic ending involves Freddy dying (again) by being shown his reflection. Yup. But before that we are treated to a wise- cracking Kruger and ninja fight scenes. Shame.Overall what could have been an excellent companion piece and follow up to part 3 ends up being mildly entertaining but mediocre.Best Scene The time loop part where Alice is trapped in a scene repeating itself was cool. I've actually had dreams that have played out like that. "},{"Title":"An excellent solid horror slasher sequel in A Nightmare on Elm Street film franchise!","Date":"28 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Disclaimer If you are a viewer that mainly prefers art-house-type movies, then you might as well ignore this review. In addition, if you're not able to take an excellent solid horror slasher sequel in A Nightmare on Elm Street horror film franchise, ignore this review, as well. We'll both be better off.A Nightmare on Elm Street 4 The Dream Master (1988) is actually not my favorite film in the series, but is very solid, decent, excellent horror slasher sequel in A Nightmare on Elm Street series franchise. That is why I didn't want to review this sequel in the first place, but watching it today, I like this sequel and I have always liked it, the first time I saw it I liked it, I do have some problems with this film, I still think is far way better than part 5, 6 and even the horrible remake. It is similar to The Dream Warriors but with a new heroine named Alice, which is awesome. Lisa Wilcox is a bad ass in this flick, wondering what happened to that actress. This film is actually my Renny Harlin's favorite movie alongside Cliffhanger, Die Hard 2 and Deep Blue Sea. Renny Harlin did a great job with direction and visuals of the film, I think it's actually some of the best directing work he did, and Lisa Wilcox's character Alice is probably to Freddy what Tommy Jarvis is to Jason, an enemy that he will always fight but he will always lose.Plot Freddy Krueger returns once again to terrorize the dreams of the remaining Dream Warriors, as well as those of a young woman who may know the way to defeat him for good.Before I start what I like about this movie, I love Wes Craven's original film A Nightmare on Elm Street (1984) which is my favorite best horror slasher film. I love A Nightmare on Elm Street 3 Dream Warriors (1987) which is the second best film in the series and my personal favorite film and love Wes Craven's last movie New Nightmare (1994) which is my third favorite film in A Nightmare on Elm Street film franchise and I think is the third best film. My final and fourth film would be Freddy's Dead The Final Nightmare (1991) almost everyone I know hate that film because it is goofy, but it has a good kills and action that I love and it was the film that introduced me into Freddy films. Things I Like in this movie I like the music scores by John Easdale and Craig Safan, they are a lot of music tracks that are put in the film from the 80's. I love Tuesday Knight's song Nightmare she played it during opening credits. I love Tuesday Knight and Lisa Wilcox's acting performance both of the leads did an outstanding job as acting her characters. Lisa Wilcox was a bad ass in this film, her character as Alice Johnson was well written, she was decent and the only heroine that she never died in the film series. I am still rooting and cheering for Nancy Thompson (Heather Langenkamp)'s character. Tuesday Knight as Kristen Parker was decent and she was awesome. I love movies from the 80's action and horror films that I love, so this is pretty solid good movie, far way better than 5 and remake which I think they are the worst one I have ever saw. I like that this movie is fantasy and it has a few good kills and Freddy is trying still to be scary. Kristen Parker (Tuesday Knight) was actually a Dream Warrior she had a power to call her friends in her dreams, Alice Johnson (Lisa Wilcox) was a Dream Master and she gave her power to Freddy, of course Kristen was the last Elms Street child, but Freddy need it new ones to get the souls from the children to become more powerful than ever. I like the boiler room scene Kristen eventually finds herself in Freddy's boiler room. It is explained that Kristen is the last child from Elm Street, and Freddy needs her help to get more children. I like that is that explanation. I like the last fight between Alice and Freddy, Alice change her self in to an bad ass heroine she fight's Freddy defeats him with a mirror of his own image and she releases all souls of the children that Freddy took them away. I love that Alice saves Dan Jordan (Danny Hassle) from death. Brooke Theiss as Debbie Stevens was beautiful, gorgeous and hot I love her in this film. Thing's I don't like Patricia Arquette wasn't in this movie, her character Kristen Parker is killed off I don't like that. Roland Kincaid (Ken Sagoes) and Joey Peterson (Rodney Eastman) both returned from previous installment The Dreams Warriors and they were both killed off in the beginning of the film which is stupid. I really don't like this, the characters who survived in previous installment been killed off. It feel's to me like Nancy's effort keeping them save was for nothing. That's the problem I have with this film. Overral This decent action sequel get's an solid 8 by me I have enjoyed it and it was fast paced and entertaining. A Nightmare on Elm Street 4 The Dream Master is a 1988 American slasher horror film and the fourth film in the Nightmare on Elm Street series. The film was directed by Renny Harlin, stars Robert Englund, Lisa Wilcox and Danny Hassle.8/10 Grade B+ Studio New Line Cinema Starring Robert Englund, Lisa Wilcox, Danny Hassle, Brooke Theiss, Andras Jones, Tuesday Knight, Toy Newkirk, Rodney Eastman, Ken Sagoes, Nicholas Mele, Brooke Bundy Director Renny Harlin Producers Robert Shaye, Rachel Talalay Screenplay Brian Helgeland, Scott Pierce Rated R Running Time 1 Hr. 33 Mins. Budget $7.000.000 Box Office $49,369,899 "},{"Title":"Not as great as A nightmare on Elm Street 3 Dream Warriors (1987) but can be enjoyed","Date":"28 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" When franchises begin going past the trilogy mark, there are only a few reasons why. Some of this is either because the series has a loyal fanbase, the series itself has likable characters or a well written narrative or it just makes a ton of money. There are also times where the reason consists of all three of these combined. A few years back, Wes Craven had created a new kind of horror that people would literally see in their dreams and his name was Freddy Krueger. The series itself up to this point had gone through a roller-coaster in quality and approval by viewers. The first is considered to be the best (which is usually the case), the second had most people scratching their head and the third had more people satisfied than before by bringing the story back to its original roots. For this entry, there are definitely parts of the script that worked as well as other components but it isn't as great a comeback as A Nightmare on Elm Street 3 Dream Warriors (1987). Most people would probably say this is between the second and third film.For this sequel, Renny Harlin who was a relative newbie at the time, sits in the director's chair. Writing the screenplay however was by a whole new set of people. One of which, Brian Helgeland, was their first time penning a theatrical script. Helgeland would later write for L.A. Confidential (1997), Payback (1999), Man on Fire (2004) and Legend (2015). The other two writers were Jim Wheat and Ken Wheat, who are now best known for creating Vin Diesel's Riddick role from Pitch Black (2000). The story picks up some time after the third where it seems even though the last of the Elm Street kids finished off Freddy, he's still around. Kristen Parker (now played by Tuesday Knight instead of Patricia Arquette) keeps having bad dreams and dragging Joey (Rodney Eastman) and Kincaid (Ken Sagoes) back into them. Soon Freddy Krueger (Robert Englund) is resurrected and the fight for survival begins all over again and this time, the dream warriors bring in more characters.Joining the group is Kristen's boyfriend Rick (Andras Jones), her sister Alice (Lisa Wilcox), smarty Sheila (Toy Newkirk), muscle punk girl Debbie (Brooke Theiss) and not so cocky jock Dan (Danny Hassle). Of these group of characters (old or new), they all carry something about them that make them likable and that's appreciated. Most horror films just give teen roles the no crap given attitude but here, they aren't the typical bunch of high school teenagers. They are certainly not as magnetic as the original dream warriors but the audience can still get attached to them. Aside from characters though, not all of the script does its job. For one thing, Krueger's explanation for coming back to life feels weak and brushed over. It undoes all the effort that went into the third film but oh well. Also the continuity lacks a bit. Sure what's left of the original dream warriors are still around, but why don't they teach the new group how to fight in their dreams? Instead it all goes to Alice (aka the Dream Master).For that, it just feels extra lazy because what good is it to learn something important only to not show anyone else when needed? What's the sense in that? It's not only this but it straight up insults the intelligence of the characters from the prior entry. Surely they were smarter than this. However, that's about it for errors within this film. Even the method here of killing off Freddy is still mostly acceptable. The gore and scares to this horror film are effective most of the time too. If you've seen enough horror movies, this won't be scary but there are definitely some gross scenes that can be hard to look at. Some limbs just shouldn't bend certain ways...yuk. The special effects incorporated to make these scenes and the dream sequences work are sufficient in their purpose. There was probably only one scene an effect look blatantly pasted over an actor but that's it. The rest looks like practical effects in its glorious 1980s appeal.Steven Fierberg was the director of photography to this picture. For the shots on screen, Fierberg doesn't have a look that he gives all his own, but he does keep the scenes clear and visible to a point. He also tries to recreate the visual style of the prior movies with keeping Krueger in the shadows for a bit. Finally is the musical score composed by Craig Safan. It feels as if the Elm Street series can't seem to find a permanent composer. Thankfully, they have managed to keep the main theme concrete. Just like Angelo Badalamenti's score, Safan sticks to Charles Bernstein's memorable Nightmare cue with music box and electronic synths. Here however, the score doesn't sound AS cheap as Badalamenti's. There are times where the sound of the music feels more wholesome than the previous film. Then again, it still has that 80s quality to it as well. Safan could have also expanded the score to focus on the characters and important scenes but for now it at least keeps it simple.Most entries at this point get pretty bad, but this passage maintains some of the better quality that made A Nightmare on Elm Street 3 Dream Warriors (1987) an entertaining sequel. The music is still creepy and the characters remain unorthodox to the usual high school teen tropes. Just don't expect any good reasoning behind Freddy's return or some decent common sense at times. "},{"Title":"So-so","Date":"9 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Well, it's not awful, but it's not good either. Acting is pretty bad, especially the lead actress. Most of the nightmare effects aren't as good as in Part 3 and some of them seems like a rehash of part 3 (attack in bed, attack with needles involved, Freddy shows the souls of the children) as do some of the elements in the plot. Freddy is more comical. Plot is pretty dull. The final fight feels like something from Mortal Kombat, although Freddy's death sequence by Steve Johnson is pretty well done. Magical Media Industries also did some good work with the horror pizza sequence.Sequels ranking 3>4>2>7>6>5 "},{"Title":"Not a bad film, just a little scary and disturbing in a few areas","Date":"14 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" After Dream Warriors, the next film would be called A Nightmare on Elm Street 4 The Dream Master. The film was released in 1988 in theaters and was released.The story of Kristen Parker continues in this film, but this time, Kristen unwittingly releases Freddy, who immediately kills Kincaid and Joey. Before Freddy can kill Kristen, she transfers her dream powers to Alice, a friend from school.Alice begins inadvertently providing victims for Freddy when she begins pulling people into her dreams while she sleeps. Alice, who begins taking on the friends who were murdered, confronts Freddy. She uses the power of the Dream Master to release all the souls Freddy has taken. They subsequently rip themselves from Freddy's body, killing him in the process.The story is really not bad and I really like the dialogue written for each character and the film is just wonderfully shot and edited. The visuals back then in 1988 were really tough to pull off, but it was really cool and amazing for today's world in this day and age.The music is really dark and sinister and the Freddy Krueger theme does play at some point. I love the dark and sinister tone of the film and also comedic at certain points. Freddy Krueger's make-up design is still good as it was in the previous films.The acting is back and fourth at some points. The credit is all given to Robert Englund as Freddy Krueger and he is alright in his fourth portrayal as Freddy Krueger and I really got to see more humor and there is one scene and that is Kristen's nightmare at the beach and he really does kill it with his awesome humor.Since Patricia Arquette could not return due to her being involved in other projects, Tuesday Knight fills in for her as Kristen Parker and she definitely nails her performance and it could have been worse, but it is a damn good performance for this character.Lisa Wilcox plays our new primary protagonist, Alice Johnson and she does a damn good job in playing the role of Alice and it is not Oscar worthy, but it is really good and she was the perfect choice to a new enemy to our antagonist, Freddy Krueger.Danny Hassle plays Alice's boyfriend, Dan Jordan and he is top-notch and just like Lisa Wilcox, he could not have done any better. They have great chemistry on the screen and it definitely shows all the way throughout this entire fourth Nightmare on Elm Street film in the scary film franchise.The rest of the cast is just out there and they make either a huge or very little effort to put on a darn good performance and it is really intense and I really can't blame them because they try they're absolute best but does not deliver when they really need too.The nightmares in this film are just incredible You have Freddy Krueger sucking the life out of one girl, turning her into a cockroach and that was pretty cool. The other nightmare is Kristen's two nightmares at the beginning and middle of the film and those are way too scary, but I love them because they are like this. Another nightmare is Kincaid's nightmare. He is trapped in a salvage yard and he is brutally stabbed in the stomach and it is very dark and serious and really cool.The other nightmares I will keep short Joey's nightmare involves him on a waterbed and is tricked into thinking a supermodel is swimming before Freddy kills him and that was just too cool. Sheila is killed by an intense asthma attack. Rick is in a mixed-martial arts nightmare fight and that was really intense and violent. All of the nightmares are not bad, but they are just very dark and serious in a few areas, but Robert Englund's comedy is really amazing and spectacular.Overall, A Nightmare on Elm Street 4 The Dream Master is just amazing and really scary. It just brings a lot cool stuff into it and the nightmares are really cool and disturbing, but the comedy is in this film a lot more. Alice Johnson's story would continue the next film, which I talk about my hatred feelings, A Nightmare on Elm Street 5 The Dream Child. and this film is really amazing with blending horror and comedy together throughout the whole movie.I give this film a 8 out of 10 stars. Not a bad film, just a little bit scary and disturbing in a few areas. "},{"Title":"Dream Master Dreams Bad.","Date":"9 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" A Nightmare on Elm Street 4 Dream Master (1988) Dir Renny Harlin / Cast Robert Englund, Lisa Wilcox, Danny Hassle, Brooke Theiss, Tuesday Knight A major decline in quality after the innovation of the original. The subtitle seems to reference the idea of taking back control. In this case Lisa Wilcox is witnessing the deaths of everyone around her within her own dreams. The film opens with nightmare scorched skin Freddy Krueger invading the nightmares of the previous film's survivors and knocking them off. After that he goes after a classroom full of students with various methods of killing people. The special effects showcase various gruesome images that are the only area of payoff. Robert Englund is Freddy under the scary makeup but here the character is reduced to one-liners and cheap insults. Characters are cardboard and basically lined up for a slaughter. Wilcox goes from timid teenager isolated from her father to taking the unbelievable fight with Freddy. Tuesday Knight is featured largely in the first half before passing the torch to Wilcox to avoid further association with this crap. Director Renny Harlin doesn't present the chills nearly as successfully as Wes Craven did in the original. Instead it becomes a big joke based around killings and special effects. Perhaps the next time the Dream Master goes to sleep she can render up a screenplay worthy of Freddy. Score 2 / 10 "},{"Title":"The Man of Your Nightmares Is Back.","Date":"3 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This fourth installment of the series is almost like an MTV version of a horror film. The movie is loaded with good music, interesting characters, and the ultimate name in horror--Freddy. Kristin Parker (Tuesday Knight) and her friends Joey (Rodney Eastman) and Kincaid (Ken Sagoes) are back to living normal teenage lives in high school. Living seemingly normal lives, the three teenagers are once again haunted by Freddy Krueger. Freddy tries his best to kill of the last of the Elm Street competition, but he meets his match in Alice (Lisa Wilcox). Alice is a shy high school girl who works in a diner, but she soon transforms into a rough and tough girl who goes after Freddy when he kills off all of her friends. Will good triumph over evil, or will Freddy wipe out the teenage population of Springfield, Ohio? This is definitely worth a watch and is one of the best films of the series. "},{"Title":"The scares take a back seat to the visuals","Date":"26 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" While many say that part 2 was weak, but at least it kept to the creepy and eerie tone of the first one. As we now come to the 4th part in the Freddy saga, this was where things started to go downhill from here. Not to say that this was bad, in fact this did have a lot going for it, and still boasted decent special effects, some effective and inventive death scenes.But this is also where Freddy became a pop culture icon and stopped being scary and became more fun. Also this was an obvious rush attempt after part 3 became so successful and there really should have been more time spent on plot and certain ideas could have been used. Okay it at least carries on the timeline, set just after the last one with the 3 remaining survivors coming back, but they are killed so quickly, that it just seemed pointless and the original Kristen didn't come back, played by Tuesday Knight, who isn't quite up to the job as Patricia Arquette. Also the way Freddy comes back isn't explained at all, we just get a crude dog pissing fire. But there are some elements that work though, again the dream sequences are outlandish and adventurous, sparking some impressive visuals with bright colours, but sadly loses its suspense and creepiness, and also ends up becoming very silly in parts. The viewer should have eased into them, instead of having everything happen all at once.The idea of the Dream Master element is rather interesting, but doesn't make any sense and this is where the series starts to lose its intelligence. One example of this being rushed was the guy fighting the invisible Freddy, which was just honestly very lazy and lacked any creativity whatsoever. But other moment's standout such as the girl turning into a cockroach, which was gross and brilliantly done, and looked very realistic and also the final showdown was a very epic moment and does satisfy on the whole.The cast were okay this time round, but weren't fully fleshed out like in the previous films, it seemed all the focus went on Freddy and the visuals, instead of the new teen cast. Tuesday Knight , like I said wasn't nowhere near as great as Patricia Arquette was, but she did try her best and did put effort into her role and the whole she was okay. It was great seeing Joey and Kincaid again, but they weren't given anything to do, but be killed off in the first 15 minutes, which was sad, but great seeing them again though. Lisa Wilcox as the new heroine Alice was very decent and was one of the only cast members to give a well rounded performance, and she did get better and better as the movie went on. Andras Jones was decent as the brother Rick, but again wasn't as fully formed or as interesting as he should have been, due to the script. Danny Hassal wasn't given much to do and didn't really stand out, just seemed to be there for plot convenience and came off rather bland and forgettable. Brooke Thiess was good as tough girl Debbie, but wasn't given enough screen time. Then of course as always Freddy again steals the show, Robert Englund was truly excellent and charismatic as always.All in all despite the many flaws, this never got boring once, it's still an enjoyable popcorn flick and okay it fails to scare, but at least there's always something to keep you interested, despite the weak script, I would still rank this as a decent overall Nightmare On Elm Street movie, nowhere near as great as 1 and 3, but still better than part 2. "},{"Title":"Not the best, not the worst","Date":"18 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" In Hollywood, when a film does well a sequel is inevitable. Then if that too is a success, you can bet there'll be another. 'A Nightmare on Elm Street 3 Dream Warriors' seemed to nicely wrap things up. However, it ended up doing even better than it's predecessor. The formula was in danger of growing tired. To try and keep things fresh, New Line brought in a hot young director with an interesting vision. Add to that largely new cast of characters and we were graced with this installment. Though a step down from 3, it's actually a nice chapter in the series.Pros Nice job done by the cast. Impressive show by director Renny Harlin. Strong premise. A decent score and some good songs on the soundtrack. Amazing effects. Some spectacular sets. Creative death scenes. Some good gags. Well paced.Cons Thinly plotted. Not the least bit scary. The survivors of 'Dream Warriors' needed more dignified deaths. Freddy's demise looks cool, but the way it's done is kind of lame.Final thoughts Word has it that Wes Craven intended for 3 to be the series finale. But an open ending and successful Box Office earnings changed all that. The makers of 4 had a tough act to follow and all things considered, they did pretty well. By this point, the scares were lacking. The film makes up for that with style, likable characters and some cool ideas that are well executed.My rating 3.5/5 "},{"Title":"Three-Four, should have shut the door!","Date":"3 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" And this is the point where Freddy starts to go downhill, really. They established his character in Part 3, getting rid of the mysterious phantom of nightmares of the first two films and replacing him with the wise-cracking, finding inventive ways to kill you character in all the later sequels where he just ceases to be as interesting.Freddy snuffs the last three surviving characters from Part III (screw you, happy ending!) and then moves onto a new set of victims, after Kristen transfers her dream power to Alice. Freddy then sucks the life out of her asthmatic friend, kills her martial arts brother and turns her bug-phobic weight lifting friend into a giant cockroach before squishing her.Yes, they establish what the character's fear are before Freddy uses those fears to murder the heck out of them.Congrats, Freddy, this is where you became a Cliché... three more movies to go, really, and then you have your inevitable date with Jason. "}{"Title":"Now No One Sleeps!","Date":"27 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Robert Englund, Lisa Wilcox, Tuesday Knight, Rodney Eastman and Ken Sagoes star in this 1988 horror sequel. In this entry, Freddy Krueger (Englund) is resurrected and finishes off the last 3 elm street teens, Joey (Eastman), Kincaid (Sagoes) and Kristen (Now played by Knight) from the previous film. He soon faces Kristen's friend, Alice Johnson (Wilcox) who inherits their powers and Freddy uses her to get to more teens. Alice then battles Freddy to release his tortured souls that give him energy. This is a pretty good sequel that's been called the MTV nightmare. It has imaginative sequences, good make-up effects, Englund is great as Freddy as usual and also makes a funny appearance as a nurse. I recommend this. "},{"Title":"Decent follow up continues the fun legendary slasher series","Date":"9 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Many people will tell you the original film was the only good one and then they went off the track but I think Nightmare On Elm Street/Freddy Kreuger films did okay for the following instalments. Their only stumble was #2 in my books. Number three was a worthy fun sequel and this one...#4 picked up after #3 and brought back some of the good new characters. Yes they went sort of campy with the psychic abilities like many of the slasher flicks do in later instalments but its still fun to watch and not a bad sequel if you like the characters.This time headlining the cast as the 'scream queen' is Lisa Wilcox as quiet and withdrawn Alice Johnson. She's not fantastic but she does a good job and you do root for her. Her brother Rick is played by Andras Jones and he does a good job too and the two of them together have good chemistry. Rodney Eastman and Ken Sagoes return from #3 as Joey and Roland and its always good to have former good guys return to fight the bad guy. It rounded out their story nicely and they are good heroes. Tuesday Knight takes over from Patricia Arquette as Kristen Parker who has overcome many of her issues from the third film and Knight is actually really great in the role!! And of course the legendary Robert Englund brings Freddy back to life and as always he is the lifeblood of the film. Even if he became less scary and more sarcastic he's still amazingly fun to watch and a legendary screen killer.One of his very first films Renny Harlin tells a good story as director and handles his cast well. The setting is good, the story is solid and Nightmare On Elm Street always goes out on a limb to be very imaginative and they manage to push the boundaries because the series is all about dreams and that expands the boundaries a great deal. If you've seen one part of the series you might as well see them all and just go in knowing what to expect and you'll have fun with it. 7/10 "},{"Title":"A Nightmare on Elm Street 4","Date":"13 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I think that the 4th sequel of the NOES franchise was a good one. Robert Englund was once again fantastic as Freddy Kruegar the sick twisted deceased serial killer who is out to kill the last of them elm street children.The teenage cast were quite good as well and so where the death scenes they were comical and strange, plus the plot was OK just the same old one though Freddys back to kill the elm street children (which he successfully does)and stalks Alice to bring her more children because Kirsty gave her the dream powers in her final nightmare.This film is not as good as 3 but it is a decent sequel you see some decent actors, strange death scenes and a decent plot that stays together.Overall I rated this film a 7/10 because it is a decent sequel and the fact that they are using more humour to draw in the audience. "},{"Title":"How Sweet, Fresh Meat!","Date":"21 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Belated Day 15 Of My 31 Days Of Horror.Director Renny Harlin Gives us the 4th movie in the Freddy series with A Nightmare On Elm Street 4 The Dream Master. The film is about Kristen now played by Tuesday Knight who transfers her powers into Alice played by Lisa Wilcox who is know being followed by Freddy Kruger played by Robert Englund . The film has some cool dream sequences nice special effects and of course Robert Englund is great as Freddy Krueger. Although the story is getting recycled and tiring although I still Recommend it.Rated R For Stong Bloody Horror Violence And Gore, And Language.1hr 39min/99min.3 uses of the F-word.***/**** "},{"Title":"Now Freddy has someone else to fear, Alice the master!","Date":"13 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Alice versus Freddy, what a great thing next to the fact that Nancy was the first one of the series to defeat him. I do like Alice she is a lot like me in high school(shy, pretty, and being an ultimate dream master) but Freddy also has an eye on her due to the fact that she is accidentally giving Freddy her friends through her dreams. And that Freddy is getting stronger by the minute. My favorite scenes are the death of Debbie(cockroach nightmare), the classroom scene(geek girl death), and the ending when Alice defeats Freddy using the powers(strengths of the Elm Street kids) against Freddy the one with the souls. But for a moment it did seem like Freddy had the upper hand until Alice kicked his butt. I can't wait to see the next film! "},{"Title":"Not Quite Enough For Me","Date":"12 September 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" A Nightmare On Elm Street 4 The Dream Master I liked just about as much as its predecessor. Yet again, the greatest degenerating factor here is the character development. Or, of course, the lack there of. Actually, the characters here were a little more interesting than the ones in the past two Elm Street movies. Well, one was. I really liked the character of Rick. I truly did. I thought he had a little bit of depth to him and I could really make a connection to this guy. Was he a fantastic character? Not really... but he was still a lot more interesting than a lot of characters I have seen in these movies. Of course, a part of that might even be credit to the actor. He was the one decent actor on screen, besides Englund.For, you see, the acting in Dream Master was deplorable. It wasn't just bad; it was embarrassingly bad. Lisa Wilcox played Alice Johnson, the Final Girl of the last film as well. Except now she is played by an actress who cannot act save her life. It's a shame. She has a very pretty face, but not an acting ability to match. She was over-dramatic part of the time and under dramatic the rest of the time. I could not get a rhythm or sense of truth in her acting at all. It was extremely difficult, for that reason, for me to care for that character. But Wilcox wasn't the only one. Danny Hassle, who played Wilcox's love interest, was equally bad, and I don't think Brooke Theiss (Debbie) was trying at all. I mean, these were really some bad, bad, bad, bad acting. And the dialogue itself was not a whole lot better. Once again, as in the last film, the film decides, inexplicably, to barrage its audience with puns thrown out by Freddy. I always gave Freddy more respect than that, but evidently I gave him too much respect. His character has reached the same level as Mr. Freeze from Batman And Robin.***Warning Here There Be Spoilers*** And, once again, I am left with a stupid Elm Street movie ending. In the end of the movie, Kristen hears some children sing a song of how to kill Freddy by showing him his own reflection. Who were those children? How come they knew how to kill Krueger but had never done so themselves? Where did they get this information? How come Krueger completely ignores their presence? And if the argument is that they are victims of Freddy, riddle me this how can they be his victims if all of his victims are located inside his skin? Speaking of which, why was Freddy's reflection what set off the victim's rage that ripped him apart? What kind of magic or voodoo did that set off? And is it just me, or does Freddy keep falling to some pretty lame deaths? Like being killed by the power of love in Elm Street 2 or just having his bones get buried in Elm Street 3. ***But, all of that aside, there were a few really nice things about this film. What struck me the most were three aspects of the movie. First of all, the direction was pretty good. It wasn't great, but it wasn't bad at all. Renny Harlin took over from Chuck Russell (the last film's director), and I was very pleased with his style. I would even say that in many instances, I was a little impressed. He moves his camera very well, knows how to set up the scenes, and does a decent job with the dream sequences.The dream sequences were, by the way, the second really good aspect of this movie. These dream sequences were whole-heartedly creative and I have to admit I was pretty struck by the visuals at times. In fact, I enjoyed the dream sequences so much, I'd say they rival the ones that appeared in the first movie. The only downside is that while in the first movie Craven put in a lot of effort to blend the dreams with reality, this film makes it pretty obvious what is a dream and what is reality. Still, they aren't bad at all.And the third great part of this movie was, of course, Robert Englund. I don't think I talk about him enough for these films, but Englund does have a great on screen presence, even if his character isn't always written the best. I could tell Englund was having a lot of fun with his role, even more so than in the last two films. So, that effort was appreciated.Still... Those contributing factors was not quite enough for me to call this film a worthwhile experience. The acting was too god-awful, the dialogue was too stupid, and the audience still didn't get enough time to become acquainted with these characters. But, this was not an awful movie, and I would say that if the next film was any better at all, I'd give it a thumbs up in a heartbeat.5/10 "},{"Title":"People don't know what they're talking about","Date":"6 April 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The following thing I say is nothing but one big spoiler, so don't read it if you hate spoilers. Again, the following thing I say is nothing but one big spoiler, so don't read it if you hate spoilers. Freddy DID NOT die by 'seeing his own reflection' in the mirror. At the very end, the last lines ever said in the movie are (after tossing the quarter in the water) Dan So, what did you wish for? Alice If I tell you, it won't come true. It's quite obvious that by the end of the film, Alice is now aware of the fact that she can use her mind over matter. If, in a dream, you can somehow make up your own rules or be able to take away things that have already happened (like how Nancy 'defeated' Freddy in the original), then when would it be your opportunity to use these 'dream powers' perfectly and kill off Freddy before he kills you? The mirror itself reminded Alice of the Dream Master poem, and she was able to have it in her mind and actually Believe that if evil sees itself, it will die. By taking away the fear, he is nothing. If you watch the ending of part 1 and then the ending to part 4, you will see the connection. Nancy AND Alice both beat Freddy with their mind powers, not by a kiss like part 2 or being buried with holy water like part 3. I agree that the movie has a lot of plot-holes, but I would like to clear this one up here and now because it seems to bring this installment down a lot. "},{"Title":"Canine urine reanimates Freddy?  Really?!?","Date":"23 September 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Surprisingly good fourth instalments of the Uber-slasher franchise that makes me think, if this level of quality keeps up, that the Elm Street series could well be on the verge of becoming my favourite of the Big Three slasher movies out there. The plot Three of the survivors from part 3 are still at high school and one, Kirsten, is convinced that Freddy is not dead. She's a smart girl. Well, soon enough, Freddy is resurrected when, in a dream, a dog urinates fire onto his unconsecrated grave (I'm not making this up) and duly dispatches the three of them, but not before Kirsten can pass on her ability to pull people into dreams to her friend Alice, a fine looking young filly, enabling her to seek assistance when Freddy comes a-stalking. Whilst there is nothing new on offer here, still this ticks all the right boxes and has some moments of genuine gore thanks mainly, I imagine, to the presence of Screaming Mad George, he who came to infamy through his effects work on the magnificent Society. Marks dropped here are mainly down to the limp ending, in which Alice tries to beat Freddy up. Never going to work, love. Never going to work..... That aside, this is a fine example of eighties American multiplex pleasing horror. "},{"Title":"Yet another great sequel","Date":"14 September 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I watched Nightmare 4 right after 3, which turned out to be a good choice. Several characters from 3 return and I always like it when series have some sort of continuity.Kirsten, the last of the Elm street children is all that stands between Freddy and his evil plans. It's up to her (again) to stop Freddy. However, Kirsten cannot finish her mission and passes the baton to someone else Alice. This turn of unexpected events is what makes this film so good.At first you think you are watching yet another Nightmare film, but there are a few strange twists in the movie that add more depth and character to the series as a whole.Very nice (and with that I mean creative and nasty) deaths in this movie too. Specially cringed at the cockroach death...Go watch this one if you liked the first 3. You won't be disappointed! 7 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"Scary? Not so much. Entertaining? You bet!","Date":"15 October 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Once the Nightmare on Elm Street series gained some footing with 1987's The Dream Warriors, the sequels started coming faster and the plot started to get a little more consistent. Although such success would quickly evade the franchise again, the follow-up film, A Nightmare on Elm Street 4 The Dream Master, was a worthy, entertaining and consistent follow-up to such a successful film. With the three remaining survivors of the third flick returning (Patricia Arquette is replaced by a blatantly different Tuesday Knight) and a new batch of likable (a rarity in the 80's) characters introduced simultaneously, we are given a story that finally feels like it is going somewhere. Having dispatched of the children on Elm Street, Freddy has set his sights on the rest of Springwood but gets more than he bargained for when he crosses paths with a shy, yet, resilient waitress by the name of Alice. Like the characters in Dream Warriors, Alice finds her true strength in the dream world and becomes a formidable obstacle for Krueger. Unfortunately for the other children of Elm Street, Freddy is getting stronger and is getting better at exploiting their weaknesses, resulting is some rather gruesome scenarios.Truth be told, the fourth installment in the series is a real crowd pleaser. Not only does it sport some of the most outrageous and inventive death scenes of the series, but it is also the most stylized and visually appealing &#150; still to this day &#150; thanks to director Renny Harlin. However, seeing Freddy step foot on a beach, sporting shades is a bit much. Unfortunately for an otherwise solid installment in the series, The Dream Master is hampered by a gradual insistence on making Freddy the main attraction, the anti-hero. It worked to an extent in the previous film, but it verges on overkill here. There are moments where Freddy resembles the devil himself, but others, where he comes across as a ridiculous prankster, a trendy catchphrase of an era. Thankfully, the rest of the film is up-to-par, so one flaw isn't fatal. The story &#150; at least for a mid-80's horror film &#150; is there, and all the right pieces are in place for a good time. If you come for the out-of-this-world dream sequences, stay for the characters, because like it's predecessor, The Dream Master gives us a cast to care about, characters who will carry on into the next film, all as part of what can be called The Dream Trilogy, the three films in the series with true continuity. While it may not be the most thought-provoking or profound film in the series, it's definitely among the most satisfying and entertaining. From giant cockroaches to dogs who urinate fire, this is one film you're not soon to forget. "}{"Title":"'Terror Beyond Your Wildest Dreams' !!!","Date":"1 September 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I thought Freddy's 4th was pretty good. Sometime after part 3, Kristen, Joey, and Kincaid realize Freddy is coming back! After Joey and Kincaid die, Kristen tells Alice about Freddy. Kristen dies and Alice is given a power because she is the dream master and could kill Freddy! There are some cool scenes like when Freddy is on the beach. One disgusting part is when Debbie is working out, and Freddy turns her arms into giant cockroach arms. Another cool/disgusting part is when Freddy is about to eat a meatball off a pizza, and the heads on the meatballs look like Alice's friends that keep dying. If you love the Freddy movies, you'll love A NIGHTMARE ON ELM STREET 4 THE DREAM MASTER!!! "},{"Title":"...and the series came falling down","Date":"19 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This movie marks the beginning of the decline of the Nightmare on Elm Street series. I can't explain it...but this movie bored me a little. It had Freddy, Joey, and Kincaid and some pretty interesting new characters...but still failed a little. Kristen is played by Tuesday Knight here, that could be one reason it just didn't feel the same. Another reason could be that this movie returns to the format of the first movie, kids being killed off throughout the neighborhood and town...etc. Nothing more really. Some characters were OK, others I just wished would die and get off the screen. Still, this wasn't the worst of the series. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Little Englund","Date":"17 December 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Some films just don't have a prayer. Ranking somewhere below Chris Farley comedies, Stephen king adaptations and the work of Catherine Breillat in the seven circles of critical hell, third sequels in interminable slasher movie series are, bar pornography, pretty much the lowest of the low. 'Friday the 13th - The Final Chapter'? Yeesh.And yet, down in the dark, wailing and gnashing its teeth, lies a film waiting a rescue that will probably never come. Imaginative, unpredictable and just a little insane, 'A Nightmare on Elm Street 4 - The Dream Master' is a near pop-classic. No, really - come back, I'm not crazy! Watch without prejudice and you might, just, see that I'm right.Don't approach this film expecting to be scared. That isn't the point. Frankly, none of its predecessors were particularly frightening, and 'Dream master' throws aside all pretence at mere scariness. By the late eighties, the last thing the world needed was another boring stalk and slash picture milking familiar gory set-pieces. If that's your bag, run along to Jason Voorhees territory, and you're welcome to each other. Instead, 'Dream master' taps into the inherent empowerment narrative of the slasher film and amps it up several notches, filters it through an eighties dreamscape and rams it down the cult of Freddy's throat.There's a genuine and curious sense of heritage running through the 'Elm Street' films, with each Final Girl passing on the baton to her successor - Nancy training Kristen to combat Freddy in the third film, then Kristen passing on her powers to Alice upon her death here. Whilst the deaths of the original final girls of the 'Halloween' and 'Friday the 13th' films feel like a victory for - perhaps even a vindication of - their antagonists, this is never the case in the 'Elm Street' films. Freddy, for all his indestructibility, is continually bested by a lineage of resourceful young women who share their knowledge and skills with one another. If he can never, finally, be defeated, neither can they ('Buffy the Vampire Slayer' owes this film a lot).'Dream Master' recognises this and builds upon it, constructing Alice as an archetypal Final Girl, the equal and opposite of Freddy's evil. The film's master-stroke is her inheritance, upon their deaths, of her friends' abilities - Kristen's knowledge and resourcefulness, Sheila's intelligence, Rick's fighting skills, Debbie's strength and will power. With every killing, Freddy diminishes himself and strengthens his opponent.The wilfully absurdist dream-murders aren't the vapid technical indulgences that more respectable commentators may have led you to believe, but imaginative commentaries on the characters carried off with style and energy rather than technical perfection. As soon as Debbie shows her fear of bugs you think you know how she'll die (covered in cockroaches!) - but the movie is one step ahead, constructing a wickedly funny Kafka homage that is the perfect nightmare for a body-conscious health freak. Even crueller is Kristen's death, ending up in Freddy's boiler thanks to some typically appalling Elm Street parenting (a neat swipe at parents who medicate their children rather than dealing with their problems). The film, like its immediate predecessor, is unusually careful to give some shading to its characters - they may not be fully rounded, but they are oddly convincing as a friendship group, actually remembering to be upset by each other's deaths (another unusual feature of the 'Elm Street' series) and with difficult families that actually ring true by not being overplayed. It all helps balance out Englund's showboating. I've never understood the legions of fans who seem comfortable cheering on a child-molesting serial-killer - really, what's the appeal? His jokes aren't even funny. Wes Craven understood that it was all about the Final Girl, a figure who could survive the mean-spirited ending of the original film, pass on her knowledge, and finally, in this film, blossom into something much bigger than Freddy - a little man who is, after all, just a bad dream. "},{"Title":"not a bad movie","Date":"26 October 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The fourth film of the Freddy krueger series start with Kirsten having nightmare and getting kincaid and Joey into her dreams. It's been a year since Freddy get killed and she had a boyfriend called rick which had a sister called Alice. Everyone his happy well except for Kirsten that know that something strange is happening Fred Krueger came back to kill everyone....againSpoilersRennie Harlin is the director not a a good director and this movie we can say is his masterpiece. It's almost like an Mtv video (there's a scene when one of the character is watching Mtv). The main problem is that the script is only focus on the fx that are really good but forget about the story and doesn't developed very well. We had good character i mean i didn't care too much about the dream warriors but the rest are ver cool character. Well a couple only Rick Alice and Debbie are good character and good actors. The girl who play Sheila i don't like her and i don't wanna start with Dan which his character nothing to do. The music is fine and the most important part here is how Freddy became a clown well there's still a couple of freaky moments just like when he is a nurse but the rest didn't care. The last 15 minutes are quiet bad and look very ridiculous I understand the people that say that with this new movie start to downhill the series but is a funny movie and better that the others "},{"Title":"The mind, the soul, the spirit","Date":"14 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This film brings little semantically. It is the direct sequel of the previous episode, with the same surviving characters who lead to a few new ones. The pattern is the same  Freddy kills a few teenagers and is finally stopped by one of them, a girl again. Yet this film is original in two ways. First its director is extremely experienced in that kind of frightening films. He is an expert in stringing together, one after another frightening elements and effects, and when fear is not used then it is grossness and we move to some level of disgust. Yet we are never terrorized, just horrified and disgusted. Why is that ? Because the audience targeted by the film bans the idea of terrorizing them. The film director doesn't want the film to be restricted. So the film is very careful not to show any unnecessary or just alluring flesh or skin. We are targeting teenagers, so please no sex. Yet in that line of extreme ability at interweaving frightening elements one into the other, the director reflects his time with a few elements that may be surprising for a 1988 film. The characters definitely smoke too much and quite very conspicuously, and yet this gesture of lighting a cigarette is systematically associated with a bad turn in the action. In 1988 we were starting to take measures against tobacco. This film is reflecting this anti-smoking discourse directed at teenagers. This element along with the sexless vision of these young people shows how the American society had changed within ten years and had become very puritanical, though it was going to go a lot further later on. This change, of course brought up by the director, is totally in phase with the second element I want to note here as a new development in the saga. It is the religious dimension of the film. The end takes place in a church. Freddy is destroyed by his own reflection in a piece of color stained glass from a broken color-stained window in that church. Freddy is destroyed by his own reflection and by the rebellion of the souls he had captured and he was holding prisoners in his own body. They tear him apart and finally rip his jaw off and so open the evading door they need to escape. And they do and go directly into heaven. This religious theme is in many ways surprising, and yet not so much. The American society in this 1988 period is slowly moving towards some kind of self-resourcing in Christianity. The Christians born again were starting to call in the wings, and even to walk in the streets. That was the end of Reagan's presidency and the beginning of George Bush Sr's four years. The theme of religious purity was obviously growing, to the point of using a horror film as the medium to bring the message to teenagers. We then understand why they avoided any theme, element or detail that could have restricted the audience in the name of the protection against sex or even violence that is curbed to a symbolical minimum in this episode.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University of Paris Dauphine & University of Paris 1 Pantheon Sorbonne "},{"Title":"Freddy back for more.........","Date":"17 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Nightmare on Elm Street 4 was one i was looking forward to because of Brian Helgeland's writing and Renny Harlins directing and guess what i wasn't too disappointed.Kristen, Joey and Kincaid from NOES3 return in this film, they seem to be getting back to normal now that Freddy is finally gone and out of there lives but Kristen feels that Freddy looms right round the corner. Joey and Kincaid on the other hand don;t believe her but they are soon about to. Kincaid has a dream where his dog comes with him and digs up Freddy's bones from the junkyard and after that Freddy return to reap the nightmares of the teens on Elm street once again. We also meet a new character called Alice who day dreams and once Freddy returns to the nightmares she begins to help him kill the others, the problem is she doesn't know until its too late and only she can stop him from taking any more lives.The film is certainly the sequel to number three by brining back the characters of Joey and Kincaid as well as Kristen (played by Tuesday Knight) and this was a very nice touch even if the characters only make the first thirty mins or less of the film, never the less i liked the return of the characters all of whom were played brilliantly by the actors portraying them.Alice played by new comer Lisa Wilcox plays a typical shy teenager who somehow finds herself being drawn into the nightmares of everyone and quickly becomes the films protagonist. I liked her performance and liked what she did to the character but i couldn't help feel that there was something misfitting about her character, but never the less a good performance by the newcomer.Of course it wouldn't be right to comment on the brilliant Robert Englund who again up the tempo with his performance as Freddy. You can be assured that every time he graces the screen he will deliver and you can be constantly assured of this. This film was what i believe the first film in the franchise to really give Freddy the one liners such as Hows this for a wet dream which you can't help but laugh at and its just pure brilliance from Englund.The story i feel is one of the stronger of the films, certainly up there with NOES 1 and NOES 3 and the writing does feel that thought went in to it rather than a rushed bit of writing and a lot should be credited to Brian Helgeland and the other writing partners on the film who have done a good job in doing something a little different which makes for all the more fun.Renny Harlin our director on this Nightmare certainly adds a music video quality that definitely wasn't there in the previous installments and gives the teen horror feel that the other three installments didn't have either. His direction is good and gives a new and fresh approach to the franchise with his interesting camera choreography and the way the scenes look and feel. This is one of Mr. Halins better efforts! There are of course downsides to the film in that sometimes it's a little confusing as to what is going on and often you feel the director has jumped ten steps in front of you and while trying to play catch up you loose sense of the plot. Some characters feel pointless and i think should never have been put in at all. The films is also full of music from the eighties, rock music that was putting the film because it would grace the films soundtrack and after the fourth time of listening to yet another song its becomes tedious and annoying, even some of the bad horror films do not go out of there way to promote music like this film does.Overall i was impressed with this entry of the series and is in the top three of the series as it delivers a solid story with interesting characters and a new fresh approach to a tiring Freddy franchise.Over all ****** out of ********** "},{"Title":"Horror - as far as actors go","Date":"29 November 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" OK, so Freddy is back, never mind how, that's rarely the point in these kind of flicks. Back too is Kirsten, the girl with Freddy in her dreams. Sadly though, amazing Patricia Arquette from the previous movie has been replaced by horribly bad actress Tuesday Knight. The plot is simple enough Freddy returns to kill all the teenagers he can get his hands on, including the three remaining kids of No 3. When Kirsten dies her ability to draw other people into her dreams pass on to another girl, who of course gets all her friends killed and, naturally, kills Freddy in the end. Nevertheless, this film is the commercially most successful film in the Nightmare series, so you'd think there'd be at least some dots of light. And there are. The directing is very nice from a strictly technical point of view. Director Renny Harlin is a master camera operator and knows his special effects. There are some fairly original killings in this one, such as being trapped in your water bed and being turned into a cockroach. For the 80ies standard, the FX are well executed and some of the scenes are very pleasing to the eye. Robert Englund as Freddy is, as always, brilliant. This time he gets the opportunity to be really sadistic and humorous. Sadly, this is where the positive adjectives stop. I frankly didn't have the power to watch the movie to the end. It was simply too boring. The actors are all disastrously bad. There is not a single glimpse of light among the cast, and this is the true horror of the film. The characters are pointless and flat, which doesn't help. The plot is obvious and has very little to offer in the way of suspense and the film is in no way scary. It just isn't enough to have a creepy villain who kills people, no matter how good he is (I don't care how many teens he kills, Freddy does save this film). There has to be more to a thriller/scary movie than that. First and foremost, it needs a main character to whom you can relate. You don't kill the star (well...) of the film halfway through and replace her with another character unless you can be 100 % sure that the film holds up to an anticlimax like this.NOES have never been the cream of the crop movie-wise, and this sequel (although a success) does not help. 3 out of 10, not a disaster, but incredibly dreary.- Respect the Humpp! "},{"Title":"not that bad, if you don't expect a masterpiece","Date":"6 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The fourth instalement in the Nightmare Series is easy to look at even if it doesn't make any sense. Actingwise one shouldn't expect something special either but at least it's tolerable most of the way something that cannot be said about part 5. One can enjoy this movie on a pure visual level as director Harlin and his cinematographer are pretty inventive with the camera angles. Of course it's not as good as cravens original but thats hardly a surprise. Compared to the other nightmare movies the level of gore is pretty low which is either pleasing or disappointing depending on ones point of view. Englund enjoys himself in the part and his make up looks convincing enough and the special effects are quite good considering that this is already the third sequel . The movie shows basically one dream sequence after another so it goes without saying that there is no time for character development or plot structure. I always think of the nightmare series as fantasy movies instead of horror movies because everything Krueger does is so over the top that it can hardly be taken seriously. All in all this movie is never boring but hardly a work of art. "},{"Title":"master of puppets","Date":"3 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The Dream Master is basically a continuation of the Dream Warriors. We continue with Kristin and the survivor members of Dream Warriors. Everyone is under the belief Freddy is officially gone, but of course they couldn't be more wrong. The idea of this storyline is for Freddy to finally take out the three remaining children of Elm Street. He didn't plan on running into the Dream Master who was a new teen into the mix. Every time Freddy killed one of her friends, they some how became part of her and she became that more powerful to fight Freddy. We see even more of the great visual affects we grow to love with Elm Street series.Sweet Dreams! "},{"Title":"My favorite Nightmare On Elm Street sequel","Date":"13 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I love this movie. In my opinion, it was the best sequel. Of course, all the other sequels were awful (excluding Part 3 and 7), so it doesn't take a masterpiece to outclass them. So, yeah, it's nothing great but it's better than the rest.This movie contains one of the most disturbing scenes I have ever seen in a horror movie. The cockroach scene. I kept dreaming about it for a long time after watching it. I've seen a lot of disgusting, gory things in movies, but this was worse, somehow. Maybe because of Debbie's screams.Well, of the deaths were cool here. Rick's, Debbie's, Sheila's... The only thing I hated was the Kristen was replaced. I think Tuesday Knight did a great job, but I preferred Kristen way better when Patricia Arquette was playing the character Anyway, watch this movie. If you loved the 1st and 3rd, I guarantee you'll love this one "}{"Title":"Enter Alice","Date":"9 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Following up part 3 was a tough job and so they decided to make NOES 4 a little different than the others style wise. It's a lot brighter than the other movies and the series continues to get more supernatural a we get along. The leftover cast from NOES 3 are back, with Kristen as the main player in the beginning. Seems she can't stop pulling her friends into her dreams, and they are more than a little sick of it. She warns them that Freddy's back, but they won't listen so the inevitable happens to them. The rule in these movies are that you may think you've defeated Freddy once, but he'll always get you in the end (except if your name is Alice). Luckily for Kristen she has more friends, and one very special one is Alice. She fits the character mold since her mom died years ago, and her father is drinking his life away and treats her and her brother like sh**. She's a big day-dreamer and a pretty quiet girl. The brother is Kristen's boyfriend and mostly a cheerful guy, who just happens to have watched The Karate Kid way too many times. But after he and Kristen get killed, Alice starts to come into her own which is nicely symbolized by her mirror, that at first is covered with pictures because she can't stand looking at herself but when people get killed she pulls their picture off the mirror so she can see more and more of herself. It all leads up to the big showdown, that does fall rather flat compared to the others but fits the movie pretty good, since it's the least brutal of the series. "},{"Title":"Enter Alice","Date":"9 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Following up part 3 was a tough job and so they decided to make NOES 4 a little different than the others style wise. It's a lot brighter than the other movies and the series continues to get more supernatural a we get along. The leftover cast from NOES 3 are back, with Kristen as the main player in the beginning. Seems she can't stop pulling her friends into her dreams, and they are more than a little sick of it. She warns them that Freddy's back, but they won't listen so the inevitable happens to them. The rule in these movies are that you may think you've defeated Freddy once, but he'll always get you in the end (except if your name is Alice). Luckily for Kristen she has more friends, and one very special one is Alice. She fits the character mold since her mom died years ago, and her father is drinking his life away and treats her and her brother like sh**. She's a big day-dreamer and a pretty quiet girl. The brother is Kristen's boyfriend and mostly a cheerful guy, who just happens to have watched The Karate Kid way too many times. But after he and Kristen get killed, Alice starts to come into her own which is nicely symbolized by her mirror, that at first is covered with pictures because she can't stand looking at herself but when people get killed she pulls their picture off the mirror so she can see more and more of herself. It all leads up to the big showdown, that does fall rather flat compared to the others but fits the movie pretty good, since it's the least brutal of the series. "},{"Title":"The turn-point","Date":"2 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This surreal entry, along with part 3, counts as one of the better sequels in both Elm street and the whole splatter universe. The task was both easy and hard with not much effort this was sure to bring the bucks back, because in 1987 splatters (especially NOES, ESPECIALLY after the good previous sequel) still were hot but to follow the saga worthy of part 3... well, that's another trick. Looking at this one now, almost 20 years later, and having seen the direction of the series AND a whole lot of other splatters from that time it's easy to point out the good & bad.Good Director Harlin. Not scary, but imaginative. Something fresh. No lulls. Good Writer. Even though the plot lacks punch (Harlin cleverly gets past this) and the climax is just pulled out of the sleeve you won't get bored. Good drive. In part 3 we had Frank Darabont and Chuck Russell, here we got Brian Helgeland + Ken & Jim Wheat - and Renny Harlin! Considering the genre, what are the odds?In-between Humour. F13 switched to humor with part 6, too, so... guess this was an inevitable attempt to keep the genre alive. Still, who didn't crack when Freddy put on the Wayfarers on the beach DBad Talentless cast. No careers after this, which is to no-ones wonder. Apart from Lisa Wilkox, she had some of that something. Bad hurried and somewhat forced effort. Easy to see.3 out of 5. Good enough for me "},{"Title":"Fun filled sequel with a great cast of characters","Date":"8 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" While other Horror film franchises often let continuity slip through the cracks, the Nightmare on Elm Street films are terrific for their treatment of continuity and history of the previous films. Part 4, The Dream Master is no exception. This film begins sometime after part 3, with the three survivors and a new group of kids, joining together as Freddy Kruger (once again played by the outstanding Robert Englund) returns to terrorise them.Ken Sagoes and Rodney Eastman reprise their roles of Kincaid and Joey respectfully, while Tuesday Knight takes over the role of Kristen (left vacant by Patricia Arquette). Whereas other horror films just leave the survivors alone, this film follows them as Freddy returns to finish his work, but it also introduces us to a new group of heroes, including Alice (Lisa Wilcox), her brother Rick (Andras Jones), Debbie (Brooke Theiss), Shelia (Toy Newkirk) and Dan (played by the handsome Danny Hassle - who would have to be the hottest male star in all of the Nightmare on Elm Street films).Freddy finds interesting ways to kill off the kids, all of whom have a wide array of personalities and interact with each other well. Nicholas Mele takes up the role of bumbling authority figure as Alice and Rick's drunken father, while the fabulous Brooke Bundy returns as Kristen's over protective mother. Like part 3, which stared two lead heroines, part 4 has both Kristen and Alice as lead heroines, though one of them does not survive. Tuesday Knight really makes the character of Kristen her own, and also sings the terrific opening theme song.While many people thought part 4 was the first of the downward spiral in terms of quality for the franchise, part 4 is a great film with a wonderful and likable cast of characters - you may find yourself actually caring when they die - and some cool special effects. It is however the first film in which Freddy becomes more of a talker and less of a eerily frightening presence. Enjoy! "},{"Title":"Decent","Date":"24 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" A Nightmare On Elm Street Part 4 Dream Warriors begins with Kristen, Kincade, and Joey from Nightmare 3. They are all alive and well and doing fine. They have moved on, and are now living normal lives. (Dating, going to school, etc) But when Freddy Kruger is resurrected, he beings haunting not only THEIR dreams, but the dreams of their friends as well.Nightmare 4 was when the series started to lose it's touch. It isn't a bad movie, but it contains flaws, which ended up leaking into the sequels as well. The first flaw is bad casting. Some of the acting is so bad in this film that it is laughable. Another big flaw is the cheesiness of this movie. Nightmare 3 contained a lot of funny, silly scenes. Nightmare 4 tried to be funny and silly at times as well, but for the most part those scenes just ended up being lame and annoying.However, the movie does have it's good points as well. The scenes that are strait-horror are very scary, (some of them anyway) the lighting is great and spooky just like in all of the previous sequels, there is some great F/X work, and, as usual, Englund does a great job at playing the man, Freddy Kruger.Just like all of the Freddy flicks, this is a very fun movie that the majority of slasher fans will enjoy. "},{"Title":"My personal favorite Nightmare on Elm Street movie","Date":"3 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The 4th installment of the Nightmare movies is arguably the most fun of all of them. Sure, it's not so scary, but it showcases Freddy Krueger's strongest dream powers.The film takes off where the last movie left off, and this time the cute singer/actress Tuesday Knight plays as the character of Kristen (instead of Patricia Arquette, who turned down the Kristen role that she played in the 3rd movie). After her character gets killed by Freddy Krueger(Robert Englund), the film focuses on Alice (played by the beautiful Lisa Wilcox) after she acquires Kirsten's dream power. As many of her friends die, Alice gets all their unique dream powers and uses them to fight off Freddy.Lisa Wilcox was really good in this movie. She had a beautiful face and orange-red hair, and acted good. And alongside Freddy Krueger, her character proved to be Freddy's greatest nemesis.Alice's dream powers, however, couldn't quite match Freddy Krueger's superior powers. Freddy's powers made him nearly invincible in the face of his enemies, and also added some little humor to the ways his victims were killed (such as eating a guy's meatball-shaped head from a pizza, laughing while being punched in the face, and even sending Alice going in circles when she tries to stop him!). There are very creative deaths in this movie, which is a real treat for horror fans.The only bad part about the movie is that there is not as much blood & gore as the rest of the Nightmare movies. There would have been much more frightening scenes if there was more blood. Perhaps the filmmakers decided that the main part of the movie was to show how powerful Freddy really is. I enjoyed the movie as it is anyway, despite it having little blood & gore.To sum up, I loved this movie. It really had imaginative ideas and great-looking actors & actresses. I especially loved Lisa Wilcox and Tuesday Knight in this movie. And as always, Robert Englund was great in his role as Freddy Krueger. (As a side note, this was the most successful Nightmare on Elm Street movie, since it earned the most money at the box-office) I give this movie a 9/10.P.S Look out for Hope Marie Carlton (a Playboy Playmate) in a cameo role! "},{"Title":"Very Good Entry","Date":"8 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Several years have passed since Kristen Parker last faced Freddy Krueger. Now she's a high schooler with a terrible premonition; her dreams about the abandoned house on Elm Street are a warning Freddy is coming back. When her friends Joey and Kincaid are killed, Kristen is sure she's the last Elm Street victim. But when Freddy comes for her, Kristen has just enough time before she dies to pass her ability to pull people into her dreams onto her best friend Alice. Alice quickly becomes the unwilling tool of Freddy, as he uses her to get to her friends and kill them, even her own brother. But as her friends die, Alice finds she is absorbing their strengths, even as Freddy is absorbing their souls. Alice determines to use the powers she has inherited to battle Freddy and release the souls of her friends once and for all. But though Alice has become the Dream Master, Freddy is still the Nightmare King and he's not giving up without a fight.I really liked this fourth sequel, particularly because Alice as played by Lisa Wilcox is such a likable character. She's sweet, innocent and even a little dumpy, verbally abused by her father and left with virtually no self esteem whatsoever. As the film progresses, she slowly transforms into a confident and cool young woman, proving herself a worthy adversary for Freddy. I suspected Freddy of having a thing for Alice, quite frankly; she compliments him perfectly. It's really no wonder he followed her into the fifth film and got a little more lecherous along the way. Robert Englund too is really inhabiting Freddy by this point, giving him more depth and a more well defined streak of twisted nastiness. The scene in which he literally sucks a girl to death with an eager kiss makes for very uncomfortable viewing, and the roach motel sequence is just really icky. The storyline is strong, the special effects are great and the acting, for the most part, is very good. It even has a cool soundtrack which dated better than most movie soundtracks do. This and the third film are the best in the series, after the original of course. "},{"Title":"Low on originality, but high on creative deaths","Date":"8 November 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I have always been a fan of the Nightmare series of films, and having been sorely disappointed by the lack of gore and silly stories of the previous two sequels, was desperately ready for some good-old fashioned Freddy mayhem. And while they didn't really deliver on the story part, I was greatly impressed by the death scenes--particularly the cockroach crush involving one of the female characters. I love the way Freddy plays on the weaknesses and hobbies of the teens (the asthma suck the life out of you scene, and the Karate-glove sequence) and this installment plays it to the hilt. The characters are also developed enough to make you care about them (sort of), and Robert Englund again returns to don the famous Krueger persona. And although I would've chosen a better lead actress for the part of Alice, I still think it deserves to be held in higher regard than the last two installments. "},{"Title":"A very visual and creative horror film...","Date":"27 October 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I was actually quite impressed with part 4. In my opinion, the true cores of this series are parts 1, 3, and 4. They are easily the most solid of the flicks. What makes Dream Master so good is the hallucinogenic visual style and buildup near the end of the film. Renny Harlin really succeeded in creating a tripped out frenzy. Having Alice and Dan stuck in a repeating dream near the eerie hospital and diner at the end was quite different than anything we had scene before with the Elm Street movies. And of course, who can forget the bodies punching themselves out of Freddy's body at the rustic church. Props to screaming mad George for his wicked special effects. I also think that the actors (Rick, Dan, Debbie, Sheila, Kincaid, etc.) had great chemistry as the group of terrified teens (something seriously lacking in parts 2, 5, and especially in Freddy vs. Jason). This is one of the Elm Street flicks that NEVER slows down or gets boring; it moves at a very entertaining pace. Too bad this spawned the unbearable part 5.... "},{"Title":"A Nightmare On Elm Street 4 The Dream Master","Date":"21 September 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Freddy Krueger's back for more in number 4. This nightmare flick is not the worst, but not the best. 2 or 6 are the worst. Now I give info on the movie; sort of a parental review, and sort of just infoGore 1-10 7 and a half This one is pretty high on the gore chart. First a guy get's stabbed in the chest. Gory, but not bloody. The second kill a guy's water bed get's ripped open and he get's pulled in. the water turns red. then his mom walks in the room and pulls off the covers to find him dead, scary a little bloody, but not gory. the third kill a girl falls asleep in class. the teacher turns into Freddy. He walks up and sucks her life out. she turns old and crusty. then she wakes up. she's not old and crusty anymore but she has an asthma attack and dies. The next kill we don't really see, but we get the point that Freddy whacked 'em. the next a girl is lifting weights. Freddy appears and pushed down while she tries to push up, but Freddy's stronger. he elbows rip open and gushy red ooze pours out. then little bug legs come out of her arms and her arms fall off. The bug arms get bigger. She crawls into a trap and all her skin sheds off. Freddy ends up squishing her. There is also a car crash, and the victim is pretty bloody. And then there's Freddy's premature death. Little heads burst out of his chest, and arms too.Good 1-106 The good thing about this one is that it wasn't just made because Freddy was in it. This one has more meaning in it the some of the other sequel's, therefore giving it a 6.Bad 1-104 The bad stuff The Freddy flick's are changing from slasher to fantasy, the special effects aren't so good, there's a scene that keeps repeating itself which is clever but annoying, and Freddy get's hit several times in a row, and he keeps repeating a laugh, and that scene seems to belong in a comedy.Profanity 1-10 7 Not as bad as some, but pretty bad.Adult content 1-10 6 Nudity and someone mentions a rapeActing 1-10 8 Pretty good consideringOverall I'd rate it a 6. Not as good as some of the Freddy flicks, but pretty good. "}{"Title":"Pretty good followup to Dream Warriors","Date":"29 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Kristen, from the third film is back, and has made some new friends, along with her old ones. One of her new friends, Alice, becomes the Dream Master after all of her friends have been killed off, and faces Freddy with a certain nursery rhyme which keeps him at bay.I actually prefer the fourth to the second; I found it highly interesting, even though Kristen got murdered, and it of course introduced a new heroin, Alice, who appears in the fifth film as well. The climax was great, and it's an overall good movie. Though some scenes made me cringe because of disgusting scenes/lines Soul-Food, but, besides that, it's still pretty good, and REALLY great if you just watched Part 3. "},{"Title":"Great visions can't disguise a deadbeat film.","Date":"14 May 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" After being buried at the end of 'Dream Warriors', Freddy Krueger is dead. But not for long. The three survivors from Warriors, who are the last of the dream warriors, are killed when Freddy returns to life, and Kristen is forced to give her dream powers to Alice, one of the new teenagers on the block. Before long Freddy is back in business, killing victims in an explosion of great special effects, imaginative sets, atmospheric music and strong direction.Unfortunately, by the time this film was made, the 'Nightmare' series was no more than a money-making franchise. Freddy is reduced to a wise-cracking oaf and the plot of 'Master' is really no more than a string of set-pieces cemented together. It has to be said that most of the new characters in this film are just irritating (and Kristen's character has completely changed along with her appearance).Watchable if you're a fan of the series, but if you've seen the first three films then you'd be better off watching 'A New Nightmare' or 'Freddy Vs Jason'. "},{"Title":"The Most Enjoyable of the Series!","Date":"2 April 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Now when A NIGHTMARE ON ELM STREET first came to play, it was one of the most scariest sh** you'll see in your life. PART 2FREDDY'S REVENGE was disappointing. PART 3DREAM WARRIORS kicked so much a$$ on so many levels in comebacks to me. Then writers Brian Helgeland & Scott Pierce and director Renny Harlin gave, for what I think is the most enjoyable sequel in the series.The Dream Warriors may have kicked FREDDY(Robert Englund)'S a$$ in the previous installment, but that just slowed him down. Now he is coming back to wipe them out one by one. Kristen(now played by Tuesday Knight) knows she isn't strong enough, so she gives her powers to Alice(Lisa Wilcox). Now there friend our dying, and the bodies keep piling up. Will they be able to stop FREDDY.For some reason this installment has more energy than all the others. Which explains why FREDDY jumps from being completely scary, to a comic with plenty of one-liners. This also has what I think the MOST disturbing death sequence through out the whole film. Lisa Wilcox reminds me of what Heather gave to Nancy in the first one, a strong female lead, ready to take charge of the screen. Robert as always gives FREDDY another highlight in the film series, just can't see who could play a better FREDDY, if not feel he's gloves. Watch it and enjoy. "},{"Title":"Rest in Hell. - Alice. Freddy finally meets his match in The Dream Master.","Date":"31 March 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Freddy returns once again to kill the Elm Street kids, but has he met his match? We begin not long after part 3 with the surviving elm street kids now out of the institution and in high school. The character of Kristen, now played by Tuesday Night rather then Patricia Arquette, returns, but begins to think that Freddy is coming back. Kincad warns her not to bring him up or maybe he will come back. Well he does. This time in Kincaid's dream, he is in the junkyard where his bones were buried. His dog digs where the bones were laid to rest and pees out fire to let him out/bring him back to life. Yes, to this day I can't watch that part without laughing. Freddy axes Kincaid, Joey ( Joey was dork anyway) and is about to take out Kristen. Freddy knows that she is the last and needs her help if he is to kill more. He tricks her into using her power to bring others into her dreams. Her friend Alice (Lisa Wilcox), is pulled in, Kristen dies but gives her power to Alice first. Alice does not understand her power nor how to control it. She ends up bringing her friends and brother to Freddy one by one. As Freddy slashes through more kids, Alice absorbs their powers and becomes the Dream Master. Eventually she confronts Freddy. In the final battle we are treated to a fight that is more than a little corny, but still delivers overall and sends Freddy to hell. But for good? Nightmare on elm Street 4 is probably the last good elm street film made. I still like this move a lot and it is very entertaining. The story overall is OK but for the most part nothing new. You know the story of every series, of the evil one coming back to life to wreak havoc among the stars of the movie. One has to ask, where did they get the idea to revive Freddy by having a dog take fire leak on his bones? WTF? Not to say I'm not amused by this, but who wrote that in? The concept of having Alice gain all the powers that the other kids possessed in their dreams was new though and I thought was one of the better aspects of the movie. Alice's character is also a great replacement for Kristen's and would return in part 5 to wreck Freddy again. Alice is probably the best thing to happen to the series after the death of Nancy. The acting is nothing special, I'm sure you didn't come to see this expecting great acting an neither did I. Freddy once again uses great one liners before taking out his foes. Though they are still good they get worse as the series goes on. The special effects are probably where the movie shines most. Most notably the soul food scene (disgusting), the souls escaping his body, and the movie theater scene. Freddy this time around disposes of them in all sorts of ways. The dream dojo scene with Rick is one of the better scenes in the movie. Anyone notice Rick is that guy Deke from Saved By The Bell that wanted to beat up Screech? Others include Freddy sucking face, roach motel and wet dream, all entertaining. The choreography could have been better, sometimes when the actors where jumping around, it looked out of place. The soundtrack isn't bad either. Typical 80's stuff here, you either love or hate the 80's. Sinaid O'connor's I Want Your Hands On Me, is a good song. But the opening song Nightmare by Tuesday Night is a really great song. Overall a good Freddy film that is fun watch, but certainly don't take it seriously. 7 half out 10 stars. "},{"Title":"Fun from start to finish...","Date":"26 February 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Back in 88/89 when Nightmare on Elm Street Part 4The Dream Master was playing on the big screen I went to see it with a friend and was certainly impressed with it as far as special FX goes. I always remember my reaction to the scene that keeps repeating over and over(most of you will know what I mean)...I remember thinking..Is there something wrong with the film? In the end we find out that the people in the scene are dreaming and Freddy is making them go in circles. This was a pretty neat scene, and is just one among several other catchy tactics. Every storyboard idea was well thought out and all of the dream sequences were done with great consideration to the growing fan base. Honestly, most of the concepts in 'Dream Master' were, in my opinion, highly innovative and way ahead of their time. The only complaint I have is that it seems as if Freddy has abandoned his somewhat frightening persona this time around, and turns in a more comedic performance, which is an approach that still remains to this day. It's all good, though. It worked for this movie and some of the one-liners turned out to be hilarious in some of the dream scenes...Now for the best part of the Elm Street films-the nightmares. Nightmare 4's dream sequences include, among several more, a kid drowning in his waterbed, a girl getting all of the air sucked out of her, a girl slipping in quicksand on the beach, and another girl who turns into a cockroach(definitely the highlight). The plot is a little above average, and is fairly imaginative thanks to the dream master concept, which basically insinuates that there is an entity that can guard your soul into the positive dream gate, and that you should always remember that you are in control of what you dream(unfortunately Alice is the only one who is able to do this). Evil seeing itself was a good way to get rid of Freddy this time, but it obviously doesn't work or we would not have several more sequels follow.Overall, I think the director(Renny Harlin)did a fabulous job on The Dream Master and deserves all of the credit. The film has great visuals, some very stunning gore/make-up effects, a fine cast of talented unknowns playing well written characters, and great pacing(Harlin's an action movie director, primarily). Personally I find part four to be more memorable than any of the other Nightmare sequels, so for that I will give it a rating of 9/10. It was a great accomplishment and even set a new record at the Box Office when the film had the most successful opening weekend of any independently released film. So you shouldn't miss this one. Followed by Nightmare on Elm Street Part 5The Dream Child. "},{"Title":"Quick Reviews!!","Date":"8 December 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Vastly inferior to parts 1 and 3, better than 2, 5, and 6, part 4 should have been the end of the trilogy(1,3,4, leaving out part 2). Unfortunately, it seems very rushed and lacks the scars and ideas of its prequels. Patricia Arquette opts not to return as the main survivor of part 3, and her character as well as the other survivors are quickly dispatched without glory. Freddy is back, and is moving on to a new set of kids. These kids are far less likable than any previous ones, and we don't care if they are killed or not, with the exception of the lead heroine. The effects are over the top, and more thought has been put into the kids' deaths rather than their lives.The acting is OK, with only Englund shining, and proving that the series now belongs to him, and he is the hero. His whole part is reduced to one liners, and there is little fear left. Harlin tries his best with the script, and would go on to better things, but as always, with more though and commitment, this could have been better. "},{"Title":"Great film","Date":"24 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"      It has been a year,but it still as good as 3.Not only is the effects is 10 times better,but the gore has come in as well.    After being destroyed by the DREAM WARRIORS,FREDDY has been sleep for a while of a year.And Kristen who is one of the WARRIORS,is having nice dreams.But the sleep is over, FREDDY has resurface with new jokes and new ways to kill.Kristen along with new friends,one of them is named Alice ,are trying to stop FREDDY's reign of terror before it begans.But FREDDY knows what there up to and does the terror to them first.    Renny Harlin(Cliffhanger,Deep Blue Sea,The Long Kiss Goodnight)has directed a fine film.It's even better and scarier watching it on stero surround sound.     "},{"Title":"How's this for a wet dream?","Date":"23 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  ~Spoiler~ Action director Renny Harlin takes a stab at directing Freddy in this fourth entry of the Elm Street series.  It's nice that they got some of the cast members from Part 3 to return but it's unfortunate that they kill them all off.  It's also not the same without Patricia Arquette as Kristen.  Nightmare on Elm Street 4 The Dream Master is as corny as they come.  You'll find yourself rolling your eyes and shaking your head quite a few times.  Fortunately the cool gags outweigh the cheesy ones.  There are still really only two reasons to watch this film the renowned F/X wizardry of Steve Johnson and Screaming Mad George and Robert Englund in drag.  Skip to New Nightmare. "},{"Title":"Renny Harlin couldn't even mess up the series","Date":"15 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Out of all of the horror franchises, with maybe the exception of Hellraiser, the Freddy Krueger chronicles are by far the most imaginative and, visually, the most powerful. One has to overlook the ridiculous idea that Freddy can continue to come back to life, because after you get past that there's a lot of fun to be had. Freddy 4 is no exception. A few of the teens from Freddy 3 are back, and find themselves out of the mental institution and back into the real world. Kristin (near pop-sensation Tuesday Knight) still has the ability to gather her friends into her dreams at will, and this gets them into trouble. Her friends start dying off, and Freddy becomes stronger with each soul he collects. Luckily, Kristin's friend, Alice (	Lisa Wilcox), collects their powers as Freddy collects their souls. As she becomes physically more diverse, Freddy becomes harder to defend against, and the stage sets for a final battle of the wills. Nothing too memorable here, but a creative team that has enough ideas to even help Renny Harlin direct a decent movie. Rating 21/40 "},{"Title":"Biggest Money Maker of the Series!","Date":"26 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  (POSSIBLE MINOR SPOILERS) - Dream Master picks up where Dream Warriors left off.  The remaining survivors learn that you really can't be a survivor for too long in Springwood.  As mentioned in the title of this review, the Dream Master was the highest grossing Elm with about $50 million.  Riding on the coat tails of the creatively superior Dream Warriors, the Dream Master raked in the bucks.  A fun movie, but not quite as good as Dream Warriors.  Still worth a look.Pros  Of course, Freddy's back, Lisa Wilcox -- Cons  Series heading in a more comic direction -- Bottom Line  It's tricky, but I will give this 7/10 -- However, a definte low 7.  Dream Warriors is high 7.  See them both! "}{"Title":"The Steady Fall of the Nightmare Films","Date":"8 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was annoying. The Karate Kid made a cameo appearance to star as Alice Johnson's dorky brother. I was disturbed by the strange closeness that these two shared. Also, at one point the director decided to make this movie like Groundhog Day by including an irritating repetition sequence that made no sense at all. Freddy's presence is no longer scary anymore as he seems more suitable as a children's TV show host instead of a horror icon. If you're planning on watching this, take my advice and see any of the preceding Nightmare films- namely, the first. Anyway, New Line Cinema should have passed on this and all following Nightmare films. "},{"Title":"Okay","Date":"28 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Nightmare on Elm Street 4 (NOES4) was an okay movie. The dreamscapes were interesting (the car lot, the movie theater, the cockroach shot, and the final part where Freddy is killed). I think that the dreamscapes in NOES6 were a bit more interesting and artistic.It is nice to have all the NOES3 characters coming back and meeting their demise.  Too bad Patricia Arquette did not return to be Kristen Parker.7/10 for NOES genre.  "},{"Title":"Dream Master","Date":"21 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I liked this more than the third one but it was still somewhat dissapointing. Directed by Renny Harlin ,this film is not very scary but visually it is very good, the special effects are amazing and it is very action packed. Freddy of course is becoming more and more annoying and more like a cartoon character but he still is a bit scary like when he eats the people´s heads like meatballs. The acting was not exactly the greatest and some of the scenes seemed a bit silly. How Freddie died in the film was allright and Sinead O´Connor has a song in the film. 5/10.  "},{"Title":"The best sequel.","Date":"8 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is wihout a douht the best nightmare on elm street sequel. Most nightmare fans lie part three as the best sequel. But this one blows that one out of the water. This one has the most interesting charactors, some of the best deaths, and is truly Freddy's 80's landmark. And... Lisa Wilcox kicks ASS as the Dream Warrior!!! "},{"Title":"QUICK, FREDDY IS AFTER JAMIE LLOYD!!!","Date":"6 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  oh wait, like halloween 4 this film finds the weakest thread to continue the series with a flat and slow paced plot.if it were not for freddy's dead this would be the low point in the series, however, freddy's dead is entertaining, dream master isn't a lot of the time - do not get me wrong, it isn't a crime against humanity that this film was made, but it is obviously a lets recreate the series so we make more money film.i have  few major problems with sequels, when they throw all the previous films aside (halloween 3), change lead characters (nightmare 4), and/or do not respect series establishments (the myers house in halloween 4-6)... in this light nightmare 4 only violates one of these standards, and overall i can live with thatsome good death scenes, freddy's is one of the series best, weak on the mythology of the series (i know the gate keeper thing, but nothing personal to the characters) basically a transition entry to set up more films to make more money, and you feel it.. and, like the halloween series, 5 is better than 4for the series 4/10, it is entertaining, however an insult to the original "},{"Title":"Very entertaining!","Date":"13 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  If you're looking for complete terror, this one may not be it. Not the scariest of the Nightmare films but certainly one of the most entertaining.From Freddy literally sucking the life out of a buxom female to turning a girl into a cockroach. This sequel truly showed Freddy's wit and got the audience cheering for him! "},{"Title":"Freddy is back","Date":"24 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is not the best in the series, but the main character, Alice kicked butt. The killings were unique too. Freddy is a character that will never die. As for Tuesday Knight, her acting was very poor, and undermined the whole film. The NOES films are classic. "},{"Title":"Some great effects","Date":"6 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  OK, I'll agree, this movie isn't the creme de la creme of the series but the effects and directing were decent.  Renny Harlin is known for his action films and the combination of mechanical and computer effects were, no pun intended, effective.  The best of the Elm Street films is the first and third ... Wes Craven created/wrote number one and wrote number three. Watch out for Freddy Vs Jason, it was filmed in my home town of Vancouver and I met Robert England (Mr. Krueger).  He's a great guy.  Mr. Craven had no part in this movie either ... only character creation and he will be credit as such until Freddy is gone for good, let's hope he'll be around for awhile.  "},{"Title":"It really is not that bad...in fact, it's great!","Date":"26 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  *Might contain Spoilers*When I think of all of the Nightmare on Elm Street sequels, I come to the conclusion that this part, The Dream Master, is my favorite. It's got style, it's got humor and it's got (minimal) scares. This is the most successful Nightmare on Elm Street movie to date and this is the movie that pretty much made Freddy Krueger the popular culture icon that he is today. This is the only sequel of the series that I can watch over and over and not get bored with. There are so many memorable scenes, the cock-roach bit being my favorite Nightmare on Elm Street moment. The story starts off with the three survivors of the third Elm Street movie (Joey who now talks, Kincaid and Kristen played now by the beautiful Tuesday Knight) being re-introduced and then creatively slaughtered after Freddy is resurrected by flaming dog urine. That sentence alone should make you wanna go out and buy/rent this movie right now. After this, we follow the NOES' series most interesting and most likeable character (in my opinion), Alice, played by Lisa Wilcox. Alice is given the unlikely task of being forced to get new victims for Freddy. As the teenage survival rate drops off, Alice decides to fight back and we get a great showdown between her and Freddy. I don't know why so many people have a problem with this movie. This movie succeeds at everything Freddy's Dead was trying to do (and failed so miserably at). The jokes here are funny and are spread out enough that it doesn't get tasteless. The effects are top-notch, the story is well mapped out and the characters are all likeable. Freddy fans should check this out if they haven't seen it yet. "},{"Title":"Mediocre Fourth Installment","Date":"16 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"                       ***SPOILERS***The original Nightmare on Elm Street was a frightening horror movie that easily deserves a place in any top ten horror movies list. Nightmare on Elm Street 2 was a reasonable sequel which wasn't short on scares. Nightmare on Elm Street 3 wasn't as good as the first two but it was still a respectable film. This movie can only be considered mediocre.At the end of Nightmare on Elm Street 3Dream Warriors, several youngsters teamed up with Nancy Thomas (Heather Langenkamp) to defeat Freddy on his home turf of dreamland. One of the youngsters in the the third film was Kristen Parker who had the ability to pull other people into her dreams. At the end of the third film, the kids defeated Freddy Krueger and sent him back to wherever he goes.Kristen Parker (played by Tuesday Knight) is back along with two others from the third film and they are still being plagued by Freddy. Eventually, Freddy kills them; however, there's new a heroine in town called Alice Johnson (played by Lisa Wilcox) and it's up to her to defeat Freddy Krueger.This is a mediocre movie and basically a rehash of Part 3. In all honesty, there are some entertaining moments, the finale is reasonable and the heroine is likeable enough but this movie just doesn't make the grade for me. To be honest, you may think you are watching a comedy at times.Robert Englund is back as Freddy of course, but even though Englund has done a good job with Freddy, this isn't the Freddy we know and love. This isn't the fearsome Freddy who terrorised kids in the first 3 films. In this movie, he is too much of a comedy character to find scary. I believe comedy and horror do not mix-this film is a prime example of why comedy and horror do not mix. In this film, you'll see scenes such as Freddy in drag dressed as a nurse and on a beach wearing sunglasses. Is that scary? Not in my opinion.All in all, a mediocre sequel which tries to combine horror and comedy. Unfortunately, horror and comedy mix about as well as vodka and beer. This film is for hard-core fans only (like me) but it deserves only one viewing. Whatever you do, rent it, don't buy it. "}{"Title":"Seven, Eight--Better Stay Up Late!","Date":"1 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  CONTAINS SPOILERS         One night Kristen Parker falls asleep and finds herself standing outside of the old Nightmare house on Elm Street. She goes inside and finds some eerie goings-on. She quickly summons Kincaid and Joey, who helped her defeat Freddy Krueger in the last adventure. Joey and Kincaid are confident Freddy is dead but Kristen is not so sure. The next day, Kristen drives her friends Rick and Alice Johnson to school. Her other friends at school consist of Debbie, a body builder; Dan, a hunk; and Sheila, a bookworm. Kincaid and Joey are at school too and when Kristen tells them about her dream, they still tell her that Freddy is dead. That night, Kincaid falls asleep and finds himself in the auto yard where Freddy's remains were buried. He then saw his dog digging. He tried to stop him but the dog snarled at him. The stupid dog had dug up Freddy's remains, so he immediately came to life. He chased Kincaid and killed him. He next went after Joey and drowned him in his water bed. Kristen was the last of the original Elm Street kids.       Kristen learns about her friends' deaths and is distraught. She, along with Rick, Alice and Debbie go to the Nightmare house and are just about to enter when Kristen's mom drives up and orders them away. At dinner, Kristen discovers something suspicious about her mom. She then learns her mom had slipped sleeping pills into her food! Kristen tried to stay awake, but she soon fell asleep as well as fell prey to Freddy. Before she died, she summoned Alice, since Kristen had the power to bring others into her dreams. She gave Alice her power then Freddy threw her into the fire. Freddy wasn't finished yet. The next day in class, while everyone was taking a big test, Alice fell asleep and accidentally brought Sheila into her dream. Freddy Krueger was the teacher. He walked up to Sheila, grabber her and sucked the life out of her though in real life she appeared to be having a fatal asthma attack. She soon died; Rick ran into Freddy who gave him a Karate work-out, but Rick was a black-belt himself so he fought Freddy and was about to knock his razor glove off, but Freddy had it fly at Rick, impaling him. Only Alice, Dan and Debbie left. Alice decreed they would meet at Debbie's that night and make a plan. So that night, Dan waited outside the diner where Alice worked but when Alice arrived, Dan had gone so she went to see a movie. The movie seemed all to real and suddenly she was sucked right into the screen and found herself at the diner where she worked and saw herself as an old lady. Freddy was there too and was eating a pizza with teens' heads for meatballs. It seemed as though Freddy wasn't out to kill her but rather bring him more souls to add to his collection.         Alice woke up in bed and met with Dan and the two rushed to Debbie's. Thanks to Freddy, they repeated that process several times. At Debbie's, Freddy appeared and turned her into a cockroach and smashed her. Freddy then appeared in the middle of the road and Alice tried to run him down but it resulted in Dan getting injured. He was rushed to the hospital and into surgery. Meanwhile, Alice raced home, gulped down some sleeping pills and geared up for a final battle with Freddy. Back in surgery, Dan was put under anistesia and looked up in horror as Dr. Krueger prepared to operate on him. Alice to the rescue! She and Freddy engaged in battle but Freddy proved tough. Alice suddenly remembered the nursery rhyme about the Dream Master so she grabbed a mirror and aimed it at Freddy. Suddenly, the souls of all his victims escaped from his body. They destroyed Freddy and flew up to Heaven, thanking Alice along the way. Then all was well again and Dan and Alice lived happily ever after. But was this really the end of Freddy?         My overall opinion I think this one was better than the first three! This movie makes you laugh as well as scream. Robert Englund is back as Freddy because, let's face it, what else was he going to do? This is the one where they turn Freddy into a humerous killer. I like the part where Dan sees him about to operate on him. He removes his mouth piece and says, It's not Dr. Seuss! And the scene in the diner where Freddy has a pizza with teens' heads for meatballs. But anyway, in conclusion, Nightmare fans, A Nightmare on Elm Street 4 The Dream Master is for you!!-         "},{"Title":"More above average special effects and drop-dead humor keep 'Elm Street 4' afloat.","Date":"12 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  After Freddy Krueger (Robert Englund) rises from the dead to kill off the surviving victims from the previous installment, he sets his sight on a new batch of teens and kills them off one by one.  One of his targets (Lisa Wilcox) knows a thing or two about dreams and vows to destroy him.  More above average special effects and drop-dead humor keep this sequel afloat. Directed by Renny Harlin (Cliffhanger).  My evaluation **½ out of ****. "},{"Title":"Good entertaiment but it could be better","Date":"2 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  When you watch horror film with sequels you must think that the film that you will watch won't a master piece.And this thing is true.Nightmare on elm street 4 is the perfect example. With this film begins the Alice johnson saga (it continous in the Nightmare 5)the story has got good points and the Fx too Freddy's saga is like scream's saga of the 80's.You can get enjoy with this film and you can pass the time and it entertains you. But in this film There is one mistake which appears in the other parts. it is the originality.All the films in this saga tell you the same thing with different topics and details.If you don't watch this film you don't lose anything but it is a good thing when you are bored "},{"Title":"nearly good one!!!","Date":"19 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This film, its better than 1 and 2, but not 3, as is missing the good one, the best one, DREAM WARRIORS, a SUNG by DOKKEN, a rock band from Germany. But is better than first two, because it have some nice effects, good real things, like the girl who turn to cockarooch, and the pizza guy. Some times is confusing, like the scene where it happens 3 times, again and again, and you see it. A like the girl who fight for Freddy, this is good, she is strong, and she try to beat him. Is not very scare, but it is nearly, and, ALMOST.  "},{"Title":"Pointless but still good","Date":"6 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  SPOILERSFreddy Krueger(Robert Englund) is back once again after those who dare to go too sleep.Freddy starts off by killing Roland Kincaid(Ken Sagoes) and Joey(Rodney Eastman)Kristen now played by Tuesday Knight embarks on a desperate mission to destroy Freddy but Freddy manages to kill Kristen.It's now up to Alice(Lisa Wilcox and Dan(Danny Hassel) to try and stop Freddy.Why is Freddy going after Alice and Dan?Once he killed Roland, Joey and Kristen that was the last of the Elm Street kids so their really is now no point to the movie.But who really cares? The movie was still alot of fun.Like all the Elm St. films well at least to me once again great characters.Director Renny Harlin does a good job at keeping the pace of the movie going forward.I give A Nightmare On Elm Street 4 The Dream Master 7/10I really liked Alice(Lisa Wilcox) Most people would probably say Nancy(Heather Langenkamp) was the best of all the leads in the Elm St. movies but my choice would be Alice.Nancy was just in the better parts that all. "},{"Title":"My favorite of the series","Date":"16 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This was the first movie I saw of this series.  It got me hooked!  Although it seemed really cool back when I was 12 or so, I still like it today.  The problems with it are more apparent, of course, but you can overlook them because it's a Freddy movie!  It's fantasy, silly, and of course disgusting.  I remember always having to close my eyes during some of the death scenes (the cockroach-ew!).  I used to be so obsessed with this movie, along with my friends, but others despise it.  I think it just depends on the person's personal tastes.  Alice is my favorite character of course.  She has her own website now and actually e-mailed me back once--my heart stopped!  I also have the making of this movie which I found on ebay where the cast and director talk about the special effects, etc.  This movie is still fun to watch and it's now 14 years old.  Give it a chance and see it if you haven't already! "},{"Title":"Series begins showing its age","Date":"12 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Well, it was inevitable. After the box-office success of the first three Nightmare movies, business dictated that there be a fourth, logic be damned. Wes Craven had attempted to wrap up the series with part 3, but you can't keep a good ghoul down. The last film clearly implied that Freddy was gone for good, so any attempt to bring him back is blatant commercialism at its worst. It doesn't help that the method used to revive him is just plain silly, even if it's a dream sequence. (It does assume you've seen the last one) He isn't even scary any longer; his character has been reduced to a comedian.Upon his return, he sets out to complete his unfinished business the slaughter of the last of the Elm Street children. This pretty much negates their previous victory over him, but never mind New Line has some cash to rake in. Patricia Arquette wisely refused to reprise her role, so the Kristen character was recast. Tuesday Knight isn't as good, and quite frankly it doesn't even feel like the same character. This is a clear sign that as long as they were going to make a sequel, a fresh start, with entirely new characters, was warranted. As the so-called Dream Master, Lisa Wilcox is okay, but her part isn't milked for all its worth. She pretty much has Kristen's powers passed down to her and that's it.On the technical side it's admittedly well-made. Renny Harlin makes everything slick and glossy, you'd expect no less from the man who later gave us Die Hard 2 and Cliffhanger. Robert England is as gleefully bad as ever, and the manner in which Freddy makes his demise is actually quite gripping on a visceral level. Overall though, it's just a generic sequel.** (out of ****)Released by New Line Cinema "},{"Title":"How Sweet...Fresh meat!","Date":"27 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I remember seeing this one in high school with a buddy,and my girlfriend at the time....why do you need to know this you may ask?well, because I like this film on a personal level....so technically this film was the last of the films that maintained a somewhat creative purpose.....I liked this film quite a bit..but compared to the original or 3...it falters...however, the film still has that creepy....phantom feel to it...which still scores it way above average....but each film gets gradually worse....more of the same Ideas over and over again.But, I still like the idea of Freddy chasing those poor teens!!!If you liked 3, you will probably like this one....new characters though,but I like the new girl......shes cute...and tuffs it out through the 3rd sequel! "},{"Title":"A New kind of Elm Street!","Date":"18 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I would like to start by saying that yes, I very much do agree with what many user comments suggested about the series ending with Part 3.If can recall the events, Freddy's ghost mother (i.e Sister Mary-Helena/Amanda Kruger) suggested to the doctor of burying his remains in hollowed grounds. On the plus side two principal characters from the original were also killed off battling Freddy both in the dream world and real (Nancy and her father).With Part 4 however, I have to compliment Renny Harlin.Okay this maybe his first time at directing one of of the episodes, but what an achievement I might add. Stylewise, this really had outdone the three previous ones providing real visual delight and adding some really creative effects.The other reason for me liking this film a lot was because it reflects the 80's culture very well, which brings fresh and rewarding memories back for me.Impressive, vivid and more colorful since the last three were more of a gothic theme. This one though seemed to lighten the load with Freddy's wisecracks being a real laugh and Lisa Wilcox saucy as ever.However this should have REALLY been the last, what a disaster 5 & 6 really were.8/10 "},{"Title":"I think this one is the best","Date":"17 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  People bag out the ongoing chapters of the nightmare series. Why? What else did they expect but a series of slasher movies? And this one is the best by far. The characters are likeable, if one dimensional. Freddy gives us some laughs with one liners. The special effects are great. If you want suspense without gore, watch the original Psycho. But if you want a typical 80s style horror movies, nightmare four is for you! "}{"Title":"Wes killed his own franchise!","Date":"22 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I don't care how laden with special effects any Nightmare on Elm Street sequel is; if it isn't on par with the original, then it should not be made.  I'd rather have one amazing Nightmare sequel instead of having a hundred awful ones (too bad I haven't gotten my wish, yet).  Not ONE of the six sequels have even come close to matching the original's creepiness.  And as the series progressed (or, as I like to think of it, REGRESSED), Freddy became a pathetic pop culture icon instead of the undead monster that he was in Wes Craven's original.  And even though I'm a huge horror fan (not one heavily into the slasher subgenre usually), Wes' original is one of my favourites.  However, he is praised far too much.  After all, Wes IS the man who sold its rights to other directors, and therefore, had a huge part in the death of his own franchise.  Tsk, tsk, Wes.  Was it worth it for all that money?  I assume you answer that with a 'yes'.   ...And onto my review of Nightmare on Elm Street Part 4...In my opinion, Nightmare on Elm Street Part 4 is tied with Freddy's Dead for worst in the series.  In part 4, I can't put my finger on what exactly I hate about it (too many things to list), but something just never sat right with me whenever I watched it.  I hated the crassness of everything from the hokey special effects to the cheesy soundtrack (a Freddy rap is at the end of the film... ugh), as well as the fact that Freddy was no longer frightening after this film.  It also bothered me that after three sequels, the casting director still couldn't get decent talent for their roles.  Oh, and NONE of the Nightmare sequels were necessary.  Money-hungry studio execs just couldn't leave well-enough alone, could they? "},{"Title":"the jokes keep coming....","Date":"18 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  a nightmare on elm street 4.....ok...this is the top grossing film in the series but its one of the weekest as far as the story goes.one thing i did like about this movie was something the series has missed...a strong protagonist. the character of alice is my favorite of all the elm street girls.the final battle of the movie is one of my favorite battles of the series! not the worst of the series but still not that great. "},{"Title":"Fairly enjoyable sequel, not on par with #1, 3, or 7, though.","Date":"28 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  ***POSSIBLE SPOILERS FOLLOW***This movie is a middle-of-the-road entry in the Nightmare series. It's definitely better than #2, 5, and 6.The opening scene of Freddy being re-animated is fairly creepy. I am really surprised at people saying it doesn't make sense though. After seeing #6, you should realize that burying Freddy in hallowed ground can't possibly stop him forever, because of his deal with the Dream Demons. It was, however, a minor setback that kept him out of action until he could engineer a way out. He possesses Kincaid's dog in the dream world and uses his urine to defile the hallowed ground, letting him out. I assume the reason the dog's urine was flaming is because Freddy's death was by fire, and fire is always intricately tied to the character (fire in the boiler room means Freddy's home, for example).It's easy to tell the dog was possessed (either by Freddy or the Dream Demons themselves) because he bit Kristen and growled at Kincaid himself. After he urinates, he is released, becomes fearful and runs off.It's the same thing at the end of this movie, when the souls that help power Freddy are stripped from him. It seems as though he is dead, but he is not, because the Dream Demons give him the strength to carry on until he finds a way to get more power (Alice's child in part 5). Until the Dream Demons are defeated, Freddy can never die, each new scheme to defeat him (turn your back on him, bury him in hallowed ground, strip the souls from him, etc) can be nothing more than temporary solutions. See #6 for the final solution - removal of the Dream Demons.Remember, part 4 tells us that Freddy is the Guardian of the negative gate (I've been guarding my gate a long time, bitch!) - he is a Dream Master, and Alice is the other Positive Dream Master. Freddy got his job as the negative guardian, as well as his powers, from the Dream Demons.Anyway...as you can see I am really into the mythology of the series. As for Part 4, it's entertaining, relatively good, and really provides some solid background. See #6 for the whole lowdown on Freddy's powers and origin (but #6 is not that great a movie!). "},{"Title":"It pretty much goes down hill from here","Date":"13 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  They really should've known when to quit. Nightmares 1-3 where all great, but they should've ended it after part 3. This movie is no where near as good as the first 3. Most of the characters from part 3,       ( which  never should have been brought back in the first place ) returned in this. One thing about that is, Kristen ( originally played by Patricia Arquette, an awesome actress ) is played by one of the worst actresses ive seen, Tuesday Knight. And the mute character, Joey, from part 3, is now some punk rock 'n' roll kid. I was actually glad to see him go, though. Anyway, now to the acting, Horrible. Alice ( played by Lisa Wilcox ) is the most annoying character in the movie, a classic goodie-two-shoes like Jamie Lee Curtis ( Halloween ), her annoying brother Rick, who thinks hes Chuck Norris, the brainy Shelia, twice as annoying as Alice, Debbie, who's just basically an 80's freak, and Dan, the jock. All of these characters have nothing to offer to the series. I will admit the directing is fair, but the script is not. This movie is what started to complicate everything. It seemed like the whole story of the rest of the series was changed into something no one could understand. Basically this movie bites. Enough said. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Stylish approach to a horror legend turned teen terror","Date":"7 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This review contains spoilers. So only read it if you have seen the movie, or you don't mind hearing what happens in it.This is the 4th instalment in the great nightmare on elm street series and is one of my favourites. It is a great combination of the tension from the original nightmare on elm street movie and the action from the third dream warriors. There was allot of fearful tension building up to Freddy's resurrection in the junk yard, but unfortunately not long after he was just as scary as an Mtv presenter.The movie starts with the 3 survivors from Dream Warriors.  Only now Kristen who was played by Patricia Arquette is now played by Tuesday Knight. Tuesday resembled a good Kristen at times and I have no complaints about her acting, but it wasn't the same.  I think of Patricia as Kristen, Tuesday was more like a new character to me. I still liked her though.Unfortunately all 3 of the original survivors Joey,kinkaid and Kristen die. I didn't like this at all!  At least Kristen should have lived.  The deaths of them make Dream Warriors look totally pointless. Apart from that they died far to easily, and did very little to defend themselves.  Did they forget there dream powers?  Obviously! Kristen more or less let herself die. The idea of Kristen's death was genius though.  Just when you thought she was going to live her mother spiked her food with sleeping pills.  Before she dies she pulls Alice into her dream and passes her power to her.  The quite and shy Alice watches in terror as all of her friends die.  But with each death she gains a power of them. Alice is the dream master and only she can defeat Freddy and free the souls of his victims. The movie has a great cast!  Each and everyone one of the characters are very interesting.  Unfortunately the movie lacked gore and the deaths were very brief.I think Dream Warriors would have been the perfect ending to the nightmare series.  However I am glad it wasn't!  Nightmare on elm street 4 is great! The movie screams style and also features some great songs to the soundtrack.  2 very enthusiastic thumbs up!The bottom line is.  if your fan of the series, especially the first and 3rd movie, then this one is definitely for you.  "},{"Title":"The one I had most fun with!!!","Date":"23 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** A Nightmare on Elm Street 4 was one of my favorites. I know the story lacks but I had so much fun watching this one. The killing's were greusome and neat, and the whole idea of the Dream Master is really cool.**SPOILER** I especially like the part at the end when Alice (The Dream Master) uses all of her Dream power and kicks the crap out of Freddy. One of my favorite killing's in the movie, would have to be (of course) the wierd cockroach killing.(The part where the jock girl turns into a cockroach and Freddy crushes her) YUUUUK!!** END SPOILER** My absoulute favorite Freddy movie is A Nightmare on Elm Street Part 2.......Just Kidding, That is the worst one. My favourite is A Nightmare on Elm street. (The First one)  I also like the opening musical score Nightmare by Tuesday Knight. (Who plays Kristen Parker in Part 4). Overall I give this movie a 3.5/5. "},{"Title":"Not as good as three, but still pretty good.","Date":"3 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  A mediocre installment in the `Nightmare' series.  It wasn't entirely bad but then again there weren't a whole lot of good things about it either. Some good acting mixed with some bad acting, a semi-decent story, and good effects, as per the usual for `Nightmare' films.One of the main things that bugged me about this movie was the recasting of Kristen (Patricia Arquette from part 3).  I guess I can understand it, cause I'd imagine Patricia wouldn't really want to get sucked into another one of these movies, but the girl that replaced her was nowhere near as good and didn't really even look like her.  Another thing that annoyed me about this flick was that it killed off all the cool characters very quickly and left the dorky characters.  Englund did well; of course, he's pretty well grown into his character by now and pretty free in it.The story and plot were decent enough, I guess, but coming after `Dream Warriors' it was a far cry.  It just seemed like they were desperate to come up with new ways to kill Freddy.  It also seemed like they were trying so hard to confuse the audience of whether it was a dream or reality that they got confused themselves and then said the hell with it and just kept going.The one aspect that seemed up to par were the effects.  It really must be the part of these movies that they spend the most money and take the most time on.  There's a great reforming Freddy scene near the beginning and Freddy's demise is also really cool.  The only problem is that I don't think good effects can really carry this movie.A mediocre entry in the series.  Worth renting if you're doing the whole `Nightmare' series marathon type thing, otherwise not really worth it.  "},{"Title":"one of the good nightmares of all.","Date":"15 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is the best nightmare of all. The direction was great. Renny Harlin knows a good thing when he sees it. Unlike the first 2 we get to see Freddy more. His make up is better so they don't have to hide his face in shadows much like they did in the first one. The acting is fair. Lisa Wilcox though does a great job as Alice. Not much gore, but all death scenes in this movie was very nicely done. Good special effects, the soundtrack was good, good script, well though out. There is a lot of dark humor, mostly done by Freddy which started in part 3 bringing the horror into scary/and funny at the same time which obviously changes Freddys character. You will notice in the first Nightmare Freddy is quiet and just really cares about killing, and now he's lit, he's the star now and he has to talk more and bring some humor. Some death scenes in this movie are dark humorous which is good and bad depends on how you look at it.Over all a good movie. *** out of **** "},{"Title":"ANOTHER NIGHTMARE","Date":"10 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Another good film in the series of a burned lunatic killing teens in their dreams.  This one is said to have made the most money at the box office. In this film we start seeing Freddy's comedic side which turns from your worst nightmare to a comedic movie. "},{"Title":"Unnecessary, but pretty fun.","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  A Nightmare on Elm Street 4 is a completely unnecessary sequel, but still pretty fun. The special effects are awesome, some amusing characters and it moves at a very fast pace. It's a shame that in this sequel, Freddy goes into overdrive with the one-liners, but some of them are okay. Overall, a completely unnecessary sequel, but still is pretty fun. **1/2 (out of four)  "}{"Title":"Much Better Than I Thought It Would Be. (Couple Spoilers, Though.)","Date":"5 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** Alright, everyone. I'm gonna be completely honest & say...I liked this movie! I'm sorry, but that's how I really & truly feel. I know it wasn't as good as Parts 1 or 3, but considering those 2, that's not saying much! It wasn't perfect, but it wasn't supposed to be. Films like this are just supposed to be entertainment & nothing more. And boy, was it entertaining!As usual, I won't tell the plot, what little of it there was, 'cause you most likely already know it, but the characters weren't that bad. Wilcox, who looks awfully familiar from somewhere, is very good as Alice, a girl trying to understand the monstrous demon she's fighting, & what's happening to her & her friends; Andras Jones is quite enjoyable as Rick, Alice's brother who has his favorite hobby, Martial Arts, lethally used against him; Knight isn't as good as Arquette in Part 3, but she's just as delectable, & it is quite sad to see that vile fiend toss her into the flames; Kincaid & Joey don't do much other than die & leave very cheap funerals (Joey, remember your last encounter with a naked lady?); the other characters are adequate; & once again, Englund steals every scene he was in as the ferocious Freddy.Now I know the deaths have been called gross & stupid, but let's face it As cool as Freddy's glove is, it would get kinda repetitive watching him merely stab people with it over & over again. These new, goofy deaths began in the 3rd one as most likely a way to expand Freddy's murderous horizons, & they actually were pretty inventive. And as far as Freddy's wisecracks go...well, he's no Chris Tucker, but some of those jokes were pretty funny (You can check in, but you can't check out!), & Freddy's a Helluva lot funnier than crap comics like Carrot Top.Now I think I understand why Freddy came back to life (try & stay with me here) Freddy has been properly buried, so his soul is at peace; but when Jason, the dog, urinates on the grave, he desecrates it, thus disturbing Freddy's spirit & making him rise again. As to why the urine was flaming, I have no clue; maybe the filmmakers just thought it looked cool. But that makes no sense because fire is what killed Freddy as a human & in Part 2. Also, one might think that once Freddy killed all the Elm Street children, his death would be avenged, & his spirit could rest at last; however, he somehow remained alive to kill again & again, probably from making a deal with his master, Satan, down in Hell.Also, Freddy's godliness is alluded to again. In the original, when Tina said, Please, God!, Freddy held up his glove & snarled the immortal line, THIS..is God! In this film, while dueling Alice in the church, he says the equally great line, I...am...eternal! If he is eternal, it means he has no beginning & no end He always has been, & he always will be. The only other being described in such a way is God Himself; the difference is that God is Pure Good, whereas Freddy is Pure Evil. Thus, the final battle between Alice & Freddy could symbolize the final battle between God & Satan, where God will triumph. However, this can't be the final battle, as there are 3 movies left.Now all this symbolism stuff may or may not be true, but I'm just saying that parallels do exist if you examine something closely enough. All in all, this was a good Elm Street film that entertained its audience, even though it wasn't as good as 1 & 3. Still, I enjoyed it very much. Until next time, here's a piece of Freddy advice when dealing with lousy dinersIf the food don't kill ya, the service will! "},{"Title":"What an Disappointment, Compared to the Earlier Films","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I saw The Dream Master two different ways First, when I was four years old (it was a TV edit that still gives me restless nights from time to time); Second when I bought the DVD box set and Nightmare 2 was better than this (and that's saying something). But while I still don't like this film, it has grown a bit on me (but not enough for me to actually like it).I'll judge the film in to ways Pros and Cons.Pros - Good acting from Rober Englund (as always) and Lisa Wilcox, who should be getting more work; The makeup here is the best out of them all; The score by Craig Saffan is effective.Cons - Renny Harlin's direction (his version of Exorcist The Beginning solidifies that fact); The movie feels way too much like an MTV music video while the first three had a very dark tone to it; While the deaths are inventive, they just really aren't as memorable as classic deaths as Tina's or Jennifer's (well, there is Debbie's death, which brings me to my next point); The cockroach sequence (the main reason for many of my restless nights). That sequence has a long-lasting effect on you that you just REALLY want to get rid of no matter what.If you want to rent The Dream Master, fine by me. It's your money. But I recommend that you rent Nightmare 1, 3, 7 or Freddy vs. Jason instead.D- "},{"Title":"A classic!","Date":"14 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I must have seen this film a hundred times, and it just keeps getting better. Although i am the first to admit this is more of a black comedy than a horror, i think this is what makes the series unique. Where some film sequels try to hard to be a great horror and fail, the elms streets  are a lot more diverse. Freddys cheeseball lines crack me up every time. In my opinion this was one of the best in the series. The original is my all time favourite, and definately the scariest, and the 3rd has one of the best settings, i mean, a ward full of teenagers all being terrorised by the fredster is genius, but the fourth is just great. I thought it was a shame that kincaid got killed off, he was one of my all time favourite characters, but other than that this film is pure quality. I'd recommend it to anyone. "},{"Title":"Favours laughter and fx over scares; good fun.","Date":"13 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This isn't quite the sequel that dream warriors was, but the storyline continues with returning characters Kristen, Joey and Kincaid, back to Springwood highschool and normal life.  Of course, Freddy's back to prey on them and all their friends.   This was the most successful in the series at the box-office and you can see why.  It is a pure popcorn movie, complete with the big soundtrack and high death-count; but also packed full of great one-liners.  Helmer Renny Harlin said that he saw Freddy as the James Bond of horror and obviously wanted him to live up to this by having a payoff line after every murder.   The acting and story shift down a gear, but the entertainment shifts up and its nice to see a return to the suburbs.  This is sort of an interesting article to what teenage films in the eighties were; it mixes the horror, high-school, sketchpad characterisations and cheese-laden music that made the decade memorable.  I watch this film because it is like visiting a safe place from childhood, which I guess shows the weakness of the horror at this point in the series.   "},{"Title":"lacking in substance but good enough","Date":"23 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This was my 3 fav. in the series. Most already know the storyline so i'll get to my reveiw. The characters were not at all interesting, besides the original elm street kids from the previous sequel. Tuesday knight and Lisa Wilcox save the show. Freddy has too many one-liners. Relys to much on spec.f/x, meaning this is brain candy. the ending as great, they should have stopped here. The elm street house, kristens house, basement, and anything else from the previous sequels aren't involved making this lack in substance. The elm street house is way different and bigger. Besides that this is decent.  "},{"Title":"Best","Date":"18 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Personally i think this is the best film out of the Nightmare on Elm street series maybe because it is easy to relate to the characters. Lisa Wilcox who plays Alice gives a great performance!The special fx are very good and lifelike. Kristen's death is very disturbing as when we see her trying to stay awake we know that her fate will be death Definitely the best n-o-elm st film. "},{"Title":"Were on earth is Patricia Arquette?!?!?!","Date":"22 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is a good movie,its got great music,and speacial effects.But the character Kristen Parker is played by some girl named Tuesday Knight,she is supposed to be played by Patricia Arquette like in the one just before!!!!!The character Kristen is different from the Kristen in the 3rd one.But besides that this was a really good movie,i like the beginning scene its a really cool part. "},{"Title":"I grew up on this movie","Date":"18 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is my second favourite movie in the series. With 3, being my favourite. I remember when this movie came out in 1988, My mom took me to the theatre to see it. I just love everthing about this movie. when I watch it, it brings back memories of the good old days, I remember renting this movie like every weekend when I was a kid. They just dont make movies like this anymore. I thought it was really cool how they brought back the Dream Warriors from 3, to return in this one. Kincaid is just awesome man. I thought, his character was just awesome. I did like Tuesday Knight playing Kristen, but, I wish they could have had Patrisia Arquette. I liked her better. We are also introduced to some of the series best characters in this one, Like Rick. He is so cool. I like how they had him into Karate, because when I was a kid, I was totally into all that stuff. I thought that was neat. And the best character when learnt about in this one is, Alice. Alice, In my oppion is the best Heroine in the series, I would go as far to say, that she is the best in horror all together. She is a very beautiful actress, and to this day, I dont understand why she, ( Lisa Wilcox)did not make more movies than she did. its a shame, I would have loved to see her in more movies. Now its time I think we talk about the best part of the nightmare on elm street series, and the real reason we watch these films. Freddy! I think, this is the best of Freddy's preformances. He is just great in this movie, he is great in all the movies, but, this one, I think is his the best. We see so much of him in this one. which is cool, and he kills alot more here too. theres like 6 deaths in this movie, when most of the films have, like 3 deaths. His one liners are also the best here. I just love it when he says stuff like Hows this for a wet dream ? , I wanna draw some blood, You can check in, but you cant check out, It aint Dr. suess  etc... i love thouths lines, they are classic. But my favourite one has to be, in the scene when Alices is in the class room, and Freddy walks up to Sheila, and asks Wanna Suck face ?  I laugh every time, its so funny. Freddy always says the coolest things. This movie just has it all man, so, if you wanna see old shcool horror, at its best, go rent or buy this movie. it rules!....hey, I think I'm gonna go watch it right now....  "},{"Title":"If you grew up watching these movies, you'd love them too.","Date":"3 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I love watching this movie.  I'm the first to acknowledge how cheesy it is.  In fact, I can pick out cheesy ridiculous parts better than most people I know.  Even those who aren't fans of the series.Granted, it's not scary like the first one, and doesn't really take itself seriously like the third one, but it has a personality of its own.  My favorite line from this movie and possibly from the whole series is You shouldn't have buried me, I'm not dead.  Listen, if it's Halloween or a dark rainy night and you and your friends are looking for something fun to watch... why not?   "},{"Title":"Solid Entry, but the entire series is overrated.","Date":"17 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Nightmare part 4 was actually very good, still a step down from the original but one of the better sequels, (if not the best). The characters are all well acted, with the usual cliche parts. Freddy is more comical then scary, which is one of the reasons it doesn't reach the height of the first one. The special effects were amazing though. All in all, a good sequel to a very long drawn and overrated series.(almost as overrated as the Friday the 13th series). "}{"Title":"I liked it but I'm also a fan. Possible spoilers","Date":"28 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This was a decent sequel.  There were a lot of interesting effects and some memorable one liners.  Quite a high body count and not nearly as menacing as the first three.  Some of the effects were unneccesary and were just eye candy such as the special order pizza.  I do like Lisa Wilcox as Alice and thought she made an intelligent heroine. Thankfully she replaced Kristen whose character was ruined by the replacement in this one.  My favorite scene in this one was the grotesque cockroach transformation scene with the great line YOu can check in, but you can never check out.  A lot of people hate the comical Freddy but he does actually say some funny things. "},{"Title":"Not bad, but too routine, right?","Date":"17 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  A NIGHTMARE ON ELM STREET shocked the horror industry, it revealed the scar-faced Freddy Krueger, the ghost-like demon who can enter teen's dreams at will.  Original, scary, suspenseful, mysterious, and thought provoking, with amazing special effects.  Freddy introduced a new type of a more terryifiyng monster, a killer who is not afraid to show his face and not afraid to speak to his victims.  But, in this film, the third sequel, Freddy becomes more of a lauphing stock, a stand up comedian with wisecracks and jokes spilling out of his mouth at all times.  What has he become?  It's 1988, and now the genre has been overworked.  We didn't - and dont - need another one of these somewhat plotless, violent, and stupid films.  The effects are the only aspect (along with semi-brilliant Englund) that keep this sequential sequel afloat in the great struggle to produce a good horror film.  It's okay...entertaining...but that's it... 5/10   **/****   **1/2 /***** "},{"Title":"With this, the Freddy Franchise officially disavowed any knowledge that it was supposed to be scary","Date":"8 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Campy as anything Troma ever put out, it places Freddy Kreuger in his most surreal real world setting yet, making Springwood a living piece of bubblegum.  The script gives him full pardon to do whatever he likes regardless of the bumpiness in the arc, and because of this, the horror in the movie is shot to death.  But there's something oddly addictive about this sequel.  Maybe it's my nostalgia for the ridiculous *looks* of the 80s (the clothes, the haircuts, even the set design), and maybe its the comfort I take in seeing a movie so gleefully hollow in its making.  It seems as if they were working on a budget that ranked a few thousand dollars higher than that of a BBC infomercial, and blew the healthy bulk of their load on a scant few stunts.  At times, the sound is on par with a really well done porn film, and the lost gaze in the eyes of the movie's lead, Lisa Wilcox is re-assuring that this is not much more than a bad comedy.  But it's the kind of bad that's......uh.....good.Watch this if you're an 80s nostalgic who likes to watch good bad movies.   "},{"Title":"Not as good as 1 and 3, but cool none-the-less","Date":"13 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  4th go around can't match the style and excitement that fans got with part 3, but it is still a lot of fun in it's own way. !!!SPOILERS!!! The three survivors of part 3, Kinkade, Joey, and Kristen are the last of the Elm Street kids.Unfortunately, Freddy kills them off and looks for fresh meat. He uses the dreams of Alice Johnson(Lisa Wilcox, one of the series' best heroines.)to get at her friends until she realizes what's going on and prepares for a final showdown. Good story, effects, music, and o.k. acting. ***1/2 out of *****. "},{"Title":"It doesn't manage to reach the original.","Date":"21 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  It's been a long time since I watched this movie and I can't remember many details about it but I can remember the main plot. It is not very scary, at least not as the first one and there are no interesting characters. It is based on the original story but it doesn't manage to reach it. I got a little bit bored till the end but -never mind- it wasn't as bad as part 2. Of course, I won't watch it again. Watch it only for two reasons 1) If you have decided to watch all of the series and 2) If you are a huge fan of Robert Englund (as Freddy)               (I, personally, am not) 4/10 P.S. Some special effects were completely awful and silly.  "},{"Title":"Freddy turns to comedy","Date":"13 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I liked the first nightmare movie because Freddy was a dark evil man, and even though the second movie sucked Freddy still had that scary image. The 3rd one was good and Freddy had a few good jokes but for the most part he was still dark. Now we see a Freddy Kruger meets Jim Carry and it kills Freddy's image. Sure Robert Englund is great as Freddy, but they should have kept the evil image that Wes Craven gave to the character. "},{"Title":"Wouldn't scare my grandmother","Date":"6 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Let's get this straight A Nightmare on Elm Street 4 The Dream Master is NOT a horror film but some kind of teenage comedy flick (reminds me of Scream etc.). The film was a last second product and as far as I know they didn't even have a complete screenplay. The lack of time while shooting this movie and the incomplete story are evident. Ironically, this one did better than most of the other Nightmare-films at the box office.After the enjoyably dark atmosphere of the first three Nightmare-films this one went in a new direction. Suspense and scares are non-existent. The film is (too) colorful which minimizes the suspense. The direction of Renny Harlin is pretty inventive but too restless for this kind of film and that's why the camera-movements create a feeling of rush instead of tension.The acting is below average (except for Robert Englund, of course). It seems that they had to take the first actresses and actors they met to cast the film because of the lack of time. Why else would someone engage Tuesday Knight? Beside this the plot is more like an accumulation of holes and mistakes. There are several scenes in the film where the story jumps from one point to another without anything connecting the two situations.Not everything is bad in this movie though. The special effects are (once again) outstanding and also different from the effects that can be seen in the other Nightmare-movies. Freddy's killing methods are pretty inventive too. The whole film is entertaining but not at all scary.If you want to kill time then you might like it, if not avoid. Just know what to except.My rating 5/10 "},{"Title":"Fun and my favourite of the series.","Date":"14 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this movie 5 or 6 years ago when I was 12. Back then I really liked this movie and it was my favourite of the series. I couldn't remember much of the movie so I decided to rent it last week.After watching the first few minutes I was a little disappointed by the bad acting (especially by Tuesday Knight) and the fact that most of the actors looked way too 'eighties', but after 20 minutes or so, after the 3 worst actors were killed (Joey, Kincaid and Kirsten) the movie really started to look like how I used to remember it.I really like this movie. The acting might not be oscar-worthy, but it was much better then most horrormovies from that time. Besides I didn't rent this movie for the acting, but to watch Freddy kill people in various 'fun'ways, which he did, and to kill my spare time, which the movie did too. Lisa Wilcox is great as Alice and the showdown between here and Freddy at the end of the movie is still one of the most amusing scenes I've ever seen in a horror-movie.It might be different compared to the first in the series, but that doesn't make NOES4 a bad movie, that just makes it a different movie. This one has a lot more humor than the first, it's more colorful and the murders have a different style (girl transforms into a bug for example), but I had a very fun time watching it. I much rather have a bad sequel(which this movie is NOT!) than no sequel, so I think everybody should stop complaining.I was afraid the movie would disappoint me after reading all the bad reviews here at the IMDB, but I'm glad it didn't. The movie was exactly like I remembered it Fun, and my favourite of the series.Bad things  *  Patricia Arquette didn't play Alice  *  Tuesday Knight  * Those ugly 80's-haircutsGood things  *  Good special effects  *  Lisa Wilcox  *  Girl transforms into a bug  *  The showdown between Alice and Freddy  *  Freddy Krueger (duh!)I rate this movie 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Following A Classic Is Hard To Do.","Date":"11 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  As much as I dislike sequels, I have to admit I loved Part III Dream Warriors, and think of it as the best in the series.So how do you follow up something that is regarded as a classic?  Just carry it on I suppose.  Luckily they got some of the previous cast in Dream Warriors and had them in this one.  The neat part of this story is the slight comparisons to Alice in Wonderland.  Freddy of course needs new children to kill.  As was established in previous films, he finds an Elm street child to get them for him.  Alice, the unwilling recipient of this honour is terrified that she is practically killing off her friends by pulling them in to her dreams.  At first, she looks tired and scared like other teens in the previous films.  But something changes in her after each friend of hers that Freddy kills.Eventually this leads to a pretty good showdown.  I like this movie.  If they have to do yet another sequel, this one was good.   "},{"Title":"Eventful!","Date":"21 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is a very exciting, hilarious and eventful Freddy movie. Picking up where Nightmare 3 left off, Freddy returns from the grave, after a dog pisses fire around the area. Which is a very funny scene. After Freddy returns from the grave, he takes out Kincaid, one of Nightmare 3's survivors. Then Joey, and then Kristen. The new characters must battle Freddy, before he takes 'em all out one by one. Wonderful photography. Wonderful beginning. Wonderful ending. However, there's just something I like about some of others better. Here's how I rank the Nightmare On Elm Street series, from greatest to least 1,2,6,7,3,4,5.  "}{"Title":"Better than given credit for.","Date":"1 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Not exactly in the majority here, but I thought this installment was pretty cool. The acting was better, the characters were funnier, and best of all, the series took a much needed change of direction. After all, they could not go on making the same type of movie over and over again, so the change of pace was a nice touch. Horror movies suck by rule, but if they have a little imagination, mixed in with some humor and suspense, they can be very good (see Scream and the Shining). True, this movie was not all that scary or suspenseful, but I thought it was funny and creative. I especially liked the introduction of the running on a loop scene where the characters find themselves replaying the same scene over and over while their friend is being murdered (also done in part 6). Overall, not a historical landmark as was the first Nightmare, but at least better than the second and very, very last one (New Nightmare). I give it a 7/10 "},{"Title":"Best of the Series","Date":"30 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Nightmare 4 is my favorite of the series (not including New Nightmare) for several reasons. Not only did it take the series in a new direction that was fresh, but it gave a good foil to Freddy.  Lisa Wilcox gives an admirable performance as the Dream Master who takes on the powers, Mega-Man style, of all the kids Freddy has killed.  She's also damn hot.Renny Harlin also does a good job directing, using his style to inject some much needed life into an aging concept.  All of the acting is a step up from previous efforts, and the special effects are no longer laughable.  Freddy has become more of a cartoon character at this point, but giving him an interesting opponent helps to counteract this trend.All in all, this is my favorite of the Nightmares.  Although the series is really starting to show its age, this movie entertains from the beginning to the end. "},{"Title":"How Sweet...Fresh Meat!!","Date":"26 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Wow!What a great sequel to the already good part 3. I wasnt expecting this film to be good,but i was wrong..So wrong.This film is extremely underrated.The acting was fair by the whole cast,except Lisa wilcox (Alice) who stood out from the crowd.Its nice to see a return from Joey and KayKayne,but their isnt much good news for them.Part 4 had Excellent special FX,for its time it was excellent.This film was the biggest budget for the Nightmare films,although not the best,its in the top 3.There is humour to this...Which isnt SUCH a let down,i think Freddy was fairly hilarious in this,i didnt mind,it was a little change,but i am angry they continued this for the rest of the sequels.After this all the sequels went downhill so quickly.I recommend you watch part 4,it has very great death scenes,very different ones,characters that you can adapt to amongst many other films..Is it as good as part 3????YES it is...I rated this film 7.5 / 10 ***1/2 / *****Bad points of this film-- Too much humour,Too colorful for a horror film.Good points for this film--Excellent special FX,great death scenes. "},{"Title":"GOOD","Date":"19 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  part 4 is good, Freddy gets rid of the last of the elm street kids and Kristen brings her friend Alice (Lisa Wilcox) into her dreams and now Freddy uses her to get at all her friend and her brother. No one believes Alice until its too late for them and she has to fight Freddy. Good Special Effects, the ending is very good in the church. some of the diolog is funny. its a good movie worth the time and money! "},{"Title":"This is the one when they started getting very bad...","Date":"7 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  A good series gone down the drain. The first three were wonderful, scary movies with good ideas. This one started a bad mess. This movie should have been Freddy's Dead (the only good one after Number 4) Patricia Arquette refused to come back and play her role again and it is now being played by the very, very, very BAD Tuesday Knight (are you sure she isn't a porn star?) The film has a poor script, bad directing, and everything. The film was filmed a little too colorful for a movie about teens being brutally murdered. And they never should have given Freddy comic lines. You just can't be funny when your killing someone. Think of this movie as Cinderfella, with Jerry Lewis wearing a razor blade glove slashing people in half. 2 out of 10 "},{"Title":"THE DREAM NIGHTMARE MOVIE!","Date":"1 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I don't care what anyone says. NIGHTMARE ON ELM STREET 4 THE DREAM MASTER is by far the most solid and best entry in the Freddy Krueger series! What would you expect since this movie was co-written by Brian Helgeland..who went on to do L.A. CONFIDENTIAL. It isn't the least bit scary, in fact I've seen Pauly Shore movies scarier than this..but that wasn't the point of this movie which was made back in 1988 by director Renny Harlin years before he did his other horror movie, CUTTHROAT ISLAND.  Freddy Krueger became pop-culture icon by this outing, so he wasn't really scary. He was Jerry Lewis with really bad burn marks.  Anyway, the special effects in this movie are beyond cool....I loved how Freddy died at the end. The special effects and makeup effects show pure showmanship.  This should have been the FINAL NIGHTMARE, not that 1991 sequel that was so vomit-inducingly bad the horribleness of the movie jumped right out at you in a 10-minute 3-D sequence. This movie has a cool storyline..and I love how the people die in the movie. My favorite actress from that Growing Pains spinoff JUST THE TEN OF US is cool in this movie...The heroine, Alice, played by too underrated for words actress Lisa Wilcox, is the true epitome of girl power. She's ten times stronger than Nancy in the first one, but she has much nicer hair than Heather Langkenkamp. I think its better than the original. The first NIGHTMARE's concept was a little preposterous and this movie took it to a new level and gave it a fun, campy feel.  See this movie...its a nice slasher movie to watch on a Friday night and you can't go wrong with FREDDY...!  "},{"Title":"Should've let die with number 3","Date":"16 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is really bad. Not as bad as number 2, but bad enough.  1) How many only ways are there to destroy Freddy? 2) Was this supposed to be a horror film? 3) When did Freddy take martial arts? 4) Did makers of this movie learn from pt2; that when you dont have Wes Craven,  you dont have A Nightmare on Elm Street, but, a nightmare at the box office? "},{"Title":"A wonderful follow up...","Date":"14 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I see the Nightmare On Elm Street series getting dumped on a lot now, because that blasphemous horror wannabe, Scream, but this film was not only good in my opinion, but even the creator of the original said he liked it and respected the work director Renny Harlin did for the film.As Craven has explained, Elm Street is a dark fantasy and I think the Dream Master fits that description perfectly. The elaborate death sequences are very creative, though I've never found the high point of any horror film to be its deaths. Elm Street 4 has a very surreal, dream-state atmosphere. Another interesting aspect is the slow change in character of lead role Alice Johnson, wonderfully played by Lisa Wilcox. Her change from weak and negative, to very strong and positive is wondeful when it all comes together for the showdown between Alice and Freddy.And Robert Englund was SPECTACULAR. As villains go, horror or otherwise, certainly Freddy beats them all. He makes you hate him, but when the movie's over, the only quotes you can remember are his. Top-notch acting by Englund. And as for those who whine about Fred joking to much and not being scary...Um, he made jokes in the original, it's part of his nothing-gets-to-me-cause-I-can't-f'n-die attitude.  "},{"Title":"a medicore chapter in the elm st series","Date":"9 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  After the sucess of NOES 1 and 3 i had my doubts that the series could continue to have a blend of darkness,humor and suspense. For the most part i was right as Robert Englund who as usual is top notch as freddy plays more of a joketeller then an evil child murderer.The special affects are nice to look at but things like plot and characters are for the most part thrown on the curb.The thin plot serves only as something to make the special affects make sense.The characters are very annoying with the exception of singer/actress Tuesday Knight who had a big role to fill which she did very well despite her small roll. Lisa Wilcox shines as Alice the girl who is taunted by freddy Wilcox brings a very pleasing form to the film and is easily one of the best Nightmare girls.If your an elm st fan as i am this movie may not be the best of the series but its still worth a watch. BEWARE THE ONION CHILDREN!!!!!! gothglam "},{"Title":"Unique and sedate concept.)","Date":"2 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This film had a great concept.  Director Renny Harlin(Cliffhanger, A Long Kiss Goodnight, NEW Deep Blue Sea) does a great job of directing from the beginning scene w/ the chalk and great 80's music to Alice fighting for good at the end.  Watching her suit up for a Halloween H20 (Steve Miner) themed good against evil ending is great.  She is a strong character who you learn to love.  Granted Craven's work on #1, 3, and Wes Craven's New Nightmare doesn't compare to original premise this develops its own unique identity and sedate dream sequences where once again you find yourself in front of 1428 Elm Street. "}{"Title":"Great Film","Date":"11 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This Film is one of the best the best Elm Street movies I have ever seen. Robert Englund portray's Freddy Kruger in this 4th installment.  I found the acting to be alright, I mean with the exception of Brooke Theiss, everyone else were new comers generally.  The effects were great.  Lisa Wilcox shines as Freddy's latest antagonist, and we can only hope Lisa Wilcox will be in the upcoming Freddy vs Jason movie. I would have to say if you have money to spend 1st give it to me then buy the movie.  You will not be disappointed. "},{"Title":"The best of the series!!!!!!","Date":"5 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  A nightmare on elm street 4 The Dream Master is so cool! i was bored one night and decided to watch it and what a surprise i got! so the acting isn't crash hot but Andras Jones (Rick) and Danny Hassell (Dan) make it all worth it. i especially liked the intervention of Alice's character as it must have been really hard to pick up where number three left off. The F/X are awesome and Freddy is at his wisecracking best. Although this movie takes a different direction than the previous ones i like its slightly less darker attitude and the fact that it's based at the high school, and doesn't have too much time devoted to the parents (as was did in no. 1) The return of Joey and Kincaid  was a treat although they followed in traditional horror movie tradition by dying in the first five minutes. Overall i recommend this movie to absolutely EVERYONE!!!!! "},{"Title":"The best of the Elm Street movies!!!!","Date":"31 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  With the great cast and cool effects and Robert's performance makes this the best of the Elm Streets. The music is cool and still cutting edge today and with many horror films out forget them and spend that 10 bucks to rent this and buy some snacks and watch what is the best of one of the 2 most popular movie series of all time. With Freddy vs Jason coming out we can all hope that Lisa Wilcox who plays Alice will return for the best horror movie of them all, but for now see A Nightmare on Elm Street 4 The Dream Master!!!!  "},{"Title":"Kinda cruddy.","Date":"7 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  One of the problems the Nightmare series has is its ambiguity regarding the rules that Freddy plays by. It's not like the Friday the 13th movies where no one ever concerns themselves with how to kill Jason because up until the last five minutes or so of the movie, teens are still being killed.Let's look at how Freddy was dealt with in the previous films.#1. Nightmare on Elm Street -- Here Nancy mumbles some stuff about how dreams aren't reality and can be controlled. Her plan was to pull Freddy into reality where he could be killed in the flesh. At this early point in his career Wes Craven enjoyed the normal people fight back against the bad guys theme. You can see examples of this in both Last House on the Left and The Hills have Eyes. So I look at the conclusion of this film as simply the director going back to the same well for ideas, and is not particully interested in how Freddy might come back.#2. Freddy's Revenge -- Kind of the same idea as the last film, except since Freddy was inhabiting the body of the protagonist, the lovely Kim Meyers had to find some way of forcing Freddy's evil spirit out by reaching the human side of the poor lad.#3. Dream Warriors -- Here's where the rules get laid down. Using Nancy's dream control theory, the characters find a way to give themselves powers in Freddy's dream world. Also, we find out that to be destroyed forever, Freddy's bones must be given a proper burial.So that takes us to this chapter which seems to exist only for marketing purposes. No real reason is given for Freddy's return, and the storyline is more of a fragmented series of sections where Freedy offs the uninteresting teens than a conventional narrative. This disjointed storytelling technique almost works. There is a scene where the two main characters rushing to save a friend find themselves caught in a sort of time loop. In a way, the viewer almost feels the same way while watching this, as the lack of a storyline gives the movie a dream-like feel where anything could happen.But since any producer wanting to make money could resurrect Freddy, it sort of makes this whole film seem pointless.The sub-par special effects don't help much either, although a sequence where a character turns into a cockroach is interesting.Personally, I would recommend going right to #5 since the direction is better. Go ahead, it's usually right next to #4 on the video store shelf. "},{"Title":"Unwatchable junk","Date":"23 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is a sick atempt to make a good movie. The deaths are stupid, the actors and actresses can't act and the movie is bad. The pizza? The bug death? Don't waste your time with this crap movie.  "},{"Title":"Excellent sequel","Date":"17 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is one of the nightmare's I really liked.  I loved all the new characters, and the plot.  It shows that it is possible to follow a great movie, Nightmare 3, with another sequel.  "},{"Title":"Not bad, but the ending","Date":"10 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I would not consider this fourth Nightmare to be so much worse than its predecessors. I mean, the story is good, acting even in minor roles is quite satisfactory /I loved Brook Theiss as Debbie/ and Freddy`s new image or new behavior concerning his victims is quite funny sometimes /I laughed at the beach dream scene, the sun glasses went with Fred quite well/. Why shouldn`t Freddy be sometimes entertaining?The special effects are really up-to-date /watch out for the Freddy`s resurrection from the grave amidst the wrecked cars!/,  however, the logic of the plot is not perfect. Who brought Freddy again alive? The dog? Was it only in a dream or in reality? In the previous parts the plots were sort of heading for Freddy`s defeat, surrender or death. In this one we do not know how the last surviving heroine wants to beat Freddy until the very scene with the little girls` advice in the church. Therefore, it is not so thrilling and understandable.  "},{"Title":"This film was an outstanding addition to the Elm Street series.","Date":"7 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This film was an excellent addition to the Elm Street series.  The special effects were outstanding and the acting was superb.  Newcomer Lisa Wilcox was a great choice for the enemy of Freddy Kruger.  I give this film two thumbs up and wholeheartedly recommend this film to any fan of the horror movie genre. "},{"Title":"Listen very closely...","Date":"21 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" ...you can hear the chords of Psycho's shower scene as New Line stick a big sharp knife in the Nightmare licence.Let's get one thing straight, Renny Harlin can put in a half decent turn as an action director (Die Hard 2, Long Kiss Goodnight) but he IS NOT a horror director. Watch and you'll not be scared because there's nothing to be scared of. Sure the visual effects are even more impressive than last time but it all plays out like a Freddy music video instead of a horror movie. There is no tension or atmosphere at all. Even in the final showdown, Harlin can't resist putting in a physical fight scene between Alice and Freddy.Would've been second worse in the series if not for 'Freddy's Dead'  "},{"Title":"NIGHTMARE 4","Date":"6 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  A Nightmare on Elm Street 4 The Dream Master is a film I rather liked. Sure, it trades the dark, disturbing format of the first three films for a lighter, more colorful approach but as least it has a good story.  I loved watching the path of young Alice (played by a great actress named Lisa Wilcox) as she went from a tepid school-girl to a Ripley-like butt-kicker.Set back at the old high school, the film takes out the fantasy gore and replaces it with special-effects that are both gross and silly.  The result a pop-culture cartoon full of bright, dazzling visuals.  If you like Freddy as he might be seen by the South Park kids, you'd probably like this fourth installment. "}{"Title":"A departure from the first 3 (read - not as good).","Date":"6 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Definitely a completely different film to the previous ones, delivering a different kind of Freddy - one that kills in a creative fashion after playing with his victims for a little while. It makes him seem more cruel, and is quite hard to sit back and watch the cruelty.I disliked the absence of Patricia Arquette and Heather Langenkamp, since they were the life of the series up until now. The acting isn't crash hot from the newbies, but they try hard.Overall, I think the series has gone too far at this point, and is starting to get quite boring. Quit now, or perhaps bring back the legendary Wes Craven, which thank god someone eventually did about 6 years later. "},{"Title":"Hugely Popular Entry In the Series","Date":"21 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" A Nightmare on Elm Street Part 4 The Dream Master is a little too formulamatic for it's own good. Standard slasher movie conventions dictate the surviving characters from the previous film return to be picked off which is the case here. And the characters in the A Nightmare on Elm Street films take second place to the (often spectacular) special effect set pieces which will ultimately spell their demise. To it's credit The Dream Master isn't a bad film. Director Renny 'Die Hard 2' Harlin keeps the action flowing with some inventive set pieces and Robert Englund (who by now could do this in his sleep) camps it up for laughs when the material can't deliver the scares horror fans expect. Followed by A Nightmare on Elm Street Part 5 The Dream Child. "},{"Title":"The 2nd Best Sequel In The Series!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"17 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" After the previous installment Nightmare 3 that i ended up really enjoying. Which by the way i didn't like that they killed off Nancy and her father. I thought they should make another great sequel. And they did but this ended up being the last great sequel before the disappointing installments that followed after and i'm only referring to The Dream Child and Freddy's Dead that were disappointments. There never was a great sequel after Nightmare 4 until New Nightmare which isn't really considered a sequel. But this one brings back three survivors from the previous film and they ended up being the first three people to die in the film. And once again Robert Englund reprises his role as Freddy Krueger. I didn't like the replacement of Patricia Arquette too much because she just wasn't Patricia but she did do good as Kristen but not as good as Patricia. As you must know Lisa Wilcox is hot as Alice Johnson a little later in the film but not at first. She's even hot in the next installment The Dream Child. This is one of my favorites of the series and is definitely a must own for horror fans. "},{"Title":"Did enough to keep me awake.","Date":"29 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Freddy's back to slog it out&#x85; again. The fourth installment in the series would be the one where it exploded at the box-office and would go on to cement Freddy Krueger as a house-hold horror icon and film's asset of being the major star. New Line Cinema must have seen something in it, to heavily back this addition (easily outdoing the first three in production quality) because it was well produced. As for the 'Elm Street' series, I didn't really care much for it. The first film was great, but the rest didn't strike up much. However out of the sequels I would probably favour this one, just over 'Part 3 The Dream Warriors'. And part 4 pretty much continues on from the last sequel having the remaining survivors (and some fresh meat) encountering Freddy.At the director's helm is Renny Harlin, just starting a career in feature length presentations. He brings to the project a rather polished touch to his stylish scope in what is a visually gimmicky, fast moving and almost 80's jukebox enterprise. There's a large-scale feel to it being pumped with colorful atmospherics (imaginative dreams and silly deaths) and an onslaught of outrageously crude rubber special effects, as the story plays second fiddle to it's erratic clip-by-clip structure. Nonetheless it's an original concept tacked on to a well-worn and at times daft nightmare ride, but the developments within the first hour is quite unpredictable (even with some pushy sap moments). It's too bad after that the characters we are left with, aren't as interesting to completely carry it through and the anti-climatic end feels all too easy. Here the humour is more so in-your-face with the bloated script spitting plenty of coarse tongue-in-cheek one-liners. Did it go overboard? Craig Safan's airily eerie score along with the swirling camera-work are well-delivered. Performances are carried off with a certain likability led by the return of Ken Saygoes and Rodney Eastman. Patricia Arquette doesn't, but the beautiful Tuesday Knight plays the character. A pleasant Lisa Wilcox plays opposite to Knight with fun support chipping from Andras Jones, Brooke Theiss, Danny Hassle and Toy Newkirk. The menace was starting to wear off, but Robert Englund remains entreatingly snappy as Krueger. "},{"Title":"Not good, bit of a disappointment","Date":"11 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" How many movie-sequels of this are they going to make? It seams the only decent one was the third one! After three the more they went on, the crappier they got.I only really watched this instalment to the series to see what happened after the events of the third one. Like it was with five and the petty attempt at the sixth one, yet again, this was a disappointment.This one was the beginning of how crap they started to be. In itself, this sequel was a bit of a downer to the franchise that didn't need to be made, just like the ones after it (5,6,7).The story-line was a bit flat, and the characters from the last one also shouldn't have died so easily in this once. What didn't make sense was that Kirsten was played by a different actress! The whole thing seemed really over-the-top and doesn't pay any respect to the first at-all, and also seems much more exaggerated. It also had absolutely no relation to how Wes Craven fantastically created his first one. In the first one, the whole movie seemed much more sinister. But in this one, it was straight away Freddy's coming back from the beginning. This film was the start of spoiling the elements the first and third one had.Also the ending was too corny and cheesy, which just didn't suit this poor sequel. At the end, it seems that she finally defeats Freddy, but then we see him again. This just leaves an open-end for yet another poor-excuse of a film-sequel to be made. It just gets really boring and repetitive.Really, none of the sequels should have been made, except for the third one. It should have just been that the first one ended how Wes Craven intended to end, with a happy ending so none of these could have ever been made! Or, the way it ended and the third one following it.Summary At the end of the day, it seems to me that four, five and especially six, were just made purely for profit. The series is ruining itself with all these pathetic-attempts at so-called sequels.Just like the fifth and sixth ones, please don't waste your time seeing this mediocre film. "},{"Title":"Tired, oh so very Tired!","Date":"14 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" After huge success with the first outing, Wes Craven tried to correct the wrongs of Freddy's Revenge with A Nightmare on Elm Street 3, and he made no mistake about ensuring he killed Freddy and left him buried for good.For some reason (Almost Certainly Money) Renny Harlin (Director) and William Kotzwinkle (Writer) decided to resurrect him again claiming 'Pure Evil Never Really Dies'A Nightmare on Elm Street 4 - The Dream Master is an unnecessary sequel that is clearly milking the success of the franchise. Kristen Parker once again takes the lead (but Miss Arquette no longer plays the character) Freddy is once again funnier than he is scary, as with all the non Wes Craven episodes, and its pretty much more of the same with less story than before, and the odd decent death scene.5/10 Freddy is still cool, even if the movie isn't "},{"Title":"Alright horror movie but definitely not as good as the first!","Date":"24 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Rated R for Violence,Language and Brief Nudity.I saw the first nightmare on elm street film yesterday and was completely blown away! The first film was awesome! The greatest horror film of the 1980's and one of the greatest horror films of all time in my opinion!.I saw Nightmare On Elm Street 2 a while ago so I cant really remember much about it.I have not seen Nightmare On Elm Street 3 but I really want to now.So I skipped right ahead to four.Unlike the first film which was pure horror with maybe 1 small humorous scene, this film is basically a horror/comedy with Freddy being the wise-cracking humorous villain that we all know.I heard the comedy started with the third film.I also heard that the film New Nightmare goes back to being a horror film.Anyway in this film, a girl has the power to bring people into her dreams.Apparently they killed Freddy in the third film but now he comes back and kills them all one by one.So its basically up to the teenagers who have not been killed yet to try and stop him.The plots of the films are basically the same but the films are still entertaining and fun to watch! NIghtmare On Elm Street 4 is a fairly decent comedy/horror film. "},{"Title":"Master of a disaster...","Date":"1 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This time Freddy returns thanks to a dog who couldn't find a hydrant, to this time wipe out the original kids on Elm Street and the new ones who currently dwell on that god forsaken street. (Why do these people keep buying houses there?) However this time Freddy meets his match against The Dream Master who can manipulate her dreams. I remember seeing # 3 and saying that if I could have a dream power to take out Freddy I'd be an expert in martial arts of course back when you're 13 you often talk about the dumbest thing with your friends, so then the next year when Nightmare # 4 came out there was indeed a martial artist but the potential for such a sequence goes unrealized, that aside the movie is too tongue in cheek. Freddy has lost all of his edge and the killings have gone from surreal and suspenseful to just plain silly. Indeed the movie knows that because of the pop culture phenomenon that the public stopped buying into Freddy as being genuinely scary (That is unless you are 7 years old) and so they just try to make it comic. I for one wasn't buying and given the rating neither was anyone else. However there are a couple inspired moments, as I said the climax is fun and there is an amusing sequence with pizza but because the movie is now written strictly to genre formula we basically sit and watch as teenagers get slaughtered one by one. The only suspense being not whether various characters will die but how. In other words it became repetitive and dull.*1/2 out 4-(Poor) "},{"Title":"Terrible writing, but director Harlin at least makes it look pretty darn cool","Date":"3 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" * ½ And it barely got that many stars.Freddy is revived by flaming dog urine. He decides to kill the three remaining Elm Street children, and then go on to new prey. His choices are Alice Johnson (Lisa Wilcox), her friends (Danny Hassle, Toy Newkirk, Brooke Theiss) and brother (Andras Jones). However, Alice was given the powers of the (temporarily) surviving girl from part 3, so she has a chance of beating Freddy! &#133; flaming dog urine? Seriously? Sadly, yes. In fact, I probably don't even need to say much beyond that. However, I'll be at least somewhat more specific.Although how you get any more specific than flaming dog urine&#133; Obviously, this movie is not a particularly smart film. In fact, to be perfectly honest, it's just plain stupid. The flaming dog urine is just the beginning. From the beginning to the end, the ideas and writing are truly awful. And not just unintelligent. The characters are totally one-dimensional. Of course, if the actors had at least had a little bit of charisma, they could have overcome this at least enough for us to be somehow remotely interested in what was going on. However, they're almost all not only completely wooden, but lack even the slightest bit of charm. Jones does have charisma and acting ability. Consequently, his role is brutally underwritten and he dies far too early in the film.Of course, Englund isn't wooden, but he's barely given anything to do. Pretty much the only thing he is allowed to do is toss out lame wisecracks.Now, all this crap is well filmed. Director Renny Harlin isn't incompetent. Visually, the movie looks very cool. Not creepy, per se, but definitely cool. The few halfway decent ideas in the script come across well. There is one scene that is incredibly effective due to Harlin's direction the scene where a girl is tricked into having a sleeping pill and trying desperately to call her friend before she goes. He doesn't actually manage to create a sense of fear, but he does manage to make it look good and occasionally makes it kind of suspenseful. He also sneaks in a few eerie moments.And the special effects are very good. The giant fly bit is very convincing and gross, albeit a dumb idea in the first place. The final visuals of the souls in Freddy's body trying to escape are very convincing.But neither Harlin nor his f/x technicians can make up for the junk they've been given. The series started out promisingly. The first one was a classic horror film. The third was a pretty enjoyable fantasy film. Even the second one at least showed signs of life and sparked some interest. But when this one came around, something was clearly missing. Now, it was only for money. No more imagination, no more terror. Just kill teenagers and toss visuals up on the screen. At least Harlin knows how to do that competently. "},{"Title":"Quite dumb","Date":"23 October 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This is, in my opinion, the weakest part of the Nightmare series. And I'll tell you why. The third part was very good and ended very well but this film actually ruins it. Freddy is back (I didn't really understand how) and starts slaughtering kids again. There is a new main character who fights him, a girl named Alice, who has the power of a Dream Master - how it is also not clear. The murders... the murders in this film are OK, but nothing special, the only really gorgeous moment was SPOILERwhen Freddy puts goggles on a beach.END OF SPOILER Overall, a disappointing part in the series. "}{"Title":"Freddy Krueger superstar","Date":"1 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" One thing I noticed about this 4th part in the series is that for the first time, they credit Robert Englund first. It used to be and Robert Englund as Freddy Krueger, but now it's obvious that Freddy Krueger is a huge pop-icon and they started crediting Robert Englund in Nightmare on elm street 4. Quite a big difference, actually. Because now instead of cheering on the kids to defeat Freddy, we cheer on Freddy and want to see some kids get slaughtered. And believe me, the movie does not disappoint in that area.This is probably the goriest of all 7 movies. In one scene, Freddy transforms a girl into a cockroach. In another, he literally sucks the life out of a girl. It still has the same imagination as part 3, but the plot about Freddy getting the kids' souls and the technicalities he goes through to kill more kids gets a bit too far-fetched. But other than that, it has some good characters and of course, deaths. It's the one Freddy movie that I feel is in the middle of the pack. It's better than some movies in the series, but not as good as some of the others. If you're looking for a good body count, The Dream Master delivers.My Rating 6/10 "},{"Title":"LONG LIVE THE COCKROACH!!!","Date":"10 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  NOES &#150; The Dream Master is another horror movie sequel with little interest! Although entertaining it brings nothing refreshing to the series and suffers from a serious lack of imagination in the plot! The acting is standard for the genre, meaning bad! Patricia Arquette is gone and while Tuesday Knight does her best, the character and the movie suffers greatly from her absence! Tuesday was not the most talented actress around and in most scenes she overacts as a result of her insecurity i suspect! And the rest of the supporting cast was even worse! But hey, it´s horror! Lisa Wilcox is from the first scene obviously the only `real' actress in the movie! She brings a powerful intensity to Alice and shapes her personality, giving her such authenticity   that the audience is immediately attracted to her! From the beginning she carries the picture and holds the viewers attention when the script doesn't! She has class, beauty and a discrete sensuality!The direction of Renny Harlin is solid, entertaining and imaginative! Harlin takes great advantage from the suspense and shoots Kruger just the right way, letting his charisma and coolness transpire every time he's on screen!He manages to create a terrifying atmosphere with a feeling of threat and anxiety throughout the movie! The problem with this sequel lies on the script! The deaths are quite `entertaining' but that's about it!Freddy's black humor is legendary! But as all good things, shouldn't be used in excess! Whenever he's on screen Freddy delivers a funny, smart line while killing his victims! And even if most lines are great, it just gets old after a while! Then we have the weak story! The first act of the movie is used to tie the loose ends from `Dream Warriors'! Then we spend a painful second act repeating the same old routine we've seen again and again! Alice warns everybody its Kruger, nobody believes, kids are dropping like flies, Alice keeps telling what's going on but still no one takes her seriously, etc etc etc! You get the idea! In the third act we get the usual final confrontation! Kruger is defeated in a pretty stupid and confusing way and the movie ends! Yes, his death is pretty amazing, great FX but there's no real explanation to how Alice kills him! Maybe its ok since we also have no clue as to why Kruger comes back so&#133;The time between deaths passes very slowly and sometimes the movie just gets too boring because there's no character development and the Dream Master idea is not expanded at all! The soundtrack with its obvious 80´s feeling but already combined with some early 90´s flavor helps but isn't enough to make things interesting!There's nothing exciting, no fresh ideas at all! It's just waiting for Freddy to kill! Its like they didn't even try to have a story!Dream Master is not even close to the original and miles away from the third part! Overall this is a somewhat dull picture, with some cool FX, original deaths a good direction but really bad acting!   The Kruger story gets a new angle since the script finishes the elm street kids story, but basically it's all the same death and mayhem with no substance at all!Only worth for Lisa Wilcox and the disgusting but great cockroach scene!It's not all bad and if you're a Kruger fan you'll still enjoy it! But in conclusion it's a disappointing sequel!  "},{"Title":"One of the weaker sequels, but still worth watching","Date":"7 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Freddy Krueger/Robert Englund is always worth watching, so I don't dismiss any of the Nightmare films as bad, but I found this one to only be slightly above average.  There are no really memorable nightmare sequences, though the w*t dream scene is quite nifty.  Gratuitous female n*dity always helps.  But the story is pretty flat and so are the characters.  Altogether, this is no clunker, but next to Nightmare 5 this is the weakest in the series.  My score  6 (out of 10)          "},{"Title":"started heading downhill...","Date":"18 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  When you've got a monster franchise (about a monster) you gotta keep it going however you can.  They find a rather silly way in this fourth installment of the Freddy series.  With all the original kids dead of the parents that torched Englund, they cook up a far-fetched way of getting him new victims.  The Kristen character from part 3 (Knight, pinch-hitting for Patricia Arquette), is in the middle of being offed.  In a shabbily directed sequence, she drags Wilcox into her nightmare to transfer her dream powers of being able to bring people in.  There's a dopey student film type Take my power! line of echoing dialogue, a thrust of a hand, and lasers fly about.  Wilcox is now the new foe for Freddy, but before she can learn how to use her abilities, lots of her friends are knocked off in gross ways.  And that's one of the oddities of the film; only two of the bunch of victims is actually killed with the glove.  Eastman is drowned, Knight is burned, and in one of the most disgusting deaths in any movie, Theiss gets her arms busted in half and turns into a cockroach!!!  And as others always mention, the idiotic dog pee moment for Freddy's resurrection.  As with part 3, Englund is constantly spouting one-liners, but his joke writer this time around is only halfway effective.  The finale may be the best of the sequels (and most elaborate of the series), but suffers from a little too much macho.  The filmmakers turn Wilcox (who is great as the gorgeous Alice), into an overly confidant bad-ass for the final battle, which makes you just roll your eyes.  Halfway smirks at the camera with lines like F*ckin' A! or Rest in hell, plus dramatic offerings of You're dead, Krueger!  But it's somewhat forgotten as Freddy gets his worst death of any of the films, as the rubbery make-up is stretched every which way from his head, stomach, arms, you name it.  The total film is not awful, but not great either.  It'll pass the time every now and then when you dig it up. "},{"Title":"Huge disappointment (some spoilers)","Date":"7 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Part 3 of the series was a very good finale . The trilogy had come to the right end with a satisfying way to kill Fred Krueger and some brave kids who managed to survive through massive hypnosis . But NOOOOOOOO ! New Line could not resist the temptation of bleeding the suckers dry so they had to spawn another sequel for the obsessed consumers . I would not complain if it was a good movie . But it wasn't . I don 't care if it made more money . It sucked .First of all it is not a movie , it is an excuse for a movie. Before I say anything else the way Krueger is resurrected is ludicrous. A dog p***es fire on his bones !! (pyroureasis) PARDON ????? What is this ? Is it a paganistic symbol of some kind ? A spiritual ceremony ? Personally I have never heard of such a thing . If someone of you readers knows something please e-mail me . Then we have the survivors of part 3 losing all their depth and becoming one dimensional characters . The same goes for the rest of the heroes . Some of the SFX are nice (but other stink) but the lack of plot in this sorry story is beyond obvious . This is not a movie this is a video game. The victums are now more than helpless and they have no way to defend their lives . Freddy appears in only ONE dream , manifests their worst fear and kills them . The bad guy is the hero in this video game!!! That is already a very negative sign . The only one who survives more than one encounters is Alice (Lisa Wilcox). Unfortunately some of the SFX are pure c**p . A person transformed to an insect ??? A pizza with faces of souls ??? COME OOOOOONNNN !!! As for the idea of time loop was clever but utterly underused . The finale unfortunately was not suspenseful . The acting is wooden (but we shouldn 't be expecting much from a horror film) . Alice is very disappointing . She is supposed to be enigmatic daydreamer and simultaneously dynamic warrior for her life . Wilcox is not at all convincing in both ways . (However she was perfect in the next film) . The only actor who managed to give emotion and soul to his character was Andras Jones as Rick who is Alice 's brother . If not the best , definately the most natural performance of the film comes from Rick .Many have complained about the much colour or the wisecrack lines of Freddy or even for the ninja combats . Personally I believe that in order for a series to survive it must break into new grounds (such as part 3 did with dream manipulation ) . The ninja battle is satisfying and some of Freddy 's lines still give me chills like the classic  AAGHH!!! How sweet !! Fresh meat !!!  (which coincidentally reflects the producers' intentions) . But it is the lack of plot which gives on my nerves . You know that Alice is going to survive to play in part 5 and the rest are counting hours , so the excuse for a movie becomes more evident .Are there any pros ? Yes there are . The school being the basic set transfers the series to a more direct danger . The first dream sequence is delusional and remains faithful to the original spirit . The beautiful chemistry between Rick and Alice gives the only dramatic tensive moments in the film . This is the only soul of the movie Unfortunately I could never give the base to the Renny Harlin film because it destroyed and bastardised the dream warriors . HOWEVER the fact that after 3 times I would still like to see it and the Rick / Alice scenes make it worth of a                      4 / 10 "},{"Title":"A SORRY EXCUSE FOR A SEQUEL!!","Date":"30 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is pathetic. Terrible acting (Robert Englund was good as always) bad plot if there was one and Freddy had just become a little baby. The story is Following up the previous Nightmare film, dream demon Freddy Krueger is resurrected from his apparent demise, and rapidly tracks down and kills the remainder of the Elm Street kids. However, Kristen (who can draw others into her dreams) wills her special ability to her friend Alice. Alice soon realizes that Freddy is taking advantage of that unknown power to pull a new group of children into his foul domain.  Avoid this excuse for a sequel it isn't worth it. "},{"Title":"In my opinion, the worst of the series...","Date":"18 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Renny Harlin's attempt to carry on the franchise relies too much on special effects than scares. With a premise like the Freddy Krueger movies, it's nice to have a few surreal images, but Harlin overkills the effects (which most aren't special to begin with). And poor Robert Englund. It seems like he's tired as Freddy, whose creepiness is completely draped by the effects and cheap Twilight Zone-like twists. "},{"Title":"The Complete Downfall of the series","Date":"28 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie pretty much told how the rest of the series was going to tun out. From 4 to 6 the series was just bland Horror comedies.SPOILERSThe Alice character is about the only good thing that came out of this movie. Mixing Freddy with martial arts is just Most of the deaths are silly. When Debbie's arms were tore off when she was being transformed into the bug was gruesome.SPOILERS STOPPEDLisa Wilcox is what made this movie decent. Tuesday Knight played her parts ok. The rest of the cast did ok with what they were given. My rating for this one 3/10    "},{"Title":"Not bad,but not really good.","Date":"19 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The first three films in this genre I loved,I saw this one when I was about ten years old and I liked it then.When I saw it again not too long ago,I thought the effects were ok,but that is all that seemed to be different apart from making the body count higher.I guess there are the new characters and some of the people from number 3,but thats all thats new.This time in the story,Alice (a new character in the story) is faced up against Freddy who is slaying off all of her friends,so it is her job to go against him and put him in his place for good.I suppose that if you are a fan of this genre you will like it and it is creative I will  give it that much,but apart from all this,if you think this is good,you have bad taste.I rate 2/5. "},{"Title":"Tedious and Dire","Date":"30 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  When I first saw this film about 9 years ago I thought it was OK. Watching it again recently I could see how dire this is. Maybe it is because I'm not 12 years old anymore and can see this film for the rubbish that it is.This series could have ended with the 3rd and would have been an OK trilogy however Newline just couldn't stop when they could continue to rake in the money.Lisa Wilcox is the only member of the cast then even tries to act the other actors are as awful as the crap jokes that Freddy Krueger spouts for no reason.When the producers made this they could have gone two ways - make a small scary movie like the first or continue the big special effects / comedy that almost ruined the third. They made the wrong choice. Avoid at all costs!! "}{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"29 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" When I saw this movie I was very disappointed. The problem of this film is that it is not stirring. There are many disgusting scenes where you think why you are watching that movie at all. SPOILER Freddy Krüger's oddments come together again and he is alive again. He kills the three remaining Elm street children within the first 20 minutes of the film and Alice is responsible of their deaths because she takes them with her into her dream which is very, very strange and beyond belief. When the three are killed Freddy starts killing Alice's friends. Many scenes are disgusting and never reach the grade of the first movie. At the end Alice is in a church (why?) with Freddy and can kill him by showing him a mirror. Freddy sees his face and dies because all the children's souls which he keeps imprisoned fly away. He disappears. The first movie is much better and also the third one. Here is no real plot,some scenes seem to be far-fetched. "},{"Title":"worst nightmare movie in the series","Date":"29 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I'm usually very tolerant when it comes to horror movies, and until recently #4 had been the only NOES movie I hadn't seen, and now I wish I hadn't seen it at all. Within 5 minutes of the movie starting (not including credits), I felt like stopping it. No offense to any of the actors, but the acting was terrible. I was wondering why Patricia Arquette wasn't playing Kristen but my guess would be she read the script and would have wanted to burn it. My main hate of the movie is the plot. SPOILER The 3 surviving characters from #3 are killed within like 10-15mins of each other and when Kristen dies she gives her gift to Alice and then Alice gets all the souls that Freddy kills? Well that was just totally weird and confusing. As per usual it's Freddy's quotes that kind of save a movie. Hey Joey, how's this for a wet dream? is a classic Freddy quote but that's still not enough to change my opinion on this movie. Effects are good, acting sucked, storyline sucked, the whole movie basically sucked. 1/10 "},{"Title":"Go away bad movie! And take no' 5 and 6 with you!","Date":"5 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Why?!? If they had to make more Elm street movies, why not start a new story like the second one tried? I won't spoil it for anyone, but this movie is ruining the entire climax of the last movie and bastardizing the entire series. Sure, the special effects are nice and the acting is not that bad - But you just don't care for the characters! You just sit back and go Wow, Freddy did that and Freddy did this... Boring. But it's more than a bad movie- it's a bad movie that damages a story-line from previous movies.WHY? MONEY!Oh! And the climax for this movie is absolutely IDIOTIC. "},{"Title":"Freddy's falling from grace","Date":"24 September 2005","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I love the A Nightmare On Elm Street franchise, I really do. I enjoy it for its originality and if for nothing else its typically 80's cheese factor. Still, I will never forgive the makers of sequels 2, 4, 5, 6, even 3 and 7 for taking one of the greatest horror stories ever told and turning it into something so laughable. With Part IV Freddy Krueger was more of an antihero for the MTV generation than ever before. What was then hip is now ridiculous and director Renny Harlin's endeavor to make the movie as stylish as possible certainly doesn't make this entry in the series any spookier.The first 5 minutes of part IV alone show everything that's wrong about the movie. An awful rock song sung by Tuesday Knight (who replaces Patricia Arquette as Kristen) plays over a little girl drawing something. The camera pans away and we see it's a painting of Freddy's house on Elm Street. Kirsten approaches and asks the girl where Freddy was. The girl replies that Freddy wasn't in, then laughs hysterically and disappears. Why? No one knows. Kristen goes inside the house. Why? No idea, but the camera follows her with such an amateurish movement it's the first time this movie is unintentionally funny. Inside the house Kristen jumps because she sees a shadow of something that appears to be a claw on the wall. When she takes a closer look, though, it turns out that this was just an illusion created by a branch that looks NOTHING like the shadow. Anyway, the next thing we see is Kirsten getting blown from one room into the other. Why? Don't ask, there's no answer.It goes on like this and you just turn off your brain, because it's obvious that this movie doesn't try for one second to make any sense. It's hard to believe that an audience ever watched this without feeling cheated. However, Freddy Krueger's fame was at its height in 1988 and nothing could stop this movie from becoming the most successful installment of the Nightmare series. Not the shallow and unbelievable characters, nor the bad acting (except for the ever so wonderful Robert Englund, that is) or the non-existent story.The nudity, the bad one-liners and the often imaginative kills still get a chuckle out of me now and then and, as I've said, I still enjoy watching the movie every once in a while, but like most of the Nightmare sequels, this one is just nowhere near as good as it could and should have been. "},{"Title":"Well it ain't Dr. Seuss.......","Date":"5 February 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Freddy Krueger is resurrected from his apparent demise, and rapidly tracks down and kills all three of the surviving Elm Street kids. However, Kristen, who has the ability to draw others into her dreams, wills her special ability to her friend Alice before her demise. Afterwards, Alice soon realises that Freddy is taking advantage of that unknown power she now wields to pull a new group of teenage children into his foul domain.......For a fourth movie, the idea of having Freddy use someone to attract victims is sound, but with this, the fourth (and most successful) movie of the franchise, the films were verging on parody, and Freddy, the dream demon, was becoming more and more endearing with every fresh kill.And the reason being is simple, everyone was looking forward to what the punch line would be, what one liner would Freddy spout out when he killed again?Freddy wasn't scary anymore, the makers knew this,so they just injected more special effects and tried to have more inventive deaths. It worked in 3, but the quality of the films dropped dramatically when the studios became more interested in the numbers, rather than Cravens creation.But it's short,the music is hilarious, and Englund is having a whale of a time playing Freddy. "},{"Title":"Horrible Sequel to Horror Classic","Date":"22 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I am really astounded by how many people are stating that this is the best of the sequels in their reviews. I guess it's a funny argument to have, in the first place, because we are essentially saying This is the best pile of poo. The original NOES is a horror classic, full of dark, surreal imagery and a truly sinister, nightmarish villain. The sequels got further and further away from what made the original so great until we come to this disaster of a movie.Nothing is good about this, at all. My 4 star rating is based, really, in the fact that we accept it's not good. Most horror sequels are not, especially by the time you get to the 4th in a series, but you watch them for some escapism and some cheesy popcorn fun. That does not make it a good movie, in any way.Let's start with Freddy. Even in the 2nd movie, they started to erode some of the cruelty of the character. That continued to grow with each sequel. By giving him more screen time and more horrible one-liners, Freddy became Rodney Dangerfield with knives. The sheer terror you felt at his presence in the original is long gone, replaced by a wisecracking comic book villain.The kills are ridiculous in this movie. The original made some effort to connect what was occurring in the dream world to what was happening in real life. Whatever fate a character suffered was typically mirrored in their real world. They just gave up on that concept altogether by this point to bring us increasingly far- fetched kill scenes. This would be forgivable if the effects weren't so damn bad. This is not an example of me forgetting the time period this was created in. Even for its' time, these were bad effects. They wrote scenes into the movie that they couldn't possible pull off convincingly, highlighted by the cockroach death which is one of the stupidest effects scenes in any horror movie.Now we get to the teenagers who are the worst of the series yet. Not one character is really likable or memorable. Many seem to be infatuated with Tuesday Knight, for some reason, but she's no Patricia Arquette. The dialog is horrible, the acting is bad. Most of this is caused by a script that seems to want to force far too much plot into its' run time. They kill off the three characters who lasted from the previous movie within the first half hour only to set up a ludicrous scene where one character passes her powers on to another. Even putting suspension of belief aside, how does any hero pass their super power to another? I know I'm reading far too much into this, but it's just pure laziness on the part of the script writers.Finally, the direction and cinematography is all wrong as well. The surrealist look is gone, the dark tones are gone, the nightmare quality is gone. It's much more reminiscent of a comic book, by this point, which wouldn't necessarily be a bad thing in itself if this were some other movie, but when compared to Craven's original masterpiece, this is just a pale imitation. "},{"Title":"More nightmares.","Date":"13 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I really don't remember much from this film, so it is evident that this movie didn't stand out much in the series, which is winding down by this time. Like Jason Voorhees in the Friday the 13th series, Freddy Krueger is like a case of the bad plague, always returning and menacing people over and over again. This time around, he returns once again and terrorizes the dreams of the surviving Dream Warriors. In the meantime, Alice Johnson (Lisa Wilcox) soon realizes Freddy's new unknown powers and now attempts to defeat the demon for good with a new group of teenagers.It's more of the screams, dreams and mangling with some campy and amateurish acting. There is nothing too newer than in the previous Nightmare entries - it's basically a continuation of the previous film, and features another heroic girl with a plan to put a stop to the scarred demon. You end up rooting for her to see how and if a successful end would meet Freddy.The script is pretty basic and the plot is even weirder than in the previous films. It's OK for a good scare, maybe even a laugh, or two. But again, not an extremely thrilling film as the series was clearly running out of steam.Grade C- "},{"Title":"Freddy at his best","Date":"2 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" You'll notice that I say 'Freddy' at his best. In Part 4 of the popular horror franchise, Robert Englund gets top billing and for a reason&#x85; he's definitely the best part of the film. He's back as the undead child-killer who attacks teenagers in their dreams and this time&#x85; well, who cares, right? By Part 4 of any horror franchise you pretty much know the set-up. Teens. They dream. They die. It's all pretty standard. However, as I mentioned, what makes it worth seeing is Freddy. He's truly deliciously evil, obviously revelling in his own grisly performance. Plus (and I always thought this aspect elevated the Freddy films over the 'Jason films') because the death scenes happen in a 'dream world' they are always a lot more imaginative and fun than simply seeing a man in a hockey mask chopping a semi-naked teen up.Personally, I enjoy seeing Freddy have fun and 'mess' with his victims. I think it makes him more evil. However, some long-standing fans of the franchise felt that Freddy was getting too 'comical' to be taken seriously. That's one opinion, but I disagree.Basically, Nightmare 4 is worth a look if you're a fan of the franchise or like cheesy eighties horror films. Just don't expect great acting from anyone other than Englund. The other actors really don't seem to be up to the job (or, to be fair on them, this fault could lie with the writers/director) and recite their stilted dialogue with all the conviction of a cheap daytime soap. But then I don't watch this film for them. It's Freddy all the way.http//thewrongtreemoviereviews.blogspot.co.uk/ "},{"Title":"Shameful (but not ALL bad)","Date":"14 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The film starts out some hands brushing off a sidewalk. The three surviving dream warriors from 3 (Kincaid, Joey, & Kristen) are out of the asylum and in high school. Kristen things she is dreaming about Freddy and brings in Kincaid and Joey via her dream power. The two admonish her for her false alarm, but some time later Kincaid himself is confronted by Freddy. Kincaid's super strength is unable to defeat Freddy in his solo battle and shortly after that Joey falls too. Freddy eventually comes after Kristen who is killed, but not before passing on her powers to one of her other friends, Alice, whom she knows from high school. Alice starts seeing visions of Freddy and taking on the traits of those Freddy murders. Freddy murders more and more of Alice's fellow high schoolers. This contrasts with Freddy who absorbs the souls of those he murders, including Deb, Sheila, and Rick, but not Dan. Alice is only able ultimately defeat Freddy by finishing a nursery rhyme/incantation and using a shard of glass to make Freddy reflect on his evils and lose control of the souls he had acquired. I'm sure that any money-making franchise suffers from a conundrum. They need to conclude one movie, but somehow leave open the possibility for a sequel. The first Nightmare&#x85; had a sequel that did a half-decent job of turning Freddy into a type of poltergeist and having him need to come back through the body of the living. I was willing to overlook this because 3 came back and did a good job, though it ignored 2. Now that 4 is here, I see that their mythos doesn't make much sense. I wasn't sure what Alice was, or what her role exactly was. She was supposed to be the opposite of Freddy it seems, but she seemed a lot less powerful to be an equal. The other part of the complicated mythos prevalent in many sequels (notably Hellraiser, Halloween Cold Prey and Friday the 13th) is how Freddy came back. At the end of part 3 he is buried and yet through a dog urinating fire he is resurrected in the dream world or perhaps through Kristen's meddling. The film did a somewhat good job of delivering what Freddy was all about (dream sequences, bloody kills, and the terrorizing of suburban youth). However it was too difficult for me to follow what was going on. It would have been easier to do a Leprechaun thing where the sequels bear no resemblance to what came before (except perhaps &#x85;In da hood). Leprechaun came later, but in other words I would have enjoyed this film if it made more sense. I'm glad they brought back Kincaid and Joey (and sort of Kristen), but it seems like they dumped the success of Wes Craven and the 3rd one to just continue a franchise.I'm glad to see another Freddy movie, but I'd definitely skip this one (unless you're a Nightmare fan). "},{"Title":"Running From This Nightmare","Date":"9 February 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" After A Nightmare on Elm Street 3 Dream Warriors, Wes Craven and Heather Langenkamp were gone again as they were for the second film. But unlike Freddy's Revenge (the worst Nightmare on Elm Street film aside from the remake), this is a high quality entry in the series.Replacing Patricia Arquette in the role of Kristen is Tuesday Knight. I'm of a minority opinion, but I definitely think she outdid Arquette. Kristen predicts Freddy's return, and when it happens, she and her friends from the previous film find themselves grossly unprepared for it. Our other protagonist is Alice (my personal favorite protagonist of the series), an insightful girl wise in the concept of The Dream Master, the idea of being able to control your own dreams.This film has a good balance of horror and comedy, the nightmares in the film range from two of the best in the series to a mediocre one. The climax of the film is particularly excellent, and the special effects throughout are excellent, but during the climax is when they're at their best. Robert Englund said this was his favorite film of the entire series, and though I'd put it after the original, Dream Warriors, and New Nightmare, I still enjoy it very much. "}{"Title":"One, two... Freddies coming for you...Three.. four - well, yes. Leave at four","Date":"23 April 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The beginning of the end - in terms of quality - of the nightmare on elm street films. Dream warriors wasn't too good either but the acting was on par for a film of it's type.Now, with 'The Dream Master' we have awful acting. For me, this is enough to call it a bad film. imaginative as it is and with Freddy restoring some of his darker side, the acting brings down the production quality immensely and brings to the fore a 'straigt to TV' feel to it.Freddy in this film seems to be struggling with his balancing act Should I be more sinister? Or should I continue with coming out with cheesy one - liners. Most deaths were more reminiscent of the Dream warriors ( Which showcased some truly cringe deaths) than the superior and darker original and it's sequel. The death of Joey was the closest in bringing back the old Freddy ( forget about that one line he says before dragging him under ). He has become predictable and almost a caricature of himself - and this isn't to mention the other two films in which, if i remember correctly, are just as bad.There are some laughs to have. Rick looks more off the type of guy who would hang around with Role-players rather than the school hunk and you can be certain to receive some good laughs from him ( Helllloooo baby!).Throw in the Dues ex Machina, and you are finally left with a horrifically bad Nightmare on Elms film. The only good thing I can truly justify is the soundtrack; go and buy the soundtrack. That is all. "},{"Title":"A Nightmare on Elm Street 4 Dream Master","Date":"30 October 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I can give credit to ANOES Dream Master for being continuous after a good movie in The Dream Warriors. The Dream Master brings some old faces like Kincade, Joey, and Kristen (even though Arquette doesn't play the part) along with a new cast that has to fight in their nightmares once again. The new supporting cast however is very weak and didn't bring anything exciting to the table. The story had some interesting parts but overall lacked a main adult lead and good dream sequences. Some of the one liners were not pulled off at all and the dialog was overall pretty lame. Freddy did have some snappy comebacks but England isn't much of a scary figure now. Sidenote is I love that all the parents who killed Krueger to begin with are all jerks or drunks in every single movie. Dream Master is definitely worth a watch that has its moments but like I said before, it was kind of flat. "},{"Title":"A Nightmare on Elm Street 4 The Dream Master","Date":"23 March 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Nightmare 4 is definitely one of the funniest and underrated sequels in the Freddy franchise. It continues off from where we left off from part 3 with the remaining dream warriors Joey, Kincaid, and Kristen. They are out of the hospital and back in high school when Freddy once again is resurrected from beyond the grave. The survivors from the 3rd are picked off early on, and it's now up to Kristen's friend Alice (Lisa Wilcox) to beat him. Alice gets Kristen's power of bringing others into her dreams. Eventually Freddy kills off many more of her friends, each time gaining a personality trait from the victims. When one teen dies, she gains his martial arts skills, etc, etc. All of this leads to a pretty good conclusion involving a final beat down between Freddy and Alice.This movie is like an eighties flash back. There are many reference to eighties culture and fashion not to mention the music. Nightmare 4 has a great soundtrack, including Tuesday Knight's song which opens the film. I like the continuation of the dream warriors storyline and I loved the character of Alice. This movie is also very funny. Freddy Krueger is probably the most comedic in part 4 with his long list of one liners before and after each death. The characters are also well created and likable too.There's something about the fourth Freddy, I always had a soft spot for it. It was one of the highest grossing sequels at the box office as well. I probably liked Brooke Theiss' character of Debbie the most in the movie. She also had some of the creative scenes and sequences involving a life size roach motel. Freddy was also at his peak in popularity when this came out. The sequels after this one for the most part weren't as interesting and not as good at all.9/10 "},{"Title":"Whooooo!","Date":"12 February 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" SPOILER ALERT!!!! WOW!!! Faboulous movie!Even better than the 3rd!!! This movie was good for deaths,make up,acting,and everything else! I like the, Ehem, Soul food,the water-bed,movie theater,the cock roach and the junk yard!!!!SPOILER ALERT!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! Kristen dies in this one! ( Thats NOT cool, but her death was pretty cool, but why could'NT it have been Alice? Alice was stupid,and how come joey and that black dude had to die? I liked them! But besides that, this movie was pretty good! I really liked it.I guess they had to kill somebody.Stay tuned for... Friday the 13th,Friday the 13th part 2,Friday the 13th part 3,friday the 13thFinal chapter,Friday the 13thA new beginning,Friday the 13thJason lives,Friday the 13tha new blood,Freddy vs Jason,Jason takes Manhattan,Jason X,Jason goes to hell, "},{"Title":"Blame the dog.","Date":"10 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I actually enjoyed this more than the third Nightmare on Elm Street. It has the same music that the first one had and that's pretty important to me. It made it more creepy and less of an 80's hair metal movie. There are three teenagers left on Elm Street for Freddy but he can use a friend to bring him more souls. I think that Freddy makes more jokes than he did in the last two. I wish that he was kept more creepy like in the first movie. There are some pretty cool special effects too. There was a part where the movie kept repeating the same scene and I thought something was wrong with my DVD player but it was part of the movie. I did like that because it took up too much time. Despite that I did like where the dog was digging and he peed on the ground.You shouldn't have buried me. I'm not dead. Freddy said and he probably woke up when the dog decided to let loose some liquid fire. I was a pretty funny scene. "},{"Title":"We sweat, laugh, and scream here.","Date":"10 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" As the Nightmare movies put together an arc, or essentially a trilogy, from the third to the fifth films, the good ideas seemed to go fast. For some reason, Patricia Arquette doesn't return from the previous entry and to make matters worse, her character and the other two survivors from Dream Warriors are killed early in Dream Master. The new bunch of characters aren't anything special, it's the quippy and gory antics of the gloved one that reach their peak. The fun of the rest of the entries, until the New Nightmare, come from watching the glee and ingenuity of Freddy as he exacts his revenge on the children of the people who burned him. Except for some recycling, another water bed, it's almost passable. "},{"Title":"Average Freddy Flick","Date":"5 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I recently got all seven Nightmare on Elm Street films in a box set for a bargain and have been making my way through them in order. Part One is a classic horror movie, Part Two was terrible and Part Three was fantastic. So I had absolutely no idea what to expect from Part Four. What i got was an average Freddy Krueger adventure, neither great nor awful, somewhere in between but certainly closer to awful than great. The acting from most of the cast in this one is pretty poor although Lisa Wilcox makes a pretty good stab at the heroine and she's certainly nice to look at. What saves this movie though is the superb special effects, a great 80's soundtrack and of course Freddy played again by the great Robert Englund. Also some pretty inventive deaths with the highlight being the cockroach transformation and Freddies death, yeah right Fred seeya in part Five. You can't help think though that if New Line Cinema weren't so hell bent on getting a Nightmare on Elm Street film out every year and had a bit more time between movies the quality would have stayed higher. "},{"Title":"Good movie","Date":"1 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Kristen Parker from A Nightmare on Elm Street 3dream Warriors gives her power to the quiet shy girl Alice Johnson. So Alice's Friends start dying in their sleep from Freddy and Alice is the only one who Can stop Freddy because she's the Dream Master. The way A Nightmatre on Elm street 4 is because it picks up where part three left off in the Car lot. A Ends Where part 5 picks up. So if You haven't seen this movie yet i recommend u do because this is a good movie. The battle at the end is the best part between Alice and Freddy. Alice goes from a Shy girl to a Young Fighter who isn't backing down. The Graphics are good Freddy turns a girl into a cockroach and Sucks the breath out of the other one. "},{"Title":"One of The Best Sequels","Date":"28 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" If you are not a fan of the darkest of dark horror films than this movie is for. It is the best movie in the series that uses the comedy Freddy. I can see how some would say three is the best, but while I see three as a terrific entry it still has the dark tones of the first with just a little better comedy. The darkness in three I believe comes from the fact that Wes Craven wrote and was trying to make Freddy what he should be. But Four blows the flood gates open with the comedy. If you don't laugh at this movie your dead. Freddy has a few good scares in this but he becomes like a stand up comic after every kill. The water bed death, and karate kills are the best, the cockroach death has real vision to it too. I don't know if this is where the series should go but it defiantly is a good movie and I think very few people could disagree with that. Watch this. "},{"Title":"Best in the Series","Date":"13 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This fast-paced and entertaining sequel may have plot holes the size of the Grand Canyon, but since when did that matter in 1980s gore horror? From director Renny Harlin (Cliffhanger, Die Hard 2) comes this effort in which the hideous dream-invading Freddy Krueger (Robert Englund) attempts to track down -- and bring demise to -- the last of the Elm Street kids. But he gets more than he bargained for when Kristen Parker (Tuesday Knight) wills her power to draw others into dreams to friend Alice Johnson (Lisa Wilcox). This proved to be a divisive entry in the long-running series, with many fans either loving it or hating it. It has also been criticized for allegedly turning Freddy into an anti-hero figure, but that's hard to accept given his continued adherence to terror. Like so many other horror films of its era, it's not all that scary, but it is fun. In fact, it's the best Elm Street film. "}{"Title":"9 Stars!  The most underrated Nightmare sequel.","Date":"8 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The 9 stars may seem excessive, but I am a big pt 3 fan (watched it a dozen times at least), and in some ways this is a better film. It is kind of funny how fellow Freddy followers all seem to be in agreement about the great ones (pt 1, pt 3, new nightmare) and the bad ones (pt 2, freddy's dead). This one falls into a third category along with pt 5, and freddy vs. jason where it seems to be very objective. Some people love those movies, some people can't stand 'em. I put this up there with pt 3 and 1 for sheer watchability, so maybe I am a little bit crazy...I hadn't seen this for a couple years, and that was on DVD. I just got an old VHS copy, and I must say that it is more enjoyable on this format. When it's all cleaned up and remastered it kind of loses some of the magic for me. Anyways, just had to comment on the great direction from Renny Harlin. He had a very stylish flair. There are some great camera angles, quick cuts, odd close ups, and kind of a kinetic feeling throughout. The film is very fast paced. He was trying to emulate the music video style, but that is not the result. The result is a very engaging, relentless visual display that almost seems like an art film, because scenes that would have been shot more traditionally most of the time take on a very bizarre character in this movie. There are great sfx throughout, and all of Freddy's many kills are well choreographed and original. The grand finale of the film is possibly the best use of sfx ever IMHO.The detractors of this film usually point to the weak acting, and the more comedic Freddy. Let's not forget though, Freddy had some pretty comedic moments back in pt 3 (Welcome to Prime Time, Bitch!). The acting is a little amateurish, and definitely on par with pt 3, but that may have been down to the focus being on sfx.In summary, Nightmare On Elm Street pt 4 is excellent. "},{"Title":"would be better as it's own movie","Date":"15 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" OK, nightmare 1,great story,nightmare 2 flowed from the first and happened reasonably, nightmare 3 had a rough beginning but turned itself around with Nancy, but when Nancy and her father are cut you think the series is over. Wrong!!!! nightmare 4 comes out. this movie and its sequel would have been better as their own movies. they do use facts from their predecessors but have plot lines that would have been better with a killer with a different motive, like for torment and pleasure not for the burning of his boiler room. maybe without haunting dreams, he could have just given the kids odd sicknesses or have done a nightmare 3 effect where it appears that the kids are doing it to themselves. "},{"Title":"The Fourth Film did show the film could age but it is still fun.","Date":"29 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" A year after, When the Surviving Teens of the Mental Hospital (Tuesday Knight replacing Patricia Arquette, Ken Sagoes & Rodney Eastman). Who thought, they beat Freddy (Robert Englund) thinking that he is dead. Once and for all but they were wrong. When Kristen (Knight) has a deadly feeling that Freddy is far from been deceased. When one of the surviving teens dreamed where Freddy is being rested with his remaining bones buried in the Cary Junkyard. When the teen's dog actually brings Freddy back to life with flaming urine (!). Now Freddy is back again, where he wants to kill the kids-who beat him. When Kristen accidentally bring Alice (Lisa Wilcox) in her dreams, because Kristen is scared of Freddy. Freddy now could enter the dreams of Alice and her friends that could make him more powerful. Alice is the opposite of Freddy's being called the Dream Master from a spiritual side.Directed by Renny Harlin (Die Hard 2Die Harder, The Adventures of Ford Fairlane, Deep Blue Sea) made a good looking sequel filled with grand visual style and humor with the help of great visual effects and production designs. The problem with this is sequel is that, it has too much wisecracks from Freddy. Which he's supposed to be threatening in some ways. For the film's story, it's a good one but it is thinly plotted and could have been much better in storytelling. This is actually the biggest hit of the series (Not Critically Acclaimed). This sequel shows, where the film could age. This is worth sitting through to the excellent climax.DVD has an great anamorphic Widescreen (1.851) transfer (Also in Pan & Scan) and an terrific digitally remastered-Dolby Digital 5.1 Surround Sound. This is not the Worst or the Best of the Series. This is well made and well produced. On the Box Set of A Nightmare on Elm Street on the eight disc. DVD has interviews with the cast & crew of the film, the original theatrical trailer and a music video. If you love the Freddy Series, you will like this. Written by William Kotzwinkle (Book of Love) and Oscar-WinnerBrain Helgeland (A Knight's Tale, Mystic River, Payback). This is actually written by five other writers, which they are uncredited like Jim & Ken Wheat (Pitch Black), Micheal De Luca (John Carpenter's In the Mouth of Madness), Renny Harlin and Rachel Talalay (Freddy's DeadThe Final Nightmare). (*** ½/*****). "},{"Title":"Revenge of the 80's The Nightmare on Elm Street Franchise!","Date":"6 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" A NIghtmare on Elm Street IV (1988) picks up where part three left off. The survivors of the last Elm Street battle are starting to dream about their nemesis Freddy Krueger. No matter how hard they try, he keeps coming back to haunt them and tries to draw them back to the dream world. Can the survivors stave off Freddy? Will they find others who will help them stop this supernatural serial killer for good? You'll have to find out for yourself when you watch the third installment to the Elm Street franchise. Directed by Renny Harlin and stars Robert Englund as Freddy!A step down from the last chapter. If you're a huge Freddy Krueger fan then you'll want to see this movie. Freddy Krueger is still the man and the series becomes even more dark humor oriented than a straight out horror flick. The next film will feature Freddy's quest to sire a son, a human heir who can carry on his homicidal conquests. During this time a television series was created revolving around Freddy Kruger's old stomping grounds of Springwood and it's teenage residents.Recommended. "},{"Title":"The worst in then series!","Date":"20 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I have never been a big fan of Renny Harlin's. With the exception of DIE HARD 2, I've always felt that his movies never live up to their full potential. Normally that would be the screenwriters (or screenwriters) fault, however, I get the feeling that Harlin just doesn't quite know how to service a script too well. This flick is a perfect example of that. A NIGHTMARE ON ELM STREET 4 THE DREAM MASTER, like with most horror films, is that it has an intriguing premise yet has no idea how to execute it properly. At least it starts off promising. It has a good opening sequence, although the opening sequence is not up top par with the opening sequences of 'ELM STREET' 1, 2, and 3. The point at which 'ELM STREET 4' starts going downhill is early on when Freddy is brought back to life by dog urine. That's right, dog urine. Horror films have a reputation of having the most ridiculous explanations as to why their villains are brought back to life in sequels, but this one really takes the cake.Even when Freddy is finally brought back to life, 'ELM STREET 4' seems dull. The kills are not very creative or satisfying (the water bed death, the beach death? That's the best the filmmakers could do?). Plus, Freddy doesn't even appear all that scary in this outing. He certainly isn't as creepy as he was in the first three 'ELM STREET' installments. It's somewhat clear that 'ELM STREET 4' is the point Robert Englund continued to play Freddy for the paycheck. He just isn't effective enough here. The same can be said for the rest of the actors. The performances aim from wooden to over-the-top. It doesn't help that the dialogue is poorly written. There isn't a whole lot left to say about this poor sequel. It's stylish at times, though not stylish enough to save it from being a waste of time. I wouldn't even recommend it to fans of the series. I give it 3/10. "},{"Title":"Horror's Leg Up in frightening people.","Date":"20 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" WARNING SPOILERS CONTAINED.Freddy Krueger The Killer in Nightmare on Elm Street. Horror A Form of Fright. Horror + Krueger = Level 1 in frighting entertainment.This film starts off with the main character, Kristen (Tuesday Knight) who worries about Freddy (Robert Englund) who could come to life or so she thinks. She keeps summoning her friends because of the gift of bringing others into her dream. Soon Kincaid (Ken Sagoes) and Joey (Rodney Eastman) are killed by Freddy, and Kristen becomes open bait as the last person whose parents murdered Krueger. Before Kristen's death, Alice (Lisa Wilcox) gets the power of bringing people into her dreams. So the game is not over, as she inherits most of Kristen's attributes, like puffing on a cigarette.Freddy has free range to any child that who's parents didn't kill him at all, or have any association with him. Alice feels that she has to take action to defeat Krueger 'Once and for all', so as to sleep again. Most people think that this film was bad because of Freddy's one - liners. It's not. It's what pepper his performance. Truthfully, This film was the best of the series so far. With any hope at all, I hope it gets better. The Music was awesome, The Violence was pretty high. The most graphic scenes are the ones with lots of violence, for instance when a girl's arms down to her elbows break and roach legs grow out of her arm sockets, and her skin peels off and looks like a dead on accurate roach. The Ending's fight sequence was spectacular, and the plot revolved around a rhyme about a dream master, which in the rhyme says something about The Demon seeing within itself to see it's true self, kinda how Alice seems to take the pictures of her window to see her real self.The Only other frighting scene was when the children inside Freddy, the souls of the children rip through Freddy's skin and put him against a wall and rip his mouth open to free all the children.The Ending is not a let down like three, and one thing that you should remember when you see the movie, you must have control of your stomach, or you'll be heavily nauseated all evening. 10/10, with an excellent plot. "},{"Title":"Running from this nightmare","Date":"9 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  IMDb mark 7There are some characters in this film that really could have run away from Freddy's nightmares, but they didn't. It's also interesting to see Fred Krueger gaining some new powers in this sequel. The makers of the film played the high-school card, just like the makers of part 2 did, but I think they did it better in this one. Kristen, Joey and Kincaid are still around, but the girl is no longer played by Patricia Arquette.-Gore Although the scenes in question can seem far apart, there are some good, gory scenes in this one, yes. Freddy's face, and his body, also help at making this film gruesome-ish. 27/30-Suspense Unfortunately, this film isn't too suspenseful. Perhaps the most captivating scene takes place after Kristen's mother takes her home. 6/15-Ending The ending was okay, I guess. Of course, taste varies. 7/15-Death Scenes Still original. And I still like Freddy's style very much. Two deaths from this movie are real nice. However, as sweet as Sheila's passing is, I gotta go with Debbie's death, all the way! 11/11-Atmosphere I don't know why, certain parts of this film seemed like parts of a TV movie to me. But, just like in all the sequels, as soon as Freddy appears, the action becomes intense again. Also, if you are familiar with martial-arts action films, you will probably like some scenes that pure horror fans might not enjoy as much. I know I did. And Freddy's one-liners do their job well. 8/10-Nudity A model, from a pin-up poster, is shown topless live, in a dream, not long into the film. 2/10-Cast Apart from Robert Englund, I suppose Tuesday Knight, the actress who plays Kristen, is the best-known member of the cast. I liked the way she acted, though, and her song as well. 2/5-Genre This is a horror film. 4/4-->Overall 67/100Will the remaining dream warriors hold their own against the dream master again? You will find out if you watch the fourth part of Nightmare on Elm Street. From Swordlord, 2 swords up! "},{"Title":"Decent enough sequel!","Date":"4 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Following up the previous Nightmare film, dream demon Freddy Krueger is resurrected from his apparent demise, and rapidly tracks down and kills the remainder of the Elm Street kids. However, Kristen (who can draw others into her dreams) wills her special ability to her friend Alice. Alice soon realizes that Freddy is taking advantage of that unknown power to pull a new group of children into his foul domain. While some of the aspects of the original is lost in this sequel and it is really only a rehash of the previous entries in the series but the special effects (Especially the final show-down) by screaming mad George are excellent and make the film enjoyable to watch. Despite this, the films silly atmosphere, obnoxious characters, and some corny moments (Like the Jaws spoof) tend to detract from the films respectability. My rating 5/10.About the DVD Like all the other NOES New line cinema releases (The original notwithstanding), the film is given a fair picture quality transfer and the sound is okay. The films special features are few and uninteresting-- including a few minor DVD-ROM features, trailer, etc. My rating for the DVD 4/10.  "},{"Title":"Great Film, Love Funny Freddy!!!","Date":"16 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This was a great little film!! Probably had the least plot of ANY film in the NOES series but it's still great!! If you've never seen A Freddy Krueger movie and want to see a typical Freddy flick with Freddy acting in his classic form I would reccomend you see this one! After you get past the first 5 minutes it's pretty well a stand alone film.But I get tired of hearing people put down funny Freddy! That's one of the unique things that makes Freddy who he is! If you wanna see serious watch Jason or Michael!!!!!!To when Freddy became a comedien it makes him that much crueler..Immagine having someone torment you to death, cracking jokes as they do it! That would be a hell of a lot worse than just stabbing you in the gut one good time like he did iin part 1!Freddy has humore b/c he know's he can do anything he wants! Just think if you had th power to do ANYTHING to your enemies,,,You'd prolly joke to to make it even more hurtful to them!AND it adds to the realism...b/c IF there was a guy who had gone through all the stuff Freddy has growing up you know he's be sick in the head...He wouldn't just kill someone with one quick stab...he's want to play around with them and torment them and crack all kinds of sick jokes! "},{"Title":"The 4th dreamers","Date":"27 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  A nightmare on elm street part 4 was released in 1988. This is the first movie to be certificated as a 15. Freddy is bad and he is ready to kill more of the people who are dreaming. A woman named Alice discovers of what Freddy Kruger does, she get bad nightmares abut him and at the end she defeats him and the souls of the others who freddy killed escape from him. "}{"Title":"So bad,it's good","Date":"2 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Alright we did not need The Dream Warriors in it. And they were living in Freddy's town,and going to the same High School,When I watched Part 3,I thought they were all across the country. And Joey used to be a sweet boy,and they turned him into a horny teenager. They could have given us a 5 second narration of what happened to them. Because they replaced them,with terrible actors. Lisa Wilcox is the hero of this movie,and steals the show. Freddy is making jokes like crazy. But they are funny. Englund gives another great performance. It has great nightmare scenes,one that stands out is where Alice goes into the diner,and see's an old version of herself. Great scene,I am not a fan of Renny Harlin,I think he makes dumb movies,but he did a good job with this.3.5/5 "},{"Title":" You just murdered me, did you know that?!","Date":"14 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Lisa Wilcox is moderate as Alice in this coy horror film. The following cast is loose. The costumes are listless. One of the fair flicks in the genre, Nightmare On Elm Street 4 The Dream Master drops empty horrors. 4 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Another good Nightmare on Elm Street Movie","Date":"16 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I've read all the comments and thought I would add it.  I don't know why almost everybody here hated Tuesday Knight for Kristen.  I thought she was so much better than Patricia from the 3rd movie.  I have asthma by the way and no I don't want to suck face.  Alice did a good job playing the innocent Alice who was stuck fighting Freddy all by herself cause Kristen brought her into her dream and gave her powers.  I gave this movie 10 stars out of 10.  It makes me sick how Ebert never gives horror movies 2 thumbs up.  He doesn't even give it one thumb up.  He sure doesn't have good taste in movies. "},{"Title":"One of my favorite Nightmare On Elm Street Movie.","Date":"16 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  After reading all of the comments here I thought I would vote and give my 10 cents worth.   I really loved Nightmare On Elm Street 4.  I'm so glad they got rid of Patricia Arquette.  She did a lousy job in part 3. I loved how they brought Freddy back to life with the dog p***ing on the hollow ground.  Here is my favorite Nightmare movies1,3,4,6,7,2. All thought I loved each and every one of the Nightmare movies I say it's time to give Freddy a rest.  You can only go so far in horror movies.  Time to invent a new killer. "},{"Title":"If only Freddy hadn't became a jokster","Date":"30 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Nightmare 4 is a good film but it could have been great if Freddy hadn't became a jokester. Does he have to crack a joke every time he kills someone ? Lisa Wilcox makes a good  foe for Freddy and Renny Harlin does some impressive direction, but the film has to many jokes. "},{"Title":"The regression of the horror genre","Date":"24 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  May contain spoilers.When people think of the great horror films of the past, one name instinctively comes to mind.  A NIGHTMARE ON ELM STREET.  This film embodied all that horror stood for and all that it should be.  Wes Craven created a character so surreal, so heartless and so deleterious to those that he haunts, that Fred Frueger became an icon in the industry.  Nightmares that could kill you? Now there is a novel idea.A Nightmare On Elm Street 2 was just sheer garbage and although  Nightmare 3 was a little better, it still continued that downward spiral that every NOES has taken since 1984.  The third sequel, while a little better, really offers nothing to assure us that this is the same franchise that scared us so thoroughly almost 20 years ago.What makes this film better than some of the others is that it has an almost passable story and it tries diligently to further the legend that is Fred Krueger.  When this film concentrates on Freddy's past, his mother's past and how he was fathered by 100 b**tard maniacs, it is actually quite intriguing.  And that only stands to reason because that is how the first one hooked you in.  It had dark alleys, lots of blood and a plethora of dead bodies but it also went to great pains to explain what was happening and why.  It was also darker and had little or no comedy.  So in part 4, we are teased with the continuation of the Krueger legend, only to disappoint us by disregarding every rule and every nuance that Krueger abided by or followed dogmatically in the first.  Just one brief example is how he dies in the film.  In the third picture, Freddy inhabits a hall of mirrors as he terrorizes Nancy and company.  In this one, he is killed because he can see his own reflection in a mirror.  Where is the linear consistency in this? Does Robert Shaye not read every script before the cameras start rolling? And can someone please explain to me how it is that a dream dog can urinate on Freddy's bones and this miraculously resurrects the child molester? Could they not think of anything more plausible than urine?I am not sure how NOES became as cult as it did.  I am not even sure what the appeal is to everyone.  What I do know is that Freddy used to scare me. He used to do everything in his realm of hieratic existence to taunt, scare, belittle and murder you.  Now he just appears when he feels like it, tells a few jokes and then slices you in two.  And herein lies the problem.Freddy isn't scary anymore.  Freddy doesn't make you want to turn the lights on or have people over the watch the film with you.  Freddy amuses.Nightmare 3 improved on the second one and in some cases the fourth backtracks to it's roots and infuses the Krueger legend with some new angles.  It's just too bad the film can't stay on that path and finish that way.  As it stands, this really isn't much of a film and I only recommend watching it just to remind you how good we really had it when Wes Craven was writing and directing a film that would delight all the horror film purists.5.5 out of 10--- Better than the third and fifth but still cannot be mentioned in the same breath as the original. "},{"Title":"I love this movie","Date":"23 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I love all Nightmare movies except for the overrated New Nightmare. I guess that one was ok, but I love this movie, cool deaths aplenty. It also has one of the best lines Kincaid says i'll see you in hell then freddy says tell em Freddy sent you that line rocks...My fav is actually number 3, I have changed my mind over the last couple of months after seeing them again on DVD. Hail to the best horror figure ever. 10/10 "},{"Title":"A Nice Try, but Not Good Enough","Date":"1 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Some good F/X work, but that and the effort to extend (by coming up with a new protagonist/character) a series that had pretty much come to a natural conclusion with Part 3, is the only thing to really merit any interest in this one.  There's much more devotion to spotlight F/X sequences, rather than integrating them into a coherent whole of a motion picture.  "},{"Title":"Love the cockroach kill but not much else","Date":"10 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Kristen Parker (Tuesday Knight) has the ability to pull others into her dreams and is convinced that Freddy Krueger is still out there. Joey Crusel (Rodney Eastman) and Roland Kincaid (Ken Sagoes) are just as sure that he's gone forever. Then Kincaid falls asleep into a junkyard where his dog pees fire opening the ground and Krueger rises from oblivion. Soon the three survivors are dead and their friends led by flustered Alice Johnson (Lisa Wilcox) are hunted down one by one.This one doesn't have Heather Langenkamp. Patricia Arquette doesn't even return for her role. The three returning survivors are killed off quickly. It is a lost for the franchise to not have a franchise protagonist. At least, Robert Englund is back. It's a hit and miss of weird killings. I really love the cockroach kill but not much else. "},{"Title":"A Wonderful,Thrilling And Entertaining Sequel And One Of The Best Elm Street Films.","Date":"26 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" A Nightmare On Elm Street 4The Dream Master is a wonderful,thrilling and entertaining sequel that is filled with dazzling direction,a great cast and a fantastic soundtrack. All of those combined elements make The Dream Master a memorable sequel and one of the best Elm Street films.Set a year later after the events in Dream Warriors,The Dream Master shows the last of the Elm Street kids Kristen(Tuesday Knight),Joey(Rodney Eastman)and Kincaid(Ken Sagoes)trying to live normal lives after being released from the mental hospital. Everything is going well until Freddy Krueger(Robert England)is brought back from the dead and is once again stalking Kristen and her friends including her friend Alice(Lisa Wilcox)in their dreams. With Freddy around in every corner of her dreams Alice now must figure out how to defeat Freddy and stop him for good.Released in the Summer of 1988,A Nightmare On Elm Street 4The Dream Master is a terrific and entertaining sequel that many would agree was the Freddy Krueger character and Elm Street series at the peak of it's popularity. Despite being the highest grossing film of the Elm Street series(that is until Freddy Vs Jason in 2003)at 48$ million dollars,the film has divided Elm Street and Horror fans over the years where some like this film and some don't. I fall into the former category because I think Dream Master is an underrated sequel. From beginning to end The Dream Master is a thrill ride a film that pretty much expands on the ideas and explosiveness that was set-up with Dream Warriors and while The Dream Master is not as good as Dream Warriors The Dream Master is a great follow up. From the opening credits,The Dream Master hints that this movie was going to be different from the previous Elm Street films and that is one of the things that I like about the film. DM was produced when Action films were big and MTV was in it's prime and DM is a reflection of Action films and MTV's influence with the film and story moving at a fast pace and never slowing down with the editing going quicker than it had before with rapid cuts grabbing you by the throat and never letting you go. The Dream sequences in DM are thrilling and imaginative with some of the Dream sequences being Suspenseful while others are dazzling with an Action style that never stops. So while DM is a Horror film it's more of a Action-Horror movie. Another thing that is different and good about DM is the look of the movie because while the first three films had a dark and brooding look to them the look of DM is very bright and colorful using different colors schemes that are big in the background and give the movie more of a fun feel to it not only making DM the brightest looking film in the series but also telling viewers to have a good time and to not take the movie seriously. Freddy Krueger is back once again and instead of being a supporting character in the first three movies he is the star in this one. Like I said before in my review of Dream Warriors Freddy's portrayal in 4,5 and 6 have divided fans some liking the jokes and one-liners he says in those films and others not liking them. I for one like the jokes and in my opinion Freddy was probably the funniest in this spitting out jokes with a darkly funny glee while killing people in their dreams. Despite being funny,Freddy has not lost his mean streak when it comes to killing people and in DM Freddy has a couple of kills in this movie that are mean and cruel. Alice is another great heroine in the Elm Street series because in the beginning her mind often wonders and she's a push over the beginning of the film but as the movie moves along we see Alice get tough and is able to go up against Freddy with guts and determination and we as the viewers root for her to survive. The ending of The Dream Master is one of the best endings in all of the films because there is Action,thrills and surprises all in one. A great ending.The cast is great. Robert England is excellent once again as Freddy Krueger,with England bringing charisma and spitting out funny one-liners and jokes. Lisa Wilcox is terrific as heroine Alice,with Wilcox being sympathetic and tough. Tuesday Knight(replacing Patricia Arquette)does a wonderful job as Kristen,showing the right emotions with the performance. Andres Jones does a great job as Rick,Alice's older brother and Kristen's boyfriend. Danny Hassal is good as Dan,Alice's love interest. Brooke Theiss is tough and intense as Debbie,Alice's tough friend. Toy Newkirk is memorable as Shelia,Alice's smart friend. Rodney Eastman(Joey)and Ken Sagoes(Kincaid)do fine jobs once again as the last of the Dream Warriors and Kristen friends.The direction by Renny Harlin is amazing and stylish,with Harlin always moving the camera with great angles and giving the film a dazzling visual style. Wonderful job,Harlin.The score by Craig Safan is effective,moody and matches the energy of the film. Good score,Safan. The movie also has an fantastic soundtrack that includes songs by Vinnie Vincent Invasion(Love Kills),Billy Idol(Fatal Charm),Sinead O'Connor(I Want Your(Hands On Me),Dramarama(Anything,Anything),The Fat Boys and Robert England(Are You Ready For Freddy),Go West(Don't Be Afraid Of Your Dreams),Blondie(In The Flesh),Divinyls(Back To The Wall),Tuesday Knight(Running From This Nightmare)and more. An amazing soundtrack In final word,if you love the Elm Street films or Horror films in general,I highly suggest you see A Nightmare On Elm Street 4The Dream Master,an entertaining and underrated sequel that is one of the best Elm Street films. 9.5/10. "}{"Title":"the nature of evolution is to dream bigger than this schlock","Date":"10 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Its the same movie as the others, I choose this one only cause I saw it recently and it reminded me how lame these movies are. Its foolish and futile to ask for better, I mean its the Nightmare on Elm Street series I know exactly what I'm in for.Bad acting, bad direction, bad sets, bad lighting, all the colors are drab all the lives of the characters exist in a soundstage in Hollywood, nothing is real cause its all a crappy eighties teen-scream horror movie---The problem is when I consider my own dreams and how vivid the colors are and how indelible my dreams have been, I must think that the filmmakers were profoundly lazy or simply not up to the task of making a movie about dreams. You, have you ever had an amazing dream? Can you remember your most recent nightmare? Give me those monies paid to make this movie, give me the same cameras and film, give me the same cast and crew, I could show you such horror! I would show you something far more mysterious and frightening than some catch-phrase spouting Hollywood franchise boogieman, I would show you the worlds of Dreaming! "},{"Title":"Like a discarded tissue containing booger!","Date":"18 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Nightmare on Elm Street 4 begins with a psychic girl taking her pals and companions to Freddie's world, where he lies in a faux coffin or something, in skeletal form. The main character believes that he would be back to extract revenge but the other two think otherwise. Turns out, so obvious, that she's right and the African-American guy's dog awakens Freddy. The boy keeps cussing and dodging Freddie until he meets his end in the beginning of the movie. The other boy dies in a pool of bloody water where he is stabbed and drowned. Where are the scares guys? I have read so many reviews praising Freddie and entitling him as the King of Chills! I found Rosemary's baby scarier than this.Then comes the main character's demise. But wait. Before she dies, she introduces her best friend to Freddie's world. Poor girl, one would think, but with all the atrocious acting, you wish all were dead. And this becomes a chain when the calm, mature (yeah right!) girl gets all her friends to her world. Why not get all her enemies to Freddie instead? One by one, characters keep dying in hilarious manners. Of course, no panic or safety measures in the college at all. Death is regular, right? So what if five or six kids are dead in a week? Anyway, characters are suffocated, converted into cockroaches, KO'ed and what not. The karate scene, both with the boy and the girl were cringe worthy. And this is where the main problem lies. NOES 1 and NOES 2 weren't very cringe worthy. But this takes the cake for being a very silly sequel that is best for the brainless people, literally. Anyone with slightest intellect shouldn't see this.The muscular girl talks so weirdly. The catchphrases are unnecessary. The acting diabolic. The final scene nearly suffocated me . I'll go with a 2 on 10 for this god awful film. "},{"Title":"Dazzling visuals and special effects bonanza","Date":"18 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Freddy's back (thanks to some dog urine!!!), killing the survivors from Part 3, but this time, he also faces the Dream Master, who proves to be his equal.This third sequel is actually one of the best in the series. No real chills to speak of, but astounding visuals with dazzling special effects are the main course here, and served with panache. Renny Harlin directs with a sure hand, the script (with some loopholes admittedly) is mostly well written and performances are generally good. Freddy is more like a hero here than the truly scary villain he was in the original, and I actually found myself cheering him on in some instances. His one liners are very amusing and Robert Englund is good as always.All in all, this is one spectacular showcase that entertains, but doesn't really frighten. "},{"Title":"One of The Weakest of the Series","Date":"3 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Part IV is the one of the weakest of the Nightmare on Elm Street series (only beaten by Part VI, the absolute worst). The Black Humor isn't even funny and there are absolutely no scares. I would only recommend it to die-hard fans of the Nightmare on Elm Street series.4 out of 10Fans of horror movies like this should Check out Puppet Master, Skinned Alive, Sleep Away Camp, Slumber Party Massacre, and other Full Moon Pictures flicks. For other recommendations, check out the other comments I have sent in by clicking on my name above this comment section. "},{"Title":"Renny Harlin's best film","Date":"22 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This Nightmare is pretty good, despite being from the director of The Adventures of Ford Farlaine. It has some great dream sequences, like the subtle deja-vu sequence where characters get stuck in time. It looks better than part three, but I think it has more flaws, like the stupid scene where Freddy fights the karate student.Good things about this sequel A dog pees fire, Robert Englund appears in drag, a dog pees fire, Freddy eats a pizza with kids' faces on it, there's a Reefer Madness scene, a poster for a John Waters movie is seen, a dog pees fire, a girl turns into a cock-roach, a dog pees fire. Did I mention that a dog pees fire?!?!!Bad things They couldn't get Patricia Arquette to return, so they got an actress who looks NOTHING LIKE HER to play her part, which was confusing and distracting. Also, they kill off the surviving kids from part 3, which was a really crappy decision. Kincaid was an awesome character- HE should've been the Dream Master.I'd say this is a fair Freddy movie- Almost as good as Dream Warriors, but good in different ways, and I think they are both better than the others in the series, including the over-rated first installment.  "},{"Title":"You just don't know when to quit","Date":"13 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Why? Nightmare on Elm Street 3 pretty much tied up the loose ends, so there was no need for a sequel. A lot of the acting is bad with few exceptions, most notably Robert Englund who seems to make the best out of anything. Special effects are okay. But I ask why make this? It just proves my theory that a good Nightmare movie can not be made without Wes Craven. As the story goes, somehow Freddy comes back (not explained well at all), goes after some Nightmare 3 survivors and some new kids, gives so lame one liners, and gets killed by the only way to beat him. That's it. Not the worst of the series but certainly not the best. Feel free to avoid this chapter of the Nightmare saga. "},{"Title":"two words as to why this movie sucks RENNY HARLIN","Date":"8 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  it has been commented by cast members and the crew that most of this film was made without a complete script, and it shows.first of all, i hate director Renny Harlin and every movie he has done. he couldn't direct his way out of a paper bag.secondly, this film is just a series of special effects sequences, though well done from a technical standpoint, they have no coherency and just exists a set pieces. the characters could have been better played by pieces of cardboard, and Freddy is turned into a wise cracking comedian and is a far cry from his original incarnation in the first film.in terms of f/x, this film is decent. but the rest of it is so completely average, that it makes that a chore getting through the rest of the movie.rating4 (just because of the f/x)  "},{"Title":"How bad can these films get? Watch this and find out.","Date":"1 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" After Freddy was defeated by the Dream Warriors (and his remains buried in consecrated ground) in part 3, it seemed to me that scriptwriters might never be able to think of a plausible way to bring back the char-grilled lunatic for more teen slaying. But I hadn't reckoned on the brilliant minds behind the series finding that obvious loophole in the whole Krueger mythos fiery dog urine. That's right... a dog peeing on Freddy's junkyard burial site reawakens the kiddie killer in what must be one of the most preposterous openings to a popular horror movie.After this, things go from bad to worse, making Dream Master barely better than the abysmal, and much reviled, Pt. 2 (Freddy's Revenge).With Freddy returning from hell to slaughter again, the surviving three Elm Street children are once again in peril. Kristen (Tuesday Knight, replacing Patricia Arquette), who has the power to pull others into her dreams, is powerless to rescue fellow Dream Warriors Joey and Kincaid, and, after their deaths, is also attacked. However, before she dies, she manages to pull her friend Alice (Lisa Wilcox) into her dream and passes on her special skill.Freddy, wishing to carry on slicing and dicing, uses an unwilling Alice to gain access to 'fresh meat' he terrorizes Alice in her dreams until she unwittingly pulls someone in with her&#151;and then he kills them.But as Freddy does away with each of Alice's pals, the once timid girl becomes more powerful (and sexy), acquiring the skills of each victim. Eventually, she does battle with the soul stealing sicko, and, in another excellent stroke of genius by the writers (do you sense the sarcasm?), doesn't defeat him with her brother's karate skills or her friends sonic bug-killer (I would explain, but it really isn't worth the effort), but by making him look in a mirror. That's right... apparently, seeing himself in a mirror is just too much for him to handle, and he is unable to stop the souls trapped inside his body from tearing themselves free.There are so many cringe-worthy moments in this film that to name them all would take forever, but among the worst are the victim transformed into a bug (nice effects, stupid idea), a daydream in which Alice chats to her dead brother, the beach scene which sees Freddy donning Raybans, a badly handled 'deja vu' sequence that goes on and on and on, and ALL of Freddy's jokes.Oh, and that bloody awful 'Are You Ready For Freddy?' rap song during the end credits, of course! "},{"Title":"Really bad.","Date":"23 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" A Nightmare on Elm Street 4 picks up right after 3. Freddy returns to kill the 3 remaining Dream Warriors, and to terrorize the dreams of a new young woman named Alice. The same old plot line ensues as Alice must fight Freddy to prevent her death. This movie is where the series starts to get really weird, and it's also starting to get a bit tiring.I can't really say much for this movie. The writing, the acting, and the entire story are just terrible. This movie attempts to stay on the same story line from the 3rd film, but the style changes too much. No longer is Freddy Krueger a creepy dream killer. Now he's a villain who provides his own comic relief by making every word out of his mouth a wise crack of some sort. The gore in this movie is way too far as well. It seems that the killings were meant to repulse you rather than scare you.Kristen Parker, the character from the 3rd film, is in this. Unfortunately, Patricia Arquette didn't take the role, and some no name actress took it instead. The acting in this movie is really bad.Overall, this is not a good entry into the series, so steer clear.3/10 "},{"Title":"Absolutely Iredeemably Incomprehensibly awful","Date":"10 December 2000","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is so bad, I felt sick watching it. I have yet to see the first in the series, which is strange, because I'm a big horror fan. Why did I watch it in the first place? Well, I had nothing else to do, and I usually am in the mood for a good, dumb horror movie, even if it was 3 in the afternoon. I started watching it, and realised there was something wrong. The acting was already bad. I continued watching, with an unpleasant frown on my face. The movie was quite bad. Then, the pivotal moment came, which brought it from typically bad to amazingly awful Freddy is resurrected by flaming dog urine. I was gaping in awe, like I had seen something I never thought I'd think a filmmaker would do. The rest of the movie is drenched in drear. I have heard that there were much worse horror movies out there, and if so, what have I been missing? I even liked The Omen 4, and Halloween 6. But this didn't have one bit that scared me, enthralled me, or even kept me from counting the strings of cotton woven in my T-Shirt. To describe how bad this movie is would be like writing one of those little pocket dictionaries you see in small sections of bookstores. If you can relate to how I felt while watching this piece of horror dreck, then PM me, and you will be my soulmate. Oh, I usually put down a rating when I review a movie. Well, to rate this movie would give zero a bad name. "}{"Title":"Nightmare On Elm Street Lite","Date":"22 September 2004","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" As horror film franchises moved into the late 1980s, the clamp-down that the MPAA inflicted upon Hollywood was biting hard. Films were going into theatrical release with much of the content that their budget was spent on missing. Some filmmakers defiantly thumbed their nose at the MPAA by manipulating the system, while the makers of A Nightmare On Elm Street 4 simply neutered their film in advance. Either way, once this virtually bloodless film was compared with its three predecessors, it's no wonder that fans basically ignored it.To understand why the makers of part seven basically pretended that this and the two films after it never happened, one has to think about what a film buff wants to see when they go to see a film like this. Maybe one can tone down the sex and drugs, or make the atmosphere more pastel than dark, but once the blood or detailed kills are removed, every reason your core audience has for watching goes with them.Adding insult to injury is a major change in the Freddy character. Parts one and two kept him in the shadows, expressing himself through an economy of words. Part three put him in front of the camera more, but kept him grotesque enough that his quips added interest. Here, it would only take a few modifications to make Freddy into something one would hold in their arm when they curl up to sleep. During half the film, I was half expecting the rest of the cast to break into song about how he's just misunderstood.The acting quotient is severely diminished here, too. Robert Englund dutifully does his best with lousy dialogue, but even his hamming it up cannot disguise his lack of enthusiasm. As he is puking out dialogue that David Bowie would have refused during Labyrinth, one can sense he longs to go back to miniseries like V. Ken Sagoes and Rodney Eastman dutifully return from the previous episode, but given how subdued this one is by comparison, they cannot compensate for their lack of talent by overacting here. Patricia Arquette felt that pieces of junk like Time Out and Far North were more worthy of her time, and given that she's appeared in films recently, I think she's made the right choice. She is replaced here by the unfortunately named Tuesday Knight. As an actor, she makes one hell of a waitress, I'm sure.This was Renny Harlin's first high-profile production. It pretty much set the entire tone for his career, with production after production based on a shaky premise and bad script. You know a director is cursed when Die Hard 2 is the most high-brow entry on his resumé. Honestly, has this man ever directed something that doesn't resemble an extended music video?In all, I gave A Nightmare On Elm Street 4 a one out of ten. When you're in a conversation with anyone regarding a piece of garbage that sells out to the lowest common denominator and they try to tell you that there's nothing wrong with appealing to a broader audience, tell them they obviously haven't seen this film. "},{"Title":"This movie is not the best or the worst in the series.","Date":"17 January 2010","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This time with have Kristen Parker, Roland Kincaid, Joey Crusel return for the 4th movie in this series, I was disappointed that they re casted Kristen Parker, which i think was a really big mistake.The way Freddy came back from the death, was a bit ridiculous but he dose not take long to get the last two elm street kids, before going face to face with Kristen, who is the last of elm street kids but silly Kristen get her new Friend Alice involved with Freddy.Alice is now key to Freddy as she bring her Friend to Freddy, not intentional. she has to stop him before he kills again.The deaths scenes in this are not as good as A Nigthamre on elm street 1 or A nightmare on elm street 3 ,I did enjoy watching the dream scenes which were really good, i loved the class dream scene was great.The other thing, I liked in this was the way, Freddy died , it was really gross and scary, I think that was best Freddy deaths in the whole series.Now the acting, I did not like the new Kristen but happy that she was not in the whole movie, I think Girl that played Annie did a great Job.I give this movie a 5/10 "},{"Title":"Oh Freddy, you jolly japester","Date":"3 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I'm not sure how a dog peeing fire onto Freddy's grave made it to the top of the list of resurrection concepts, but here we are he's back, hacking his way through the survivors of the previous instalment before using a friend of theirs to find new victims. It's business as usual, basically, and wisecracking child murderer Freddy has been so diluted by this point that there's not a scare to be found; it doesn't help that the make-up looks completely unconvincing. The dream sequences aren't too bad and a few squirmy effects get through along the way - one character quite impressively turns into a cockroach - but, you know, pfftt. "},{"Title":"One girl, multiple powers and a fan-pleasing slice of fun.","Date":"11 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Freddy returns in this fourth instalment of the popular Elm Street franchise, this time trying to finish off what he started in the last movie before grabbing some new blood. While the surviving Dream Warriors put up an admirable fight it's really down to another group of disposable teens when the focus moves to Alice and company. Alice has been given Kristen's power and, as her friends are picked off by the sharp-gloved one, she ends up gaining a little something from each of them. But will she have enough strength to save herself from Mr Krueger? Despite being, to date, the only instalment in the series to receive a 15 certificate in the UK this movie does not skimp on the blood and guts. Director Renny Harlin (who almost always makes movies I end up liking) walks a very thin line indeed to get away with what he does, especially considering two scenes in particular; one involving a nasty cockroach moment and the other a pizza with a most unusual topping.Freddy may have well and truly become the killer jester by now but it's the tongue in cheek sensibility that actually helps this movie along. The pacing is slightly problematic, covering some old ground as it has to and then just seeming to set up people for their death scenes, but it can't really be accused of having many dull moments and, considering the next two outings before Wes Craven's revisionist post-modern return to the material, that's not a bad achievement.See this if you like Prison, A Nightmare On Elm St 3 Dream Warriors, Freddy Vs Jason. "},{"Title":"Another superb Elm Street installment!","Date":"7 January 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" A year after The Dream Warriors, Kristen (Tuesday Knight) with two surviving dream warriors Joey (Rodney Eastman) and Roland Kincaid (Ken Sagoes) have been dreaming nothing but good dreams without the involvement of Freddy. However one night, Kincaid is dreaming that he's in the junkyard where Freddy was buried in the last film as his dog somehow resurrects Freddy Krueger (Robert Englund) back. Kristen with friends Alice (Lisa Cox), Debbie (Brook Theiss), Danny (Danny Hassle) and Rick (Andreas Jones) have been getting bad dreams as well as soon some of them drop like flies with Alice being a pawn in Freddy's game as when some of her friends die she gains some of their powers as she is the only one to take on Freddy with them.A smart and nifty entry of the popular Nightmare on Elm Street horror fantasy franchise is a solid one. After the brilliant Dream Warriors, this became the highest grossing sequel in the franchise thanks to Renny Harlin's direction whom was fresh off making Prison (1988) at the same year. Centerfold Hope-Marie Carlton and b-movie beauty Linnea Quigley does some amusing cameos here in this movie, the special effects in this entry are incredible even by today's standards. There is some good acting and creative gory death scenes like the disturbing girl turning into a bug sequence or the Pizza of souls scene, Lisa Wilcox and Tuesday Knight are really smokin' hot girls in this movie. "},{"Title":"Freddie goes Hollywood","Date":"2 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" So I guess they were looking for some new angle, but then they bailed out on that and just mentioned dream master here and there pretending that was something. Either way, this really just reprises the first one and doesn't even do a very good job of that. When did Freddie Krueger get so talky anyway? His lame dialogue doesn't really match his cool everything else. How much writers does it take to figure all these one-liners suck? I guess they were all busy changing a light bulb. The Freddie character is crushed even further by the fact that he gets grotesque amounts of screen time. The original movie was about an implausibly beautiful girl next door and her friends stalked by a mysterious killer. This one is about Freddie. Freddie Freddie Freddie. The characters don't even seem to try to stay awake. They die one by one, but hey it beats feeling tired. I wish they could all just be taken down as quickly as possible. Oh another thing, these kills are lazy and bloodless. Everyone gets a taste of the glove, usually with the camera panned away. Which I suppose makes sense because dead people can't dream anymore, but still what a downer. Don't mean to be that negative, and the parts that follow this make this one look fairly good, but they should have just quit while they were ahead. "},{"Title":"Freddy 4 The Joke-Master","Date":"2 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Even though The Dream Master is certainly not the worst part in the Nightmare series, there are several reasons to make Horror fans dislike this fourth Freddy Krueger film. As far as I am considered, the series is generally overrated, and the fourth part is the one when the whole thing was becoming ridiculous. The original Nightmare of 1984 and the third part, The Dream Warriors of 1987 were the only real creepy entries to the series. The first sequel, Freddy's Revenge of 1985 is probably the most widely hated of them all, and it is indeed a pretty lame sequel, but at least Freddy Krueger was still meant to be scary, and didn't crack moronic puns all the time. While this fourth film in the series still has some qualities, this is the first Nightmare film that lets Freddy crack one annoying one-liner joke after another, a tendency which was expanded to an unbearable extent in the bad fifth, and god-awful sixth part. I don't suppose it's necessary to explain that Freddy Krueger is haunting kids in their dreams again. Patricia Arquette is replaced with Tuesday Knight in the role of Kirsten Parker, which is not exactly a welcome change. Lisa Wilcox comes in as the new character Alice. Director Renny Harlin's fame is beyond my understanding. I haven't seen his (supposedly creepy) Prison yet, but Die Hard 2 was the worst in the series, and everything else I've seen from him was even worse. Overall, The Dream Master is still better than the terrible Nightmare films to come, but this is the film that gave the kick-off for the whole series to become a travesty. "},{"Title":"* * out of 4","Date":"1 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Kristen (Tuesday Knight, who replaced Patricia Arquette), Joey (Rodney Eastman), and Kincaid (Ken Sagoes), have been released from Westin Hills and are now living normal lives and attending high school. Kristen has managed to make some new friends -Alice (Lisa Wilcox), a young, bright girl who is a frequent daydreamer; Sheila, a brainy, quiet girl with asthma (Toy Newkirk); and Debbie (Brooke Theiss), a tough girl who hates bugs. She has also found herself a boyfriend, Rick (Andras Jones), who happens to be Alice's brother.Kristen begins to have bad dreams and feels as though Freddy has once again come back from the dead. During one of her nightmares, she pulls Kincaid and Joey into her dream. In school the next day, Kincaid and Joey confront Kristen about pulling them into the dream.As it turns out, Freddy is indeed back.Series is starting to show signs of running out of steam, but with terrific effects and an appealing cast this still works. Rated R for Extreme Graphic Violence, Brief Nudity and Profanity. "},{"Title":"just another nightmare film.","Date":"29 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Lisa Wilcox, Robert Englund, Danny Hassle, Tuesday Knight, Rodney Eastman and others.Murderer Freddy Krueger is back, and for anyone who saw the last film, this one will be a big disappointment. Of course, we have to start out with (SPOILERDON'T READ UNLESS YOU WANT TO KNOW) Freddy killing off the three survivors from the last film within the first 40 minutes.(SPOILER OVER) This is one of my least favorite of the Nightmare films because Freddy no longer is scary. Now he's a comedian and I'm surprised the kids don't laugh themselves to death. Also, the deaths in this movie are pretty lame. All of them seem too well thought out and they are strange. Watch it if you like things like this.my rating-1 1/2 out of 4. 87 minutes. R for violence, language and nudity. "},{"Title":"Entertaining for a slasher movie, but by this time, the series is showing wrinkles","Date":"1 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Nightmare on Elm Street 4, A The Dream Master (1988) Tuesday Knight, Ken Sagoes, Rodney Eastman, Lisa Wilcox, Andras Jones, Danny Hassel, Brooke Theiss, Toy Newkirk, Robert England, D Renny Harlin. Freddy is brought back to life by fiery dog urine (?) after the three survivors left thought they had done away with him and finishes them off in their sleep, and then finds fresh meat in their friends. Series is about ready to run out of steam, but finds room for more mind-blowing makeup and effects and more black comedy, which doesn't stop this movie from being violent. Running Time 92 minutes and rated R for gore/violence, language, and brief nudity. RATING ** ½ "}{"Title":"He's supposed to be a serial killer, not a comedian!","Date":"28 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"     The original idea for Freddy was scary.  The original execution was masterful.  Then Wes Craven bailed on pt 2 and we got a messy, inconsistent outing.  He returned for Pt 3 to show 'em how it was done and then left the series high and dry again.  Wes, I know you sold the rights, so you shoulda stuck behind the camera on all of 'em to save us from the dire sequels.  I'd like to know whose idea it was to turn Freddy into some low-rent holiday camp entertainer.  Guys, a note a burned and twisted psychopathic child molester and murderer is not inherently funny, as you may have realised had you bothered to watch the first, which it's patently obvious no-one who wrote or directed parts 2,4,5 or 6 considered. If I'm wrong about that fact, then the real scary thing here is how they managed to turn a modern horror classic into the aforementioned insipid piles of garbage.   "},{"Title":"Special effects are the main attraction here.","Date":"30 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Freddy returns and kills off everybody that survived part three and extends his reign of terror from Elm Street to a new bunch of teens on a different street. The series was showing its age by this point, by forgetting to include a plot and charcters we even care about. And giving way to excellent, state-of-the-art special effects and having Freddy spitting out far too many wisecracks. It only got worse from here. 5.5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"The MTV Nightmare movie. Unfarily bashed.","Date":"13 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Unfairly bashed sequel has Freddy Krueger taking revenge on the survivors of the past Nightmare movie and then the plot takes the series to a new dimension.The Dream Master is known between fans as the MTV Nightmare movie. I agree partially. The visuals are pretty good and surprisingly better than in Dream Warriors but they have this music video look. I have no problem with that but the Nightmare movies had a darker atmosphere, specially on death scenes. Still the visuals are pretty good; Nightmare 4 is a colorful Horror movie.The plot shows that the producers and director tried to make an intelligent Horror movie but I don't think that bringing up a new heroine was the best choice. The series focused on Freddy Krueger as the main character but this time his on-screen appearances went too far. Krueger comes up with cheesy one-liners every time he's on screen and even makes him odd.The direction is very good. Some death scenes were very creative and well done. The movie is not as dark as part 1 or 2, but still has some creepy settings.Overall, it was nice to have Kincaid, Joey, and Kirsten once again even for Freddy's revenge. After their demises the movie becomes more fantasy oriented and ends up abruptly. Still, this is a sequel to watch if you are fan of the series. Not the best one or nearly as good as part 2 and 3 but still deserves a watch. "},{"Title":"Decent entry, if not overtly spectacular","Date":"30 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" A Nightmare on Elm Street Part 4 The Dream Master isn't all that bad.**SPOILERS** Alice Johnson, (Lisa Wilcox) is having extreme dreams, and her brother Rick, (Andras Jones) and his girlfriend Kristen Parker, (Tuesday Knight) are worried for her. When her friends Roland Kincaid, (Ken Sagoes) and Joey Crusel, (Rodney Eastman) are killed, Alice thinks it's Freddy Kruegar, (Robert Englund) and informs the group about his legend. When her friends start dying in rapid succession, Alice comes to term with the fact that she alone can stop Freddy's rampage.The Good News As one of the better entries in the series, this one features some great stuff. One of the new things is suspense. Normally, these films are used to having the situation the characters are trapped in drive the horror. In here, the horror also comes with the jumps in the film. Quite often, Freddy jumps into view behind someone or transforms from a person we don't expect him to. It's quite scary at times, even with all the dream sequences. Those were undoubtedly the highlights, as each one was a joy to watch. It really is hard to pick just one as a favorite, as they all have something different to offer, and that is quite rare in a film like this, but a true classic is the one which features death by fire sequence. It features a lot of ingenious special effects, a great gory death, and several suspense scenes that make it a great scene. All the other dream sequences are great, and they really are great to watch. Also worthy of mention is the opening sequence, which features a healthy amount of suspense and an overall fantastic sequence that brings Freddy back into the action. Also, strangely, the jokes in here worked for me. Most don't like the film because the humor started taking over from this point in the series, in here they come out funny.The Bad News It really didn't bother me with the amount of humor in this one, but it almost completely supersedes the horror in the series. It's a complaint that some have against the film, and I can see how it can happen. There are a lot more jokes in here, mainly due to Freddy's increased screen-time compared to the original sequels. Also, it's got a pretty standard issue plot for a sequel. It's pretty much the exact same as the first one, only with new actors and dream sequences. With the way the series was going, a new approach was definitely possible to do.The Final Verdict A couple of misstates should not deter you away from watching this one if you're a fan of the series. It features great moments in the series, and, love it or not, it features the start of the joking Freddy. Fans of the series will like this one, and those who enjoy the kind of films will want to see this one.Rated R Graphic Violence, some language and Brief Nudity "},{"Title":"Weak fourth chapter","Date":"2 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Exit Patricia Arquette, Enter Tuesday Knight. Don't you just HATE it when they change players in the middle of a series? Well, I hate it and this movie is no exception to that. Additionally, Craven's completely absent from this thing... again.But there is still hope on the horizon. While this is, on the whole, not as atmospheric as the first and third, the story is far better than the lamoid trash we were served in the second. The camera work isn't bad here either. Some of the ideas were actually a bit enlightened, and the one-liners were well placed, few and far between. The performances in this one are really quite decent, as well.MINOR SPOILERS! However. I don't know about you, but by the third death, I'd be looking into that Freddy thing. You've got two different girls telling the same story, two kids die, the first girl dies and the second girl starts telling the first girl's story. By the third death, and definitely by the fourth, I'd be reading up on old Fred Kruger. It doesn't take a rocket scientist to figure out these things. You go to the local library, the news paper morgue, you find everything you can on the guy and you sit down and put the pieces together. Voilas!Also, did anyone else notice a mild leaning in the better living through drugs mentality? Take a pill to stay awake. Take a pill to go to sleep. Pills, Pills, Pills. And when some kid watches this and then OD's on mom's Valium prescription, they'll cry, Horror movies made him do it! END MINOR SPOILERS!Teen slasher flicks does not have to equate stupid teen slasher flicks. Some teens do have their heads on their shoulders. Not every female trips and falls at the critical moment. And not all teens have the minds of children. Some are emotionally mature enough to handle a crisis. Craven never gave us stupid kids. He showed us enlightened, misunderstood fighters; survivors. Not Mensa candidates, but not victims, either. Films such as these, which lack direction and strength are bordering on the lines of exploitation films, IMO. But that is for another time.This is not the weakest link in this chain, but it is not the quality of work in the first and the third. Perhaps this series suffers an even curse as the Star Trek films suffered the odd curse. We shall have to wait and see, but quite honestly, had they ended the franchise here, it would have been a decent ending. But to be honest here, this was done during the time of the big Writer's Strike of the late 80's, and for this movie to have been as good as it was, was a miracle, frankly. They reportedly had people from every field but that of screenwriter, sending them script pages from day to day. They put everything together and then tried to make it blend. Amazing that it was as good as it was.A Nightmare on Elm Street IV Dream Master rates a 6.7/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"There can be only one... as if it was the amount that was the problem","Date":"2 August 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Yup, they stuck with the idea of the teens having powers in dreams. Also, this time, they can be transferred, because that makes this ever-so-slightly different from #3. The directorial reins have been passed on to Renny Harlin, who evidently wasn't new to the idea of a sequel that has nothing on the original when he made Die Hard 2. He made Deep Blue Sea, too. I hear Driven is terrible, as well. At this point, it seems like they were running on fumes. There are few creative gags, and the FX are hit and miss(granted, there *are* great ones among them). The trend of going for the weird and bizarre over being creepy(which it seldom is), and it certainly succeeds. Trust me, you will utter at least a handful of wtf's in your initial viewing of this. We get clichéd attempts at being scary instead of the sense of being trapped in a nightmare(granted, the lighting and a bit or two at least make the effort). Krueger gives us excellent one-liners again, and they are the best thing about this. The characters are mostly obnoxious or uninteresting, and this has too many of them, so we don't get to know all of them, much less care about them. Several of the kids return from the third one, and the same actors(other than Arquette, who was pregnant). Well, maybe that word is excessively flattering. Other than Englund(incapable of being poor in a film), no one delivers a good performance in this. Why does this open and close with *pop music*? If you can't produce more than 83 minutes sans credits of a flick, do you really have enough material? Is the gradual decline in the quality of the climax and conclusion in this series intentional? Early in this, Kincaid utters the following Aw, Kristen, not again. I concur. There is a lot of disturbing content and gruesome, bloody, gory violence, a little strong language and brief nudity. The Ultimate Collector's Edition 7-Disc DVD set comes with the feature Jump To A Nightmare and a trailer. I recommend this to those desperate for a follow-up in this franchise. 5/10 "},{"Title":"One of the better entries in the franchise!","Date":"13 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Freddy Kruger is back again, in this highly enjoyable entry in the NIGHTMARE series! There's no arguing the fact that this film along with III, is the films that really brought Freddy into the pop culture mainstream media & made him the icon he is today! What I liked best about the film & why I feel it's better than many horror movie sequels, is because it takes the basic formula established by earlier entries & just adds more to it! Yet again the film focuses on the many aspects of dreaming. It touches upon the themes of both day dreaming & re- occurring dreams & adds an interesting theme of each dying teen, passing on their most powerful skills, abilities & weapons onto the lead heroine, who takes all of these powers & devices to go into the dream world to battle Freddy & the plot of Freddy having done away with all of the offspring of the parents who burned him to death & now focusing his evil intentions on a new generation of kids was a great plot device to get a new sequel going. ROBERT ENGLUND again returns as Freddy (He also turns up in a humorous cameo as a nurse that morphs into Freddy) & takes centre stage & is an absolute thrill to watch, this is easily Englund's best performance yet as Freddy & you can tell through his performance that he is really having a ball playing the character here. What I found notable here, is how the film shares many similarities with Friday The 13th Part VII The New Blood, released around the same time. Both films had John Carl Buechler on board (He directed New Blood & did effects work here) & both films feature female protagonists with special powers, they used to defeat the villains from within. The film also features a sequence taken from an unused draft of NIGHTMARE III, wherein Freddy's claw marks ripped through Nancy's stranded car at the side of the road, here the scene is re-interpreted with the claw marks (complete with an orange glowing light) appearing on a set of school lockers. RENNY HARLIN turns out to be a pretty good director for Newline to have tapped to helm the project, his idea's are very visual, he ups the action & keeps the film going at a very even pace. Making Freddy Kruger the centrepiece & having the film all evolve around him, as well as changing the character to be a more wisecracking villain & keeping him out of the shadows & having the film also centre around a much higher body count than previous entries, would have been suicide had this been placed in the hands of the wrong director, yet Harlin somehow makes it all work. He imbues the film with a very colourful atmosphere & uses the colour green a lot for lighting & even the green in Freddy's shirt is brighter. He also give the film an almost 1950's like look & feel, the date of the lead hero's is dressed like a teen girl from the 50's, as well as the fact they are headed to the drive-in. Dan's older truck & letterman's jacket, a small 1950's style diner, complete with a jukebox, Alice watching a 1950's movie in a theatre & early on has a 1950's style fashion sense. The set designs are really wonderful here. The special effects are an almost non stop showcase, done by some of the best effects artists in the business, many of whom worked on several Friday the 13th movies. Yet despite the many talented effects artists on hand, Nightmare 4 has hardly any gore! the kills are more fantasy driven here. In fact, many dream sequences were written by Harlin himself, using his own nightmares as source material. The character of Alice is a real joy to watch & probably my favourite out of all the Elm Street heroines, it's fun to see her go from a drippy, mousy good girl to butt kicking heroine, by movies end. All that out of the way, I did have some problems with the film. Although I prefer this one over III, I will say there were many silly things here, it's obvious Newline had figured Nightmare III to be the last film in the series, what with Freddy's burial & all, but I mean could not have come up with a better resurrection for the character, than him being revived via flaming dog urine? give me a break, even when I saw this film when I was little, I used to laugh at it! it's so silly & stupid! & there's no denying that starting with III, Freddy's witty banter & one liners, the shift in looks & tone for the movies & the character, is what set the series in the downward spiral towards mediocrity. No longer would Freddy be the creepy dark, evil villain cloaked in darkness & hiding in the shadows ready to pounce on his intended victims, he still made for a pretty interesting horror movie villain with a twist & was fun to watch, but he was less scary & for whatever reason his new humorous character didn't work in 5 & 6. Watch for several Friday The 13th references, such as the dog named Jason & a character trapped in a rusty elevator, that lands on the 13th floor, as well as the JAWS reference, with Freddy's finger blades emerging from the water in a dream sequence, in the shape of a fin. Great acting only helps make the films characters all the better. A great rock soundtrack too. A poster for the director's PRISON is on the wall of the theatre, a film which helped earn him the gig of directing this movie. Some musical cues are taken from the first three films. Highly recommended! Followed by a sequel A NIGHTMARE ON ELM STREET 5 THE DREAM CHILD***1/2 stars "},{"Title":"Interesting transition.","Date":"28 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** Picking up not long after where Part 3 left off, A Nightmare on Elm Street Part 4 has the strange transitional quality of including several characters from the last film, but pretty much just long enough for them to get killed off. Kristen is no longer played by Patricia Arquette, but by the curiously named Tuesday Knight instead, and she is now attempting to gain some semblance of a normal life. Roland Kincaid, who we remember from the last film, has started having nightmares of his own, one of which involves a scene at the junkyard where Freddy's bones were carelessly disposed of, and in which they are brought back to life. Bet you didn't see that one coming.(spoilers) So the whole thing about Freddy not being `completely killed in the last movie,' one of the biggest clichés in the episodic horror movie genre, is slightly covered over with one of the weirdest and weakest attempts at originality which I can even begin to remember in just about any genre. Kincaid has this dream about the junkyard that he first saw in the lat movie, and in this one, he watches as his dog digs up Freddy's bones and then does something that I don't think anyone could have anticipated. In that sense, at least it wasn't predictable, right? It could have been something straight out of the index like a bolt of lightning or even an earthquake to bring Freddy back to life, but no. The dog digs up his bones, and then brings them back to life. By peeing on them. And not just that, he pees FIRE onto Freddy's bones.I've been going back and watching all the Nightmare on Elm Street films as well as the Friday the 13th films because I want to refresh my memory before watching Freddy vs. Jason (and don't worry, I realize how contemptuously bad that movie simply HAS to be). One of the things that I've noticed is how much more tongue-in-cheek the Freddy movies are, how much more comic relief there is and how much more glossed over they are than the Friday films, which tend to be much more abrasive and lean more toward a painful reaction at the vicious murders. Freddy, for example, is constantly cracking stupid jokes and spouting goofy one-liners, often before gleefully ramming all of his finger-knives into a victim. Jason, on the other hand, is completely soundless. He just doesn't stop coming until he's skewered someone.I don't think you need to have this juxtaposition of these two hugely popular horror series' to know that the Nightmare on Elm Street films progressively take themselves less and less seriously, but the dog peeing fire is certainly a signpost of the last shred of dignity that these movies ever had. The potential of the Nightmare on Elm Street films took a huge hit in Part 2, for example, when Jesse was cleaning his room, then another one in the same room with the wet towels, and yet it's telling that Part 2 was one of the better sequels. The dog peeing on the bones was, I think, the one point in the entire six-movie saga at which all credibility was lost, and the rest of this movie and the other sequels and rendered little more than tired exercises in throwing together just enough of  a plot for Freddy to come in and coast through the movie on his massive popularity. By this point in the series, Freddy has become an icon, a hero to the preteen and teen target audiences, which only disturbs me because he is the ghost of a child molester. Must there be so much effort put into making him likable?When you see that Freddy is killing off the remaining characters from the last movie, the last of the Elm Street kids, as it were, it seems strange that he makes such quick progress, but soon you realize it's because that's not the point of the movie. He can't just kill them off an no one else, that would run the risk of no room for more sequels! No, there must be new kids to kill so that more tenuous connections can be made to the original Elm Street kids and more movies can be made. It's interesting to note that if Freddy ever fulfills his revenge, he'll effectively kill himself because he'll have no more reason to exist.Freddy's new trick is to make Kristen pull all of her friends into her dreams so that he can kill them. She is reasonably safe, since she is providing Freddy with so much new teen flesh to cut up (and because she'll be needed to almost-but-not-quite kill Freddy at the end of the movie), but it's strange that she always pulls in her closest friends to be killed off. Yes, she gains some sort of power from each of them after Freddy kills them, which she uses in the final climactic scene, but it's also interesting to consider what might have happened had she dreamed of a machine gun or something. The least her friends could have done was go to sleep with a butcher knife or something.As far as the killings, the transformation from Freddy's stalking habits in the original film has evolved from subtly scary relentlessness to cartoonish exaggeration. There's a scene where he's actually on a sunny beach in this movie (which explains why so many horror movie are deliberately so badly lit, since this scene is about as scary as a Colgate commercial), there's a scene where he squishes one of his victims in a roach motel, there's even a scene where he's invisible and kung-fu fighting with one of his victims just before he kills him. What the hell is all this?There are a couple of scenes that are relatively effective, such as one where one of the characters is bench pressing and Freddy pushes the bar toward her chest until her elbows snap and break open like crab legs, but then she starts turning into a cockroach, evidently just so Freddy can kill her in the above-mentioned roach motel. I should mention that the special effects used to turn her into a cockroach were actually pretty effective, but they lead up to one of the dumber scenes in the movie. There is also an interesting scene near the end where the souls of the children that Freddy have killed tear out of his body and consume him, but it's a long haul sitting through the rest of this movie for that, and even then it's not exactly much of a payoff.It's sad how far Freddy has changed from the demonic ghost of a deranged killer with the curious ability to kill his victims in their dreams, into a wise-cracking goofball who spouts one-liners and then kills his victims, almost as though the murders are the encore. People laugh at his jokes, then cheer when he splatters someone. Even more than now, the comparisons back in 1988 to the brilliant stand-up comedian Gallagher's routine had to have been noticed. Gallagher got up there on stage, made the audience laugh with his jokes, then splattered some watermelons. Is Freddy's job by now any different? "},{"Title":"You can check in, but ya can't check out!","Date":"14 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This installment of the Nightmare on Elm St series really was a bit to lame.  Here Freddy has almost totally ditched his sinister and creepy persona and replaced it with Freddy Krueger...master of the one liner.  Once again the kids must take a stand against Freddy and once again dream manipulation is a part of it.  Not as much so as in part 3 as Freddy makes quick work of most of the kids.  Here he kills in very dumb ways though and his trademark claws kill only one guy and Freddy's hand wasn't even in them at the time.  There is also one of the dumbest death scenes in the movies that involves a roach motel.  After all the kids are dead the main one who you knew would survive gets a bunch of her friends mementos and uses them to battle Freddy, though they are not all that effective.  In the end this was not a really good movie...all the promise from the first one is gone and there is just too much joking going on.  I never saw part five or six, but in the final installment (the one before Freddy vs. Jason) Freddy would become more sinister again. "},{"Title":"entertained for the wrong reasons.","Date":"28 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The thought of some girl beating up Freddy is just . . . hilarious.  Of course, the rest of this film is pure horror mediocrity, but, that goes along with the previous two sequels (and the two sequels to follow.)  Up till Wes reclaimed the helm, it looked as though Krueger was never going to get a decent sequel period.  Given, the first Nightmare required a lot of cooperation from the audience in suspending disbelief.  As if the first one didn't go far enough, Elm Street 4 wants to push the ludicrous factor even further.  Maybe they think that since the existence of Freddy is so out there any retarded excuse to get him back to &#145;life' will please audiences.  I thought Jason Lives had the stupidest means of getting the killer back.  Was I ever wrong?  And people wonder why horror flicks don't even screw with the explanation anymore.On the bright side, we get a break from the endless documenatary-esque rambling about Freddy's father, his mother, his bones, his victims, his prostate yadda, yadda, yadda, like some of the other sequels want to do.  So there's a plus.  However, they couldn't break completely free from poor-sequel syndrome . . . they had to invent new stuff that had nothing to do with previous films like what's her name's ability to absorb other people's abilities?Plot gripes aside, Freddy's borderline-too-outrageous-to-be-entertaining kills from number three have also been pushed further and are just too wacky.  Not loony toons wacky, no, that comes two films later, but this is still a bit too far.  Technique-wise, Renny Harlin and crew do a fair job with the movie.  It's a cut above average slasher; however, still a far cry from anything great.  The highlight of the film is whats-her-name beating up Freddy . . . as long as you don't ask, `Why doesn't Fred use his gloved hand?'     "}]