[{"Title":"A Wacky Movie","Date":"25 July 2000","Score":"21 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I'm Gonna Git You Sucka is a blast! Keenan Ivory Wayans wrote, directed, and starred in this spoof of blaxploitation movies and I've got to say, He did a very accurate job. This is REALLY how blaxploitation movies look and feel like, right down to the huge hats. The funniest part in the movie is when the nightclub singer is singing...Oh, Can't spoil a joke. Or when the Youth Gang Competition...Can't spoil that either. Even as a bonus, Isaac Wrote Best Movie Song on Earth Hayes is in the movie and the Shaft theme gets played!!!!! TWICE!!!!!! So Jump in Your Car, Drive to a video store and rent it. If they don't have it, than steal it from the guy who rented it! **** out of **** "},{"Title":"By far the best thing the Wayans brothers ever did","Date":"29 December 2005","Score":"19 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" If you know Keenen Ivory Wayans and Damon Wayans ONLY for their TV work or movies such as Major Payne or Scary Movie, then you have only seen them at their most mediocre. Unlike these other works, the jokes are not are consistently funny.The film is a very funny send-off of the terrible Blaxploitation films of the 70s. The jokes come one after another after another and very few of them miss the mark. It is pure mindless fun from start to finish. Additionally, many old stars of the genre are here, though I might have enjoyed seeing a few more of them.One word of warning though if you are a die-hard, bleeding-heart, politically correct individual, this movie MIGHT give you a heart attack! We showed this movie to such a friend and we eventually had to turn off the video because she was having heart palpitations! But, for everyone else, this is a hilarious film. Also, it may help to try watching a couple Blaxploitation films FIRST to help you understand the parody better. FYI--Because of the language and brief nudity, this is not a film for the kids. My advice to parents is to watch the film secretly and then feign shock when your kids ask to see it! When the kids are at least teens, then it's probably okay to let them know the truth--that this is a great little comedy. "},{"Title":"A hilarious parody of the seventies black exploitation cinema.","Date":"18 August 2005","Score":"15 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" I'm Gonna Git You Sucka (1988) was Keenan Ivory Wayans directorial debut. He also wrote and stars in this production. Keenan stars as Jack Spade an ex-veteran who returns home after a stint in the army. The death of his younger brother June-Bug Spade and the vicious assault on his mother by two local thugs (Damon Wayans and Kardeem Hardison) causes Jack to wage war on the criminal elements in his neighborhood. But he's going to need help toppling the evil Mister Big (John Vernon). So he enlists the help of the former local crime fighter Slade (Bernie Casey) and his co-horts Hammer, Slammer and Kung-Fu Joe (Jim Brown, Issac Hayes and Steven James). Will these vigilantes be enough to end the crime spree of Mister Big?A flat out funny film from Keenan Ivory Wayans. Not only did this film jump start all of these older actors careers, but it was popular enough to warrant a series pilot (a t.v. remake of this film called Slade, Hammer and Slammer) and it helped the Wayans create another show for Fox called In Living Color. The rest is history.Highly recommended. "},{"Title":" one of the most funniest black plortation films","Date":"3 July 2002","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I can remember when I was young and I watch this movie. It was a very funny film, but after a couple years later is when really watched this movie and really understood it. Thats when I really enjoyed it. the Wayans brothers scary movies of today didn't have anything on there older brother movie back then. Issac Hays & Jim Brown were really funny as Hammer & Slammer. flyguy, kung fu joe and the rest of the caracters in the film will keep you laughing. I rate this movie a 10/10 and it will always be on of my favorite black plortation films.  "},{"Title":"Not Much I can Say that Hasn't been Said....","Date":"13 November 2005","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" In all the other post about this incredible classic comedy, but after reading everyone's favorite parts, I can't believe that NO ONE mentioned Anne Marie Johnsons part as the disassembling slut.Along with the broken pimped-out shoes, Here are my favorite scenesThe Pimp of the Year award. One rib. (I sure am hungry).NOoooooo!!Cramps!!.The demonic woman starting her period.The Stairs or the window.OH Damn, let's just say this is one of my all time favorite comedies. Keenan Wayans freshman venture into directing was among his best. "},{"Title":"That's the Shakespere!!!!!","Date":"7 September 2000","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  ﻿Where do you begin with this film.  It had so much that was hilarious that I don't know where to begin.  One of my all time favorite scenes is when they mock the stunt doubles and you have Jack Spade's mother who is about to beat up some thugs.  She turns around and then suddenly the camera cuts from a black lady to a white male with a mustache and afro wig wearing the same clothes she is wearing, he does some back flips and then beats up the thugs.  Then when the stuntman turns around, it's back to the actress playing Spade's Mother.  I loved it.If you don't see this movie it is a shame.  Wayans did a wonderful job mocking the ridiculous exploitation movies of the seventies.   The cost of the rental alone is worth watching the scene where the guy gets out of prison, and he has been incarcerated for so long that his clothes are out of style.  You'll love the Pimp of the Year contest, Kung Fu Joe, the Big Brim Bar,  Soul Train, Hammer, Slammer, Slade and Flyguy.  The movie was a blast and you'll roll on the floor in hysteria watching as Ann Marie Johnson reveals her flaws to Jack Spade.Rent this movie.  You'll love it. "},{"Title":"this one will split your sides!","Date":"24 January 2007","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" There are no words to describe just how amazing this film is. It salutes respectfully the blaxploitation era and the actors, with a clever hint of satire ( whereby the baddie is a White rich man, keeping black people down..) but most importantly it has the best jokes I have ever seen - just remembering Issac Hayes putting all those guns in his pockets then tripping and being shot to death by ALL his own guns, brings a tear to my eye. Fantastic.Please go see this film, I just happened to perchance the film, with my Mum and brother late one night on TV, and I really wanna buy it, but I don't know where it would still sell.If anyone does know please post it in the comments.Cheers "},{"Title":"HaHaHa,Gasp! Wheeze!hahahahaha","Date":"8 February 2002","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I really feel sorry for those who don't get this movie. I believe that it is the best of the parody genre, I've ever seen. I stoically believe in my critique because I've seen every movie that Sucka parodied. I grew up watching blaxploitation films. They were being cranked out at blinding speed at that time, and the highlight of my circle of friends, was planning our Friday nights around the premieres and plotting which superfine guy with the biggest Afro would take us out. I was in junior high school and life was good. Fast-forward 15 years to 1988 (I saw this film for the first time in the year of its release), where my memories were jumpstarted and slapped into a frenzy of flashbacks. Recalling particular scenes of movies that at the tender age of 14 I had taken seriously, and now saw how funny and ridiculous they were. For example the demonic PMS scene was reminiscent of Abby,our version of The Exorcist, or Kung Fu Joe spoofing Three The Hard Way. Wayans spoofery of those films along with the then-timely use of 'truck jewelry' as an inciting incident in this film was much too much for me to take. I laughed till I had to take a puff from my inhaler (and I don't even have asthma!)I'm sure this film will seem funny to those who never experienced the blaxploitation scene from its inception. But for those who did, you will laugh yo'ass off, you jive-turkey,you! P.S.A recent viewing of this film gave me the idea to have what we call '70's parties. We now dress up twice a year with all the Afro wigs, white lipstick, and crocheted mini's we can find. We have a blast and quote some of the worst dialogue ever written. Who says movies aren't inspirational? "},{"Title":"Silly but fun","Date":"3 September 2006","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Spoof on the blaxplotation films of the 1970s. Starts right off in Any Ghetto U.S.A. where a young black man has died of O.G. (overabundance of gold chains). His brother Jack (Keenan Ivory Wayans) comes home from the army to find the people who hooked his brother on gold. With a couple of older black men (all from the 1970s films) they decide to clean up the town.Now it sounds pretty stupid--but it actually works. There are some real bad jokes but the good ones outnumber those vastly. The whole cast plays it straight with plenty of small roles or cameos from veteran 1970s actors. You don't have to know the old films to enjoy this but it does help a few times. It's really good to see Antonio Fargas back in a film making fun of his 1970s image. John Vernoon (Dean Wormer from Animal House) is also lots of fun as Mr. Big. And Ja'net DuBois is hysterical as Jack's overprotective mother. And--since this is directed by Keenan Ivory Wayans--most of his family shows up in small roles. Sure it's silly and stupid but also very funny. Turn off your brain and enjoy! By far the best thing the Wayans have ever done. "},{"Title":"Hilarious send-off to Blaxploitation flicks","Date":"12 January 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Back when spoof movies were actually funny, there was this clever spoof of blaxploitation movies called Im Gonna Git You Sucka. At the time the Wayans brothers were starting to emerge on the scene and this movie was their best work(Don't Be A Menace comes in second). The whole movie was Jack(played by Keenan Ivory Wayans)returns home from the service to find out that his brother passed on. He finds out that his brother worked for Mr. Big and sets out to deal with him and his cronies with the help on Jack Slade and crew others. There are too many funny scenes in this movie but the girl at the club(played by the gorgeous Anne Marie Johnson) removing her hair, leg, and butt was the funniest scene in the movie. Jack's mom(played by Janet Du'bois of Good Times) beating up on Mr Big's goons comes in second. Damon Wayons and Kadeem Hardison were hilarious too as Mr. Big's bumbling henchmen. I think Antonio Fargas's Fly Guy coming out of jail wearing fishbowls in his platform shoes was a riot too. And the scene where Richard Roundtree's character had the swollen bunions.....classic! Im Gonna Git You Sucka came out at a time when you can expect a good spoof and today stands out as one of the funniest spoofs in parody movie history. If you're looking for a good spoof you cant go wrong with this one. Two thumbs WAY up. "}{"Title":"Great Film, A real blast!!","Date":"7 June 2006","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" I guess this movie works on the same level as a lot of 1980's funnies... Loaded Weapon, Hotshots et al.It has a zany side but unlike many other romps of this ilk, it is tempered by a slightly dark edge and raw subject matter of gang violence.The jive talking and fly-culture at the heart of the movie makes it slick and cool as well as gritty and sharp. But this is far more than just a send up of Shaft.The gags are timed to perfection in this movie and is a cannon of great quotes and catch phrases.One rib? One rib! I really rate this movie, a proper blast. "},{"Title":"It proves I can beat up a girl and a midget!!","Date":"1 July 2005","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" 'I'm Gonna Git You Sucka' is an affectionate if not particularly literate send-up of the blaxploitation genre that misses more often than it hits but like any underdog, you can't help rooting for it. The first full length film directed by Keenan Ivory Wayans, 'Sucka' is the classic set-piece of a returning war veteran avenging the death of his brother by taking on the mob and with his group of hardened 70's crime fighters, reclaim the streets from Mr. Big.The film itself is competent enough though a little thin on visual jokes and slapstick preferring longer skits which more often than not fizzle out simply because they run on for too long. For a first-time helmer this is understandable as you go with what you know, and as Wayans was more comfortable with stand-up and TV 'Sucka' wasn't able to develop into a coherently funny movie the way 'Scary Movie' would be some 12 years later.What makes it stand up is the sheer lunacy of some of the set-pieces, and the cast which would make any blaxploitation picture salute with pride. Alongside Wayans you have blaxploitation legends Bernie Casey spoofing Shaft, Isaac Hayes and Jim Brown reprising their roles as 'Truck Turner' and 'Slaughter' and some deliciously funny cameos from Clarence Williams III, John Vernon Antonio Fargas and a young Chris Rock. The picture though belongs to the late and sorely-missed Steve James in a delirious send-up of his own career as martial-arts sidekick. Despite being a better actor than most of his co-stars James would forever languish on the B-list and would die just five years after this movie was made. He steals every scene he's in though, and if you need to bow out to 'Kung Fu Fighting' it's as good as any a way to go.The film has a few good running jokes such as the mother's stunt double and the Shaft score running in the background and at a trim 88 minutes doesn't stay too long to put you off it. In the end it succeeds despite being nothing more than a loose collection of sketches held together by some very funny and very talented actors. It's worth watching just for the exchange between Hayes and Rock where the latter tries to buy some food (note watch the end credits of Rocks' CB4 and you'll see this repeated at a newsstand) and the Pimp of the Year sequence, complete with Fargas wandering into the ghetto in full 70's pimp outfit mistakenly believing he's the smoothest thing out there. It's easy enough to like this film rent it, enjoy it and hope someone comes up with a sequel soon. "},{"Title":"Too busy rolling to type","Date":"4 December 1999","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" So, are we overgolded yet?Actually, I saw this on cable at the time, but my, what a brilliant movie. Significant in that it was the launching pad for Keenan Ivory Wayans' career (and therefore that of several others, Jim Carrey included). Worth the cost of rental alone is a scene with a once-prominent black supremacist general, whose wife is none other than Eve Plumb (a/k/a Jan Brady)! How's my beautiful Nubian warrior? she trills as she brings him his bean pie for lunch ... I won't even go into the Inner City Olympics.This is really on my top ten comedy list of all time. That being said, KIW has a nice, easy leading man screen presence, and I wonder why he never got mainstream leading man chances. One hates to speculate that there were only so many such opportunities allowed for black actors in the Eighties and Nineties, but the chilling fact is that after this movie, Wayans had precisely three leading roles in cinema, and two of them were in movies for which he wrote the screenplay.8/10. "},{"Title":"Brilliant spoof","Date":"7 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Spoof can either be very funny or very unfunny. I think its much harder to make a funny spoof movie than most people think. None of the wayans brothers films are perfect, all of them have their fair share of unfunny jokes, but they also all have moments of absolute hilarity. I think this is by far the funniest one. Classic moments include Willie pointlessly pretending jack shot him, the funeral scene, and most of all, Chris Rock's cameo as the cheapest customer in the world (F*ck the cup, jus pour it into my hands for a dime!) Dont watch it if your after intellectual brilliance, watch it if your after a good laugh. "},{"Title":"Flyguy *Possible Spoiler*","Date":"22 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I love this movie, and recently I was watching and noticed something. When Flyguy is released from prison and returns to his apartment and emerges in his 70's wear, it is obvious he has fish tanks for his platform shoes. What I noticed is that at the end when we next see him in his new clothes, there is a fish tank in his yellow tie. You have to really look to notice it because his jacket is buttoned, but you get a good shot at it when everyone is outside and it appears he is holding it up for the camera.  "},{"Title":"One word CLASSIC","Date":"4 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" I saw this when it first came out, and to this day I still believe it's one of the MUST SEE movies of the century. And yes, I DO own it on dvd. It shows the Wayan's family at their humble beginnings. It's their way of poking fun at a wide variety of subjects, everything from the blaxploitation era, the 70's pimps, the gold-chain craze How did he go to the bathroom with all that crap on?, the Black Panthers, even the atypical African-American action heros. You name it and they've spoofed it! If you can find this movie, I suggest you watch it! Wait, forget that, just buy it!  "},{"Title":"Every cliche of the 70s is busted wide-open here","Date":"22 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Every cliche of the 70s is busted wide-open here. I think it is such a great parody of blaxploitation movies - the pimp, the ballplayer-turned actor, The Man, etc. Everyone is perfect in their role.There are too many funny lines to pick a favorite. I love this film so much.I have seen this movie many, many times and it is funny every time I see it. "},{"Title":"Hysterical!","Date":"20 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This is the best film ever put out by one of the Wayans brothers.  If you can't laugh out loud at this film, then I feel sorry for you, for you must be missing a lot in life.  Keenan and his brothers have never been as on target as they are here, complete with Bernie Casey, Antonio Fargas, Isaac Hayes, Steve James, John Vernon and Jim Brown all contributing side-splitting send-ups of their own images! "},{"Title":"Silly","Date":"11 February 2001","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Every blaxploitation flick was parodied in the Wayans' breakthrough parody, long before Don't Be a Menace (1996) and Scary Movie (2000).  Damon Wayans is no equal for Doodlebug, but his Doodlebug spoof (e.g. take the stairs or out the stairs) with a retarded Kadeem Hardison (White Men Can't Jump, Vampire in Brooklyn) would make anyone watch this again and again.  The Kung Fu Joe depiction spoofed Three The Hard Way (1974), but no one can match Jim Kelly (Enter The Dragon, Black Belt Jones), and another thing is noticeable throughout the film  a Shaft parody, with Shaft's theme music.  Before Carmen Electra's spoof of Baywatch in Scary Movie, there was Flyguy (with goldfish heels!!!) and the inner city Olympics (the sprint contest with a TV set and a 1980s-era Chevrolet Nova being stripped to the undercarriage)!A pre-HBO Chris Rock has a brief cameo, and he is referred to as a 'greasy Jeri Curl-wearin' by no other than Issac Hayes himself.  Fans of the other Wayans parodies should have this in their video collection.  "},{"Title":"introducing the Wayans","Date":"6 May 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Junebug dies in an overdoes of gold chains. Mr. Big's thugs Willie (Kadeem Hardison) and Leonard (Damon Wayans) come threatening his mother and his girlfriend Cheryl to recover $5000. Then his brother Jack Spade (Keenen Ivory Wayans) returns home from the Army. He seeks to end the epidemic of gold chains with the help of old timer John Slade (Bernie Casey). Slade recruits people from the old days to take on the Man.Keenen Ivory Wayans introduces himself and a few family and friends by doing this satire of a 70's blaxploitation movie. It's a solid idea and he would continue with bigger, better things. The problem is that the comedy doesn't really work. He's not a good enough of a director. There are too many flat spots and the camera work is static. He's not a great comedic actor especially at this point. He works better as a straight man with a wackier sidekick. It's a welcome introduction to the Wayans brand of comedy but this one isn't that funny. "}{"Title":"I'm Gonna Get You Sucka","Date":"23 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Keenan Ivory Wayans (In Living Color; Scary Movie) pays homage through parody to blaxploitation, giving Bernie Casey (in particular) and other charismatic and cool black actors from the 70s generation of African-American stars plum parts as a joint effort (which includes Isaac Hayes and Jim Brown as diner owner and cook!) to take down a criminal kingpin named Mr. Big (John Vernon) is underway as a means to save their neighborhood (and make Keenan's wimpy returning soldier into a black hero as he wants so badly). Keenan, despite an impressive physique, is amiable, sweet, and rather innocuous but he so wants to be a tough guy. Problem is his mom (Ja'net DuBois) keeps coming to his rescue! Even the likes of Antonio Fargas (his pimp show and pimp walk are prime funny bits) and Steve James (his martial arts expertise gets a send up by Wayans; I was disappointed he didn't get the chance to show you how much of a badass he is instead of his high energy Bruce Lee imitation played to the level of Kung Pow; he does kick some ass but it is in a lampooning fashion) show up in supporting bits. I wish Wayans had given Clu Gulagher more to do, and Vernon as Mr. Big is mentioned a lot more than seen. It is hard for me not to feel like they were a missed opportunity. Kadeem Haridison and Damon Wayans as two thugs working for Mr. Big are two of the worst street criminals imaginable. One of my favorite scenes has Anne-Marie Johnson appearing in a bar as a sexpot only to reveal (as pieces of her sexy are pulled off) that she's not exactly the babe she first led Keenan to believe. Brown and Hayes are so much fun together (Brown has foot trouble, with his bunion towards the end quite a hideous sight, while Hayes loads up with so much ammunition at one point that when he falls all the weapons go off incapacitating him!), while Casey's lectures and mentoring on Keenan's manning up only add value to Bernie's being involved in the movie. This isn't always laugh-out loud funny as it wants to be, and the mark is missed on occasion, but the movie's heart is in the right place. Clarence Williams III makes an appearance as a Black Panther whose clout as a political leader has diminished (his talk of his protesters hired by the government, and how his very white kids speak of Abe Lincoln while his white wife in beaded cornrows holds her fist out, shouting, Fight the Power! admittedly had me in stitches) with Wayans so disappointed. Dawnn Lewis is Wayan's love interest, and when she gets cramps it as if she were Linda Blair from The Exorcist! The film ultimately is about Keenan's rite of passage and how his brothers-in-arms help to get him there. The in-jokes and breaking of the fourth wall moments are right out of the Abrahams/Zucker school of comedy. Like the horrible lounge singer who gets to be on stage because she's the director's sister. "},{"Title":"Them was the daze...","Date":"23 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" As a send-up, I'M GONNA GIT YOU, SUCKA! is right up there with the likes of THE FEARLESS VAMPIRE KILLERS, YOUNG FRANKENSTEIN, and THE CHEAP DETECTIVE it goes straight to the Heart of the movies it parodies, sometimes taking them to task (in a loving way) and sometimes just flat out laughing out loud at them. You really can't ask for more than that from a film of this kind. I grew up watching the blaxploitation films I'M GONNA GIT YOU, SUCKA! pokes fun at, and the jokes are all on the money. Some of my favorites Jim Brown and Isaac Hayes running a rib joint (where Chris Rock, one of the funniest stand-up comedians to ever strut his stuff, does a cameo), the way all of the Old School guys fumble the ball trying to help Keenan Wayans, and Damon Wayans as a blackey (black lackey) who can't seem to catch a break (especially when he tries to kidnap the hero's girlfriend, who's suffering from... CRAMPS!). Good times, indeed. "},{"Title":"One of My All Time Favorites","Date":"11 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" A good comedy, in my opinion, is one which has several side splitting moments and is talked about for months if not years. I'm Gonna Git You Sucka had plenty of ROFL moments and I still quote certain scenes to this day with others who have also seen it.I'm Gonna Git You Sucka still reigns as one of my favorite comedies of all time. I saw this as a pre-teen, and again as a teenager, and again as an adult and I never ceased bawling. I will be the first to say that maybe the comedy only has a relevance to a certain demographic so it wouldn't surprise me if many people didn't find it the least bit funny, but I'm not one of those people.Before In Living Color, Keenan Ivory Wayans came up with this gem. He played a retired military man who wanted to seek revenge for the death of his brother. How did his brother die? He OG'ed, which would stand for over-golded; an obvious substitute for overdosing on drugs. His pursuit of justice lead to one gut-busting event after another.Keenan was complemented by an all-star cast. There were appearances by Damon Wayans, Kadeem Hardison, Jim Brown, Isaac Hayes, Antonio Fargas and even a young Chris Rock. I couldn't contain myself this movie was so funny. I could rave on and on about IGGYS but alas I only have 1,000 words. "},{"Title":"One funny scene after the next.....","Date":"10 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Just watched this movie on free broadcast TV. Not familiar with the genre, but realized it was a spoof on black American culture. I actually dislike most comedies, but this one made me laugh...a lot!!! Loved the legless whore scene and the flamboyant pimp on spiked aquarium shoes. Loved the little white boy who wrote a report on Abe Lincoln, referring to him and his assassin as a pieces of poor white trash. Everyone did an amazing job in pulling off all the gags. One scene that fell flat was the bar scene where the momma did a couple of back flips and then beat the dickens out of a couple of bumbling black thugs. You could clearly see her stunt double was not her. "},{"Title":"...Can't believe that this movie is rated so low!","Date":"27 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" ...firstly, just want to mention the who's who of stars in this movie that stems from the comedy series 'In Living Color' of the 90s ...Damon Wayans, Keenan Wayans, Jim Brown, Isaac Hayes, Chris Rock, and many more, including BDP(Boogie Down Productions) ...so many awesome characters in this 'cult comedy' movie ...shouldn't surprise that the likes of 'Kung Fu Joe' and 'Flyguy' have developed a cult following...and now for the story content, 'I'm Gonna Git Ya Sucker' is is like a parody movie that makes fun of the clichés used in all those hero movies that we are painfully accustomed to ...the term 'gold' in the movie is used as a metaphor for drugs; just a really witty concept being used to define this comedy and the laughs are continuous ...Keenan Wayans is apparently the main character being the hero, but 'the bad guy' which is played by Damon Wayans, shares the limelight just as prominently ...this movie is one of my absolute favorite movies, if not my favorite ...am just so shocked/surprised that this movie isn't so well-known as it should be when considering all the stars that play a part in it but the story content and the humor are enough to make this movie stand out on it's own as one of the best comedy movies ever made in my opinion! "},{"Title":"One Of The Greatest Comedies Of All Time. An Excellent,Hilarious,Underrated Comedy Classic From Keenen Ivory Wayans.","Date":"11 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" I'm Gonna Git You Sucka is an excellent,hilarious,underrated Comedy classic and in my opinion one of the greatest and funniest Comedies of all time that's filled with wonderful direction,a terrific and funny cast,great over the top laughs,a laugh out loud script,great Action and a fantastic score and soundtrack. All of those combinations make I'm Gonna Git You Sucka a Cult Classic and Keenen Ivory Wayans at his best.I'm Gonna Git You Sucka tells the story of Jack Spade(Keenen Ivory Wayans,(who also wrote and directed)a soldier who has just returned home from the Army and finds out that his brother Junbug has been killed and crime in his hometown is being ran by local crime lord Mr. Big(John Vernon). Tired of the crime and violence,Jack asks for the help of John Slade,(Bernie Casey),a crime fighter from the 1970s to help take down Mr. Big and laughs and chaos ensue.I'm Gonna Git You Sucka is one of the all time great Comedy classics that is funny and hilarious from beginning to end and is one of the best Spoofs and Parodies that ranks alongside Airplane and The Naked Gun Trilogy and is a Comedy that is underrated. I'm Gonna Git You Sucka is a movie that perfectly makes fun of the Blaxploitation movies of the 1970s films such as Shaft,Superfly,Coffy,Foxy Brown and Dolemite just to name a few. Like some of the best Spoofs and Parodies IGGYS takes all of the trademarks and style of those films and turns them on their head with rapid fire humor showing the silliness and craziness of Blaxploitation movies and Writer-Director Keenen Ivory Wayans pulls out all the stops making fun of the genre while paying homage to the genre taking hilarious shots at Action heroes,criminals and Blaxploitation stereotypes of the 1970s. The Comedy and laughs in IGGYS is laugh out loud hilarious and you will have tears rolling down your eyes because with every scene because there are gags and moments that are over the top and unpredictable to the point you never know what will happen next. The Comedy is also imaginative and creative and done with an energy and style that is nonstop and raunchy and the movie never loses it's demented edge until the very end.(Instead of dealing with drug use like the Blaxploitation films IGGYS deals with Gold chains,OG or Over Goldan overdose of too many Gold chains making fun of the way Hip-Hip artists and criminals who were wearing lots of Gold chains in the 1980s)The Comedy in IGGYS can not only be seen as an introduction to the Wayans family but also a precursor to Keenen Ivory Wayans terrific sketch Comedy series In Living Color and the Wayans family's other funny and amazing Spoofs Don't Be A Menace and Scary Movie. Jack Spade and the other main characters are so outrageous and over the top it makes the characters and situations in the film wilder and funnier it's almost like looking at a cartoon that is more insane than the Blaxploitation movies the film's making fun of. With each main character no ones head is on straight and when things happen to the characters you as a viewer are along for the ride. The screenplay by Keenen Ivory Wayans is fantastic and memorable with lines and scenes that are wild and unforgettable. Although a Spoof of Blaxploitation films,IGGYS has fun appearances from 1970s Film and Television icons such as Bernie Casey,Issac Hayes,Jim Brown,Antonio Fargus,Clarence Williams III,Eve Plumb(Jan of The Brady Bunch)and Janet DuBois who are all have fun with their characters sometimes playing it straight but not taking the performances too seriously. I would have loved to seen Fred Williamson,Pam Grier,Ron O'Neal and Rudy Ray Moore in the movie as well. Although IGGYS is a Comedy,there is also a few well done Action scenes which are exciting and explosive but at the same time add to the Surreal and outlandish tone of the movie. The ending of I'm Gonna Git You Sucka is amazing,funny,Action packed and is a wonderful conclusion to this classic film.The cast is wonderful. Keenen Ivory Wayans is excellent and hilarious as Jack Spade,with Wayans bringing laughs and energy to the role. Bernie Casey is brilliant and funny as John Slade and has great scenes with Wayans. Antonio Fargas is terrific and cool as Flyguy,a pimp. Steve James is wonderful as Kung-Fu Joe,a Kung-Fu master that helps Jack and John. Issac Hayes and Jim Brown are great and funny as Hammer and Slammer,a crime fighting duo. Ja'net DuBois is outstanding as Belle,Jack's loving but overprotective Mother. Dawnn Lewis is terrific and beautiful as Cheryl,Jack's love interest. John Vernon is delightful as Mr. Big,a local crime lord. Damon Wayans and Kadeem Hardison are a fantastic laugh riot as Leonard and Willie,Mr Big's henchmen. Also,lookout for fun cameos from Clarence Williams III(Kalinga),Eve Plumb(Kalinga's wife),Chris Rock(Rib Joint Customer),Kim Wayans(Nightclub singer),Shawn and Marlon Wayans(Pedestrians),David Alan Grier(Newsman),Clu Gulager(LT.Baker),Anne-Marie Johnson(Cherry),Robin Harris(Bartender At Sam's,John Whitherspoon(Reverand)Hawthorne James(One Eyed Sam),Gary Owens(Pimp Of The Year Pageant Announcer)and Tony Cox(Wayne Evans).The direction by Keenen Ivory Wayans is wonderful,with Wayans moving the camera and bringing a wild energy to the film. Great direction,Wayans.The score by David Michael Frank is fantastic,intense,memorable and matches the film nicely. Fine score,Frank. There is also a great soundtrack with songs by The Gap Band(I'm Gonna Git You Sucka,You're So Cute),KRS-ONE(Jack Of Spades),Curtis Mayfield & Fishbone(He's A Flyguy),The Four Tops And Aretha Franklin(If Ever A Love There Was),Issac Hayes(Theme From Shaft),Jackson 5(Dancing Machine),Edwin Starr(War),Carl Douglas(Kung-Fu Fighting),Too Nice(Two Can Play The Game),Jennifer Holliday(Magic Man),Friends Of Distinction(Grazin' In The Grass)and more. Wonderful soundtrack.In final word,if you love Comedies,Spoof or Parodies,I highly suggest you see I'm Gonna Git You Sucka,an excellent,hilarious and underrated Comedy classic that you can watch again and again. Highly Recommended. 10/10. "},{"Title":"Gold Fever......","Date":"30 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Jack Spade returns from the army in his old ghetto neighbourhood when his brother, June Bug, dies. Jack declares war on Mr. Big, powerful local crimelord. His army is led by John Slade, his childhood idol who used to fight bad guys in the 70s......Its a spoof of the blaxploitation genre of the seventies, and has the added bonus of most of the stars from the genre, and the makers obviously love the material that they are lampooning.But time has tainted this movie. Seeing through the eyes of an 11 year when first released, it was a fun movie, gigantic toes, woman taking body parts off, and a white man controlling the ghetto, it was genius.Now watching it, I look at Wayans, and think that he's the on responsible for the slew of really poor spoofs that have hit our screen screen since Scary Movie back in 2000, and there have been too many.Don't get me wrong, there are a few good moments, but it doesn't hold up now like it did back then, and it feels really old, just like the jokes.But kudos to the makers for making this, and getting the most important people from the genre involved, save for around tree and Grier.Way past its sell by date. "},{"Title":"One of the Better Wayans Films","Date":"7 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" In this parody of blaxploitation movies, a black hero wannabe reunites former black heroes from the 70s to help him get revenge on Mr. Big (John Vernon).From the very beginning, with a kid overdosing from wearing too many gold chains, the humor here is incredible. Throw in Jim Brown and Isaac Hayes, and we have a serious homage and love letter to the 1970s (perhaps even more so than Hebrew Hammer, although they are distinct enough to be hard to compare).I have not been a big fan of the Wayans brothers. Some of their films are great (this is one of them, as is Don't Be a Menace) while others (White Chicks) probably should never have been spawned. I suppose I ought to give them credit for Scary Movie, although that modest success has since been overshadowed and diminished by the terrible sequels. "},{"Title":"Sverely Underrated","Date":"17 September 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" I'm Gonna Git You Sucka is an undeniable Cult Classic for black people or people who love blaxploitatation movies of the 1970's. If you laughed zero times at this movie, this means you don't get it and probably shouldn't be watching Im Gonna Get You Sucka. For a person that knows blaxploitation films it's easily spoofable. Blaxploitation films are hilarious by nature. Low budget, bad acting, and a bunch of people who think they know martial arts. If you're not a person that has watched your grandpa, grandma, mother, and father watch hours upon hours of blaxploitation films of course it would appear hard to spoof. Blaxploitation is far more than just Pam Grier and Richard Roundtree. Bernie Casey, Jim Brown, and Isacc Hayes have been in more blaxploitation films than you could shake a stick at. they lend their knowledge to the cast of characters and puts the true flavor of blaxploitation films on the screen for you to see.This movie does an excellent job of capturing the essence of what made blaxploitation films funny and uses it to I'm Gonna Git You Sucka's advantage. Comedic timing and popular characters inhabit this movie from beginning to end. If this movie isn't funny then you don't know funny. You especially don't know black urban humor funny. Some try to liken this movie to Airplane. It isn't Airplane it's a totally different type of humor. It's Im Gonna Git You Sucka.....Sucka!! "},{"Title":"The Best Comedy I've Seen in Ages!","Date":"15 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" I remember seeing this movie on TV for the first time years ago, and I laughed so hard my side hurt! The mainstream so-called comedy films cannot touch this one for originality and real slapstick.The odd part is that I AM a politically correct person who would never offend anyone based on their race, color, religion, etc. But I do have a sense of humor. The face that Keenan Ivory Wayans gave many terrific black actors exposure and a paycheck cannot be ignored.For me, the best laughs came from the short but absolutely priceless appearances of Kim Waynans (as the worse lounge singer on earth), and Anna Marie Johnson (the sexy seductress who literally comes apart at the seams).On the rare occasions that this gem does come on TV, I don't miss it! "}{"Title":"You can either go out that window, or you can watch this film","Date":"6 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Hilarious parody of the 'blaxploitation' period in which Keenen Ivory Wayans plays a returned serviceman, desperate to find out the cause of his brother's untimely death. The official cause of death has been determined as O.G. - over gold, of chains, bling in general - but Keenen's convinced that the local mob, led by the aptly titled Mr Big (Vernon) is responsible. He enlists the aid of a number of former 'black heroes' to challenge Mr Big and his cronies.With a cast lifted from the very films it satirises (Casey, Hayes, Brown, Fargas), Keenen has managed to incorporate sage humour with colourful slapstick comedy. The highlights are too frequent to list, but the scene in which a young Chris Rock tries to buy an order of ribs is as good as they come. It's rare that most (if not perhaps all) of the jokes succeed in a parody, by Keenen has achieved a resounding success in that regard. Cleverly, there's no esoteric references to the blaxploitation films that might confuse the viewer; basic references are well sign-posted, so anyone can enjoy the satire.Aside from the leads, the entire supporting cast excels, although veteran character actor Clu Gulager's role appears more prominently in the film's early stages, than he's subsequently featured. Kadeem Hardison and Damon Wayans (one of many of the Wayans brothers appearing) are an hilarious couple of Mr Big's goons, while the late Steve James (recognisable from the American Ninja franchise) is a deft piece of characterisation, as a chop-socky homage named 'Kung-Fu Joe'. A smirk or wry smile here and there attests to the fact that the cast appear to be having a lot of enjoyment with their zany characterisations.The praise is endless and so are the laughs. Sets and props often look TV quality, but the catchy music, sharp dialogue and sensational cast more than compensate. A top shelf parody without pretense. "},{"Title":"This movie is a classic","Date":"27 February 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Though I realize that this movie may not be for everyone, it is a classic to those grew up in this generation. The Wayon's are at their best, doing what they do. People like Chris Rock are getting their starts in this movie. When, Army Boy, Jack Spade (played by Keenan Ivory Wayans) comes home to the Bronx, where his momma has kept his room the way it was the day he left, he has no idea that he is about to be swept into a crime triangle to try and stop Mr. Big, the new crime boss of the area, who is responsible for the death of his brother June Bug Spade. June Bug died of a horrible OG (aka Over Gold), selling everything he had and selling his soul to contract more and more gold jewelry! The movie just gets crazier and crazier...funnier and funnier as it goes on. He falls in love with his brothers widowed wife, enlists Jack Slade and Fly Guy (Former Pimp of the Year) to team up in an effort to over throw Mr. Big. Jack even gets his his own theme song by none other than KRS-1, one of hip hop's greatest rappers of the time. Give the movie 30 minutes and you will be hysterical. If you like Coming to America, you will definitely like this film. "},{"Title":"Funny Salute to The Blaxploitation Era","Date":"14 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" I'm Gonna Git You, Sucka is Keenen Ivory Wayans's salute to that film era of the 70's known as Blaxploitation, in which many films had leads that were African-American. Some of these films today are laughable at best, which makes Wayans's film all the more funny.Wayans plays Jack Spade, a soldier boy who returns home after his brother dies due to OG (Over Gold, his body covered from head to foot in gold chains, rings, etc.). His mother (Ja'net DuBois)and Cheryl, his brother's widow (Dawnn Lewis)are being threatened by Mr. Big, the crime boss (Richard Vernon). Realizing that he can't fight his battle alone (Even though his mother is tough enough to help him), Jack recruits John Slade (Bernie Casey),Hammer (Issac Hayes),Slammer (Jim Brown) and Kung Fu Joe (Steve James) to bring down Mr. Big once and for all.This film is in the vein of Airplane! and The Naked Gun films. There are a lot of visual jokes (At the police station, there is a 10 Most Ugly poster), and a lot of inside jokes (When asked about who the identity of the incredibly bad singer, they're told that she's The Director's sister.).Favorite scenes 1) The Rib Joint Customer A customer is so cheap that he wants to by a single rib and have a sip of soda (Pour it in my hand for a dime, he says). It's a delight to watch a young Chris Rock in one of his earlier roles.2) Spade and Cherry Cherry looks like a sure thing, and very sexy to boot. However, Cherry is far from perfect.3) Flyguy When Flyguy (Antonio Fargas)gets out of jail, he is wearing the clothes he came in with. Too bad they are bright yellow/zebra striped with platform shoes that contain fish.A good film to watch. "},{"Title":"A funny action movie by the one and only Keenan Ivory Wayans!","Date":"12 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" This is a pretty funny movie. I couldn't believe I overlooked this classic comedy until I rented it recently. My friends and I were laughing very much when we saw this movie. This was way before Don't Be a Menace to South Central While Drinking Your Juice in the Hood and Keenan had a minor role as a mailman. In this movie, he does a great job of directing and acting as Jack Spade. It's hard to believe that Chris Rock was in this movie. This would be his second movie and his last movie he would appear in the 80's. He looked really young back then and I thought he did an incredible job at acting. Even though he has a very minor role in the film, he does a great job at it. If you're a fan of Chris Rock, you'll like his performance in this one. This is a good movie to watch with your friends on a Friday night. So if you like really funny movies with a good soundtrack, see this movie. You won't be disappointed wit this movie at all. "},{"Title":"Dirty mother...Don't say that!","Date":"12 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I'd heard of this Blaxploitation parody years before I actually saw it, and I have to say that I wasn't let down.  Keenen Ivory Wayans is now known mostly for directing the incredibly gross and rarely funny SCARY MOVIE films, but here he shows that he could be funny.I have to confess that I haven't seen any Blaxploitation films per se, but being familiar with things like SHAFT, I could see what they were getting at.The idea of a group of eccentric heroes is something that always appeals to me, so I liked the heroes in this flick.  Keenen Ivory Wayans as Jack Spade and Bernie Casey as his hero/mentor John Slade are great as are Isaac Hayes and Jim Brown as Hammer and Slammer.  Although, I have to say that the late Steve James (of the AMERICAN NINJA film series) and Antonio 'Huggy Bear' Fargas are both underused, although they are both effective in their roles.  Extra humour is also provided by Damon Wayans and Kadeem Hardison as a pair of completely inept crooks.The jokes keep coming and are all excellent eg the Best Gang competition, the Pimp Of The Year contest, the flashback to Jack and Cheryl dancing at Soul Train and our heroes' attack on the Big Brim Bar.  The film even has a great toe-tapping theme tune by the Gap Band.  For comedy fans everywhere in my opinion.   "},{"Title":"discuss two segments","Date":"10 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is so funny that each time I see it I laugh aloud.  Two segments in particular are classic comedy - one is the Players' Pageant where the Playa of the year is crowned. The second is when the pimp gets released from jail wearing outdated fashions.  These two segments are, to me, some of the funniest  ever filmed!  "},{"Title":"Ain't no-one layin a finger on my baby!!","Date":"27 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This film is joke!! Nah I'm serious, this film, is one of those films whereby, myself and all my friends MUST watch it, wherever it comes on. I could just sit here and list the classic scenes the neighbourhood inner city games (I want this sh*t clean!), the bar scene and bedroom scene (don't make me hop after you!), Kung-Fu Joe's ambush (u think u can take on Kung-Fu Joe, master of Kung-Fu, Ju-jitsu and all other sh*t you ain't never heard of!)Pimp of the Year, Hammer and Slammer's demise, the take away scene, this is a classic spoof movie, up there in my opinion with the great spoofs, like Airplane! "},{"Title":"Funniest movie of all time","Date":"4 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I Loved this movie.  Through the years I must have watched it over a hundred times.  Seriously.  In this film, it is rare to go longer than three minutes without laughing or at least find yourself thinking that was funny.  Great performances from top to bottom are given in this movie and Wayans is hilarious.  Those who have not seen this one have definitely missed the bus.  Luckily, there is still a chance to catch it at the video store.  A+   "},{"Title":"a pure mickey take on blax-ploitation movies","Date":"27 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I must start by saying that I thought that this film was great. It was one of the funniest films ever and featured some unforgettable characters like Mr Big, Slammer, Hammer and especially Antonio Fargas as the aptly named Flyguy. The plot is really too bizarre to explain but basically involves a guy whose father returns with his band of friends to destroy the evil gang of Mr Big, even if this guy isn't too happy about his hero status. I strongly recommend that you watch this film. "},{"Title":"Blaxploitation Has More Laughs","Date":"25 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" I'm Gonna Git You Sucka (1988) ** 1/2 (out of 4) Sometimes funny spoof of the blaxploitation genre has a young man dying of a gold chain overdose so his brother (Keenen Ivory Wayans) seeks vengeance against Mr. Big (John Vernon). This is a movie that I've been wanting to see for the past twenty years. I remember riding the school bus for weeks and all the older kids kept on talking about how great this movie was. Looking back, none of them would have been familiar with the films this one is spoofing so I thought I'd enjoy it more than I actually did since I've seen several blaxploitation films. I think it's very hard to spoof a spoof and that's how I see this movie. Blaxploitation films plays just as funny as many spoofs because they're so politically incorrect and stupid, which adds a lot of great laughs. Those laughs are a lot funnier than what we actually get here. There's a lot of funny scenes here but none of them are as funny as they should be. After the first sixty-minutes the film really started to drag and run out of fresh ideas. Isaac Hayes and Jim Brown steal the film. "}{"Title":"One Knock-Out Movie!!!","Date":"9 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" This movie was hilarious!! There was non-stop laughter on my part. I would have to say that anything Keenan Ivory Wayans touches is gold. I love how he incorporates his family in his films. A lot of actors got their start in this film(Chris Rock). And I especially love how he incorporated all the black heroes in this film just to poke fun at themselves. This is a movie that should be in everyone's collection and everyone can relate to this movie. I am trying so hard to not give any details as to which parts of the movie that I found to be the best parts of the movie because I don't want to spoil it for anyone who has not seen this movie but if you watched and loved In Living Color for the years that is was on the air, you can expect that same humor in I'M GON GIT YOU SUCKA!!! "},{"Title":"Great parody.","Date":"6 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" To me, this is a hidden gem of a movie. In an era of Naked Gun and Hot Shots, there was I'm Gonna Git You Sucka, a parody of blaxploitation with ideal novelty characters to fill the jokes. Characters such as Fly Guy and Kung Fu Joe are the stand outs through a straightforward story.A man who overgolded himself has left his mother and girlfriend in a debt to Mr. Big. The other son has just come back from the military to set things right.Look out Chris Rock's cameo, which he sells like there's no tomorrow. There are plenty of gags and laughs as we find out the truth about Jack's military history. I have to say if you have little else to do and just want the time to go by, give this parody a try. "},{"Title":"One word CLASSIC","Date":"4 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" I saw this when it first came out, and to this day I still believe it's one of the MUST SEE movies of the century. And yes, I DO own it on dvd. It shows the Wayan's family at their humble beginnings. It's their way of poking fun at a wide variety of subjects, everything from the blaxploitation era, the 70's pimps, the gold-chain craze How did he go to the bathroom with all that crap on?, the Black Panthers, even the atypical African-American action heros. You name it and they've spoofed it! If you can find this movie, I suggest you watch it! Wait, forget that, just buy it!  "},{"Title":"My bitch better have my money!","Date":"10 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I used to watch In Living Color. I never knew this movie existed until about a year ago. So I decided to watch it. I did, and It was awesome. I loved flyguy! One shining part I can off the top of my head remember, well there are two. First, is when Chris Rock goes in to buy some food, but says he has no money. But, then pulls out a whole bunch of dollars. The other part is when Kung Fu joe is encountered by the cops. And...Oh! There's so many! This film is awesome. By far it is the best recent spoof. Go see it! "},{"Title":"Is you crazy","Date":"17 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  As a self-proclaimed Pimp of the Year, I must insist you rent this movie. The classic humor of the Wayans family is showcased in this spoof on blaxplotation.  The Chris Rock scene alone makes this movie worth watching for any current comedy hound.  While poking fun at the dumbest of stereotypes, this movie makes you laugh and think a bit.  Rent it.  "},{"Title":"Funny, silly and KRS ONE","Date":"24 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  If your a hiphop fan and haven't seen this then do. As well as taking pot shots at ghetto life, the army, seventies blaxploitation, fashion(one character dies from an OGover gold, too many gold chains) and uncle toms it has many cameos (hayes, rock, gulager etc). Please watch to the end for an outstanding cameo appearence by classic hip hoppers BOOGIE DOWN PRODUCTION featuring KRS ONE doing a brill number called JACK OF SPADES which i had heard before i saw the film and never knew it was related! Enjoy yourself in the company of the likeable Wayan's Brothers! "},{"Title":"Utterly hilarious","Date":"29 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  One of the funniest all around movies of the 80's this spoof of Blaxploitation films of the 70's is a riot. Great actors performing as memorable characters, funny jokes beginning to end. My personal favorite is Kung Fu Joe. But if there is one reason to see this movie, it is easily Pimp Of The Year. Pimp Of The Year is awesome!  "},{"Title":"Pure Genius In Every Way!","Date":"15 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  For those of us who remember the 70's, whether black, white, or any race, this movie is a blast. Keenan Ivory Wayans has  created a perfect way of bringing back the black heroes of the 70's and addressing some of the black culture of the 80's. The main character, Jack Spade, comes home from the army just in time to miss his little brother's funeral. He finds that his brother has died from O.G. Over-Gold. How did he go to the bathroom with all the junk? He sets out to clean up the old neighborhood and has to recruit some help. The in-jokes, and the downright parody of the black-ploitation films is all hilarious. The cameos (and future stars in In Living Color) are fun to spot. The music will take you back and the laughs will put you on the floor for the crawl there. I highly recommend this for anyone who remembers the 70's, or for anyone who wants to see the lighter side of it. Five Stars for Keenan!!  "},{"Title":"Moderately Funny Gags, but Not Spectacular","Date":"14 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Keenan Ivory Wayan's parody of blaxploitation, the film has the feel of an overly long In Living Color skit rather than a true feature film. The gags were amusing at time, but fairly predictable as well. I spent a decent amount of time laughing, but didn't really feel I'm Gonna Git You Sucka was in the big leagues, especially in light of the big name cast. More was expected. What I got was tasty but not filling. It was basically a black version of Airplane or the Naked Gun, and has the same strengths and weaknesses of those other films.  "},{"Title":"Good First Try","Date":"11 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  From what I was told this is the Wayan's first try at spoof movies.  It was a very good first try.  They do get the hang of it better with Menace and Scary Movie.  This movie definitely does have it's moments although none that are outrageously funny.I might watch the film again for some parts like the early Chris Rock.  It is one that I will have to kind of be in the mood for though. "}{"Title":"They used most of the creativity in coming up with the title...","Date":"25 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" This is a Wayans brother effort &#x96; they have so many brothers and so many efforts &#x96; this one is the brainchild of Keenan Ivory Wayans, an older sibling and is in much the same vein as White Chicks and the Scary Movie films.I would argue that this is better than those films but it seems a moot point, you either like those sorts of films or you don't.In the main I don't&#x85; But if any of the following sounds at all interesting or amusing then hunt this down, but be warned the following points represent the best parts of I'm Gonna Git You Sucka.- A guy named Flyguy dies. The cause of death is OG &#x96; OverGold &#x96; the boy simply wore too many gold chains and collapsed under the weight of them. (this was made in the 90s folks.) - The Rich White Guy who represents the Bad Guy is named Mr Big.- The cast features many actors renowned for their roles in Blaxploitation films of the 70s and 80s, they include Jim Brown and Isaac Hayes.- The lead guy, an ex-army vet (admin not combat) named Jack tries to beat up a midget.- The love interest has a face like a horse and a body like a 4WD. I don't think this was supposed to be funny though&#x85; - A pimp is released from a long stint in jail and dons his pimptastic gear once again before hitting the streets to open ridicule. His outfit is replete with actual goldfish swimming in the heels of his platform shoes.If you fnd this amusing (and fair enough it is) there's a chance you'll like the film.That's about it. Chris Rock gets an early cameo as a hungry teen who wants to buy 1 rib (not a serve) and a sip of Coke (not a can). There are a few chuckles but no real laughs of note, which is perhaps why this is so hard to track down these days (I watched this on a battered VHS from the local video stores ever diminishing supply).Final Rating &#x96; 5 / 10. Ultimately this is once again a case of a catchy title with precious little behind it but cameos, sight-gags and a couple of vaguely clever concepts.Hardly the worst film ever but neither is this a glowing recommendation. "},{"Title":"Doesn't Work.","Date":"24 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I loved the In-Living Colour skits so I was confident this movie would deliver comparable hilarities. Sadly, it did not. The comedy/plot/acting seems forced & superimposed and indecisive as to what sort of a movie this is. Ultimately, it comes down to whether it was funny, everything else aside. Unfortunately, there is not much that I found funny (Black Knight was more amusing than this movie, I'm seriouse - actually Black Knight's rating on imdb is excessively low, I think, but I digress). At any event, quite a dissapointment. The basic blaxpolitation premise and theme would have had great potential here, but something went wrong, very wrong.  "},{"Title":"Sometimes funny, could've been funnier.","Date":"30 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This movie has some undeniably funny moments, but overall it's not in the league of Naked Gun. The jokes don't come fast enough. And although you're not supposed to take this sort of thing seriously, you may get the feeling that the movie trivializes some serious problems (like drug addiction and youth gangs) by making fun of them. Still, any movie that features both Jim Brown AND Isaac Hayes (with a few notes of his classic Shaft theme to boot) is at least worth a look.    (**) "},{"Title":"Trying to Capture the Essence of Blaxploitation Films","Date":"9 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Almost twenty-years from its release, I'M GONNA GIT YOU SUCKA shows its age, and it doesn't look pretty. If anything, it's in dire need of a face-lift and I doubt there will be any new versions of this incursion into blaxploitation movies any time soon because of the sheer absurdity of its plot that tries to at times emulate the type of humor the Zucker brothers are known for. This is what happens to these films that are of their time they remain encapsulated in this bottle and become curiosities for anyone wanting to revisit the pages of history -- namely, that of black directors, of which at the time there were few, a thing that hasn't changed much. However, it's got more pluses than minuses, some riotous scenes -- Ja'Net Dubois and her clearly masculine double are a hoot to watch -- a running gag involving Damon Wayans taking the stairs, Anna Maria Horsford playing a woman who has quite a bit of props under her hair... and entire outfit, and the only known death by gold chains to boot. To add to its repertoire, it's got a list of who's who of black actors and actresses of the Sixties, Seventies, and Eighties (and future stars like Chris Rock in a small role), but it's missing two key players Richard Roundtree and Pam Grier. On that note, it misses the point of what it means to spoof a particular genre -- if you can't get actors who actually were in those genres, what's the point of even making a parody? "},{"Title":"One of the worst movies I have ever seen...","Date":"19 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I'm Gonna Git You Sucka 1/2*I'm Gonna Git You Sucka is a spoof. Spoofing can be either easy or very hard. The writer Keenan Ivory Wayans took on a hard genre to spoof blaxplotation movies. Movies like Shaft. I think the movie would have worked better as a satire than a spoof.When Jack Spade (Wayans) comes home to discover that his brother has OG'ed, Over Golded on Jewelry, (insert expected laugh) he vows revenge on Mr. Big, who is played by a gray, heavy, old man (insert another expected laugh). That's pretty much for the plot. There is no real reason for this movie to exist. Also in the movie is Isaac Hayes and Bernie Casey spoofing themselves. Packed with puns and guns, this movie fails on just about every level. Here are some calculations I made during the movie.Times I Laughed 0Times I Sighed in Annoyance Estimated 17 times.Times I felt bored 1 hour and 28 minutes (see running time)So, as you can see, I thought this sad excuse for a movie was horribly unfunny, stupefying, boring, and just plain bad. There's a few long running jokes in the movie that weren't funny to begin with that are stupid. The theme song for the movie is horrible. I've seen better acting on Barney and Friends. This plot is an thin as paper. Keenan Ivory Wayans isn't funny. The use of the f word gets annoying. It fails every chance it gets. In short I hated I'm Gonna Git You Sucka. "}]