[{"Title":"Why?","Date":"1 May 2005","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Okay here's a great premise -- what would The Howling have been like if it was made by somebody without the talent or good sense of Joe Dante? Well, thanks to the fourth of the dire sequels, now we know. It would have sucked.There are two good things I can say about this movie. First, it serves as a lesson about how not to adapt a book to the screen. Second, it shows how much of a great film The Howling is, simply by comparison. As it's another version of the same novel, you already pretty much know the plot ... a disturbed woman goes to a retreat of some kind in order to set her mind straight, and decides to investigate a mysterious howling in the woods. The only positive thing I'll say about the adaptation is that it retains the strong religious element from the book, which was neglected in the Joe Dante version. This movie is apparently a lot closer to Gary Brandner's novel, but it lacks any of the flavour, metaphor or subtext.First off, you don't care about the characters. Secondly, it just isn't scary. Director John Hough may manage to stay faithful to the book like some kind of a literary parrot, but apparently he hasn't heard of those things we call mood or pace or style ... in no way does this feel like a horror movie (it features the most un-frightening ghosts I've ever seen in a film). It's not even a particularly well-made film, and I noticed several errors in continuity. The acting isn't great, as all of the cast seem to belong on a soap opera, but by no means is that the worst thing about the movie. Also, for some odd reason all the dialogue is dubbed. Badly. And there's no excuse for it ... it just distracts you from the rest of the scene (or perhaps that was the intention). The special effects are actually very good, but unfortunately you don't see any of them until the last ten minutes of the movie when they're all thrown together in a hectic mish-mash.Why do we need this movie? It sure beats me. There's absolutely no reason to watch it, unless you're curious about the original novel but can't be bothered to read it. Joe Dante's The Howling is superior in every single way. "},{"Title":"Not As Bad As People Think","Date":"29 January 2004","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  It is called the original nightmare because this is an update remake of the first Howling movie. In both movies, a husband and wife retreat to a small town that turns out to be full of werewolves. I like this update, this is definitely a breath of fresh air to the series. Special effects weren't terrible and I loved the the different ideas of how people change into a werewolf. One melts into a puddle of goo in a gruesome scene when he is walking in the woods and drops to the ground and begins to literally melt and then comes back together as a werewolf. Well done scene Tom Savini worthy. There is another man that rips the skin off of his jaw and it grows and he turns into a werewolf. Alot of memorable scenes in this movie makes this a standout movie in the werewolf horror genre and is definitely one of the best movies out of the series.  "},{"Title":"A nightmare certainly!  wouldn't call it too original though!","Date":"25 September 2002","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Gives new meaning to the term low budget movie!  Obviously someone decided, Hey lets re-make the original HOWLING and get the series back on track?  Yeah well, you need a Director, actors and a script for that. When your budget runs to barely a week's supply of Big Macs this might be aiming a tad high!This is one god-awful cheap-looking crappily acted mess with the most unsustainably fake and illogical werewolf transformation in history. Having the victim regress to a pile of glutinous mush then (quick reversal of film) reconstitute himself as a lycanthropic tease with major orthodontic problems?   Huh???? not to mention the hour or so everyone's been yawning, wondering where the film actually is!They even had the temerity to rip off the original's finale...herding all the K-mart inspired werewolves into a belltower for a spot of the old mass-destruction! Not that you can actually SEE anything!For reasons of international co-operation shall we say, this abysmal flick was shot in South Africa with the majority of the cast being locals, needing to be dubbed into Anericanese during post-production. It shows! "},{"Title":"Howling IV The Original Nightmare","Date":"4 February 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Joe Dante's The Howling is a classic Werewolf movie with some good effects and I loved it but it wasn't close to the novel and they even said so. It's still a good film. So when Clive Turner decided to do a third Howling sequel he decided to make it closer to the novel which was fine.Howling IV is about a writer named Marie who after having a metal breakdown goes to a town called Drago with her husband Richard. Once there Marie begins to hear howling noises from outside, her husband think's she's making it all up due to her breakdown and the townsfolk are not too concerned about the noises. Soon an ex-nun arrives and tells Marie about a friend of her's that was attacked in Drago and Marie has seen her in her mind. The two soon go off searching for info about the town's history.Her husband soon catches an eye on the art owner who resembles a similar look to Marsha from The Howling. After meeting her again in the woods she changes into a Werewolf and bites. After telling Marie it was a wolf that attacked him the next day he tells her he fell and scratched is shoulder.Soon her nun friend discovers that the town people are Werewolves and hurries to warn Marie, meanwhile Marie's publisher Tom also tries to warn Marie but sees Richard in the road thriving in pain. He tries to help him only to get killed by a Werewolf in the bushes. It's not long before Marie and the ex-nun hide in the bell tower where Marie must wait outside while she summons the Werewolves with the bell.Doing so Marie has no choice but to burn the tower with her friend, and after looking at the burnt body of her husband a Werewolf jumps out at her.Although I haven't read the novels reading the reviews and seeing the film gives me a clue what the novel is like. Howling IV isn't a bad film, the transformation is kind of good and the Werewolf in the tower isn't that bad. The one thing is that the Werewolves don't show themselves until the final twenty minutes of the movie but I wasn't that bothered. I enjoyed the film.I also love that theme song Something evil, something dangerous "},{"Title":"Of seven movies this is the one closest to any of the books.","Date":"8 August 2002","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Gary Brandner wrote The Howling trilogy. Seven The Howlingmovies were made from these books. Even though this moviemay seem like a remake of the original, it is actually the one movieclosest to the first book. When seen from this perspective it's apretty good movie. Plus you get to see Michael T. Weiss (of TV'sPretender fame) with a mullet! What more can you ask for from a horror movie with the number 4after it?  "},{"Title":"An unyielding nightmare","Date":"9 May 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The only flaw I want to emphasize is that the early scenes in this film, much like the opening credits, are too quick to be effective. This one (however) is more faithful to the novel than the original, and once you get past the first 15 minutes, it doesn't seem so rushed. Romy Windsor play the vision-bound, introverted, semi-tolerated Marie. Neither Marie, nor her husband Richard, nor their friend Tom, believe in werewolves. Janice, an ex-nun, is the only one considering a werewolf-existence possibility. Marie/Richard met her in Drago, and Janice's belief in demons is probably what paved the way for her werewolf suspicions. Along the way, some peeps have vanished, including a hitch-hiking couple and the long-dead sister Ruth. When Marie discovers that the sheriff covered-up the disappearance of the pleasant hitch-hiking couple, or attempted to do so, tempers flare. There's more than one way to skin a wolf (or cover it's tracks), and it isn't by lying to red-riding hood. You can't run a successful werewolf business without breaking a few nuns, as it turns out. The lethargic and apathetic sheriff would probably agree. The main complaint here is the scarce on-screen werewolf time. But in my opinion, this is redeemed by acceptable performances, just enough atmosphere, and a classic 80's score. "},{"Title":"This film is easily forgettable - don't waste your time","Date":"2 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Seriously, I want the 90 minutes of my life back that I just watched. This film is so badly written, I could have fallen asleep in the first 10 minutes. The acting is like a really bad soap opera, worse than the bold and the beautiful. There is no tone or pace, and no action happens until the last 10 minutes.It is not scary at all, and highly laughable, not a credit to the horror or werewolf franchises at all.The effects I suppose are decent for its time, there is s melting scene that was OK, but other than that, I think an episode of in the night garden is more scary ;) "},{"Title":"Worth watching","Date":"14 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I actually think this sequel is a improvement from the last two Movies in the series .This movie is actually a lot different compared to the others and it's again a stand alone movie that its own storyThere was not much werewolf acation until about hour into the movie , the last half hour of the movie.The most of the movie is about this girl who writer , who seeing ghost and things now and again thought the movie ,, she either seeing things that have happened in the past in cabin., which makes thinks she going crazy , seeing thing that not really there.so the movie still had odd things happen until so- what action packed last 30 mins of the movie, , when we do see the first werewolf scene , I was torn as I thought , that was a bit out of the blue but I was gutted that we did not get to see the transformation part .I loved that melting scene , I thought that was amazing, those effect we're perfect for that scene The acting from cast was really good , much better then the wooden actor in the last sequel Im going to give this 4,8 , I just rounded of to 5 out of 10 , "},{"Title":"A terrifying journey into the gaping jaws of death...","Date":"12 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Haunted by a series of unnatural happenings, a young author, Marie Adams heads for the sanctuary of a rural hideout in a desperate bid to regain her sanity - but only to find a horror much more deadly than her own deranged imaginings. From the depths of the forest it's calling and waiting for the full moon, to hunt Marie down and to take her on a terrifying journey into the gaping jaws of death. As night descends, the howling rises again to shatter the stillness of the night.This film starred Romy Windsor, Michael T. Weiss & Anthony Hamilton.I have seen the first 4 howling films and this is my favourite one although I still don't like it. In my opinion best to worst is like this (so far as I have not seen some of the sequels)...Howling 4 Howling Howling 3 Howling 2This film is not really recommended.**/***** Poor. "},{"Title":"A terrifying journey into the gaping jaws of death...","Date":"11 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Haunted by a series of unnatural happenings, a young writer, Marie Adams heads for the sanctuary of a rural hideout in a desperate bid to regain her sanity - only to find a horror far more deadly than her own deranged imaginings. From the depths of the forest he's calling, waiting for the full moon, to hunt Marie down... to take her on a terrifying journey into the gaping jaws of death. As night descends, the howling rises again to shatter the stillness of the night.This film starred Romy Windsor, Michael T. Woods & Anthony Hamilton.Howling 4 is the best from the first 4 films but it is still crap, It's boring and dull. Again not recommended.**/***** Poor. "}{"Title":"Not Good","Date":"27 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Writer Marie Adams (Romy Windsor) is having strange visions. Marie's husband Richard (Michael T. Weiss) takes her to a cottage in the small town of Drago to relax and rest. The visions continue, however, and Marie eventually finds that the town of Drago is full of werewolves. The plot to this film is a reworking of the original Howling. Actually, it's a more faithful adaptation of the original novel in many respects. It also sucks big time. It's all very drab and tedious. Obviously the movie has fans. My sister is one of them. Growing up she actually preferred this film to the original Howling! Windsor and Weiss are fine, I guess, but it's all so dull. See the original or even the hilarious part 2 instead. "},{"Title":"Should have been better...","Date":"28 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" ...but The Original Nightmare isn't awful. Actually, this entry is a fairly enjoyable one, with some good lines here and there and a decent lead performance. On the downside, all the other actors are horrendous, the pace is erratic and the sound quality lacking. The Howling series was never intended to be great cinema as anyone who has seen any of the seven films should know; even the first one, as entertaining as it is, isn't anything marvelous outside of good special effects. These are just horror films about werewolves, people. Whether the film is set in the Australian outback or in a carnival or in the woods or in a castle. We're talking about low-budget films about...werewolves. Brilliance just ain't gonna happen. "},{"Title":"Ok effercts, terrible film.","Date":"7 January 2004","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Marie, a writer is seeing strange images and is sent to a small town to get away from things. But when there the delusions continue and she gets herself muddled up in a mystery to do with werewolves and a nun.The story in this film drags on at a terribly slow pace. Just keeping the film on was difficult.  It is suppose to be a werewolf film yet we don't even see one until after an hour of Marie just walking about the town and occasionally hearing howling noises coming from the woods. Some of the directing isn't too bad with a few stylish shots here and there and the acting is ok for a B movie but nothing to shout about. The film is more of a mystery than a horror but it doesn't work well as that either. The effects in the scene where Richard melts away are pretty cool and it's a very different transformation. It doesn't really make up for anything though. The doctor as a werewolf must be seen to be believed. The ending is terrible just don't even get me started on that. Terribly boring and just plain bad. The only good thing about the film is the ok effects but there are so few of them that it doesn't really help at all.4/10  "},{"Title":"Lacking momentum","Date":"27 May 2002","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Howling IV starts out decent enough, but by the end of the film it degrades to something less than average.  The main problem with this movie is its very slow pace.  Those looking for action-packed werewolf sequences will not find it here.  In fact, you don't even see a werewolf until almost the end of the movie.  This could have been excusable, if there was enough suspense to make the viewer want to keep watching until the end.  Unfortunately, the audience's suspense is replaced with impatience.  I kept looking at the clock, wondering when a werewolf would actually show up.  When the werewolves finally do make their grand entrance, it is disappointing.  They consist of A) dogs with red eyes and B) actors in cheesy masks.  And the transformation sequence of a human into a werewolf - something the original Howling was famous for - is bizarre and goofy in this movie.  Recommendation see it for free on TV if nothing else is on, but don't bother renting. "},{"Title":"This is what the original Howling would have been like if made by humorless amateurs.","Date":"30 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Joe Dante's THE HOWLING (1981) was one of the great cult horror hits of the 80s and a lot of that had to do with the director's ability to infuse a good sense of humor into the proceedings without sacrificing the scares in the process. However, it also took major liberties with the source novel of the same name by Gary Brandner, which displeased some fans. This third sequel attempts to right that wrong by presenting a more faithful version of the first book in Brandner's series. The basic plots of the two films are nearly identical, but the approach to the material is not. Gone from this one are the production values, the sense of humor, the scares, the trend-setting special effects and the great cast. This lower-budgeted film simply comes off by-the-numbers, humorless, dull and actually surprisingly amateurish considering the fact the director is very experienced in the horror genre.Bestselling author Marie Adams (Romy Windsor) is haunted by visions of a nun and wolf faces and ends up spending time in an asylum as a result. After she's released, her husband Richard (Michael T. Weiss) takes her to a remote cabin located deep in the woods so she can have some quiet, peaceful time to recuperate. It isn't long before our troubled heroine begins doubting her sanity once again. Every night she hears wolves howling in the woods, despite the fact the sheriff (Norman Anstey) keeps insisting there are no large animals in the area. She's haunted by more visions of the nun as well as the home's former occupants, her poodle Pierre disappears and is later found with its head cut off and a pair of hikers vanish without a trace. To make matters even more stressful and sinister, all of the people living in the small neighboring town of Drago behave strangely and secretively.Loose ends start to finally come together once Marie meets Janice Hatch (Susanne Severeid). A former nun herself, Janice is there looking for answers as to why another nun from her convent, Sister Ruth (Megan Kruskal), spent some time in the area and later went crazy and died. It's rather personal for Janice because Ruth was her lover and it also becomes personal for Marie seeing how her hubby has been spending a little too much time making special trips into town to visit an exotic, seductive shop owner named Eleanor (Lamya Derval). It should come as no surprise to anyone reading that the entire town is actually a haven for werewolves.There are three major problems that completely sink this film early on. The first is atrocious monotone acting from nearly everyone in the cast. It seems like many have been dubbed over and the audio recording is terrible to start with, so that may play some part is the thoroughly inept performances seen from nearly everyone in this film. The second major issue is the location. This is supposed to be taking place in Northern California but it was filmed in dusty, dry South Africa, which looks absolutely nothing like Northern California. The final major problem with this one is the pacing. It plays out like a boring made-for-TV thriller with endlessly talky scenes that don't contribute a thing of interest to an already utterly predictable plot. Even worse, this film wastes so much time on nothing for the first hour that it must then quickly rush through a choppily-edited finale in just a few minutes.The only positives in this one happen during the final few minutes and those are some Steve Johnson special effects, including a gory human meltdown and a guy ripping his face apart. Still, this is far from Johnson's best work. Aside from one brief flash of an actual werewolf (which seems to have been taken from another film altogether), the beasts are shown only as hairy-faced people and then as dogs in their full transformation stage later on. Very lame. The only other point of interest is that the opening 80s cheese-rock song (Something Evil, Something Dangerous) was sung by Justin Hayward of The Moody Blues. "},{"Title":"Is this fear delusional?","Date":"14 January 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Not to be confused with the original 1981 thriller, this installment of the werewolf franchise is a straight-to-video feature. Marie(Romy Windsor)is a successful author suffering nightmares of a nun and werewolves. Her doctor advises a brief vacation; so her husband (Antony Hamilton)plans a getaway in the woodsy community of Drago. Marie's vivid visions are not dispelled and she begins having suspicions of something sinister and odd about the inhabitants of this close-knit rustic town. At night the sounds of howling sparks Marie's fear of something evil lurking in the woods. Also in the cast Susanne Severeid, Norman Anstey, Lanya Derval and Kate Edwards. "},{"Title":"A suspenseful film but NOTHING happens!","Date":"13 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Because I loved The Howling, I decided to try this one. While it was a very suspenseful film, with lots of moody atmosphere, it went on forever without anything happening. I mean, I believe in character development, but this took it to extremes...actually only an inch or so away from boredom. When the werewolves finally do show up, they weren't all that bad, but they were only seen for a few minutes. In all seriousness, this film is even worse than the American Werewolf in London/Paris flicks. Instead of wasting your money renting this turkey, watch Bad Moon, The Werewolf (the 1950's Steven Rich version) or Dog Soldiers...those are really outstanding werewolf movies. "},{"Title":"If desperate for a Hallowe'en flick","Date":"31 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  'Here's another film that slowly grinds along, echoing to some degree the original Howling, but sadly lacking any sense of humor whatsoever. There is a nice sense of the surreal from time to time, when the nightmare (Is she sleeping? Or is she awake?) sequences run. The last twenty minutes abruptly shift from the slow surreal suspense to graphic gore effects; which can be startling. These f/x are quite uneven, for example a cheesy and very plastic skeleton cut with a much more weathered skeleton. Another one of those last-five-second surprise endings, incongruous with the rest of the film; leaving the entire thing a mish-mosh of barely tolerable watching, and suitable only if desperate for a flick on Hallowe'en. "},{"Title":"Feeble remake of the original Howling","Date":"10 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Howling IV is essentially a remake of the original Howling but makes the big mistake of keeping the werewolves off screen until well over an hour of the film has gone. When a film is called The Howling IV you know it's about werewolves so why make the characters take so much screen footage to find this out ?The plot has numerous unresolved subplots - the heroine has all of these dreams and visions but why is never explained and none of the visions ever take an active role in the film.  The effects are variable at the long awaited climax with the creatures sometimes humans merely wearing vampire teeth, are other times actual dogs are used and then there is full werewolf make-up as well - simply no consistency at all.  When the heroine's husband changes into a werewolf he first completely disintegrates into a pile of goo - then he is reconstructed as a werewolf from this goo.  All very interesting but totally inconsistent from the other werewolf transformations. The climax, in which the wolves all hurriedly rush into this church like lemmings to their death, as soon as a bell is rung, is feeble in the extreme.The film has an interesting production history.  Produced by legendary low budget schlockmeister Harry Alan Towers, (a man who has boasted that he could set up a co-production deal within 24 hours of arriving in any city) and directed by John Hough (Watcher in the Woods, Twins of Evil) it was actually filmed as a cheap sanctions breaking exercise in Apartheid South Africa.  Several reviewers have commented on the poor performances and dialogue - well that's because most of the cast are South Africans and they've been dubbed into American in post production.  Listen to the voices - many of them sound odd and are clearly not the original voices of the performers.  For another of Towers' Apartheid horrors - see Buried Alive with Robert Vaughn. "},{"Title":"Mediocre, dull version of the original.","Date":"29 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" She Bitch, The Marsupials, were horrible sequels, and part IV was a disaster. So producers tried to copy the winning formula of The Howling and use it in The Original Nightmare. The result is a mess, a disaster.Think about the original Howling, but with different and less likable characters, a less interesting setting, poorly done f/x, and a not so good plot. The Original Nightmare is a dull version of The Howling disguised as a sequel. The acting is horrid except for Romy Windsor who seemed to have a bright future because of her looks and decent acting skills. The direction is dull, boring, and does not offer anything for the viewer. The f/x as I mentioned, are poorly done and have nothing to do with the original. Ugh. The gore is laughable and I won't even talk about the beasts.Please, my advice is, avoid this horrid sequel. It's truly one of the worst sequels to any movie. Not to mention that it has one of the most horrible endings in the history of Horror! The look of Romy Windsor's face in the last scene summons the whole movie. "}{"Title":"Pointless attempt of terror","Date":"16 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I've seen many sequels of the original Howling (can't keep track how many actually) but this had my mouth drop wide open right after the first few minutes of it. The concept is almost exactly the same as in the first installment but this one sticks quite firmly to the original book. But it's pretty much like watching the first movie remade by bunch of talentless amateurs (probably even retarded ones).The acting is worse than i've ever seen before. And to stay awake through the whole movie you should not have seen the first because it kinda gives EVERYTHING away. Bad camera work, bad screenplay with cheesy lines with every possible clichés in it. And on top of all this Extra low budget. Low budget doesn't mean the movie automatically sucks. It's not worth making a movie with very little money unless you're clever and creative. These guys were not.Usually this kind of super-sucking low budget b-movies make you laugh and deserve some credit as Hilarious and good bad-b-movies. But no, this one doesn't and i cannot recommend it to anyone, not even the howling fans.One star for cool latex-gore effects in the end. "},{"Title":"Yet another poor sequel to the excellent original.","Date":"9 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" HOWLING IV THE ORIGINAL NIGHTMARE (Whatever that subtitle means!) ditches the humour of the first & discards the pitch black humour of the first two sequels as well & plays itself straight. The problem with HOWLING IV, is that the film is really nothing more than a remake of the far superior original, with several characterizations, scenes & themes taken from that very movie almost verbatim!What should be noted is how this sequel tends to stick much closer to Bradner's plot than the 1981 original which bared very little connection to Gary Bradners book. However just because a film adoption tends to stick closer to the original source material, does not mean it will be a better movie, such is the case with HOWLING IV, which tends to be awfully chatty & slow moving in a lot of areas, it's not that Marie's investigation into what is going on & the town's dark history is boring, it's actually fairly interesting, but I felt it could have been better handled.While HOWLING IV has some good moments in it, it's main problem is that the film is just to choppy. The opening scenes showing the writers encounter with the ghost of the murdered nun & her subsequent nervous breakdown, are so hastily shot that they are nothing more than brief clips, which fails to involve the viewer, there's just no emotional pull in the film, it's like someone edited the heck out of it. The direction is noticeably choppy, while some of it is pretty decent, a lot of the direction is severely hackneyed, providing for an uneven balance. The film-makers clearly never gave any serious though to continuity as some shots that are set during the daytime, go to night in another shot & than back to day again even though it's supposed to be set at the same time! the continuity errors continue with a one story cabin that is revealed to be a two story cabin inside! & what should have been a terrifying scene featuring a werewolf transformation winds up looking fake, when the werewolf suit used only has one working glowing eye! & the day for night shots are so poorly transferred they actually may invoke a few chuckles.I will say this for the film though, the acting is fairly decent for the most part (though noticeably many of the actors are dubbed) The score by BARRY GUARD is really good & eerie, & many moments are very suspenseful (the scenes involving ghostly apparitions that Marie sees & the final ten minutes of the film are some of the best the HOWLING series has to offer & even rivals many moments seen in the original film) the soft rock soundtrack Something Evil is also really good. The film also displays an interesting subplot that the town of Drago may indeed be Satan worshippers that have been turned into werewolves, thanks to their servitude & that for the most part makes for a very interesting subplot & STEVE JOHNSON'S special effects are some of the best this series has to offer, including an incredibly well done melting man effect, some terrifying looking half man half wolf effects, with their fangs & glowing red eyes, making them look like demons, serves for some pretty creepy stuff! we get a vicious clawing & a truly awesome werewolf monster that appears at the climax! Thankfully we are graced with these scenes because for the most part HOWLING IV is relatively bloodless, with pretty much all the kills being committed off screen & the reaming werewolves in full transformation look like regular dogs with glowing red eyes & shag carpets attached to them, they are not only laughable but hardly terrifying & certainly nothing one would call menacing.In the end, HOWLING IV's uneven execution amidst many scary moments is none to surprising, in an interview with director JOHN HOUGH in FANGORIA (April 1999) Hough revealed that when the decision was first made to make a HOWLING IV there wasn't a script. The screenplay was subsequently written by someone named FREDDIE ROWE, who supposedly lived in a little North Hampton village, whom he always received messages from but never met, simply because the studio would't let Hough have any contact with him. He began too suspect that Freddie Rowe didn't even exist, but rather it was Allied Visions executive CLIVE TURNER writing the picture & sending script pages to Hough (Turner wrote the story & is credited as a co-screenwriter in the final film, with Turner also playing a tow truck driver in the movie, ironically enough Rowe would share co-screenwriter credit again with Turner on HOWLING V THE RE-BIRTH, with Turner also acting, producing, directing, editing & writing the disastrous HOWLING NEW MOON RISING, considered to be the worst horror movie sequel in film history & well deserving of that badge I might add). The two men clashed repeatedly during production over what the vision of the film should be & Clive was later quoted in several articles as having said derogatory things about Hough. Hough also claims his cut was taken apart by Turner & re-voiced & re-edited as soon as he was out of contract, with Hough back in England while Turner remained in LA, editing it. Hough also claims he never shot a scene that suggested that werewolf seductress Lamya Derval had oral intercourse with Michael T. Weiss, but that's how it came across on film due to different shots & that he never shot anything like that. Hough later disowned the final product & claimed that Turner always wanted to be the producer & director (in fact Turner would eventually crook film-maker Roger Nall out of a directing credit a few years later for HOWLING NEW MOON RISING).Strictly for the series fans who seen & loved the previous entries, others watch out! Shot in South Africa. Followed by HOWLING V THE RE-BIRTH** stars "},{"Title":"Barf!","Date":"3 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Djeez.....This movie is, without a doubt, one of the WORST I have ever seen.After watching gems like House V, Hide and go Schriek or Berserker, I thought it could not get any worse, but it did.First (and most important of all) this movie is so S-L-O-W, nothing happens in the first 60-70 minutes, except for a anxious woman hearing sounds, and her husband cheating her with the local grocery ho.And then after a long and sleepy hour, at last some werewolves appear (hello are you still awake, it took me a lot of coffee to achieve that) and then there is some action.This movie is such a utterly waste of time and money, that I wonder what idiot invested money in this atrocious product, that person was not sober, I'm sure.In other words, this movie is a wothless piece of junk, and I'm surprised that it doesn't rank among the 100 worst movies on this site, allthough I cannot believe there are enough crazy people who watched this miss-product.Howling IV sure was a nightmare, in the negative sense of the word, and I warn everyone, do not spend your time or money on this one! "},{"Title":"Average Howling Sequel","Date":"10 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Howling IV was Very Cleverly Written. It can be said that it is a Remake of the Original, or at Least that is what they tried to do. Differences? Of Course. More Scary, More Erotic, and Contains MUCH better Sound, Video, and Special Effects. Also Much Gory than the First. I Give it 10 out of 10. Fans this Should like Part 5. "},{"Title":"Yesss","Date":"20 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The Best movie I saw in my all life Great actors Great Story just Great... "},{"Title":"Why did they make this movie?  Watch the first one instead.","Date":"15 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  First of all, this movie wasn't horrible.  Bad, but not horrible.  There really was no point to make this one because it is basically a poor remake of the first Howling, with much less enthusiasm.  However, this one is much better than part 3 only because it tries to be serious.  Once again, we don't really see the werewolves until the end, and it isn't too impressive. If you happen to catch this one on TV, go ahead and watch it if you are bored.  It may not have a very large budget, but it is a werewolf movie and that's probably the only reason ANYBODY would watch it (like me.....)  "},{"Title":"A Remake of the original Howling only better","Date":"31 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I personally, thought the The Howling IV was better than the original Howling, which it is obviously a remake of. The special effects were better and more graphic, and it was more erotic. There was more of a story line and it was less confusing. Not bad.   "},{"Title":"An oxymoronic title for a moronic movie","Date":"26 November 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" First and foremost how can part 4 of anything be an original? This is actually closer to the book that Gary Brandner wrote that was the basis for the first movie, but being close to the book doesn't make this movie any good.A real sleeping pill about a woman recovering from a trauma, sent to a wilderness retreat, finding that nearly everyone there is a werewolf. Nothing happens in this entire movie, just a lot of yawning from the audience. As with several other films in this series, good on-location photography (this time in South Africa) can't redeem an otherwise unwatchable flick.This looks like it could have been a TV movie. And a terrible one, at that.1/2 a star out of **** "},{"Title":"An insult to horror fans","Date":"14 August 2002","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The writing makes it painfully obvious what characters are good, evil, or just naive. You would have to be pretty thick to be surprised by any of the plot twists thrown your way. All the canned dialogue comes from the worst movies we've groaned at in the past. Special FX kick in towards the end, but end all too abruptly as does the film.If we've got to have a Howling movie so similar (plot-wise) to the first one, could we at least have it improve on the original in just one way? Apparently not. "},{"Title":"1988 Golden Chainsaw Winner For Best Direct To Video Horror Film","Date":"20 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Fangoria Magazine kinda liked this one. They gave it an award nobody ever heard of the year it came out. I like it too. Not a lot but as Howling sequels go it's the best of a bad lot. A traumatized woman moves to the secluded town of Drago where she is tormented by visions of a nun and a howling in the woods. The plot has similarities to the Gary Brandner novel, if you're interested in knowing but director John (The Watcher In the Woods) Hough largely works from a screenplay which tells it's own story. Hough, who is best known for the minor horror classic; The Legend of Hell House does a pretty good job with Howling IV The Original Nightmare. It's slickly produced, the cast is attractive, the low end special effect transformation from man to wolf is memorable and overall this is a mildly suspenseful entertainment. "}{"Title":"Loathing the Lycan.","Date":"28 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Back in 1976 as a wee boy I committed an act of youthful vandalism and readily managed to get one of my young pals blamed for it. On the 28th March 2014 I watched Howling IV The Original Nightmare, this was an act of such cunning punishment I believe I was being paid back for my youthful misadventure. The Lord does indeed move in mysterious ways!So this one is closer to Gary Brandner's source material, but that doesn't excuse what a bad film it is. Basically it's a reworking of the original classic Joe Dante film from 1981, shifting the locale doesn't fool anyone, what follows barely registers as a Werewolf movie, let alone as a piece of entertainment. Acting is out of a Kinder Egg and the direction equally so. Justin Hayward's theme song is decent, and Godfrey A. Godar's colour toning for his photography is pleasingly appropriate, but this really only serves as punishment cinema.So, Robert, I'm sorry for 1976, you can consider your revenge well and truly enacted. Please consider the matter closed and don't summon up any more films like this for me to suffer. 2/10 "},{"Title":"Who keeps Howling for these movies?","Date":"29 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Although this fourth Howling film may truer to the source material than the previous three, due to atrocious acting and meandering soap-opera melodrama that takes up most of the running time, it falls neck and neck with the worst of the series. Obviously not as classic as the first, nor as camp/guilty pleasure as the second admittedly dismal by conventional standards film.Always trying to find the good in films. Struggling to find anything good in some films, I will concede that the title theme song for this movie is quite catchy and it wasn't a PG-13 movie (cough howling 3 cough) It's just too bad that most of it, aside from the last 20 minutes or so, is dreadfully dull and hopelessly mundane. "},{"Title":"More like a long yawn than an actual howl.","Date":"13 February 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Windsor, an author (one of the few reasons to watch this mess) moves out to the woods with her hubby (Michael T Weiss). Windsor starts seeing animalistic things and hearing animalistic sounds, much like of a that of a werewolf. She plays investigator while hubby makes it with a town hottie, and guess what she turns into. Of course earlier, when Windsor confesses the sounds and sights, of course he doesn't believe her. But you won't believe this movie where only in the last ten minutes the real gore begins, and there's. There's such a awful amount of time wasted in this fizzer, so much f...ing around, it'll put the viewer into an angry gaze. Windsor's performance is good though. "},{"Title":"only the last 15 minutes are watchable, if you see it uncut","Date":"11 December 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Another entry in the worst franchise ever. This is almost unwatchable due the slowness of the flick. I made sure that I had the uncut version to see all the gore. And be advised. If you are collecting the Howling franchise do please pick up the uncut version otherwise there's nothing to see. It's only the last 15 minutes that contain horror. O yes, throughout the flick a couple is killed but you don't see any werewolf, you only hear him howling, next shot, a throat being bitten. But it is in fact the transformation that makes it watchable but you have to sit almost 80 minutes in a boring flick to see it. It isn't your typical transformation. The person melts completely in gory fashion and resurrect as a werewolf. Once a werewolf it just looks cheesy. Or just see the doctor showing his real face. Camp and cheesy.Start this flick, go wash yourself, do the laundry, just do everything you have to do but set an alarm after 80 minutes, from there this flick delivers. Oh,before I forget it, yes there's a bit of small nudity.Gore 1,5/5 Nudity 0,5/5 Effects 3/5 Story 2/5 Comedy 0/5 "},{"Title":"Basically an inferior remake of the original","Date":"6 June 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Remakes have become a major trend in movie making these last several years. They have proved to be quite the money makers and don't seem to be going anywhere anytime soon. Of course remakes are not a new thing in Hollywood. Sequels are supposed to progress the story of the first film, but once in while one comes along that actually retells the same story. By 'Howling III' things had gotten pretty strange, but at least the makers of the both sequels didn't simply copy the original. However, the next installment would go back to the original source material, which is Gary Bradner's first 'Howling' novel, but attempt to be more faithful. The result was the weakest of the series up to that point.Pros Performances are all good. Decent score. Beautiful South African scenery. Moves at an alright pace. OK attempt at a mystery. Excellent effects, especially for such a low budget effort.Cons Quite tedious at times due to long stretches without much interesting happening, plus for being talky. Apart from the dream sequences, John Hough's direction is pretty flat. Adds nothing new to the genre. Werewolves are barely in the film. Failed attempts to scare.Final thoughts Not that II or III can be called great films, but at least they tried to keep things fresh. With this one they told essentially the same story told in the first movie and failed to do it in an interesting way. Every series runs out of steam at some point and it looks like this was it for this one. It's at least not as bad as the seventh installment, which is a real embarrassment.My rating 2/5 "},{"Title":"Werewolf... Ummm... Somewhere...","Date":"30 December 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" At the direction of her doctor, Marie (Romy Windsor) and her husband Richard (Michael T. Weiss) plan a relaxing getaway to the picturesque town of Drago (yes, they really named it that cheesy name). Something sinister is going down in the town. This is a Howling film... could it be a werewolf? The Howling is a bit of an overrated film, despite its excellent special effects. And then multiple sequels came along, with part 3 (the marsupials) being about as silly as it gets. Who would think they would film another? But, of course, if Leprechaun is any indication, sequels never stop coming...The dubbing on this film seems just terrible, with voices not matching the characters very well, and/or being out of sync... Mike Mayo points out the film has no suspense and really bad acting, as well as having no connection to the rest of the series.Sadly, the film is directed by John Hough. I say sadly because after making decent genre flicks like Twins of Evil and Legend of Hell House, being given this project is a big insult. I don't know if I'm more upset that they insulted him with this, or that he was not able to save this from disaster.There are some awesome monster effects in the third act... this does not in any way make up for having people sit through the first two acts, though... this is a franchise that is hopefully dead. "},{"Title":"The Incredible Melting Wolfman","Date":"21 April 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Preface The fourth Howling film is what I imagined I would be watching when I began my bad movie series. It is a dreadfully boring movie with literally no redeeming qualities. Only serious fans of the series should ever consider watching. In the US, it is available on VHS, and several DVD editions.Back in 1998, Gus Van Sant directed a shot-for-shot remake of Psycho. He used the same camera angles, screenplay, and score. The movie was unsuccessful on all accounts but provided a wonderful example of why most remakes fail. A film's effectiveness is in the hand of its director and the affectation of its actors. You can't simply copy what someone else has made and expect the final product to be the same. A successful remake has to maintain the original film's plot points and message (assuming one exists) and demonstrate the new director's sensibilities.With The Howling IV The Original Nightmare, I've discovered a complimentary example to accompany Van Sant's Psycho experiment. This is a direct-to-video remake of the first Howling film, though it is labeled as an additional adaptation of Gary Brandner's first Howling novel. A lot of the unnecessary details from the book, which were left out of the first movie, are inserted into this one. The droll, clichéd horror film setting of a cabin in the woods and demented, frustrated lesbian nun character (both part of the novel) had no business being in this movie. This is a much worse version of what was already a sub-par film.The opening credits are performed by some pop band that tells us something evil, woo-oh is going to happen. There are many perfunctory uses of music in this series, but this has to be the worse example in any of the seven films. It's an open admittance that this film is going to be beyond terrible. It will enter the realm of skip it bad movies that occupy the dustiest corners of pawn shops. After that amusing sequence, we see a couple traveling to the county side to get away from the hustle and bustle of Los Angeles.The husband character travels through the weird Hammeresque fog that is always present (even in day) to the town and begins having an affair with a seductive shopkeeper. The town looks like it was constructed by a group of film students making a cheesy Western. You can see the painted-on building names if you look closely. The only good looking buildings are peppered with blatant Coca-Cola advertising. Sometimes the camera stops on a sign reading Coke for an entire shot. The wife claims to here wolf cries at night that sound a lot like generic thunderbolt sound clips. She even has visions of ghosts who lived in the cabin a while ago. These are very poorly realized ghost effects, as in they aren't special at all. People pop up, knock over some furniture and are edited out. We see dead people come in and out of this movie all the time.The man's affair leads to him becoming a werewolf, and after 65 minutes, we finally see a single shot of someone in full costume. Later he actually melts during transformation. The entire budget must have been spent on this scene, and it looks really cool. His body becomes oily and he falls into a pool of liquid while actors who didn't get an adequate werewolf costume watch. Some of them have nothing more than a few hairs on their faces. The melting transformation makes no sense. Things that have melted are categorically prohibited from being solid. Cutting away to German Shepherds running in the dark with glowing red CGI eyes, the werewolves make their way to a church building where they are conveniently destroyed.I have now seen five of the Howling films and this is the worst by a mile. Clive Turner, the author of the screenplay, would get on his plagiarizing juices and help create a slightly better Howling V. "},{"Title":"Total Junk!","Date":"24 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This movie sucks...A LOT. This movie ranks #2 on my worst movies list (The first one of course, being Hard Rock Zombies). I'm not the biggest fan of the Howling Series, but, just because this movie was horrible doesn't mean I'm not gonna try to finish the series. I liked 1, 3, and 6 and I have yet to see 2, 5 and 7 (I hear 7 is much worse than this) The movie is about an author named Marie (Played by Romy Windsor) who after a nervous breakdown, is sent to the town of Drago, along with her husband Richard. What they don't know is that Drago is haunted...By werewolves, which we don't see on-screen until somewhere towards the end. How droll. I feel that summarzing this movie is just as tough as watching it, again. I would rather eat my own feces and snot and down it with milk mixed with Kraft EZ Cheeze (I'm lactose intolerant btw) and Clorox and Drano than have to watch this stupid crap again. The song Something Evil, Something Dangerous performed by Justin Hayward from The Moody Blues can't even save this. Even worse, the song sounds so damn familiar to the Deadtime Stories theme by Taj (Deadtime Stories is really good 80s cheeze btw) After getting this out of the DVD player, I just smashed the disc into tiny little pieces, which is what this sewage leak of a movie deserves. Hard to believe that John Hough, the man who directed Disney Favorites like Witch Mountain and Watcher in the Woods. This movie could also be seen as a very boring 2-hour infomercial for Coca- Cola, as there's a good amount of product placement in there for Coke. Avoid at all costs. I wish I could give this a zero, but I'll just have to settle with a one. "},{"Title":"Do yourself a favor-- miss it","Date":"15 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Even though I am a werewolf horror genre fan, I thought this was terrible. This has got to be the worst in the Howling series.  It's not interesting, and the acting is poor.  It starts out as a mystery, but it doesn't bring up very many interesting ideas.  My score 2/10 "},{"Title":"Immensely enjoyable and entertaining sequel with tons to like about it","Date":"28 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" After undergoing a psychological breakdown, a writer staying at a secluded cabin and a friend try to convince her skeptical husband that the ghostly visions of werewolves she sees are real and sets out to solve the mystery of their appearance.This here is a really entertaining and enjoyable werewolf entry, and a rather underrated horror effort in any regard. One of the main selling points in this one, and one of the better aspects of the whole series, is the fact that this one manages to come up with a grossly entertaining and engaging mystery set-up with the werewolf history in the town, the appearance of the two girls and the town itself, mixed well together and made it incredibly entertaining and interesting, since it's a well-designed storyline that moves into greater, more threatening detail as more is discovered later on in the film. As this is accomplished with the mixing of a great sense of reality-or-dreams, creepy locals in a creepy locale as the night-time scenes are pretty tense and a fair degree of werewolf action and it turns into a rather entertaining affair before all the graphic violence and enjoyable werewolf-makeup are utilized, which here are all done incredibly well and features enough to appease gore-hounds and those looking for the more traditional werewolf style. It even manages a few good scare scenes, mainly the transformation after a sex scene but a couple others get spread out in the film as well, making it all the better. The main complaint about this one, beyond the low-budget nature, is the sense of déjà-vu that permeates this one due to its storyline and plot origins, but that really isn't as noticeable as it should be, and overall, this one is pretty fun.Rated R Graphic Violence, Nudity, Sexual Situations and Adult Language "}{"Title":"The Best Werewolf Movie, Ever!!","Date":"4 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Howling IV The Original Nightmare is one of the more underrated werewolf movies.**SPOLIERS**A young mystery writer (Romy Windsor) becomes plagued by weird visions of wolves. She and her husband (Michael T. Weiss) decide a country vacation is just the right prescription. At the same cabin in which a nun was found nearly catatonic and babbling incoherently about demons and danger, the two take up residence. During the nights, she begins hearing eerie howling sounds. Her husband brushes them off as the new surroundings making her crazy. Befriending a friend of the nun (Susanne Severeid), the two decide to explore the nearby town. Finding the locals quietly resentful, she begins to suspect foul play and tells her husband. He again laughs it off as the new surroundings and storms out in anger. Walking alone at night in the forest, he is attacked by a werewolf and bitten savagely. He barely manages to stagger home. Convinced more than ever that something weird is going on, the writer and her friend decide to investigate the town some more. They discover that a local church bell is from a town in Europe called Drago, the birthplace of werewolves. They then uncover another startling secret concerning the nun that finally solves the missing pieces of the puzzle. Again trying to explain to her husband what is happening, he goes into a rage and storms out, never to be seen again. The writer and her friend try a last ditch effort to rid themselves of the werewolves.The Good News What I enjoyed about this movie was it's simple story than followed along quite nicely. The several subplots don't get in the way too much and help the movie. There isn't a second of the film that seems like filler material. It keeps your attention throughout and, unlike most werewolf movies, gives quite a lot of suspenseful scenes and effective scares. The special mention is the part when Weiss is in the forest with the slut from the town and they start to kiss, then she ducks her head down to kiss his neck. When she pulls her head up, it is a true demonic werewolf face that comes up rapidly. It is better than how I wrote it, but the scene is quite nicely done. Steve Johnson's XFX Inc did a truly recommendable job in place of Rick Baker in special effects, and he creates several impressive scenes. Remarkably, the goriest scene isn't a werewolf attack, but Weiss disintegrating from flesh done to a flopping skeleton in an at least three minute scene. It still gives me the creeps when I see that part. The only downfall was an unspectacular transformation that takes place in about thirty seconds. Compared to the amazing disintegration scene, it leaves one puzzled. Another interesting part was the subplot involving the nun. I don't want to give away too much, but this subplot would have damaged the movie if handled poorly, but director John Hough made it work. Uncovering her cryptic saying tied the loose ends of the movie together and made it enjoyable. Replaying the original legend of the church bell, they lead the werewolves into the church and then blow the place up, burning all the wolves inside and ending the threat is a great ending, but it feels to rushed to have been done effectively. It allows for some good action parts, and the fiery destruction of the landmark building in town is a nice visual to end on.The Bad News The film does have a few flaws, such as the hurried ending. After discovering the truth about the village and the bell tower, the film ends five minutes later. The two woman lead the wolves into the church by ringing the bell, then setting the place on fire. It seems like it could have been dragged out an extra couple minutes by giving the two some obstacle to overcome at the end, as they set about destroying the place in a remarkable amount of time when infiltrating the enemy's headquarters. The lone werewolf inside offers no challenge to the two and lets them go about their business. Also, for a werewolf movie, the werewolves are on screen a relatively short amount of time. Most of their screen time comes in the final ten minutes of the movie, making it a slight disappointment if you want to see a lot of werewolf attacks or seeing them on screen.The Final Verdict 'Howling IV The Original Nightmare' is a better werewolf movie than either the original 'Howling' or 'An American Werewolf in London.' It contains some convincing lead performances and some impressive gore set pieces. This is recommended viewing for any werewolf movie fan.Rate R Graphic Violence, Nudity, a sex scene, and some language "},{"Title":"A Weak Try At Repeating The Original Howling","Date":"21 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The original film made in 1981, The Howling had so much going for it that it was a great film. This entry tried to repeat with almost the same plot, different names and professions and a different outcome but it had nothing that makes it worthwhile to watch again. No humor and no sense in having the lead woman playing a writer instead of a TV reporter being helped by a dead nun? The one cute character had a very small role, the family poodle that dead. This one must be real bad if I liked the dog better than the people! "},{"Title":"Much better adaption of The Howling","Date":"21 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Enjoyable 3rd sequel to Joe Dante's werewolf film, based on the 3 novels by Gary Bradner. This is actually much closer to the plot of the first Howling book than The Howling and also a bit more suspenseful.!!!POSSIBLE SPOILERS!!!Marie and her husband go to the country to stay in a cabin so that Marie can relax. Marie begins to hear howling and sees the ghost of a nun. Her husband and the townspeople think she's crazy, but a friend of the nun helps Marie solve the mystery. They discover that the people of the town, Drago, are werewolves.Good story, acting, and o.k. effects. *** out of *****. "},{"Title":"A horror movie without a pulse.","Date":"26 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Howling IV--It's called the original nightmare for a reason.  It's basically a remake, or rip-off, of the original Howling.  From the cheesy opening theme, you know it's a real winner.  I cracked up when I recognized the lead male character.  He's TV's Pretender, with 80's mullet and all.  Other than that, I don't really have alot to say about this movie.  It's just there.  It has no style or flare.  It's a horror movie without a pulse.  Yet, even with all this, it still manages to pick up the ball on the series, which was dropped by parts two and three.  It has a very unique transformation sequence near the end of the film and a great werewolf in the bell tower.  I do enjoy Steve Johnson's effects.  They make the movie.  Don't go in expecting much and you shouldn't be too disappointed. "},{"Title":"I can't wait for the remake of Part Two!","Date":"15 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I noticed that four people (as of this review) have rated Howling IV a 10/10.  I wish one of those people would write a review.  The movie I saw was boring.  I have never read any of the books that these movies are based on, so maybe part IV is a more faithful adaptation than the first movie.  But I felt like it took out all the interesting elements from the first Howling, left the boring stretches, and then added in some new boring elements.  I guess the makers of this film felt they were improving on the original, but was The Howling such a classic that it deserved a remake?  If you've seen the first, you'll be familiar with the structure of part IV A writer is stressed out, so she and her husband go to a small town to relax.  She's having weird visions/nightmares and always hears howling late at night.  Her husband thinks she's silly and so do the townspeople.  Anyway, she meets a fan of her literary work and the two begin to investigate the town's history and residents.  You can probably guess what happens.  I was just horribly bored.  At least the first three movies weren't this boring.  Well, actually, part two was.  The subtitle The Original Nightmare is very amusing to me.  How can this, part four, be the original anything?  It's the fourth one! I think they should have called this movie Howling IV Part One Again.  "},{"Title":"A Nightmare indeed.","Date":"1 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  A writer heads off to small village, but she soon realizes that the place is crawling with werewolves. Even though this sticks closer to the original novel, it fails in almost every single level. First of all the awful direction kills off what ever chances it had, then there is plenty of bad acting and bearly memorized lines, and the effects are anything but special. A real let down. Avoid it at all cost. My rating 2 out of 10. "},{"Title":"* out of 4.","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Awful sequel sticks closer to the original novel then any of the other previous entries. This one is about a writer who heads out to a small village to get away from it all, but discovers that the place is crawling with werewolves. Poor special effects and acting don't help much either. Rated R; Sexual Situations, Brief Nudity, and Violence. "},{"Title":"Campy horror flick?  Oh no... worse","Date":"27 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I've seen a lot of campy horror films.  Heck, I'm a fan.  They're funny.  But this... it was awful.  And not in that good way, but in that very bad way.  I couldn't even laugh at it.  It was absolutely painful to watch.  So you may be wondering why... well for starters there are a bunch of ridiculous make-up effects.  These effects aren't bad at all, they're good.  Just pointless.  When people change into warewolves it makes you think, what the hell is going on? instead of man that's creepy.  Then there's the horrendous dialog and acting.  It sounds like they're reading a phone book when they should be sounding scared and anxious.  The plot is also bad, like it's a re-make of the original howling only oversimplified and dumbed down to an annoying degree.I recommend you not watch this... but if you want to, try and see how far you can get before you throw the remote at the TV. "},{"Title":"uhm.... 3 out of 10","Date":"16 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  nice suspense, familiar plot, silly werewolf. The suspense in the movie was really good. The plot was something we've all seen before in the very first film and the werewolf was utterly silly. It looked like cardboard. heh. I give this film 3 out of 10. It needs a lot of work. "},{"Title":"You've got to admit this does look like a dog's head. I thought it was OK.","Date":"9 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Howling IV The Original Nightmare tells the tale of Los Angeles based author Marie Adams (Romy Windsor) who has a deadline looming but has also been suffering from bad dreams & hallucinations of a mysterious nun, after a public breakdown her doctor advises her husband Richard (Michael T. Weiss) to take her on a break, a complete rest form work. Richard agrees & rents a cottage just outside a small town called Drago, once there the place seems perfect, beautiful idyllic scenery & pleasant townsfolk. However Marie's opinion soon changes as her visions continue & she is terrified by constant howling at night. One day a nun named Janice (Susanne Severeid) visits Marie & tells her about her friend sister Ruth (Megan Kruskal) who was found in the area wondering the woods rambling incoherently, sister Ruth died shortly after & Janice is determined to discover the truth. Janice then mentions that sister Ruth talked about hearing howling noises which peaks Marie's interest & she decides to help Janice in her search for answers. As Marie & Janice investigate they uncover some dark secrets that townsfolk of Drago would rather keep hidden & are prepared to kill to do so...This English production was directed by John Hough & Howling IV The Original Nightmare was the fourth entry in the Howling series of films which currently number seven, I can't say it's a particularly good good film but at least it's 100 times better than the dire Howling New Moon Rising (1995) which was about as much fun as being anally raped with a large vegetable. The script by Clive Turner & Freddie Rowe is based on the Howling novels by Gary Brandner takes itself extremely seriously & for the most part is pretty slow going for about 70 minutes with virtually no indication that this film is indeed about Werewolves, one is neither seen nor the word Werewolf mentioned for over an hour. The film builds itself up as a mystery with the events that surround sister Ruth & Marie's visions dominating proceedings. Talking of Marie's visions they are never explained fully, are they hallucinations? Are they visions of past events? Are they psychic images or just her imagination? Don't expect to find out. Also why does Richard change his story at the end from being bitten by a large wolf to falling down a gully? I found the story decent, I'd have liked some proper attack scenes but the mystery elements actually kept me watching through to the end, it ain't the best film ever but I found it watchable if nothing else.Director Hough doesn't distinguish himself, the film feels like it was made-for-TV & while Howling IV The Original Nightmare doesn't suffer from that indignity it has the dubious honour of going straight-to-video & you can see why. Notorious producer Harry Alan Towers broke anti-apartheid sanctions to film it in South Africa on the cheap & the location makes for a poor California. Forget about any gore, a few bites, a decapitated dog's head & a really impressive special effect where a man graphically melts & from the resulting puddle of goo a Werewolf emerges, I'm not sure why but it's a cool scene anyway.Technically Howling IV The Original Nightmare is OK, it's a bit flat & forgettable although a few of the special effects are pretty good. The acting isn't great but it's OK.Howling IV The Original Nightmare isn't anything special, until the last 20 odd minutes you'd never know you were watching a Werewolf film. It tries to build an air of mystery but the problem is you know you're watching a film called Howling IV The Original Nightmare which is a sequel in a series of film all about Werewolves so when they finally do make an appearance it's far from surprising. Too slow for most I'd have thought, probably best to give this one a miss, not the worst Howling film but by no means the best either. "}{"Title":"Revenge of the 80's The bad sequels.","Date":"22 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Howling IV (1988) is simply awful.  This direct to video movies makes part three a cinema classic.  Although the film-makers went back to producing a sleazy film (like part two).   The results are pretty bad.  They followed the tone of part two too closely.  The resulting product is a bore.  The acting is bad, the directing is bad, the storyline is bad and the cinematography is....you guessed it!  Bad!!  There's nothing worth noting about this movie.  The actors are not pleasant to look at.  Not one slightly attractive woman.  The werewolf head was badly constructed. In one scene it looks like one of the eyes in it was burned out.  Somebody should do more than one take!Like I already stated, this movie is nearly unwatchable.  I can't find one thing I enjoyed about this movie.  Well, I lied. The best part was the end!  When I saw the credits roll I immediatly took the tape out and sent it back to the video store. I was afraid it might make my VCR sick!Not recommended.FP.S. I've seen worse believe me.  Like The Strangers.  But at least there was a part in that film that made it entertaining and the actresses were easy on the eyes. "},{"Title":"Boring crap.","Date":"10 November 2002","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The third sequel is basically a rip-off of The Howling.Not only it's highly unexciting,overtly talky and dull-it is also unconvincing and the werewolves seen during the climax are terrible.The atmosphere of dread and fear is non-existent,the gore-apart from pretty yucky melting scene-is very mild.Skip this one and watch the original instead!Highly unrecommended. "},{"Title":"For Whom The Bells &#x85; Howl","Date":"3 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" You can't really hate a movie for being pointless because, let's be honest, in that case you'd have to hate approximately 85% of all horror movies ever made. All the sequels in The Howling franchise, for example, are utterly pointless movies. Joe Dante's original feature was a good adaptation of a semi-classic horror novel and somewhat qualifies as a modest 80's genre landmark, but all the sequels &#x96; or at least the ones I've seen already &#x96; are absolutely dismal. After the two grotesquely absurd efforts from the Aussie director Philippe Mora, the usually very distinguished and adequate British director John Hough (The Legend of Hell House, Watcher in the Woods) clearly intended to go back to the roots of Gary Brandner's writings. If the plot sounds vaguely familiar, it's because part four is another interpretation of the same story as Dante's original. But unfortunately, there were Dante's effort was a freshly inventive and exciting film, this unimaginatively entitled The Original Nightmare is an endlessly dull and horridly acted dud that isn't likely to satisfy many fans of the horror genre. Marie, a celebrated fiction writer, suffers from a nervous breakdown and receives the advice to take a long vacation in the remote Californian countryside. She and her husband Richard find a cute little woods cabin in a small town called Drago. Marie doesn't find peace and quiet, however, as she's stalked by visions of a cloister nun and howling sounds in the woods. The little town itself isn't too kosher either, what with its inhospitable locals and mysterious bell tower in the center of town. The Howling IV is a trite and dreadfully slow- paced mixture of elements like Satanism, Romanian folklore legends and &#x96; oh yeah &#x96; werewolves! I almost forgot about those, because &#x85; well &#x85; it takes ages before we properly get to see a wolf! The majority of the film's playtime is wasted on Marie and Richard's uninteresting marital issues and a LOT of talking. I don't mind talkative movies in general, it's just that the acting performances of the ensemble cast are horrendous! Still, the film is nevertheless worth struggling through if only for the final fifteen minutes. There's an insanely awesome melting sequence as well as a whole horde of werewolves attacking our damsel in distress. Too little too late to safe the film, of course, but at least the climax with its cool special effects and gory conclusion compensates slightly for your waste of time. "},{"Title":"The Unoriginal Nightmare.","Date":"18 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  There is certainly nothing original or creative about this film....more than an hour passes before you even get to see a werewolf...the movie seems to consider the existence of werewolves a very shocking revelation but you're not likely to agree. Totally pedestrian, with low-grade special effects. (*1/2) "},{"Title":"Howling IVThe Original Nightmare","Date":"9 October 2010","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This yawner of a third sequel to Dante's werewolf classic has a troubled novelist, struggling with visions of a nun and flames, told to get some rest and relaxation from her doctor, hubby Richard(Michael T Weiss)finding a sleepy cottage outside of Los Angeles for them to stay during her little vacation. Near the cottage is a small town called Drago(a community unto themselves), with an unfriendly sheriff(Norman Anstey; a detestable lout)where Marie and Richard get supplies. Marie(Romy Windsor)hears the howls of wolves and her poodle comes up missing. Meanwhile Richard is drawn by his lust to a Drago shop owner, Eleanor(Lamya Derval)and soon the two are having an affair. Marie makes friends with a former nun, Janice(Susanne Severeid), and the two turn up evidence that a Sister Ruth(Megan Kruskal)may've found werewolves(demons)near Drago. Richard, a designer(of what, I don't know)who goes to LA periodically because he's trying to close a deal, scoffing at Marie's belief that something evil lives within the woods near their cottage. Anthony Hamilton is Tom, Marie's confident, not popular with Richard who considers him a threat(yet, it's okay for Richard to screw around with Eleanor). Soon Marie will understand quite well that her assumptions are correct, Drago is a hotbed of werewolf activity.The film's story takes FOREVER to build, with a not-so-overwhelming payoff(a man melting into skeletal stew, reforming into a poor-looking wolf doesn't exactly bring out the applause)which apes the original movie's conclusion(in this film, the werewolves are drawn to a bell tower instead of a barn). Weiss, who can be a likable enough fellow in the right parts, remains a jerk throughout the entire film, and his fate was welcome as far as I was concerned. Poor Windsor is saddled with the doubted heroine role, Richard always annoyed at her when she complains of the howling and other developments(such as the disappearance of a nice couple hiking in the woods near her cottage who run afoul of a werewolf, not to mention that she turns up Sister Ruth's discovery of something malevolent). Severeid is Marie's only ally, and it is with her help that they actually prove that the werewolves are out there, a danger to anyone who might wander in their neck of the woods. I will say that there are some good wound effects such as when Richard is clawed by Eleanor in werewolf form, and another victim's throat is torn into. The melting effects of a man's dissolving into a puddle is okay, although it goes on a little long and becomes less impressive as the scene drags on and on(it really doesn't make sense, either). I'm not sure why a human bitten deteriorates into a puddle, then metamorphoses into a werewolf, but that's what happens in one victim's case. Hough is known to direct much better films than this one and I figure the film's failure to generate anything exciting has more to do with cheap producer Harry Alan Towers than with him. The look of the half-human/half-wolves is more than a bit disappointing, particularly because you have to wait an entire hour or so to seem them. "}]