[{"Title":"not surprisingly misunderstood","Date":"15 August 2006","Score":"21 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" A reviewer once complained that Punchline commits an unforgivable sin by being an unfunny movie about stand up comics. For anyone who agrees, try looking irony up in the dictionary - it's an element that's occasionally used outside of the literary world. The film's deliberately awkward and painful scenes illustrate the point, Lady, nothing is a joke to me. That's why I'm in comedy. And that's why you're not. The same reviewer made the hilarious claim that comics never tell jokes out of compulsion or denial, but simply because they love making other people laugh. newsflash creative and hysterical people are often highly dysfunctional! D thank you goodnight! "},{"Title":"A Forgotten Gem in the Career of Tom Hanks...","Date":"1 December 2005","Score":"20 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" One of the best and also most overlooked films of Tom Hanks'career was the 1988 comedy PUNCHLINE, in which Hanks plays Steven Gold, a struggling stand up comedian who uses his comedy to work out his own inner demons, a lot of which stem from his childhood and his twisted and unresolved relationship with his father. Hanks walks the fine line of comedy and tragedy so effectively in this movie. One scene where he is excited to perform because a big agent is in the audience and is shattered when he learns it's really his father out there and he literally has a breakdown onstage is absolutely heartbreaking. He is also laugh out loud funny when he performs a stand up routine for a group of patients at a Brooklyn hospital and then two minutes later is looking at the chart of a terminally ill child. Steven Gold is a character so desperate to be loved that he thinks himself into believing that he is in love with a married woman (Sally Field) who also wants to do stand-up. Another great scene is when he pours his heart out to her and when she rejects him, he storms out in the rain and starts out doing Gene Kelly, but the dance in the rain turns into a brief descent into madness. Standup comics, for the most part, are not happy people, and Hanks conveys this so beautifully in this film. His final set at the film's climax reeks of his brilliance and he gets strong support from Field and John Goodman as Field's husband. If you somehow missed this early sleeper in Hanks' career, check it out.. definitely worth renting and repeated viewings. "},{"Title":"Making People Laugh Will Cost You Dearly!!!!","Date":"21 September 2003","Score":"24 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" So much for my family, my kids, my sanity, and my discretionary money, what little of it I have...I want to tell jokes!!!...This bittersweet relationship between Tom Hanks and Sally Field has husband, John Goodman, totally perplexed...The nightclubs, the fast food, the partial housewife thing, the spending money on jokes..None of this makes any sense for a struggling married couple..Yet somehow, Sally Field must find herself...Be supportive of my quirkiness!!This was a precarious instinct that Sally Field felt compelled to necessitate!! The film Punchline spends most of the time making personality confusion the culprit to domestic shaky grounds, but in the end, it shows how Sally Field can be a good wife, a good mother and yet express a part of herself for herself by being a stand-up comic...The challenge stand-up comedy represents by being as painful as Russian roulette with five bullets, plays itself out as a frustrating dilemma that confuses both Tom Hanks and Sally Field!!!!...What was finally attainable in both their lives was recognition at a humanistic level...What is seemingly unacceptable to the run of the mill rational person, as opposed to a stand-up comic, is that there is no comprehension of the fact that a stand-up comic views the ability to make people laugh as one of the most coveted qualities in the world!! To be funny is more rewarding than wealth, power, and/or a wonderful physical appearance!!! Stand-Up Comedy is not necessarily a lucrative talent, and you do not have to constantly make people laugh, but when Sally Field won the contest that night, it meant she had the ability to be a stand-up comic,,this was important to her!!!! The desire Sally Field had to tell jokes at various New York nightclubs, transcended selfishness, and merely pointed out that having a family and a husband does not mean your life stops totally!!..Bottom line, if Sally Field were on trial for negligence and self centered preoccupation, she would have been acquitted!! Ultimately what gave her stand-up comic hobby a sense of gratification was the emerging approval and encouragement of her family!! The Singin in the Rain scene that Tom Hanks performed was FABULOUS!!! as this film just oozes with talent...This movie is identical to the plot of this movie...BEING DIFFERENT IS BETTER...JUST ASK SOMEONE WHO OWNS A ROLLS ROYCE!!!! "},{"Title":"A great drama about comedy","Date":"12 August 2001","Score":"15 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a wonderful movie.  Every time I see it on cable I'm reminded how well-crafted it is.  The writing is solid, the characters are real, and the desperate world of the stand up comic, whose life is nothing without the laughter, is captured very well.Anyone who's worked professionally in comedy knows that comics are, as a rule, not happy people.  Look at Jim Carrey or Woody Allen when they aren't in front of a camera and you'll see real pain in their eyes, just below the surface.  Tom Hanks, as Steven Gold, captures that kind of character perfectly.This was the performance that marked the turning point for Tom Hanks. There would be no oscars for him if it weren't for Punchline, because this was the movie that proved he could flip between comedy and heartfelt drama on a dime.Sally Field does very well, and John Goodman gives one of his best performances ever.   "},{"Title":"Alternate title  I Don't Get It","Date":"24 June 2003","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Tom Hanks is absolutely brilliant as a former medical student who rebels and becomes a stand-up comedian.  Hanks grants this movie with a heart and soul. His stage delivery is good but unfortunately hampered by really weak, unfunny material.  In his acting, the sincerity, drive and passion for the job are strongly conveyed, as well as a fairly believable nature to his eventual love for Field's character.  This performance, in my opinion, outshines much of his later work, including all of his Academy Award-labeled stuff.Sally Field is miscast as a housewife who coincidentally decides to do stand-up.  She is the weakest character of which I do not care about, nor will I ever care about. Her plight is totally meaningless compared to Hanks'.  Her stand-up delivery is forced, and seemed too much like *acting*. Yet she got slightly stronger material, and it confuses me so.The pro comedians in this film are blindsided by crappy material.  A few use their own stuff, but are still hurt by poor camera-work and bad editing. All of the acts should have been shot like a Richard Pryor concert movie. Incidentally, when not performing, all of the comedians are terrific actors. John Goodman is also superb as the supportive husband to Field.  He brings a heart, charm and sensitivity to a thankless role, and makes it easier to view the moments when she's on screen.Pre-dating Seinfeld's Comedian, Punchline is actually a good look at the lives of a stand-up.   However, when it should have been the funniest ever, in well-known fact, it is not.  Everyone in the audiences was laughing far too much and way too loud.  They may has well have been at the Apollo.  It could have been comedy gold, but instead we got silt. "},{"Title":"Too few laughs","Date":"13 March 2010","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" For a film about getting laughs, this Sally Field, Tom Hanks vehicle gets too few. The film is essentially a drama about stand up comedy, it must be said. Family drama, social drama and relationship drama are all covered, yet in its attempt to roll you in the aisles, Punchline lacks exactly that&#x85;.the killer instinct.With its failure to focus on a single issue, Punchline loses power. Coupled with Tom Hanks terribly unfunny routines, and you have a floundering feature. The two actors do reasonably well I must admit, putting two solid performances together. Sally Field's housewife come comedienne even manages to grab a laugh. None of these positives can manage to rescue Punchline from the mediocre though.John Goodman is most enjoyable in his support role.Sunday, November 15, 1998 - Video "},{"Title":"Quite Memorable, But Gut-Wrenching At Times","Date":"13 February 2006","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Memorable.....but bad memories outweigh good, at least for me, with this movie. That's my recollection of this film which, frankly, I haven't seen in over a decade. However, this movie left some indelible impressions in my sensitive memory, and perhaps I'll re-visit it again one day.Tom Hanks was mesmerizing as the haunted comedian, a man with a lot of talent to make people laugh but a guy tormented by the lack of support from his father. There is a scene or two in here with this dad that is so uncomfortable to watch that it has prevented me from seeing this another time.Too bad, because I do remember some wonderful, funny scenes such as Hanks in the hospital entertaining the patients. Sally Field also gives a touching performance as a housewife trying to break into the business, and John Goodman is likable as her husband.An interesting film with very emotional scenes you won't forget. It's almost too much for me, for some reason. "},{"Title":"The film may be about a punchline, but it doesn't have its own","Date":"25 March 2016","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Punchline is interesting, but not interesting enough. This movie is awfully one-sided. And it also doesn't have any ambiguity. The only character in this movie that does any real disagreeing is the John Goodman character. And yet, I expected him to yell, but he doesn't. Make him grouchy, and you might have a character, no matter how relevant to the plot, that works. And don't even get me started on the casting of Sally Field as a comedian. Seriously? Sally Field as a stand-up comedian? What were the filmmakers thinking? Why not cast someone Tom Hanks's age? Some of the audience in the movie may be laughing, but I didn't find myself laughing too much. And you probably won't either. **1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"Rarely-Funny Comedians Struggle to Find What They're Searching For","Date":"22 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" A moderately hard-edged drama about the private and public lives of comedians, with a special emphasis on the desperate lengths they'll go to for a laugh, or to get an edge on the competition. Sally Field is the focal figure, a mousey housewife who feels destined for greatness but can't locate her own voice, while Tom Hanks plays a big supporting role as a natural performer who's an irresponsible, selfish a-hole behind the scenes. It's an uneven picture that doesn't really click for a number of different reasons. Primary among them is this unspoken sense that a movie about comedians should be funny. Though the on-stage segments are indeed quite flat, big punchlines (if you'll forgive the pun) aren't really the point of this story. Less forgivable is the awkward, cloudy relationship between Hanks and Field that dominates the plot, and the constant shifts in tone from one scene to the next. I never got a real handle on where the film was going, what it wanted to be or to say. That writing jokes is hard, I guess? Sometimes the happiest guy in the spotlight is actually a poisonous, miserable bastard? A complicated, tentative take that's puzzling in its lack of a firm identity. "},{"Title":"Punchline (1988)","Date":"12 March 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" 55/100. David Seltzer's direction doesn't guide the film along as it should, he doesn't seem to know what direction to go in. . It jumps from comedy, to satire, heavy drama, romance and back again. Sally Fields and Tom Hanks try, but the material they are working with just doesn't know what it wants to be. The romantic angle is completely out of place, and overall the bitterness of the film is a turn off. Even the stand up comedy scenes shown in the film that are supposed to be good, simply aren't. The ending is not satisfying at all. It is a shame the stars didn't get better material, it could have worked so well in different hands. "}{"Title":"A Must See Performance by Hanks","Date":"20 November 1998","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Tom Hanks performs the Singing in the Rain umbrella/street dance number like you'd never imagine it could be.  I loved him in this movie.  Probably more than the vast majority of his others.  His portrayal of an emotionally tormented and lost young man blessed with a tremendous and natural talent for comedy - dark as it may be - broke my heart.  I wasn't crazy about Sally Fields as his leading lady - the match up just didn't work for me. But as individuals they were both excellent.I would recommend it highly.  It's not really a comedy as the title might suggest.  It is, as I said dark, but with some very warm feelings about giving.  I gave it an 8  "},{"Title":"I wanted to like this","Date":"15 January 2008","Score":"12 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" It's hard to envision a time in Tom Hanks' career where he had roles in 5 critically panned, as well as commercially dismal films. While I find Joe Versus the Volcano to be a genuinely remarkable and unique film, and Turner and Hooch to be a K-9 ripoff that is a lot more fun than any James Belushi vehicle, Punchline falls flat in too many ways to even get an A for effort. Hanks is woefully miscast as a guy who's supposed to come off as a selfish jerk (it doesn't help that I can't help but imagine Tom asking viewers to donate to a WWII veterans memorial). When he borders on the icy cold determination of someone who believes they are bound for greatness but are relegated to mentor and also-ran, the movie and Hanks hint at greatness. But ultimately the role should have gone to someone more adept at playing selfish jerks I imagine a young Kevin Spacey or a world-wearied Richard Belzer.The real problem is the utter flatness of Sally Field's crowd-winning jokes. Was I the only one groaning in horror at her Z-rate, HBO late-night schtick? The idea that she's a stunning new talent in the cutthroat world of 80s stand-up is unthinkable (I can't remember what documentary it was, but I saw an excellent collection of comedians talking about the desperate need to be the next Eddie Murphy and later the next Roseanne/Seinfeld). That's where the movie fails it suggests that Hanks is just too unrelentingly cruel and embittered to attain stardom, while Fields good-natured hilarious insights into real-world pressures make her a guaranteed crowd-pleaser. Neither fully embody their roles convincingly, and the writer just doesn't know good comedy. Jay Mohr described the creative nadir in comedy when the typical comedian was bland guys sporting a neon blazer, standing in front of brick walls blurting out tired clichés like you ladies know what I'm talking about. It's obvious that David Seltzer (writer of the gut-busting Omen series and The Other Side of the Mountain) thinks the world of these garden variety hacks, and without convincing leads, remarkably funny stand-up routines, or the proper balance of convincing drama and humor, the movie just falls flat in every way. I'm giving it a four based on the gleam of promise in Hanks' otherwise unconvincing turn and the faint hope that he could actually portray a genuinely unlikable character in the future (though I doubt it considering a similar misstep with Bonfire of the Vanities and his lovable hit-man in Road to Perdition). "},{"Title":"Decent comedy-drama.","Date":"18 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  **1/2This is a decent comedy-drama that has some very good moments. Unfortunately it has some bad moments, too. It does do a good job of avoiding cliches, though. The main reason to watch this film is for the oscar caliber performance of Tom Hanks. "},{"Title":"so very underrated","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I cannot say enough good things about this movie. It's one of the most original movies I've seen in a long time. How often is it that we have this movie plot boy meets involved girl, girl realizes boy is her true love, girl dumps her lover to marry boy, boy and girl live happily ever after? To say that this is not the case in this movie is a gross understatement.The stand-up acts are not amazing, but that's not really what the movie's about. It's better if you look at it as a drama. I love how everyone thinks Tom Hanks, a very funny guy in this movie, is a one-dimensional person who is ALL about humor. That's the real point of the movie - he's not. I especially love the line (and I know I'll screw this up somehow)Field You're so funny because everything is a joke to you. Hanks I'm so funny because nothing is a joke to me.I've seen my share of comedy-dramas, but most I only liked for the comedy aspect. In this one I could just ignore all the stand-up and I'd still love this movie (although the opening scene is very well-done and funny).I would highly recommend it, it comes on the cable movie channels a lot. "},{"Title":"A True Actors Drama","Date":"1 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" My father is a stand-up comic, and all I can say is that this film above most others shows comedians for what they truly are. Comedy is truly based out of pain, and the two main characters truly have a great deal of pain in their lives. All the actors give their performances more than two dimensions, and are truthful in what they are dong at all times. If your looking for a laugh out loud comedy, than you'll be greatly disappointed, this film is really about he drama of the life of people who are trying to make it in the entertainment business. As a closing statement, i have heard many comics who were around at the time of this picture say that Tom Hanks was one of the greatest comics that they had seen, and if he had not caught the acting bug first, that he would have been a great comic. "},{"Title":"*spoiler* ensues! A Feminist Viewpoint","Date":"9 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  *spoiler* *spoiler* *spoiler* The ending of this film is mentioned here!This film was great! Tom Hanks' acting was simply superb in realizing this very unusual character. The singing in the rain scene is unforgettable in its poignance and wonderful madness with Hanks dancing, slipping, and sliding out there in the rain. Absolutely wonderful!And the story line was great, and real. Sally Fields very powerfully belts out a great performance in her portrayal of the housewife trying to make it as a standup comic. The scene where she is telling her daughters what she wishes for them is truly touching. Her character, Lyla, is giving her kids the best quality time despite the fact that she has become an absentee mother.My complaint about this very promising movie is the ending. After all the buildup throughout the film of Lyla's development into a successful comic, the only ending that would have made sense would have had her take the prize and go for it! What lesson are we supposed to be learning here? That a truly successful woman will give up her dream in order to stay home with the kids? Or that she'll quit when she is ahead because actually a man needs to win more than she does for whatever reason? That ending haunts me. Why, why can't a filmmaker just follow through and show us another way? Is there no creative possibility for this character to pursue her career AND be a good Mommy and wife? Must that always be the choice? The time has come for films and other media to be offering us choices, alternatives, and even a vision for the future. There is nothing noble about another talented woman postponing her own development for the sake of the kids. The real lesson she is teaching her daughters is not necessarily that she's there for them, but that they too will someday have to choose their husbands and family over whatever their dreams are. And that is tragic.  "},{"Title":"Unwatchably bad.","Date":"1 August 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is erroneously listed under the comedy category.  A fair warning, this is not a comedy, it is comicide.  It would be more accurately listed as a horror film.  The screenplay is the only thing that is laughable.  The comedians have lockers back stage? Why, so they can change out of their comedy costumes? If a comedian bombs too much, does he lose his locker and get his gear bagged like in Rocky? Why not have them punch a clock as they get on and off stage?  How much research did writer/director David Seltzer do? He has no idea what it's like to be a comedian.  Worst of all, the stand up material that is used in the film is atrocious.  You would think if you were going to write a movie about stand up comedy, you might want to get that part right.  Seltzers comprehension of stand up comedy is so clueless he couldn't even have a comedian bomb the right way.  David, I have news for you, when audiences don't like a comedian, they don't sit in rapt silence, they boo.  They yell things like, `get off the stage' or you suck and you know it.   Which leads me to another question, how the hell did this film ever get made?  Hey, I have an idea, lets have the guy that wrote The Omen do a film on Stand up comedy!Hanks is a great comedic actor, but does not have what it takes to play a stand up.  Robin Williams or someone with stage experience would have been a much better choice, but I doubt anything could save this comedic tale from bombing.Spoilers!!!This film sucks.  "},{"Title":"Stand up Move out","Date":"19 June 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Spoilers herein.Filmmakers like to tinker with genres. That's the most direct and easy path to cleverness.  One template is to make two genres into characters, then to embody them in people.  When the people interact, you have a battle of film genres. When the people are alone,  you have the genre in its normal form. Lynch took this to extremes with Blue Velvet of  the year or two before. Although the craft is far less here, the ambition is equally  advanced.On the one hand, we have a simple date movie charming Sally (with her charming girls)  has a marriage dilemma. There's some charming humor with making dinner. There's  some minor threat to all this sweetness (the threat represented by the big, bad Church),  even (gasp!!!) a bad hairdo. But loving husband comes through in the end. Sally is perfect  for this, our prototype of absolute earnestness, moving through Lucille redheadedness.On the other hand we have a genre that has exploded in the past decade the reflexive  film where the performances are about performances, the skits are about skits, the  character is schizoid because the position of the actor is also, simultaneously playing the  performed and the performer. Here it is a standup comedian whose life and performance  are confused. Sally is an archetype but she is also a performer so she finds herself  sharing the stage, even contesting the stage with Hanks. Naturally she doesn't need to  win, and her genre resolves as planned.Hanks does need to win. He lives in two layers the madness of the performer and the  madness of the performance a commonly sought situation for intelligent actors. I call  this folding. The whole film is constructed around one scene, the scene in the diner  where Sally distances her genre from Hanks; genre and (because he is layered) his  character. Watch him try the inside-outside acting shifts that Jack Nicholson invented.  Watch him quote one of the most influential films in the folded films movement (for  Hollywood), Singing in the Rain. Watch him even try a few Brando mannerisms.Its a pretty brilliant idea. And it is pretty inspired and risky acting. Hanks has since  become a joke, When he says he made only three good movies, I am certain he has this  one in mind. Actually, his thread is bungled by the writer/director. There?s a bad  decision in introducing his character with an anatomy test. And his material doesn't  match his character when comedy is a defense against life it is different than lots of  what he does, excepting the hate stylist notion.But he really does try here, and it is an intelligent notion.Ted?s Evaluation -- 2 of 4 Has some interesting elements.  "},{"Title":"Hmmm...","Date":"9 May 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  There is something not right about this movie.  What is it? I don't know. It could be one, a few or all of many thingsCharacterizations change by the minute, with flimsy and/or no explanation. It bounces back and forth and back again between slapstick, light-hearted comedy, gritty drama, and sappiness.  It spends painful stretches focusing on comedy acts that are supposed to be funny (everyone on the screen thinks they are) but they really aren't.  It runs far too long.But at the same time, it's okay.  Amusing at least, and it has it's decent moments, among the forgettable and awkward ones. "},{"Title":"My Friend !","Date":"8 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" First of all, it was main reason of my failure at one exam during my college days. Yes, at the night of the exam I wasn't that ready to tell you the truth, however instead of reviewing the course, I sat to view this movie, then I burned all the midnight oil reviewing it. And the result was pernicious.Well, it's one way to say that I loved it! I didn't regret at all. I just kept asking what was this movie about? And why it's magical? After 11 years, I ran into it again. Ohh, I felt like meeting an old friend who I've been missing for a long time. I was so happy out of re-seeing it, contemplating every second, being dazzled. Damn, I do love it.But despite its nice drama it got me confused. What was it about ? Hmm, maybe it's about how we meet in our dreams, yet not our goals. That makes a perfect impossible love story. Yet (Punchline) wanted another thing which is being a movie about the stand-up comedians and their world. And when it came to this second purpose it didn't achieve. I believe someone like (Scorsese) would have made it with the 2 missions yet in longer movie.Its magic comes mainly from its characters and its simple way of showing them. (Steven Gold), played by Tom Hanks, is so dramatically attractive. He's talented, lonely and complicated since his childhood. He's afraid of love, but when he thinks that he found it he loses it. It can fit the meaning of the one who makes the smile in the people's life the most is the one who doesn't meet it in his own. And again we can dream together, but at the end we might not get together. The melancholy of the movie remains in the way (Gold)'s storyline ends, since he finds success at last, but not love; meaning that success can be enough love.Another character. (Lilah Krytsick) the mom, played by (Sally Field). This woman just wants to know does she funny or not? She got everything but the assurance that she can make laughs. So she lived her victory the moment her husband knew that she can. Hence her winning at last meant nothing, and her giving up the award was natural since she doesn't need it, as she already won what she originally dreamed of. So while (Gold) wanted the recognition of the world, (Krytsick) wanted the recognition of just her husband. As you see, success was his love, and love was her success.One last character, the club's owner. This guy, played smartly by (Mark Rydell), got no dream but investing the other's dreams as long as they bring him money. He meets with the successful one, since they're successful, then throws them down afterwards if they lost their glamour. He's so practical. Success, according to him, is money. Not real love he gives or takes. So, sarcastically, his name was Romeo ! I loved many feelings it gives. For instance the desire to be something else the image which has been forced on you (Hanks wants to be a stand-up comedian instead of a doctor), unnoticing that the most expensive love is the free one around us (Goodman makes his wife feel good about her hair), and the over pressing craving to succeed (aren't all we? ALL THE TIME TOO ?!). Let alone the feel of lost love; certainly we all got respect to the noble loser lover.You may say it's about chasing different dreams in the same track; (Lilah) wanted her self-confidence and her family, (Steven) wanted the breakthrough that his talent needed, (Romeo) wanted the money, and (Emperato), the comedian played by (Taylor Negron), wanted the recognition of (Steven), or something higher than it. Or it's about the comedy clubs' life. Or it's about the pains of the funny guys (Did you see Hanks dancing, slaughtered, in the rain ?!). Many issues huh ?! Frankly this non-concentrated condition was a shortcoming! The crowded presence of many interesting characters (the different comedians, especially the old one) so unused in the background causes a feeling of a deficiency of something good or an excessiveness of something wasn't done. Furthermore, I bet the persona of (Hanks) at the time as a comic star plus the publicity of the movie as a comedy destroyed it utterly. It can be perfectly misunderstood whether as comedy without a punchline, or disappointing romance. While it isn't both.Actually it's about none other than the recognition; it has many faces as the same number as the ones who dream of it, and every face clarifies its dreamer's real purpose, hence self. And as every joke has its different, very own, punchline, every one has a goal that uncovers their marrow in the end. Anyway, despite any problems (Punchlibe) has, it still holds up as fine time. It got deep and hot characters. It got such a smooth and warm feel. And it got me thinking and entertained. It achieves entertaining time like any comedy yet more touching. And ends happily like any usual romance yet in its own way.The 1980s was magical itself. And it's a rare time to feel that one movie is your friend. Well, dear friend is the word. "}{"Title":"Happy 60th, Sally!","Date":"6 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" A few years before Sally Field and Tom Hanks played mother and son in Forrest Gump, they played stand-up rivals in the light comedy Punchline. I will say that this isn't the funniest movie that I've ever seen, but it's great just for the tension between the performers, some of the stand-up jokes, and for Tom Hanks's definition of the rectum; you have to agree that his name for it is a lot more descriptive.So, this movie probably won't give you any kind of religious experience, but it's a fun way to pass time. Also starring John Goodman and Damon Wayans.Oh, and in case Sally Field is reading this Happy 60th birthday! I'm in Russia right now, and yesterday, I went to Verkhoturye, where they have a convent. As a semi-birthday present to you, I said that the convent housed a flying nun. I know, you don't like that moniker, but I had to do something. Thanks for everything. "},{"Title":"Underrated, almost brilliant, but flawed","Date":"19 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Punchline begins with an engaging premise. Steven Gold (Tom Hanks at age 31) is a med student driven by his physician father to become a doctor. But Steven hates medical school, can't stand the sight of blood, etc. Instead of going to class, he goes to the local comedy club (The Gas Station). Instead of doing his homework, he does standup. He's very good. Lilah Krytsick (Sally Field at 42) is a frumpy Jersey housewife with three kids and a husband (John Goodman) who sells insurance. He wants her to stay home nights, but she has a passion for wanting to make people laugh. So she too moonlights at The Gas Station. She is not funny. In desperation she spends five hundred dollars of household funds to buy jokes to use on the audience.Everything bombs.Meanwhile, Steven is a little behind in his rent and thinks that, what the hey, he can sell Lilah some jokes. But it never comes to that. Instead he becomes enchanted with her and helps her break free of her inhibitions and perform naturally and effectively on stage. Can true love be far behind? (Rhetorical question, but the answer is not pat.)If you are a Tom Hanks fan, see this movie. You will be delighted. He puts on a versatile performance depicting a guy who needed to be, in the very fiber of his being, a comedian. The role shows off his talent, and makes us understand why he is now, at the relatively young age of 45, one of America's premiere screen idols. The rest of the movie, however, is a mix of strengths and weaknesses. Sally Field, in a difficult role, gives an uneven performance which I think is partly the fault of director David Seltzer, who also wrote the script. His direction is brilliant and awful by turns. In particular the schmaltzy, unnecessarily unrealistic ending is very disappointing. He also dug himself a hole because the top comedic performance had to be the last, yet it wasn't. All the expectations of the audience fell, and perhaps that is why Seltzer stuck himself with an ending that played like something devised by a committee of filmland execs intent on political correctness above all else. Also, any difference between the John Goodman who played Rosanne Arnold's husband on TV and the John Goodman here was not immediately discernible.However some of the scenes were just perfect I especially liked it when Steven's overbearing father (instead of a network producer) shows up at the club. Steven Gold's anguished, self-revelatory on stage reaction is excellent. --Or when Lilah rushes to prepare dinner slapstick style for company; or when night is done and it's four or five am and Steven has helped her discover herself and he asks how she will explain being out all night to her husband and she says she will crawl into bed with one of the kids and he will think she slept there all night. Also good was the singing in the rain scene and the scene in which the daughter, showing the wisdom of children, says to Lilah, after her husband asks to see her perform, Say yes, mom. Also good were the motley troupe of semi-pro comedians, including a fine performance by Mark Rydell as Romeo, the manager of the club.This rates a five point something at IMDb, but that's a little unfair. It's a better movie than that. See it for Tom Hanks, and for David Seltzer, who just missed making a great movie.(Note Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote! Get it at Amazon!) "},{"Title":"Made by people with no sense of humor...","Date":"25 February 2007","Score":"9 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" A 'dramedy' about stand-up comedy written and directed by David Seltzer, who shows no wistfulness or whimsy for show-biz--for him, it's all about the anxiety of getting a performance right. Tom Hanks has acting talent to spare, yet he does not possess the right timing to be convincing as a stand-up comic (he's all fired up, but he's firing blanks). Sally Field fares somewhat better as a housewife/amateur comedienne who looks to Tom for advice and finds herself a little smitten; her routine on-stage isn't convincing either, but Field's gumshun saves her (she's likable despite the character being a cut-out). John Goodman (as Field's husband) has made a career out of playing down-to-earth, amiable guys; though he's unable to really shine with this shallow material, his low-keyed, self-effacing acting style brings out the best in Seltzer's formulaic impulses--he's the most pleasant part of the film. The writing is so purposefully sour, one squirms through the jokes as much as through the drama. The movie's main purpose is to show us the dark side of comedy...but who wants to see that? *1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Grievously Underrated","Date":"25 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I didn't fully appreciate Tom Hanks' brilliance and power as an actor until seeing him in Punchline. He brings tremendous depth and pathos to the role of a gifted aspiring comic suffering from performance anxiety who is seeking to break in to the national limelight.Sally Fields' character as a cohort comedian plays off Hanks beautifully, as she competes for the spotlight while desperately trying to balance her passion for comedy and the irresistible pull of the stage with the demands of homemaking, children, and a less than sympathetic partner.The punchline in this movie has nothing to do with the jokes--be they good or bad. "},{"Title":"I Liked It","Date":"14 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I enjoyed this film. Most likley because it's a little personal to me ( and to all other comics). It was (to be honest) predctable. And it just had way to many times when they had an emotianl moment when they didn't need it. I liked Lyla's jokes. Steven was okay but WAY to hard on himself. Rent this movie. It's all right. "},{"Title":"The fineline of comedy and tragedy Hanks shows his true colors","Date":"21 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  PUNCHLINE (1988) *** Sally Field, Tom Hanks, John Goodman, Mark Rydell, Paul Mazursky, Damon Wayans, Taylor Negron, Barry Sobel, Max Anderson, George Wallace.  Uneven approach to the world of professional stand-up comedy with mixed results namely Field as a Polish housewife comic wannabe and Hanks as a seasoned yet emotionally troubled comedian (deftly blending comedy and drama in this, one of his breakthrough performances, particularly his near breakdown on stage) facing stardom at a club showcase for talent and a possible road to stardom. "},{"Title":"I wanted to like it but couldn't","Date":"12 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Right off the bat, I'll admit that maybe I would have liked this had I been in a different mood when I watched it. It seems to me that this happens often. A movie might look good on one viewing and not so good at another time.Basically, the comedy just didn't hit me and the serious bits didn't seem real. The ending seemed condescending and just not satisfying.Even the Singing In The Rain sequence didn't hit me. I saw it as a well contrived bit of comedy,but it just didn't reach me.Bottom line is that in the case of this movie, don't really go by my review or by anyone's review be it good or bad. See it for yourself. You might like it. And you might not.And is my review helpful to you??? NOPE!!! "},{"Title":"I'm Ready To Answer That Question Now!!","Date":"25 February 2010","Score":"9 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This film was made in 1988, that happened to be the best year of my life. Why? I became totally satisfied with all the decisions I made, I loved being a reckless bachelor, and everyone around me seemed to be happy! Nationally speaking, in 1988, we were not at war, our economy was great, and a Republican was in the White House. Invariably, our checks and balances sheet gets bonus points when our economy is booming during a Republican administration. When Democrats are in the White House during a good economy, it is as if their implemented economic plans are a necessary evil. Republican's phraseology during a good economy under their watch is one of Rugged Individualist Spirit which basically becomes a euphemistic phrase for Our policies are a luxury our nation can actually afford. What does this long dissertation have to do with this movie? Mostly the fact that it reflected our cop-aesthetic disposition as a nation during this period in time (1980's). In 1988, the camaraderie everybody shared with each other was due to the fact that they were all happy. The movie Punchline evoked a plight of We are all happy, except! Except what? Except for the fact that I want to tell jokes Tom Hanks and Sally Field are an unbeatable combination of acting talent that unearth a bevy of identifiable human frailties. For Sally Field's character, this was the question that she was finally ready to answer now; You have a happy home and a wonderful family, why is it so important for you to be funny? The answer,I must express a part of myself that is me. Indeed, such a craving is so important to me that it is as addictive as any harmful drug. The fact is, making people laugh is like a gambling addiction, alcoholism, smoking whatever, cocaine, or even investing good money after bad in a go nowhere business venture. Drugs and alcohol are for a kick! Investing money in a failing business venture is for purposes of hoping against hope that you will turn everything around and make huge profits! Telling jokes and being funny are all in the anxious anticipation that you will receive an unprecedented individualistic gratification!! This movie depicts whereby for a lot of people, a huge part of them believes that often times, nothing is more important to them than to make somebody genuinely laugh at something they say which is genuinely funny! When they hit a snag and gravitate to a very lackluster sense of humor, which may be as a result of the fact that they are having a run of bad luck with their witty spontaneity, it begins to drive them crazy. Somehow, just like an addiction to drugs and alcohol, making someone laugh is the most important thing in their lives! When this movie was made, Sally Field was 42 years old, this is an age where you begin to engage in soul searching. When I was 42, I lost my job, subsequently, I have yet to get a real one ever since. Your 40's is when your perspective changes and your priorities become increasingly more flippant and philosophical about the regimented and structured criterion which you have been living by! Now is the time for your middle aged fortitude to focus on attitudinal values which are a little more spiritually rewarding. The fact that this movie did not receive critical acclaim, and was downgraded for it's transparent mediocrity, is no surprise to me! This is seemingly appropriate that the academy would not recognize the lethal emphasis on how rewarding the penchant for making people laugh really is to many alternative individuals! So critics not liking this movie too much did not mean that they were wrong! In fact, it almost went in sync with the fact that any rational person cannot fathom that the intensely obsessive urge is to make someone laugh can almost be categorized as a debilitating disease! It can be though, believe me! Tom Hanks is fantastic in this movie, that Singin in the Rain score he performs is tremendously authentic!! Here is the gist of this movie from my angle, your average comedian is just a tad unusual, for that matter, so is owning a yacht!! The most appropriate assessment of this film, I liked it, and that is all that matters, or let me put it another way, IT WAS FUNNY!! That's everything, remember! Think of it this way; What can I get you to make you and addict? Crack? Crystal Meth? 100 proof whiskey? Laughter?!! "},{"Title":"Ok hollywood come out with this shlop all the time","Date":"22 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Its unoriginal shlop, but done well.  This movie is not rememberd today, but when it came out it was ok.  Hanks plays and annoying character, and some of the comedy is not funny.  Gives the viewer a feal of what its like on stage. "},{"Title":"If you want to be a stand up comic -- watch this movie!","Date":"2 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Being a stand up comic is the highest form of live comedy.  Scripted television situation comedies on video tape with laugh tracks is not comedy.  Those are what this reviewer calls, contrived comedy with cue cards. If you want to be a stand up comic then watch this movie over and over again, because, as Tom Hanks, you will need to devote your every energy into developing and testing comedic materials.  That means being on stage before a live audience -- night after night after night for little or no money rewards until you become discovered.This is the main theme of Punchline.  Tom Hanks starts out trying to become a doctor -- what his doctor father wants but not what his character Steven Gold wants.  He flunks out of medical school and continues to devote every night to performing stand up routines at The Gas Station for $15.00 a set.  Nurtured on or rather taken advantage of by Mark Rydell (Romeo) the owner and Master of Ceremonies of The Gas Station, we see how neurotic and uncertain the life of a comic really is, before Steven gets discovered and wins a contest to appear on the Johnny Carson Show.  The second story within this film is of 42 year old Sally Field, a housewife from New Jersey with three girls.  She is married to 36 year old John Goodman a traditional insurance salesman who cannot understand, at first, why his wife Lilah Krytsick is attracted to the comedy stage.  Lilah has always wanted to make people laugh and admits to being the class clown when in school.  She's compelled to perform in New York at The Gas Station after husband John comes home at the standard hour and watches the kids.  Her night activity is putting a wedge in their mature marriage.To show how stand up comedy really is, the movie employs a number of real comedians to perform portions of comedy routines at The Gas Station.  They are sort of the house comedians coming there night after night to test and refine their routines on-stage.  Showing their individual lives helps to define what a comedian really is.Of course, a subplot is that the medical school wash out Steven Gold who is supposed to be about 25 years old (Tom Hanks was actually 32 years old) thinks he's in love with the mature Lilah -- mother of three! She's only interested in Steven as a mentor and comedy friend, however, because she loves her husband, John, and her three daughters.Sally Field does very fine comedic routines about her life as a housewife married to a Polish man.  As Steven helps her to develop her inner comedy heart and mind marital sex becomes the basis of her routine.  Her routine is actually very funny with such lines asThis is a high-voltage item, Buffy!You mean you use one of these things? Go to it, God bless! But, I don't think I want to be intimate with anything that says Panasonic on it! This brings down the house!Lilah wins the prize but turns the tables and doesn't accept, even though Romeo encourages her to accept telling her that she got three out of the five votes and the old guy with the gray hair was crazy about you!  Steven wins the Carson spot by default.  Such is the life of real comedy. Yes, husband John Krytsick comes around and laughs so hard at Lilah's routine, which is all about husband John anyway, that his laughter roars through the comedy club.  Lilah is pleased and they walk away dreaming up new material for Lilah's future comedy routines.Watch for this film on cable TV.  It's a solid 8!       "}{"Title":"Punchlove","Date":"21 May 2000","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The movie about passion, love, affair, recognition, self-improvement, and family.Young Hanks duets with Sally Field in this gripping tale about stand up comedian. A fresh look towards these people who dedicate their life for their passion for laugh.An interesting twist of plot, when we see John Goodman, started as a painful husband, stuck between his job, turns into a husband who demand more attention and command Sally Field to let go of her career and passion for comedy. And an interesting acts where he turns out to be a real husband. Not a working husband.The struggle of being oneself. This is the red line of the movie. Some people fooled themselves and others runaway from their faith, while others fight for them and realized their true goals and needs.A heart-warming, funny, tragic movie. We ended up looking at ourselves, trying to make up jokes and acts up all right while crying and denying ourselves in true life.Sunday evening movie.  "}]