[{"Title":"A Hidden Classic worthy of Cult Status","Date":"29 December 2001","Score":"60 out of 65 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I've now seen Ken Russell's adaptation of Bram Stoker's story about half a dozen times, each at different points in my life.  This is one of those few movies that seems to age very well and get better with each viewing.  Never a big fan of Russell, his over the top visual style seems right at home in this sometimes campy, sometimes scary, always entertaining horror film. But what makes this film stand far above others in its genre is the fact that it is in actuality a wicked black comedy.  Every time I see it i pick up on something new that is in the background of a scene or some piece of dialogue I previously overlooked and I burst out laughing.  The film features probably the single best line of any movie ever made, delivered with dead-pan foppishness by a not-yet famous Hugh Grant.  I believe we probably have another reptile on the premises.  Watch it and you'll understand why it's so funny.  It's all about context.  While some may find many flaws in this production, I recommend just going with the flow and trusting Russel and his cast, who all also seem to be in on the joke.  Amanda Donohoe as the evil serpentine priestess and Stratford Johns as Hugh Grant's butler are particularly on target with every line delivered.  I'm going out on a limb and giving this a 10/10.  In actuality it probably deserves and 8/10 at best.  But it is one of my personal faves and seems to age like a fine wine. "},{"Title":"A great date movie!","Date":"15 June 1999","Score":"52 out of 64 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I've heard the complaints before, from men of all walks of life SHE wants to watch some syrupy romantic slush starring Hugh Grant, I want to watch something with hot, naked, snake-worshipping chicks!Well, complain no more! Here's a flick that's got both in one! That's right, England-cum-America's favorite foppish, eye-lid-fluttering sex symbol does battle with naked half-snake-half-human devil worshippers, giant white worms, and the forces of evil!Well, actually Hugh only kills one snake-human hybrid, and it's an old lady. And he keeps pretty far away from the action-packed finale face-off, letting his odd shut-in pal Angus do all the fighting. But you DO get to see the star of Notting Hill slice an old lady in half with a broad sword, and that alone is worth the price of admission!I enjoyed this movie, what with it's quaint, folksy atmosphere, it's kilt-wearin' heroes, and it's sexy villainess who seduces a hapless boy scout (!) into entering her hot tub of evil. There's even public-access-esque dream sequences where a Sid & Marty Krofft-type snake puppet molests Jesus Christ while nuns are tortured- and who doesn't want to see that?A very strange movie, to say the least.  "},{"Title":"do not pass up the chance to see this film","Date":"25 July 2005","Score":"34 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Why is this film consistently downgraded as dire etc...? It is one of the funniest I have ever seen. It is sexy, camp, and laughs at its own pretensions. Hugh is a delicious parody of himself Ice. the character he was born to play. Amanda Donahoe is the sexiest snake priestess ever. It contains the psychedelic trademarks of the Russell mindset exquisitely blasphemous, gaudy, kinky and tripped out. I love introducing people to this film - if I can read their personality right that is. I've got it wrong once or twice and some just find it confusing and weird...others see these characteristics as creative virtues. I give it a 10 - nobody could (or has yet to my knowledge*) done this sort of genre-play better. (*corrections invited - I would love to find something else in this pigeonhole as good.) "},{"Title":"Alluring,sensuous, witty and Ken Russell.","Date":"26 November 2005","Score":"27 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Of all the Ken Russell films this is my favourite. I found it extremely sensuous and the snake imagery a 'classic'. This is also one of the best Hugh Grant movies out considering he has become hopelessly typecast these days. Russell uses three different versions of the legend of the Dampton worm and this includes that written by Bram Stoker. The other two based on stories within Britain. And surprisingly enough the tale is closer to them than Stoker. Amanda Donohoe was simply stunning as Sylvia and she delivered her lines with charm and wit, and her costuming was slithering skintight scrumptiously slinky. I even bought a snakes and ladders set just like the one Rosebud that she threw into the flames. The worm was brilliant and deserved an Oscar for his role as he arose from the depth of the cave. I also love the song played in the beginning too. My only irk is that Catherines voice appears to be dubbed by someone else. One of the high points for me was when Sylvia sprayed venom over the cross. My reason for voting this movie so high is because it delivers on so many levels and it is a 'classic' in my book. "},{"Title":"Hilarious campy trash full of nudge, nudge, wink, wink smutty humor.","Date":"8 May 2003","Score":"21 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I'm not going to strain my brain trying to work out just what Ken Russell was trying to achieve with 'The Lair Of The White Worm', but he ended up with a semi-classic slice of campy, sleazy trash that is full of nudge, nudge, wink, wink smutty humor. There's absolutely no way anyone could take this one seriously! I haven't read Bram Stoker's novel so I don't know how much the movie has to do with it, but Russell takes EVERY opportunity for to show a phallic symbol or a puerile gag, and that, added to the tongue in cheek performances from the cast (especially Peter Capaldi, Hugh Grant and the delicious Amanda Donohoe), makes this one of the silliest and most entertaining movies you'll ever see. Donohoe is just brilliant, the monster is cheesy, the blatant gags will make you roll your eyes and groan, and there are a few extraordinary Russell touches in the very brief, quasi-psychedelic visions experienced by a few of the characters. 'The Lair Of The White Worm' is certainly not for everybody, but there's nothing else quite like it, not even in Russell's very strange ouevre, and if you get it it's a complete hoot! "},{"Title":"Fun in the tradition of Rocky Horror","Date":"12 December 2002","Score":"24 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This is a kitschy, sexy and funny movie. Ken Russel(the director of Whore and Track 29)is at his best. Taboos are endless. Scottish rock, demon worship, S&M and the defiling of Christian icons. Amanda Donohoe is luscious as the blood-sucking, dildo wielding Priestess of the Worm.Catherine Oxenberg is a perfect blonde damsel in distress and Hugh Grant is at his sexy, bored playboy of the manor born. The production value is not the greatest but there are moments when the not-so-special effects lend an aire of underground theater to the proceedings. I highly recommend this film.   "},{"Title":"The Weird and Wild World of Ken Russell Lair of the White Worm.","Date":"30 July 2005","Score":"18 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" The Lair of the White Worm (1988) was a bizarre horror film that was based upon one of the last stories written by Bram Stroker whilst he was suffering from Bright's disease. This helped the strange prose and it was augmented by the strange mind of weird film maker Ken Russell. The movie is also about a strange mythology and occultism that is as old as time itself.The movie was a surrealistic trip and if you enjoy Ken Russell's other films then you're going to enjoy this one big time. Filled with wild imagery and fascinating set pieces will almost certainly keep you busy. Amanda Donahoe is quite compelling as the Worm's keeper with an infectious bite. Sammi Davis (no not the singer wise guys) Catherine Oxenberg and Hugh Grant co-star in this odd horror film. I'll never look at snakes and ladders the same way ever again.Highly recommended for Ken Russel fans. "},{"Title":"so bad, it's good","Date":"12 January 2002","Score":"18 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This movie definitely belongs in the, it's so bad it's good category. However, the more times I see it, I'm thinking it's more like, It's so bad, it's GREAT! A good movie is in some ways is like a great plate of Italian food. It needs a firm base, some zesty sauce, and just the right amount of cheese.I first heard about this movie when I was in high school. Everyone around me was catching it on cable except me. Everyone seemed to have the same opinion of the movie, man, it's so weird. When I finally got to see the movie, we were over at a party at a practical strangers house in a town far from our own at 3 in the morning; an uncomfortable situation. But, when this movie came on, for some reason it made everything alright. I saw it years later in a bargain bin VHS rack and I had to get it. It was by far the best $5 I've ever spent. This is one of those movies that is great to watch late at night with a good buzz on. I'm sure it annoys the hell out of my wife, but this movie makes me laugh like a little kid.Filmwise, the movie is terribly made (or, if you're a Ken Russel fan, wonderfully made). There's holes in the script, the acting is bad, the props even worse; but there are so many insanely bad puns in this movie that it gets more entertaining each time you see it.I know I haven't said too much about the movie, but perhaps that's for the best. To sum it all up, it's a great flick if you're in the mood for a real cheesy B grade movie. "},{"Title":"Campy, Yet Better-Than Most Horror-Fare!","Date":"4 March 2006","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Being one of the few who has read Bram Stoker's original-novel, I can say without reservation that Ken Russell's vision of the story is far-superior. Why? You would have to read the novel, but I can vouch that it is unfilmable, and would put any audience to-sleep. It's not bad, and it has some excellent-ideas, but that's really what sums Stoker up-best--he had good concepts and a background-story, but a boring execution. Stoker went to great-lengths to show us how much he hated the aristocracy, just as in Dracula, but it gets tedious and too-talky. Also, the Irishman was dying of some brain-disease, so the story is pretty fragmented. He died shortly after completing it in 1912. But the general-ideas are great, and the story predates Lovecraft's similar-obsessions with cosmic-horror. A faithful-version on film would not be very exciting. Russell, being Russell, intuited the sexual-subtext of the story, and takes it to realms of comic-transcendence.Russell saw the exquisite-potential in the story, and even spiced-it-up further with his wonderful blend of sexual-obsession and high-camp. He also lends the story a very-serious mysticism. It's ripping! Amada Donohoe stands-out as Lady Sylvia Marsh, an acolyte of a once-dead sect of vampiric serpent-worshippers, and she shines here. It is probably her best-performance in a movie. There are so-many great-moments in this film, and many are very witty and funny, with plenty-of sex-jokes (this is a Ken Russell film, after-all). Russell wisely let the film be campy and tongue-in-cheek, since he wanted the audience to laugh with the story rather than at it! Characters practically wink at the camera after delivering their witty-lines, and Hugh Grant is pretty funny, he gets it. This has to be the first time most American audiences saw Grant in a starring-role, and it left a big-impression on me.The theme I enjoyed-most was the idea of pagan-religions being dormant for Centuries, and then reasserting-themselves in our modern-world (in many-forms, like folklore, songs, and even in physical-manifestations), it's an exciting-concept with all the sexual-implications Russell loves trotting-out. There's also atmosphere-galore, and some very pointed-jabs at Orthodox-Christianity that the cynical will enjoy. What I really loved, though, was how campy the whole-affair is, since much of this is for laughs. The film also has an interesting new take on a kind-of serpent-vampirism. Sex was the basis in most Victorian-literature, so Russell has a field-day with it, and why not? He lays-bare Stoker's sexual-obsessions, and has them out-in-the-open, not really a major-shift from the original-novel! The title says-it-all, doesn't it? Lesbianism, paganism, mystery, religion, archaeology, humor, murder, monsters--how can you lose? This was part of a three-picture deal that director Ken Russell had with Vestron pictures, and included the excellent Gothic (1986) and D.H. Lawrence's The Rainbow (1989). The 1980s was possibly his purest period where he had a very free-hand in his productions. It should be noted that Russell is a great adapter of D. H. Lawrence, and has done some justice to Aldous Huxley with The Devils (his only political-film that surely ranks as horror), so literature is no problem for this most-controversial director. His infatuation with Britain's folklore is so apparent in this and his other films! In-fact, there is a scene where a genuine folk-song about the Dampton Worm is sung, since the legend is a real one from an old Anglo-Saxon kingdom.Pioneer actually got this one right for-once. The film is widescreen, and has a very-good transfer. The sound is stereo, and it is fairly active. Now, if they can get the rest of the catalog right... "},{"Title":"Classic Kenny Russell","Date":"20 July 2009","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Do you know what I think. Do you really care. Well whether you do or don't here goes.I believe that one day Ken Russell woke up and said  I'm sick and tired of being accused by critics of making over the top exploitation movies masquerading as art with naked women, men showing their TODGERS and mad nuns being raped. This time I'm going to make an a movie of class. I'm going to get the brightest and the best of new British talent and use a story by a well known author. Well by the end of that week cuddly Ken had all the elements in place. A story horror by Bram stoker, author of Dracula. A great cast made up of the beautiful Catherine Oxenberg, A wonderful young character actress called Sami Davis, an up and coming Scottish actor called Peter Capaldi, a classy actress called Amanda Donohoe.. Oh and some bloke called Hugh or something. Add a few more out of work BBC Thespians to the mix and you have a classy supernatural film that will thrill the critics and maybe win some awards.Then Ken thought&#x85; F**K IT.I'm going to make a crass exploitive films with Nuns being raped, naked women, giant snakes, Boy scouts being bitten on their TODGERS, Stone Dildos, Jesus on a cross, Bagpipes ( well one of the cast is a Scott). Then I'm going to re-dub my lead actress. Make sure the actors look like they've forgotten their lines and have a really bad song sung by badly dubbed singers during a party scene.Ken you are Amazing. Lair of the White worm is Amazing. Its so bad, you can't help but watch it over and over. All the cast went on to bigger and better things. Well except that Hugh bloke? Not sure what happened to him. But I'm still sure all the actors and crew will never forget there work on Lair of the White Worm. Its the only movie where Ken Russell can plead GUILTY with a big grin on his face to all the rubbish critics have written about his work. P.S I HOPE THEY GOT THE JOKE&#x85;? &#x85;. I DID! "}{"Title":"A truly warped and brilliant comic-horror movie!","Date":"16 January 2001","Score":"14 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This is an excellent film that puts the fun back into Horror Films. Ken Russel uses only the title and basic plot outline of Bram Stoker's underrated novel and goes over the top with everything. The result is the most outrageous, outlandish, funny and just damm wierd horror film in years. Sure it's not in the slightest bit scary, but how can you argue with Hugh Grant hopping round the set like a hyperactive bunny, Amanda Donohoe biting a boy scout where it hurts the most and maidens being sacrificed to a giant worm? Fast paced lunacy and mayhem is the name of the game here in a film that should please everyone able to suspend their logic for 90 minutes. I loved it. My rating - 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Doesn't every Scottish archaeologist own a mongoose and a hand grenade?","Date":"20 October 2013","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Before Hugh Grant hit the big-time playing floppy-haired fops in rom-coms, he mostly played floppy haired-fops in costume period dramas; an exception to this was Ken Russell's The Lair of The White Worm (1988), in which Hugh went against type by playing modern-day floppy-haired fop Lord James D'Ampton, who teams up with archaeologist Angus Flint (played by the new Doctor Who, Peter Capaldi) and B&B owner Mary Trent (Sammi Davis) to defeat a pagan snake-woman (Amanda Donohoe) who worships a giant, ancient, subterranean wyrm (another name for dragon).This being a Russell movie, there is plenty of surreal weirdness on offer, with psychedelic dream sequences, Christian-baiting blasphemous imagery, phallic symbolism, and cheap titillation courtesy of Donohoe, who spends a lot of her time naked, and Catherine Oxenberg, who is stripped to her undies as a sacrifice for the creature. However, what could have been extremely controversial actually proves to be rather amusing thanks to the director's tongue-in-cheek B-movie approach (some might call it 'camp') and the tacky special effects; ultimately, this is silly, harmless fun for the cult movie crowd.6.5 out of 10, rounded up to 7 for the Concorde dream sequence, which is downright trippy. "},{"Title":"Stop Hating on This Movie","Date":"12 March 2007","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" I would recommend Lair of the White Worm to anyone who likes camp or is into enjoyable genre films. Sure, it doesn't quite make sense...is this film about worms? Vampires? Snakes? All three? The plot is quite remiss, as well, but that's besides the point. You'll have a good laugh and remember this for decades. The best part is definitely seeing Hugh Grant keep a straight face while cutting vampire-snake women in half. I'm proud to have it in my DVD collection. If you enjoy this film, I would also suggest ROBOCOP, TROLL 1 & 2, NIGHT OF THE DEMONS, JACK FROST (the horror film 1997), and THE WICKER MAN. "},{"Title":"One of the best Irish/Celtic Horror Films.","Date":"3 February 1999","Score":"10 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  A lavish, and kinky version of Bram Stoker's seldom read story (which I imagine was quite different).  The Worm of the title is actually a Wyrm, an old English term for snake or dragon.  The followers of this beast are a combination of snakes and vampires.  They spit venom and can paralyze or transform their victims with a bite.The film makes interesting use of Pagan and Christian mythology, which could have been quite controversial if it hadn't come from Ken Russell whose blasphemies seem to be taken in good humor.Amanda Donohue is icy and sardonic as the head of the snake cult and the film is worth seeing for her alone (A friend told me that she looked like how he always pictured the White Queen from The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe).  "},{"Title":"An exercise in high camp surrealism","Date":"18 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Supposedly based on a novel by Bram Stoker, LAIR OF THE WHITE WORM is an exercise in high camp surrealism for maverick British director Ken Russell. Russell crafts a unique film that mixes a solid mystery narrative with some terribly crude symbolism, some outrageously bad taste moments, and more camp sequences than you can shake a stick at. Quality-wise it's very poor in places, but at the same time it's rather amusing and, dare I say it, fun.DR WHO star Peter Capaldi plays a youthful Scots archaeologist who digs up the skull of a god in somebody's back garden - as you do. Meanwhile, Hugh Grant is a splendidly upper class toff - what else? - whose ancestor was the chap who killed the Lambton worm. And then there's dangerous seductress Amanda Donohoe, having a ball as a femme fatale hiding a dark secret in the depths of her country pile.LAIR OF THE WHITE WORM certainly contains some unforgettable moments, most of them involving the moments when Donohoe's true form is revealed; the makeup appears to homage Barbara Steele's character in CURSE OF THE CRIMSON ALTAR. There are some fun special effects here, alongside THOSE unforgettable nightmare sequences which are the stand-out highlights for me. The ending is neatly achieved and there's a nice supporting role for character actor Paul Brooke playing the local copper. Truly this is a one-of-a-kind production that has to be seen to be believed. "},{"Title":"A bit of 1980's Schlock","Date":"8 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" .. that is probably getting a bit of renewed attention because Peter Capaldi was in it.The plot is that a Scottish Archaeologist finds the skull of a dragon like beast on the site of an old convent. Meanwhile a Noblewoman is in charge of a cult that runs the local castle, while the descendant of knight who slew the worm in the middle ages fights her.The film was made on the relative cheap, but had a lot of quality. Donahue, Hugh Grant (pre-Scandal) and Capaldi (Pre- Malcolm Tucker/Doctor Who) all ham it up appropriately without quite chewing the scenery.Awesome amounts of nudity you'd never see in a movie today. Yes, we have become more prude, and it's not a good thing. Some freaky dream sequences. "},{"Title":"Outrageous, full-on fun","Date":"17 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Ken Russell meets Bram Stoker. And the result is a Victorian horror story, adapted to be played as Carry On White Worm.While it has a nice period feel in terms of look, it is absolutely over the top in delivery. Amanda Donohoe, in particular (during her If the money is right, I will consider keeping my clothes on in this film phase), has her tongue so firmly in her cheek she can barely utter her lines. While there are undoubtedly some valid horror movie moments, there are considerably more moments which are hysterically funny.It is interesting to see Hugh Grant, pre Four Weddings, playing pretty much the same character he has played in every film since, albeit his straight playing suits the piece - there is something endearing about at least one of the characters taking everything seriously at face value, albeit with an air of slight bemusement at having seemingly wandered into something from a parallel universe.It is worth observing that the other female cast members are dreadful Sammie Winmill acts away for all she's worth, at a standard which wouldn't pass muster at a primary school Nativity play, and Catherine Oxenberg doesn't even act, possibly because she can't.This is one of the daftest, most extravagantly enjoyable horror films out there, and is well worth catching. Just don't take it seriously, and you won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Great 80's horror-comedy starring Hugh Grant","Date":"4 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Lair Of The White Worm is a great British made horror movie filled with English style black humor. It is based off the Bram Stoker novel and directed by English director Ken Russell (Gothic, Altered States). It is about a small English country town, that celebrates the centuries old slaying of a giant snake god that once lived there with an annual party extravaganza, hosted by Lord James D'Ampton, who's family slayed the giant serpent centuries earlier. But some of the co-eds have now discovered a giant snake skull in their excavated yard and are about to find out that the legend of the snake god and its human sacrifice is still very much alive today, and they are about to find themselves a part of it.Whereas the Bram Stoker novel is a very serious and creepy turn of the century story, the movie version of Lair Of The White Worm took a lot of liberties from the book. The emphasis is still on scares, but with a late 80's twist full of horror-comedy, great one-liners and wicked, naughty fun. Hugh Grant is at his finest as the young and friendly wealthy English gentleman landlord D'Ampton, who has returned from an Air Force tour of duty, and now leads his friends to unlock the mystery they are now apart of. His girlfriend, played by attractive Catherine Oxenberg is well cast, as is Amanda Donahue as the mysterious and alluring Lady Silvia Marsh who may very well be connected to the ancient snake legend.Ken Russell fans will be in for a real treat with his usual blending of eerie and fantasy dream sequences inter-cut with reality. Ken Russell does a great job as a visual director here making the camera help tell his story with talent moving in and out of wide angle lenses to emphasis the weirdness and unreality of the subject manner. Dick Bush's colorful night lit cinematography full of shadows adds to the story's atmosphere. The viewer also will see more in the movie each time with repeated viewings. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"It is a decent horror film.","Date":"13 January 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" The Lair of the White Worm is principally geared for those between the ages of 13 and 40. It is a horror movie with the worm being the monster. If you don't like snake movies, don't watch. If you don't like British movies, don't watch. The film is best enjoyed either on rainy afternoons or late at night -- other films are better for prime time. The film moves along at an okay pace, a little slow. Hugh Grant is less than amazing in this film, however, the acting in this film is truly atrocious. The storyline is okay. It is a decent horror film. There is no real blood and guts, at least not much at all. But, the movie is entertaining and provides a good movie to watch with friends if you would like or a perfect movie for teen get-togethers. Enjoy. "},{"Title":"my favorite movie ever- classic Russel","Date":"5 January 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" May not really rate a 10/10 for great movies like Citizen Kane, or It's A Wonderful Life or something, but it has everything a movie needs - fun and excitement. Ken Russel loves any excuse to have a psychedelic dream/hallucination scene, and or some sacrilegious rant but this one goes all out. The most psychedelic movie scene ever made is probably the last tank scene in Altered States, but this movie has it all.and Amanda Donahoe is probably the sexiest villain ever created!For background , my next fav. is The Wicker Man (1973 original, the recent Nic Cage remake was awful). Then Elizabeth with Blanchet, heartbreaking, and Gladiator (Ridley Scott. With Russell Crow). Scott is probably the better director, but not as fun as Russel.But for all of us who love this movie - READ THE BOOK by Stoker! (Don't remember the URL, but there are a lot of old books published for free online, for free download and I found it and printed the whole thing out. maybe e-books.com or some such?) Russel made something fun and watchable out of a complete mess of a book. In the original, there's a few extra characters that serve no purpose and it's impossible to follow the plot as characters are in one place then appear somewhere else that makes no sense and there's tons of logical flaws in it. There is kind of a cool, kite in a thunder storm thing.Finally, my band did a version of the theme song for fun. Then we researched more lyrics and it turns out that it's a very old (1800's) traditional song from the British isles, based on an actual legend. With two more verses that the movie didn't use.So, to wrap up.. it's a wonderful movie based on a terrible novel that was based on a fun song based on a silly legend. Kudos for Russel for even thinking of doing it and doing such a great job. "}{"Title":"Amanda Donohoe is splendid","Date":"11 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" This is silly and not particularly well made, presumably due to budgetary restraints, but it is good fun. Bit slower to get going than I remember on video but some more explicit imagery also than I remember. Everyone seems to have had fun in the making and if the dialogue is a bit hit and miss there is some really nice stuff. I don't think this really fits, as some have suggested, into the , so bad it's good category, but I guess it's headed in that direction. Amanda Donohoe is splendid and Hugh Grant acceptable as ever. Special effects, like the dialogue are not always 'special' but there are great moments and it's always good looking, particularly Amanda Donohoe! "},{"Title":"Great fun","Date":"4 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" This film is great fun and has a host of well known British Thespians in the early part of their careers.Production quality is not great, and the story is a little stretched, but it is very enjoyable. The Derbyshire scenery is wonderful and there are typical Ken Russell touches throughout.Amanda Donahoe has never looked so good and HughGrant gives a performance in a style that hasn't changed since - and why should it! Peter capaldi as a Scottish archaeologist gives a manic performance that pre dates the time team, and on who they must base their dotty and populist approach to archaeology. "},{"Title":"One of the coolest, campest, most fun horror films ever made!","Date":"20 September 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Ken Russell has made a masterpiece. I really believe this is one of the best of all time!Staring Hugh Grant and Amanda Donahue this film is a weird mix of eroticism, scary psychedelic hallucinations, a Gothic hammer horror film, British charm and lots of snakes.The storyline is weird, in typical Ken Russell nature, and the acting and special effects leave a lot to be desired, but this almost adds to the brilliance of this film.I love this film. If you have any sense so will you, especially if you are into Ken Russell or want to see what Hugh Grant was doing before Hollywood. 5/5  "},{"Title":"I've gotta find a copy....","Date":"12 April 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Wow, I can't believe this movie is actually in here....I first saw it when I was 15, drunk at a buddy's house, and afterwards I thought I hallucinated the whole affair. A lot has been said about the horrendous production values (that huge snake in the pit??? WTF?)  and the overobvious sexual imagery (I have the image of that dildo scarred on my mind forever), so all I'll say is this  even though this movie ranks in the lowest of my faves, the sheer entertainment value in watching it can't be beat.  Definately a high camp classic.... "},{"Title":"Best post-Hammer British Horror flick","Date":"3 March 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This film is a glorious mix of gothic horror, gore, eroticism and British charm and is one of the only examples of horror and comedy being mixed effectively. The story is based on Bram Stoker's original novel (which I have not actually read), but I don't know how well it follows it.Other highlights include an early performence from a guy named Hugh Grant (and is probably his best movie) and the psychedelic hallucinations experienced by some of the cast. Ken Russell has created a true masterpiece full of chills and laughs that is extremely underrated.All in all, campy horror at it's best. "},{"Title":"a fun & horrific little film","Date":"16 October 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  nobody in the cast was famous when this was made, although everybody moved on to something, Donohoe to LA Law, Oxenberg to made-for-TV-movies and Grant to semi-superstardom. that fact makes it all the more interesting as the sexual tension, surreal dream sequences, and low-to-mid production values combine for a really fun and surprisingly witty couple of hours. Stoker was a sick fellow, there's no doubt, and so was Ken Russell, but you'll laugh more than freak.  "},{"Title":"Another Unforgettable Ken Russell Film","Date":"28 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Director and Cult favorite Ken Russell is on the loose, so scurry away the Children and enjoy this Guilty Pleasure. Fans of Russell need no convincing of His unbridled talent and willingness to be seen as a Maverick and routinely pokes fun at Himself and Critics with gleeful abandon.No one makes Films quite like Him and therein lies the appeal. This is a full blown, Sex-Fest with mysterious overtones and over the top glitz. It's quite a visual treat and includes familiar hallucinogenic hubris with the usual Religious bashing for which the Director is well known.The Movie is tons of fun and if You are a prude please move on and allow the Artistic Freedom to flourish and flourish it does. The Film is never boring and moves like a reptile from one slithering scene to another with its charms.The Cast is as oddball as the Film with Hugh Grant and Amanda Donahue delivering. The SFX are done on the cheap and cheap hardly ever looks this good. There are some stunning locations and the Lair of the White Worm is a gargantuan cave dwelling that is as impressive as it is ominous.A Campy, Cult, and captivating exercise in Sex, Symbolism, and Sleaze that is an unforgettable experience. In fact, most of Ken Russell's Movies are unforgettable. "},{"Title":"Not too bad but does have some flaws","Date":"8 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Upon the discovery of a strange skull nearby, a local finds the link between it and a demonic vampire queen from local folklore who's attempting to sacrifice a friend to resurrect a hideous creature and must find a way of stopping it from occurring.This one was quite enjoyable and really had a lot to like here. From the beginning, there's a really strong build-up along the way with the slow reveal of the cult and their existence giving this a strong start here with the unearthing of the skull and the remnants of the society left along the way there, along with her muttering on about all the different incidents that happen around her house that continually bring them into contact with the queen which continually keeps the mystery building here. The more spectacular scenes, from the initial hallucination showing the flashback of the soldiers' orgy with the followers of the cult while the roaring snake wrapped around the crucifix as the surroundings become covered in flames to the secondary dream of him entering the cave from the past to the investigation into the caves which manages to be the most significant part of putting the clues together and solving the mystery which turns this into the fun and enjoyment found here in the final half. Utilizing the fine encounter at the house where the captivating music is used to lure her out as the brawling in the main living room couples nicely here with the concurrent investigation at her house as they confront the abandoned parents in another freaky hallucination of the worm appearing which masks the vampires' attack, the confrontation in the garden of her house the next day which features some nice stalking around the statues and the set-up for the big finale here where the naked, blue-bodied vampire appears and drags him into the ritual chamber below the surface allows for the snake to appear of the pit as there's the fun rescue attempt to finally end the threat nicely. Along with the rather weird imagery present here with the pagan relics and a nice back-story here tying the snake lore together, there are some great points here which give this enough to hold off the flaws. The main element against this is the act that there's so many talking scenes in here talking about the history and legacy that there's hardly any action scenes along the way. The slow- building mystery here is based on how the different events come together based on their piercing the clues together after she's already accomplished something, and that does make for a rather dreary pace here. The only other flaw here is the series of apparent low-budget-looking special effects here which give this quite a distracting look as the cheep hallucinations and the snake-god puppet the end is quite lame as it bounces around flimsily. Beyond this, there's a lot to like here.Rated R Graphic Violence, Language, Nudity and sexual scenes. "},{"Title":"Capaldiwatching Lair of the White Worm","Date":"29 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" I always thought that The Rocky Horror Picture Show was the best Ken Russell film ever made without the actual involvement of Ken Russell, so I was terribly disappointed when this film came out, as it was so clearly meant to be Russell's chance to capitalize on the sensational success Rocky Horror was having as a midnight movie, but just not making it. It's Lisztomania, which came out the same year as Rocky Horror, not Lair, that turned out to be the closest Russell ever got to making his own version of the cult film that imitated his unique razzle dazzle style so profitably. It's even got Nell Campbell in it. But that was just Russell being Russell, of course.I recently snagged Lair again as part of my Doctor Who hiatus summer of Capaldiwatching and found that I like it a lot better now that I'm 27 years older and have seen a lot more of both Russell's work as well as the classic Hammer horror films that both Lair and Rocky Horror pay tribute to. It used to drive me up the wall that Amanda Donohoe's Lady Sylvia failed to be as sensational a sex villain as Tim Curry's Dr. Frank-N-Furter. Now I think she's pretty sensational in her own right. And of course her mission isn't to give herself over to absolute pleasure, but to bring the evil ways of paganism back to Christian-era Britain. In that way she's closer to Willow MacGregor in Wicker Man than to Frankie. And the climax of Lair is very much like an Art Deco version of the Wicker Man sacrifice. Maybe that's why Russell sent in the Glaswegian Peter Capaldi in his tartans and hand grenade-filled sporran to save the day and restore the Wicker Man-besmirched honor of the land of John Knox. The fact that Hugh Grant's Lord D'Ampton is completely upstaged by Capaldi's Angus Flint, I now realize, is not a fault at all but an intentional strategy of Russell's to make the intrepid Scotsman with literal dirt under his fingernails the true hero of the piece, while the handsome filthy rich young English nobleman is just literally a tosser (notice the girly magazine on his bedside table.) I recently read the never-produced screenplay of Ken Russell's adaptation of Dracula, which Russell had hoped to make as part of a package deal with Lair, and it gave me a lot more insight into this film. It's a surprisingly good script, definitely the highest quality Dracula adaptation I've run across. Russell clearly knew how to structure a good Hammer-style Gothic story that's stronger on character, plot development and atmosphere than juvenile cheap thrills, and though Lair is no classic it's as entertaining and absorbing as the average Hammer film (i.e., incredibly.) Russell also wrote an unproduced sequel to Lair, Revenge of the White Worm, as yet unpublished. There aren't many details out there about it but I have to believe Russell brought Angus Flint back in it. You'd miss him if he wasn't there. "},{"Title":"The Lair Of Kinky Ken","Date":"20 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" When you watch this Ken Russell movie The Lair Of The White Worm you will know why he got the nickname Kinky Ken. Of all the Ken Russell directed movies that I have seen this is definitely the kinkiest of them all. There are dream sequences in this horror movie that border on the depraved, so much so that you wonder how it got past the censors. Maybe they had all gone out for a cup of coffee!. Like most Ken Russell films it is visually imaginative & fascinating viewing. Amanda Donahue plays a very sexy kind of Countess Dracula & she is just great fun to watch. We see her in all manner of kinky costumes & nudity. After she picks up a boy hitch-hiker she takes him to her home, baths him & then dispatches him with a love-bite. Hugh Grant plays an R.A.F. pilot neighbour who knocks on her door & is invited in. During drinks he innocently asks her if she has any children. Only when there are no men around, she answers. I think you probably get the drift of all this by now. This is definitely a weirdo movie but nonetheless interesting viewing. "}{"Title":"Terrible Horror Film / Great Kitsch Parody","Date":"5 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" I think we probably have another reptile loose on the premises.My mistake in approaching this film was to start watching it as a serious horror film. I blame that on having just seen a good documentary about Bram Stoker and it appearing on the Horror Channel.As a horror film it's pretty poor terrible acting; dated video effects inserted into film; cliché ridden plot......but once you twig that it was Ken Russell having a laugh, it became very entertaining. The acting is all part of the joke; the video effects provide over the top kitsch; the cliché ridden plot is deliberate and the script full of fnarr fnarr moments to make you giggle.The cast clearly were in on the joke. Amanda Donohoe is deliciously camp; Hugh Grant can be seen honing that stiff upper lip that would make his fortune and Peter Capaldi hit the Scottish stereotype perfectly twirling a reel on bagpipes for no real reason other than to give you a sly wink as to the true nature of the film.It makes a fine companion piece to 'Carry on Screaming' in the British comedy horror genre.I've rated it 5/10 as a film because that is how I unfortunately had watched most of it, but it has far higher entertainment value... as long as you start in the right frame of mind. "},{"Title":"Almost a spoof of Hammer Horror","Date":"13 April 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Ken Russell is an acquired taste at best, but here his patented over- the-top religious hysteria finds an appropriate muse with Amanda Donohoe as the last member of a snake cult who kills passers-by to feed her pet Reptile God. Hugh Grant and Catherine Oxenberg co-star as a young couple caught up in her web. Hugh is charming and atypically serious, with none of the stammering, gibbering silliness that later became his trademark, and Amanda Donohoe shifts gears beautifully from evil seductress to seemingly innocent neighbor, creating great comic moments when accidentally caught between gears. The movie has a great dreary look thanks to its setting in rural northern England, which creates a wonderful visual contrast to Amanda's exotic, white marble vampire's nest. The movie deftly mixes scary visuals and winking silliness as the movie's twin horror plots start to entwine one another (like snakes in a caduceus) - locals go on the hunt for the monster snake, while victims of Donohoe's bite start turning into undead zombies! Kooky fun; this is a very unusual movie that can be watched again and again and still enjoyed. "},{"Title":"Ludicrous, camp, blasphemous, and thoroughly enjoyable","Date":"29 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" The recently late Ken Russell is arguably Britain's greatest auteur. Although his works are very rarely seen in Great Movie lists (or even Great British Movie lists), I cannot think of any British director whose work is so distinctly and definitively their own. He has juggled genres - period piece (Women in Love (1969)), horror (The Devils (1971), Gothic (1986)), science-fiction (Altered States (1980)), musical (Tommy (1975)) - yet his fingerprints are all over them. It seems death has brought him legendary status, as his work has seen a recent resurgence, namely by British critic Mark Kermode, who described his work as every bit as flamboyant as Fellini. He had a trademark obsession with religion (or the criticism of it) and sexual imagery, And although I've only seen a handful of his films, these themes have seemingly never been more prominent than in The Lair of the White Worm.Based on the novel by Bram Stoker, it tells the story of an ancient mythical legend, the slain white 'worm', in a rural Derbyshire village. Archaeologist Angus Flint (Peter Capaldi) unearths the large skull that appears to be of a giant snake outside the Bed & Breakfast ran by two sisters, Mary (Sammi Davis) and Eve (Catherine Oxenberg). James d'Ampton (Hugh Grant) tells him the story of the d'Ampton Worm, a giant snake that was apparently slain by one his ancestors. When Lady Sylvia Marsh (Amanda Donohoe) hears rumours of this skull, she steals it and spits venom onto a religious picture. She later kidnaps Eve in order to sacrifice her to re-awaken the White Worm, while James investigates the strange events happening around the village.Imagine Hammer handing the novel of The Lair of the White Worm to Russ Meyer and asking him to take some acid and make it into a film, and you'll have an idea into what this film is like. On many levels it does not work - it is utterly ridiculous, outrageously camp, and features some dodgy effects and model-work. Yet Russell has his tongue firmly in his cheek, and often I expected the actors to wink into the camera after delivering their double-entendre lines. And for this reason, I was completely powerless in enjoying the film. The actors completely buy into it, namely an extremely sexy Amanda Donohoe, whom Russell places into some outlandishly vampiric and dominatrix-esque costumes. It is also unbelievably (yet satisfyingly) offensive to Christians and the religious. Most people will hate this film, but fans of B-movies and camp trash will lap it up, as did I.www.the-wrath-of-blog.blogspot.com "},{"Title":"Are you into any kind of banging?","Date":"27 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Hugh Grant started his acting career in 1982 (He was Hughie Grant then). After one movie, he went into TV for a few years, and emerged in 1987 with Maurice. He was in seven films in 1988, and this is one of those. Certainly not his greatest role, it is certainly one that is memorable for it's campy fun.Bram Stoker is best known for Dracula, which has been made into countless films, but this film adaptation of one of his other novels is well worth watching.Beside Grant, who I will watch in anything, there is the amazing Golden Globe winner Amanda Donohoe (C. J. Lamb from L.A. Law), and Catherine Oxenberg (Amanda Carrington from Dynasty). These two were recently united again in Starship Troopers 3 Marauder.It also stars Oscar winner Peter Capaldi (Franz Kafka's It's a Wonderful Life).Besides some really fantastic cars, it has some scenes that are indescribable, and have to be seen to fully appreciate. It's almost like watching the Rocky Horror Picture Show at times.Donahue was simply stunning as Sylvia and she delivered her lines with charm and wit, and her costuming was slithering skintight and scrumptiously slinky. We could mention that this is a R rated film, so there might be some discrete nakedness throughout, some bisexuality, and some Black Widow action as she kills after mating. Does this entice you? "},{"Title":"Ken Russell satisfies a taste for the bizarre and erotic...","Date":"8 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Leave it to director Ken Russell to find an obscure Bram Stoker novel and take its most exploitive elements and turn it into a bloodfest of snakes, vampires, virgin sacrifices, phallic symbols, Christian symbolism and more. He throws in some comic book slashings along with some sly humor to create a tacky Gothic horror called THE LAIR OF THE WHITE WORM. It kept me awake until the last shot where the dimwit hero HUGH GRANT is about to find out he's made another mistake before the screen fades to black. This must have been the film that first made Grant known to American audiences.He plays an aristocrat who is attracted to a new neighbor whom he later learns is a woman (AMANDA DONOHOE) who is keeper of a giant worm waiting to devour people whole if she decides to feed victims to it. She's played with delicious relish by Donohoe, who picks up a scout trudging along a deserted country road and must quickly dispose of him in a bath when Grant knocks on her door.It's weird stuff from start to finish, but try to look away! It's typical Ken Russell overkill--or should I say overbite--since much of the action involves vampirism and some friendly suburbanites who suddenly grow fangs. Handsomely photographed in color with attractive settings indoor and out, it provides a steady mix of laughter and fright while managing to be entertaining despite the overly weird material.CATHERINE OXENBERG plays the virginal heroine who falls under the spell of the demonic woman, at her best when forced to assume a vacant expression. PETER CAPALDI is excellent as Hugh's friend who comes to her aid before the white worm can do its work and claim another victim.Silly stuff, but if you like the work of Ken Russell, you should find it extremely interesting to watch. "},{"Title":"Entertaining Nonsense","Date":"28 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" The Lair of the White Worm is based on a novel by Bram Stoker, the Irish writer best remembered today as the creator of Dracula. Both the novel and the film draw upon the legend of the Lambton Worm, and the film can be seen as an attempt to find a genuinely English equivalent of all those horror movies set in Transylvania or other parts of Eastern Europe. The original legend, however, was set in the North-East of England, whereas both novel and film translate the action to the Peak District of the Midlands. The film has something in common with another British horror film, The Wicker Man, in that both deal with pagan cults surviving into modern times, in each case presided over by a member of the British aristocracy, and practising human sacrifice. In The Wicker Man a Scottish laird quite openly led the inhabitants of a Hebridean island in the worship of pagan fertility gods. In The Lair of the White Worm the cult is much more secretive. Lady Sylvia Marsh is to the outside world a beautiful young society lady living in her family's ancestral Staffordshire stately home. Secretly, however, she is the high priestess of Dionian, a snake god whose worship dates back to Roman times and whose acolytes practise both human sacrifice and vampirism. Dionian, however, is no mythical being, but a real snakelike monster inhabiting a cavern deep beneath the Peak District mountains. The fight against Sylvia and Dionian is led by another local aristocrat, Lord James d'Ampton (a young, pre-stardom Hugh Grant) whose distant ancestor Sir John d'Ampton (in a direct reference to the Lambton legend) was said to have been responsible for slaying another huge worm. Lord James has the assistance of Angus Flint, a Scottish archaeologist excavating in the area and two sisters, Mary and Eve Trent, whose parents mysteriously disappeared about a year earlier. The climax comes when Lady Sylvia kidnaps Eve and James and Angus have to rescue her before she is sacrificed to the snake god.When the film first came out in 1988 I hated it, largely because it was made by Ken Russell and could not understand why a man I regarded as a genuinely gifted, if occasionally flawed, auteur was wasting his time on Hammer-type nonsense, about a decade after even Hammer had realised that the bottom had fallen out of that particular market. Since then, however, my attitude has mellowed somewhat. The Lair of the White Worm may be nonsense, but at least it is entertaining nonsense, and Russell directs with a good deal of flair. (The dream sequences with their confused and nightmarish imagery seem particularly Russellian). Russell, apparently, made the film as part of a deal with the production company, Vestron Pictures, under which they agreed to finance The Rainbow, his planned prequel to his earlier Women in Love if he could come up with a horror movie.Two actresses who would appear in The Rainbow the following year, Amanda Donohoe and Sammi Davis , both also appear here. Donohoe gives a particularly fine performance as the glamorous and seductive but utterly evil Sylvia. Catherine Oxenberg as Eve also deserves credit for successfully attempting a Midlands accent instead of falling back on an upper-class Received Pronunciation, the normal default position of American film stars called upon to play a British character. (Oddly enough Catherine, who besides being an American film star was also a Princess of the Royal House of Yugoslavia, actually sounds more convincingly British with a regional accent; her posh accent as Amanda Carrington in Dynasty always sounded just too perfect to be credible). Like The Wicker Man this film deals with the conflict between Christianity and paganism, but does so in a rather less serious way without raising the deeper issues which lay at the heart of the earlier film. There is no devoutly Christian character comparable to Sergeant Howie in The Wicker Man. Even so, the movie is not, as some (rather oddly including one of its stars, Amanda Donohoe) have claimed, anti- Christian; if anything it is anti-pagan. A theology which requires periodic sacrificial offerings of innocent virgins to a monstrous worm is unlikely to find much favour in this day and age. I doubt if The Lair of the White Worm will ever enjoy the same status among film buffs as some of Russell's earlier cult movies, but as far as the horror genre goes it is not a bad effort, certainly better than a lot of Hammer's output. Compared to something like The Satanic Rites of Dracula or Lust for a Vampire it almost looks respectable. Seen late at night after an evening in the pub it is an enjoyable way of passing the time. 6/10 Some goofs. An archaeologist like Angus ought to have known that Mercia was an Anglo-Saxon kingdom rather than a Roman province. Although the film relocates the Lambton legend from the North-East to the Midlands, the folk song we hear about John d'Ampton's exploits still includes a reference to the River Wear in County Durham, about 150 miles north of the area in which the film is set. And given the close-knit ties which link the British upper class it seems strange that James and Sylvia, two young aristocrats from neighbouring families, should not have known one another. "},{"Title":"Russell Unravels, Again...","Date":"6 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" After seeing Ken's The Devils again after many year's gap and of course, his passing from this world to the next (what WILL he make of that, whichever direction he goes - the jury are still out on that one!) I'm making a real point of seeing all this work, as finances and availability allows. Divisive and forthright film critic Mark Kermode always cited Russell as being Britain's greatest living Director - he may need to amend the phrasing of that one...now.From beautifully crafted period romps (Women In Love, The Boyfriend, Valentino), Rock Opera (Tommy) to possibly his finest works, his biographical tributes to the great composers (Mahler, The Music Lovers - forget Lizstomania, truly awful), one spirals downwards into the deep recesses of Ken's imagination. Altered States, The Devils of course and now, this, only available it seems imported from Germany, The Lair....Starting out quite typically as a 1970's Hammer-style shock-flick, with an array of UK actors who've, shall we say, moved onto other projects, we have the innocuous archaeologist (Scot Peter Capaldi) unearthing the skull of the said beast, the film seems innocent and restrained enough.Within half an hour though, an extremely well-toned and lithe Amanda Donahue who has a boy scout in her bathtub, pushing his head under with a devilishly high-heeled black stiletto, whilst dressed in the slinkiest of black satin underwear. Here, we have both temptress and preying mantis and one, as male, red-blooded viewer feels total satisfaction already for the £11 spent on the DVD.Hugh Grant, is of course, the local landowner and jolly toff, with squiffy hair and clipped voice and Lady Marsh's (Donahue) neighbour, so he pops in.To be honest, I'm not in it for the story and don't care too much if there isn't one. That said, there's a fair stab at one, which I might follow more closely when I get to watch the film again, in a year or two. With reviews ranging from dire to poor and back again, I was almost dreading watching it at all. But, it is very well made, the DVD transfer bright and crisp and has plenty of Ken's hallucinatory sequences, which are often more akin to choreographed theatre (check out the Concorde flight stewardess sequence) than some of his more phallic grotesque 'creations' in some other films.Some of the deeper nightmare sequences are Dali-esque, with moving montages, that these days look a bit rubbish, but Ken didn't have digital manipulation software to stitch them neatly together. So, overall, if you've travelled down the road that is Ken Russell and like me, got this far, this IS a worthy addition. "},{"Title":"THE LAIR OF THE WHITE WORM (Ken Russell, 1988) **1/2","Date":"8 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" I still recall this film's local theatrical release but never got around to watching it until now (not even as a VHS rental), due to my personal phobia of snakes! Actually, I did acquire a copy of it some years ago sourced from the Artisan DVD and, subsequent to this satisfactory viewing, presently also got hold of Ken Russell's cheeky Audio Commentary (where he states that the garden of his home, where this was partly filmed, is crawling with snakes and also that, as a child, he had been hypnotized by an adder but was saved from certain death by his brother!) culled from a previous Pioneer edition! Although there are indeed reptiles involved &#x96; including the giant titular one &#x96; there is, thankfully, a curious restraint on display here on the part of the notoriously in-your-face director&#x85;so much so that it is often dismissed as a minor effort of his in some circles. Curiously enough, I have also seen it acclaimed as his ultimate achievement in others maybe it was the fact that he was venturing once more into the realm of the fantastic (in almost a decade) and combining it with the erotic that instigated the hyperbole or perhaps merely that he was adapting for the screen a Bram Stoker property (only the third novel to receive this treatment but, unlike the others, just this once)! The film proved the first teaming of Amanda Donohoe and Sammi Davis who would be reunited as one pair of lovers in Russell's next film, THE RAINBOW (1989), that I watched earlier this month; here, however, the typically (and quite literally) vampish Donohoe is more interested in the latter's equally virginal sister Catherine Oxenberg (from TV's DYNASTY) &#x96; while she used to be a striking presence in that long-running soap opera, she is decidedly the weakest link in the cast that also includes a pre-stardom Hugh Grant and Peter Capaldi. At times, Stanislas Styrewicz's eerie electronic score was very reminiscent of the unnerving Bernard Parmegiani one for Walerian Borowcyk's DOCTEUR JEKYLL ET LES FEMMES (1981); the evocative cinematography of the English countryside, Gothic mansions and prehistoric caverns by Russell's regular lighting cameraman Dick Bush was another big plus &#x96; although the tackiness of the nightmare sequences (that look forward to the harshness of camcorder images!) were a bit jarring if effective nonetheless.The reptilian-cum-phallic imagery was unsurprisingly rampant &#x96; from Donohoe's car slithering out of nowhere to a hosepipe or a piece of rope suddenly springing into life, to the Concorde in Grant's nightmare (complete with his erectile pencil at the sight of a catfight between air hostesses Donohoe and Oxenberg!). Admittedly, the unnecessary twist ending was a bit lame but this was compensated for by a reprise of the worm's wittily catchy theme tune sung by a folk-rock band over the end titles; they had earlier performed it at Grant's annual 'beggars banquet' commemorating (with a shoddy re-enactment) his ancestor's heroic slaying of the mythical dragon (by the way, it is baffling how the script seems to think that dragons, worms and snakes are one and the same thing!). As I said, THE LAIR OF THE WHITE WORM was only Grant's fourth theatrical feature but, in a case of life imitating art, at one point his character is said to have been jailed (in an unsuccessful ploy to abduct the heroine)! Among the film's highlights are Donohoe spewing venom on the crucifix; a vision of Christ on the Calvary cross being entangled by the white worm as Roman legionnaires are gleefully raping a host of nuns (including Oxenberg herself); Donohoe's bath-tub murder of a boyscout (following a game of Snakes & Ladders!); the girls' mother cut in half by Grant via his ancestral sword (incidentally, it was amusing to see the snake people like the former watching TV programmes about this form of reptile). However, the camp quotient is at its highest in Donohue's costumes and in a sequence depicting her slithering out of a snake-basket over to Grant's mansion to the stereophonic strains of a Turkish snake charming tune blasted over his sound system (even if Scottish Capaldi uses the traditional bagpipe just as effectively but, while 'afflicted' policeman Paul Burke answers the 'call' and is eventually disabled by a graphic piercing right through his left eye, Donohue has cleverly put ear-plugs in advance and she also swiftly eliminates the threat of a mongoose, reputed to be the snake's deadly enemy!); the climactic confrontation in the cavern with a naked, blue-painted and snake-dildo-sporting Donohoe attempting to assault a tied Oxenberg before the White Worm makes its untimely appearance (the sacrificial victim it receives is not quite the one that was intended, with Capaldi then resorting to a hand-grenade in the mouth to put the monster to rest). Apart from the two female leads, of Russell's stock company, Christopher Gable (as the girls' missing father &#x96; in fact, he turns up only in photos and in Grant's nightmare!) and Stratford Johns (as Grant's butler who, asked about the whereabouts of the all-important snake-charming tune, helpfully suggests that his master try the B-side of a disc boasting belly-dance music) also put in an appearance. "},{"Title":"Wicked fun from Ken Russel","Date":"1 August 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" This was simply a delightful trinity of comedy, horror, and Christian blasphemy. Ken Russel's deviation from the norms of humanity are a treat as this almost campy flick only gets better with age. The actors are all in on the gag, making the humor that much more gut-wrenching. Production values are pretty weak, but this is somehow transmogrified into one of this flick's strengths. The story itself is pretty solid, with maybe a hole here and there, but the viewer can hardly be bothered with such things. Being horribly sexy and funny, this wonder will occasionally shock its audience with a poison-laden psychedelic journey that will surely offend our Christian friends. If blasphemy is not too offensive then this flick is probably for you. Late.Evil Eye Reviews "},{"Title":"Charming","Date":"12 May 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Bram Stoker's final novel, 1911's The Lair of the White Worm, is an extremely loopy, borderline unreadable book with a terrific central premise. As no less a critic than H.P. Lovecraft put it, the story, dealing with a gigantic primitive entity that lurks in a vault beneath an ancient castle, utterly ruins a magnificent idea by a development almost infantile. Almost miraculously, in 1988, screenwriter and director Ken Russell took this central idea, updated it to modern times, jettisoned the rest of the story, and came up with a very winning entertainment indeed. In her role as Lady Sylvia Marsh, the keeper, feeder and priestess of the centuries-old white worm Dionan, Amanda Donohoe is a real hoot. Sexy, sultry, slinky, seductive, sinister and a bunch of other sibilant words that I haven't thought of yet, she manages to make quite an impression...especially with her paralyzing fangs! Indeed, the fate that she metes out to an unsuspecting Boy Scout's nether region should linger long in the memory. Also turning in some nice performances in this cast are a young Hugh Grant as a modern-day knight, and Dynasty favorite Catherine Oxenberg as a (strangely unstripped) virgin sacrifice named Eve. (Get it...Eve and the serpent?) Throw in some trademark Russellian psychedelic visions, some weird dream sequences, a good dose of wry humor and a few undeniable jolts and you have quite an entertaining diversion. Theme party suggestion Put out a big bowl of Gummi Worms and show this film with 1977's The Worm Eaters and 1990's Tremors for a fine evening of wriggly fun! "}{"Title":"Too  Weird to be Scary.","Date":"12 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" My review is probably skewed because I was drunk when I watched it on cable TV, so this is not a review of a bowdlerized broadcast version interrupted by commercials. This film is a hoot! For all its plot twists about ancient cults and caves it simply does not sustain a consistent mood of suspense and scariness. The low budget first Jason film did that better. The main thing here is Amanda Donohoe in her prime and often naked though discretely so. This is R rated after all.) Her part is not ambiguous as to her sexuality either. She is definitely bisexual, and very much the Black Widow, killing her partner after mating. The gratuitous sequence with the Boy Scout in the bathing pool certainly proves this. Most of the killings occur off screen and Hugh Grant never seems to have a clue. If he is intended to be a typical; member of the inbred aristocracy, then it was historically fortunate that they were not French and lost their power gradually and gently. Another memorable player is Catherine Oxenberg, who played many ingénues in this period on TV. She does her best to imitate a virgin but common knowledge of her activities in real life keeps getting in the way. Since the plot's climax turns on virgin sacrifice with her having been strung up in her undies in the cavern as AD prepares for feeding the worm. Whether the term white worm was meant to be a phallic double entendre I will leave to your judgment. Since the film is so uneven in tone, it does not carry you along in a constant state of impending dread. The original version of the SCIFI classic Invasion of the Body Snatchers, or the 1951 version of The Thing with Kenneth Tobey did that much better. So don't expect chills and thrills, rather come prepared to belly laugh and best be drunk as well. "},{"Title":"Camp of the white worm","Date":"17 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This has got to be the campiest horror film ever made.Lair of the white worm has Amanda Donohue wandering around the very nice sets in all manner of 'exotic' outfits and purring seductively at any man that looks at her. The rest of the cast are adequate, and that's being generous. The story is silly and the effects are laughable but as a camp, silly romp through the English countryside with Amanda in thigh high boots, it's well worth checking out. 6 out of 10 "},{"Title":"The Benny Hill Show with Bloodshed","Date":"19 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Lair of the White Worm is Ken Russell's tribute to phallic symbols, religious motifs, British horror films and the British countryside. Oh, and it's also based (very loosely) on a novel by Bram Stoker. The film opens in Derbyshire, where some really weird things are happening. A middle-aged couple vanish mysteriously, and their daughters are haunted by bizarre hallucinations. Locals are being stung by strange reptiles and cars are driving around without headlights.How are these events connected? Just ask Lady Sylvia Marsh ...Amanda Donohoe is sensational as Marsh her sly and outrageous performance contrasts nicely with the wooden acting of the rest of the cast. And throughout the film, there are moments that are either/ both genuinely eerie and darkly amusing.However, for the main, 'Lair of...' is basically 'The Benny Hill Show' with bloodshed. Or Russell's film 'The Devils' with 80s music video visuals. If this is your idea of a good time, indulge. But it's certainly not for everyone ... "},{"Title":"The common earthworm was not always the lowly creature it is today.","Date":"4 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" ~Spoiler~ Ken Russell has one of the most bizarre filmographies of any director. He's done movies I love and hate. But at least he always does them with style. You can tell right away that Lair of the White Worm is a Ken Russell film. Just wait for the flashback/dream sequence with the snake on the cross. That scene is absolutely bananas and will remind many of Altered States. But much of the film does not work for me. I had been looking forward to seeing this movie for years simply because it was based on a Bram Stoker tale that was not Dracula. I also had no idea that this was more or less a comedy. It took me by surprise and it was not what I was looking for. There is a snake charming scene that I found entirely unfunny and many other absurdities. I never thought I would be saying this, but the saving grace of the movie is Hugh Grant. He plays a slightly smarmy millionaire playboy who is out to slay the white worm. But he treats the situation as if it were an everyday thing and it completely works. Nonetheless, I'd still not recommend Lair of the White Worm to any serious horror fans. "},{"Title":"* * * out of 4.","Date":"13 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Director Ken Russell brings us another fun, wicked and ultra campy outing. This time around a small sleepy town is plagued by a series of murders and it seems a snake / vampire cult that worships a giant worm is behind it all. Even though the budget is extremely low, this delivers the goods. The script is smart, intelligent and funny. Amanda Donohoe is a riot. Huge Grant's serious performance works 100%. A real treat.Rated R; Sexual Situations, Rape, Violence, Profanity, and Nudity.  "},{"Title":"A Joke?","Date":"3 January 2014","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" As a horror movie fan of many years I don't know why I haven't watched this before - probably because I can't stand the pseudo intellectual nonsense that pervades Ken Russell films. I was prepared to be proved wrong by this film, but alas it is the usual KR pretentious Micky-take. The first thing that strikes is some of the most inept acting in a big budget film. I'm not sure what accents Catherine Oxenberg and Sammi Davis are supposed to have but they are appalling. Hugh Grant is... well Hugh Grant really. It doesn't matter whether it horror or comedy (this is both) he plays the same role in every film. Then the trademark imagery starts to take over, which I'm sure delights those who like to think they can read significance into them, but is in reality just plain silly. Emperors New Cloths.Avoid if a horror fan. "},{"Title":"met the sister of the guy who played the police officer recently","Date":"25 September 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  THE LAIR OF THE WHITE WORM was a film that was about a era aka the men of the cloth and delt with occultism in europe. This era was tied in with the mystery religion sect craze aka ie. the freemasons, set egypt sects, thules etc. around mid 1800's. This production was tounge and cheek and had a controversial tone. The film marks the first appearance of HUGH GRANT who with ANGUS his grenade hiding under the kilt by his willy sidekick singlehandedly save the women and vanquish a satanist cult tied in with the roman empire from their small community. The film uses sexual metaphor and bondage as a commentary on satanic cult seduction and the adam and eve tale. The film uses over the top metaphor and dark humor to convey it's story. Different from previous films like THE WICKER MAN, this film had at times an experimental video look and was a cross between a cult classic movie and an experimental piece. Interesting film which combines visual allure with the battle of good and evil plot. The story could have been done in different formats...this one uses a dry british AVENGERS style wit. Currently the film has an underground following abroad. Enjoy. 4 out of 7 stars. "},{"Title":"Fun","Date":"13 May 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Yep this movie's alot of fun. Its very watchable and yes the script and (especially) the acting are utterly lame and laughable but it all adds to the fun. Toss in Hugh Grant acting like an idiot, some guy with bad hair, a few semi clad females, a couple of Ken Russells trademark bizarro 'dream sequences' and a paper mache worm and you have an evenings entertainment. Class. "},{"Title":"The Ultimate Phallic Symbol - What would Freud have made of this?","Date":"25 July 1999","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  The other comments have captured the essence of the movie perfectly. When you combine snakes, semi-nude vampires, Hugh Grant and Ken Russel, the results are going to be unusual. Although the dialogue is at times a bit lame, the special effects (such as they are) very un-special, the film is a hoot to watch. Ken Russel loads it with all sorts of not so subtle symbolism, and besides, having the lead vampire chick verify the heroines status as a virgin (the only really tasty treat for the snake god) with a large pointed statue and you know this is not your typical low budget horror flick!A surprisingly restrained showing of Hugh Grant (as noted in other reviews, he is not the white knight rescuing the damsels in this flic) is actually to the films benefit, as his classic Hughy mannerisms wouldn't work in this genre. The snake/vampire priestess is often semi-nude, and certainly leads one to improve ones opinions on reptiles. The overall effect if to combine Ken Russel weirdness with Bram Stoker gothic to good effect.Slither out and see it if you get a chance. The film is subtitled, so that the mute button is a useful tool when the dialogue gets too leaden.5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"A giant white worm and Hugh Grant. Jolly good fun!","Date":"2 January 2006","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" I'm a big fan of campy B-horror movies - especially one's hailing from the 1980's (chief among decades of campy horror), and if it's so-bad-it's-good movies that you want; The Lair of the White Worm shouldn't disappoint! Don't get me wrong, there's no doubt that this is a bad movie, but it's so odd that it's hard to truly dislike. Perhaps the oddest thing about the film, and the thing that surprised me most about it, is the fact that it stars Hugh Grant. This role came about for him before he was famous, making it strange nowadays to see the star of cringe-worthy flicks such as Four Weddings and a Funeral, and Notting Hill being associated with a production such of this. Grant is teamed with director Ken Russell, who has a penchant for the bizarre, in this adaptation of a novel by Bram Stoker. The plot follows the discovery of a skull, seemingly from a worm of the Roman times, by a Scottish archaeologist. It isn't long before the cast of characters find themselves in the middle of an ancient cult that pledges its worship to the mythical 'White Worm'! The Lair of the White Worm, among other things, is strangely erotic. Amanda Donohoe is largely the reason for this; and she looks great parading around in barely anything (later, nothing). The fact that she's the leader of an evil cult only makes her more appealing as far as this viewer is concerned. A while ago, I took a vow never to see another Hugh Grant movie; so I wasn't exactly pleased to discover that he was in this. However, it's only really the latter day comedies that make me hate him; in this film, and Roman Polanski's Bitter Moon (1992), he's actually quite good. Perhaps he could have had a career as a cult movie star? Who knows. A lot of the film is made up of bizarre dream sequences or scenes involving Amanda Donohoe and her latest victim, and it isn't until the end that we get to see the star of the show - the white worm itself! The effects when it does turn up are woeful, but it suits the movie just fine - and either way, it's a million times better than that CGI rubbish. Overall, this is hardly a great film; but it has a lot of cult value, and fans of cult films will no doubt want to track it down. "}{"Title":"A very good terrible film","Date":"16 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" (40%) A film that only Ken Russell could have gotten away with as it's so campy, over-the-top, and silly, yet it's still oddly worthy of a look, which for a film staring Hugh Grant is really quite rare. The plot works as well as an inflatable pin cushion and is best just letting it go in one ear and out the next, the characters are have little to no depth, while on the other hand the performance from Amanda Donohoe is worthy of a watch alone as she largely semi-nakedly vamps the movie up to eleven. For a horror film this isn't frightening in the slightest, and I doubt it was ever really made with the sole intention to scare, rather to entertain. This really isn't a must watch at all, but there is some fun to be had here if you can catch it. "},{"Title":"An Interesting, Phallic Horror Tale","Date":"10 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Scottish archaeologist Angus Flint (Peter Capaldi) discovers an odd skull amid the ruins of a convent that he is excavating. Shortly thereafter, Lady Sylvia Marsh (Amanda Donohoe) returns to Temple House, a nearby mansion, far earlier than expected.Reviews on the film are mixed, though generally positive. Roger Ebert gave it two stars out of four and called it a respectable B-grade monster movie. Variety called it a rollicking, terrifying, post-psychedelic headtrip.I do find it interesting that Ebert says, Every one of Russell's films has been an exercise in wretched excess. Sometimes it works. Russell loves the bizarre, the Gothic, the overwrought, the perverse. He follows that up by saying this is the exception. Indeed, one must agree.Russell is also known for his phallic imagery, and that does not fail here. Aside from the snakes (a stretch) and a very pointy airplane, the villain even ritualistically employs a false phallus. Nothing subtle about that. "},{"Title":"wormy","Date":"10 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" The lair of the white worm is an interesting British film about an immortal worm and the female keeper. The worm woman keeper has the ability to become a vampire like person and goes around biting other people. Once bitten they become subordinate vampires doing the bidding of the worm woman as she attempts to sacrifice a virgin (Oxenberg) to the D'Ampton worm. An archaeologist (Capaldi) a local girl (Davis) and her sister (Oxenberg) and their rich 'mate' (Grant) fight the worm woman and try to keep the area safe. Some good camera work, strange special effects/flashbacks, typical brit dialog with dry humor and a great performance by the worm woman (Donohoe) make the film worth watching. "},{"Title":"weird and twisted Ken Russel strikes yet again","Date":"17 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Here comes one of those weird Ken Russel flicks(the one behind the bizarre Gothic). This one is about an archeologist Angus Flint(Peter Capaldi)who digs up the skull of a creature from many centuries ago. Lady Sylvia Marsh(Amanda Donohoe)is a reincarnated pagan member who steals the skull from the room of Flint and goes about her business of pursuing Eve Trent(Catherine Oxenburgh)who is a virgin to sacrifice to the white worm which rests in a green abyss in a lair nearby her mansion. Sylvia is some sort of serpent and tends to bite male genitalia in order to take control of them and turn them into her snake servants(with me so far). Hugh Grant(yes that Hugh Grant)portrays Lord James D'Ampton,a very rich lord who is dating Eve. Anyways this film is wildly bizarre as most Russell films are as well as quite frightening. It has one of those shocking endings,but is also very off-putting and sick. **/***** "},{"Title":"How Freudian Can You Get?","Date":"21 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Having seen this film when it came out, but not having realized that Hugh Grant was the hero, I decided to see it again and rented it. What a Freudian hoot-fest! I love the things other people hate Ken Russell for-his excesses are cartoon-like and never more so than here. The phallic symbolism is so extreme that even the movie's characters comment on it. Amanda Donahoe's dominatrix costumes are great (but I won't spoil it by mentioning what she wears in the climax!) and I treasure Grant's answer to someone who wants to know what he's saying I don't know what I'm going to say! This movie should be shown at cult-film screenings with its obvious companion Anaconda. "},{"Title":"amusing Gothic yarn","Date":"11 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  A mysterious new owner of a Scottish countryside mansion is linked to the disappearance of local people. Erotic horror-comedy that doesn't take itself too seriously.  Occasionally dull dialog, lukewarm acting and poor special effects offset by imaginative story elements and cinematic style.  (Rating B+) "},{"Title":"Campy Fun","Date":"26 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This is a campy film that most will enjoy for the sheer cheeziness of it all.  On a shoe string budget, Ken Russell made an enjoyable film.  DVD version features commnentary from Russell which made the purchase worthwhile for me! "},{"Title":"Hugh Grant's best romantic comedy!","Date":"20 August 2009","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" I've never been a great admirer of the oeuvre of Ken Russell (with the exception of The Devils which is a genuine cult classic), but I have always been a great admirer of utterly demented and nonsensical movies that are so far out there you won't believe your own eyes. And Lair of the White Worm is definitely as far out as it gets; rest assured. The film may very well have been inspired by Bram Stoker's novel, but I heavily suspect that Ken Russell improvised pretty much the entire script on the set itself. This movie is unimaginably random and really just jumps from one topic onto another without the slightest form of coherence or logic. Lair of the White Worm is a cheesy horror flick, but also an erotic fantasy as well as a provocative black comedy. I'm pretty sure half of the plot escaped me, either because I was too flabbergasted by the campy visual effects or simply because there wasn't much of a plot to follow. The film opens with a Scottish archaeologist &#x96; with an awesome accent - digging up a prehistoric skull that might be the ultimate proof that the local folklore legend of the D'Ampton Worn is true. The ancestor of Lord James D'Ampton allegedly killed the gigantic snake/dragon-like creature by cutting it into two halves and there are annual festivities to celebrate this bizarre historical event. But nobody knows that the sexy yet oddly behaving neighbor Lady Sylvia Marsh, who lives in the nearby Temple House, is actually an immortal cult sorceress who has the reincarnation of the White Worm living in a pit underneath her house. Okay, admittedly this synopsis doesn't make any sense, but &#x96; trust me &#x96; it'll make even less sense if you actually watch the movie. It doesn't matter, though, as there are far too many enjoyable and over-the-top absurd sequences in this movie to get upset about the shortcomings. The perverted sexual undertones in Lair of the White Worm are almost too incredible for words. Lady Marsh seduces an unsuspecting boy scout and gives him a bath (!) before killing him and her idea of virginal sacrifice is raping the poor victim with a gigantic put on phallic device. But the absolute greatest thing about this film is that it stars a very young but nevertheless recognizable Hugh Grant! So, who knows, maybe you can even trick your date/girlfriend/wife by telling her it's a romantic comedy! They might not appreciate the little joke, but this undeniably will be their only opportunity to watch Hugh hacking up an elderly lady with a sword. Basically, Lair of the White Worm is a very bad 80's movie with an incomprehensibly bizarre plot and laughably delirious special effects, but those also happens to be the exact same two reasons why it's such great fun to watch.PS brilliantly catchy end-credits and interlude song The D'Ampton Worm by Emilio Perez Machado and Stephen Powys is available on YouTube! Check it out! "},{"Title":"Bletch!","Date":"28 December 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I hated this.  It was tripe.There is a fine line between sexy humor and blatant grotesqueness, and I personally think this crossed the line - especially with a rape scene and that virginity test scene.  More or less the same reason I loathed Scary Movie.    "},{"Title":"Sammi Davis *worst actress of all time...forever...end of discussion!*","Date":"14 May 2005","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Sammi Davis, what can you say? She has got to be the worst actress of all time, yet possibly the most seriously deluded. Check out this pile of horse poop, The Rainbow and Hope and Glory. She's the same wooden dork in all three.I just read her whining 1991 interview after she'd moved to LA (run her name through Google). She slams Britain for not appreciating her overwhelming acting talent and she's so glad to leave this dirty Island. Puleasse, you've go to be kidding me Missy! Strange thing is, The U.S. doesn't seem to have appreciated her much either, because she hasn't acted in a movie for 6 years and the few before that seem her usual standard. She also moans that Brits don't accept an actor unless they have had formal training and surprise, surprise, she hasn't. She had virtually no training and boy it shows.I'm glad you're working as a photographer now Sammi. Anything but acting has to be an improvement and blessing for us all. Stay behind the camera for ever. Oh and as for your bad-mouthing the UK, well, good riddance! America is welcome to your sorry ass.Sammi Davis, the worst actor to ever be allowed on the big screen? "}{"Title":"Sammi's Savior","Date":"12 February 2002","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Spoilers herein.Ken Russell makes the assumption that you are exceedingly dull, so explains every joke, even wrapping the simplest formulaic device in endless exposition. A skilled watcher will dig below his horizon.Luckily, we have the character Mary. She is played by Sammi Davis, who actually has some depth as an actress, and who seems to envelop this vision in her own. Some of that may be deliberate in her Virgin Mother character, but most -- it seems -- is because she is so much more intelligent than the filmmaker.There's danger in following this thread -- you can get lost in the higher layers of pagan mesmerism. But after a few viewings, you can see that she is the real master of the petty destinies here. "},{"Title":"A very divisive film, for this viewer it was very enjoyable and a big improvement over the source material","Date":"15 February 2014","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" The Lair of the White Worm is not going to please everybody, people will be thoroughly entertained throughout, others will find it ineptly done. Very like the controversial opinions for director Ken Russell too. For all its faults I fall into the former category. The special effects are not very good, the worm looks laughable and doesn't seem that much of a threat. Sammi Davis is embarrassingly bad too, veering towards both shrill and disengaged. And the ending is very abrupt, in all honesty though so was the book's ending. Even with those flaws, The Lair of the White Worm still improves hugely over the book. Odd to the point at times of incoherence and overly wordy with an ending that suffers from the cutting down the book got, it was a shock that Lair of the White Worm(Bram Stoker's least well-known book and for a reason) was from the same author who wrote Dracula, one of the most iconic pieces of horror literature. People will disagree with this though and that's fine. Back to the film, the locations are beautiful and atmospheric, it's decently shot and even the costumes are not bad at all, Donohoe's actually were pretty amazing. The music will entice even the least slithery of snakes, the dialogue is smart and hilarious(a campy element to it but considering this is a Russell film that shouldn't come across as too much of a shock) and the story is briskly paced with the fun factor rarely diminished. There are a lot of components brought in, but not in a muddled way thankfully like Lisztomania and Gothic were. Lair of the White Worm is not a scary film, but there is the odd moment that will make you jump. Russell's direction pulls no punches with a sense that he was having fun while knowing what he was aiming for, and the trademark excessive imagery is in abundance, luckily though apart from the rape scene- which will leave people disgusted- these images are not distasteful. The acting is not great but it's not that bad either apart from Davis. Peter Capaldi and Stratford Johns fare the best in support while Catherine Oxenberg is charming and even Hugh Grant in an unlikely role acts in a way that is not out of kilter. Best of all is Amanda Donohoe, whose brilliantly sexy performance is what makes the film. In conclusion, Lair of the White Worm not a great film but an enjoyable one while not pleasing all. 7/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"nice but a bit too lame","Date":"16 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  nicely made (though I haven t read The Lair... - which is said to be quite confusing).  Nice Ken Russell style as always, yet not as opulent and splendid as Gothic. Atmosphere is quite o.k. Some nice splatter and erotic effects too. But approaching the solution there is something you are waiting for which stays unfulfilled. The rescue of Hugh Grant and his beloved is disappointing and boring. Why not giveth em hell and have a destructive ending. Could have been done nicely too. So, a bit too lame and conventional in the end. "},{"Title":"You Really Have To See It To Believe It","Date":"16 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I have never been able to decide if this movie is really good, or just so bad that I've been shocked into enjoying it and seduced by the bravery of everyone who was involved. Amanda Donohoe is great, but after that the movie is a montage of strangeness (filming and story), faux artiness, camp and gore, terrible performances (Sammi Davis), non-existant performances (Hugh Grant and Catherine Oxenberg adequately talk through their respective roles) and just plain weirdness. In fact, when I try to tell friends about this movie, they think I'm making it up- especially the dream sequence and the dancing worm festival set to ska. As a result, we now watch it every Halloween, and laugh. So check it, and prepare to have an opinion.  "},{"Title":"Twenty Years Too Late","Date":"27 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Lair of the White Worm, The (1988) ** (out of 4)Roger Ebert's review of this film perfectly summed everything up when he said that this is the type of film you'd expect to see someone like Roger Corman making back in the 50s or 60s. When someone sees the name Ken Russell they expect a lot more than what's actually on display here. The film tells the story of an archaeologist who finds a odd skull buried in his backyard. With the help of three friends (one played by Hugh Grant) they try to find out the mystery behind it and soon they run into Lady Sylvia Marsh (Amanda Donohoe), a vampire-like creature. There's a lot to admire about this film but at the same time you have to wonder why someone like Russell would be doing a picture like this and especially in 1988 when it was mainly slasher movies being made. Movies like this here dead twenty-years earlier so how this got the green light is beyond me. With that said, the director certainly brings his style to the production and on this level it works. We get the typical strange images, bizarre dream sequences and some great cinematography as well as a good atmosphere. All of this keeps things moving very well and the cast is also a plus. Grant gets to show off a few good jokes and Peter Capaldi and Catherine Oxenberg are fun to watch as well. The real standout is Donohoe who is magnificent as the female creature with a lust for blood. She's incredibly sexy in the role but she also gets to show off some acting talent as she perfectly brings to life the evilness of the creature as well as showing the thing to be smart as well. The biggest problem with the movie is that we've seen this type of thing countless times before. This movie is in a pretty hard spot as horror fans are going to be turned off by the art-house like film-making and I'm sure art fans are going to be disappointed in what's basically just a B horror film. The genre and Russell would seem like a strange mix and they are. "},{"Title":"Not quite as good as Bram Stoker's Dracula but worth a watch none-the-less.","Date":"18 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Surprising original and interesting film only hindered by the occasional words uttered with a heavy English accent.  Not quite as good as Bram Stoker's Dracula but worth a watch none-the-less.  Takes an interesting approach on equating the biblical serpent with modern perception of the vampire. "},{"Title":"Sexy but sleazy","Date":"1 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I liked it, but it didn't do Bram Stoker's novel any justice. It was good for a horror movie, though. A lot of sexual overtones and straight-out nudity, but scary too.  "},{"Title":"Weird.","Date":"6 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Weird movie.  Amanda Donohoe is hot as usual.  Ken Russell has loaded this movie with all his weird symbolisms.  The only reason I can give to watch it more than once, is to ogle Amanda.  Keep your finger on the FF button. "},{"Title":"Boring Nonsense","Date":"25 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" The remains of a giant worm are uncovered at a Scottish village, and horror and hilarity ensues, or so hoped the filmmakers of this camp based on a Bram Stoker novel. Donohue is quite alluring as a mysterious woman obsessed with snakes. Davis and Oxenberg play damsels in distress, but Russell doesn't really take advantage of the possibilities presented by this trio of babes. Grant, in an early role, had not yet gotten down his quirky mannerisms, but shows an affinity for light comedy. While there is some witty dialog, there is too much nonsensical talk. The film has all the elements in place for campy fun, but becomes a bore instead. "},{"Title":"Horrible","Date":"28 January 2001","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Terrible movie, with goofy music and the kind of wacked out scenes you'd expect to see in a bad dream. I thought the movie sounded good when I heard it had something to do with vampires and such. It turned out to be a long, boring movie that wrecked the rest of my evening, if you know what I mean.Don't watch this movie. Expecially when there is so much more better things out there. "}{"Title":"Lame","Date":"12 November 1999","Score":"3 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I rented this flick after viewing part of a cut version on the Sci-Fi Channel.  I thought it would be so cheesy it would be funny.  It has TONS of cheese but the acting's so awful, it begins to wear thin on the viewer.  Amanda Donohoe looks pretty hot but the armpit hair could go.  Hugh Grant phones in his performance and looks stunned that he had to do this flick.  The other women look decent but are somewhat forgotten while they attempt to tell some very dull story. In a word, this movie is pathetic.  It might be the best Irish/Celtic horror film because it might be the only Irish/Celtic horror film.  If this film had any competition in the category, I can guarantee my vote would be for the competition.  They could have just filmed the three women running around semi-nude and that would have more of a plot than this piece of trash.  The monster looks like a paper mache worm.  The VERY end is cute but the nearly 1 hour and a half of slow torture it took to get there isn't worth it.  Don't waste your time!!!!!!! "}]