[{"Title":"Ultra-moody cop fiction.","Date":"24 February 2007","Score":"55 out of 58 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I saw this film on crappy pan and scan VHS when I was about 12 and I didn't really understand it and I wasn't really up on Ridley Scott's work. As a result, the impact of the film was somewhat lost on me. I was expecting an action film instead of a character drama with lots of police procedure. But now, older and wiser and with a brand new Blu Ray of the movie, I am finally able to appreciate how clever the film is.The story unfortunately IS riddled with 80s Cop Movie clichés and goes through quite a lot of familiar motions. But if you see past that you'll appreciate the immense atmosphere and mood that Ridley Scott piles on. Simply put, Michael Douglas is Nick Conklin, a bad cop (pretty much the exact same character in Basic Instinct) who drag races on his superbike to pay alimony and pinches drug money instead of turning it in for evidence. Enjoying lunch with partner Charlie (Andy Garcia) in a steakhouse in New York's meat-packing district, they just happen to witness a Yakuza execution by wanted Japanese criminal Sato (Yusaku Matsuda, who was dying of cancer during filming and didn't tell anyone). After a quick punch-up and shoot-out they find themselves chaperoning Sato back to Osaka. But when they arrive there he manages to escape, leaving them embarrassed with lots of questions to answer.Nick and Charlie find themselves in a very foreign and intolerant world and recapturing Sato proves to be difficult in many ways. Not the least of which is Japan's alienating culture (from an NYPD point of view) and rigid rules. Nonetheless, Nick is determined to catch Sato and restore his honor.Like I said, the atmosphere of the film is overwhelming, which is really all the film needs. The clichés and stereotypes don't matter so much when you are involved this much. Hans Zimmer (his first film with Ridley Scott) provides a deeply emotional and very melodic score that'll be rattling around in your head for days. It's a shame it's never had a comprehensive CD release, as it's one of Zimmer's most impressive efforts.You could call it a pretty 80s movies, but I still do feel that it holds up pretty well today. As one of Ridley Scott's more forgotten works, it's well worth checking out. "},{"Title":"Justice Falls Like Black Rain","Date":"21 October 2003","Score":"55 out of 79 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Black Rain is hands down the best cop movie ever made! And I'm not saying that just because I like it. The cinematography and even the costumes were phenomenal and couldn't have been any better. Whoever did the casting for this movie earned their pay and then some. You couldn't have found better actors anywhere in the world. This is Michael Douglas at his best as New York Detective Nick Conklin, a macho yet streetwise cop after a coldblooded Yakuza killer all the way from the back alleys of Manhattan to the streets of Japan. Andy Garcia also gives a tour-de-force performance as Douglas's partner Charley Vincent and gives the movie some extra humor. There some great one liners here. I even like Kate Capshaw as Conklin's friend and love interest. Sato Kogei, the bad guy, is played brilliantly and almost effortlessly by Yusako Matsuda. Why haven't I ever seen this guy in anything else? Definitely one of my top ten best villains to grace the silver screen. Also look for Ken Takakura as Masahiro Matsamodo the stubborn and by the book police officer who befriends Douglas and Garcia and helps them chase Matsuda (Takakura was also in Mr. Baseball). Sato's rival Sugai Kenyo gives a stunningly great performance as well as the old time crime boss. Anyways if you haven't seen this film go out and get it like I did and make it part of your collection. Its great viewing, timeless and worth every penny. You won't regret it. "},{"Title":"A clash-of-cultures story.","Date":"16 January 2005","Score":"35 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Ridley Scott tends to give his films a very potent visual energy (see Alien and Blade Runner for further evidence), and here he takes a story that's been around since films began and dresses it up with his customary pictorial trimmings. Black Rain is another fish-out-of-water yarn in which a cop leaves his usual patch to track down a criminal in an unfamiliar place (see also Brannigan, French Connection II, No Mercy, Beverly Hills Cop, etc. for other versions of what is virtually the same story). The unoriginality of it all is a bit disappointing in all honesty, but Black Rain compensates for its over-familiarity by excelling in other areas.Reckless New York cop Nick Conklin (Michael Douglas - looking more like his father Kirk than ever) and his partner Charlie Vincent (Andy Garcia) catch a Japanese gangster named Sato (Yasuka Matsuda) in their city. They are assigned to escort Sato back to Japan and hand him over to the Japanese police. However, almost immediately upon their arrival Sato escapes with the aid of some of his underworld friends, cunningly disguised as cops. Nick and Charlie are left with egg on their face, and endeavour to help the Japanese police to recapture their man. They join Japanese cop Masahiro (Ken Takakura), but police methods in Japan prove very different to what the Americans are accustomed to, and soon differences in approach boil over into frustration and violence.Scott paints the night-time streets of Osaka as some kind of neon-lit, nightmarish maze. It becomes easy to relate to Nick and Charlie's bewilderment, and the viewer is left glad NOT to be sharing their experiences in the seedy, dangerous environment of this seemingly hostile city. There are some attempts to explore the different codes of honour by which the American and Japanese law enforcers measure their success. Also, the film establishes and sustains an edgy atmosphere (one scene, in which a key character is lured into a trap and beheaded, is especially tense).Black Rain is a mix of effective and not-so-effective elements. The visuals, the atmosphere and the cultural alienation of the main character are very interesting, while the plotting and dialogue are disappointingly familiar. It's definitely a film worth catching, though it probably won't be remembered as fondly fifty years from now as some of the director's other films. "},{"Title":"Good, but not that good.","Date":"24 August 1999","Score":"37 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Black Rain is an absolutely gorgeous movie to look at. And for the most part it's highly entertaining and well acted - the guy playing Sato is brilliantly menacing. But occasionally, very occasionally, it descends into either complete predictability or downright cheesiness. A motorbike chase, well, that's a surprise! And that award ceremony right near the end - why? It's totally irrelevant, feel good factor nonsense - the sort of stuff you get with bog standard action movies. And this is not bog standard, and not really an action movie. Certainly underrated and deserving of a better audience than it has received, but ultimately let down by a few lapses in quality. "},{"Title":"One of the Top Cop thrillers of the last century, supremely underrated.","Date":"13 January 2007","Score":"36 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Micheal Douglas has always been, at least for me, one of the better actors to portray a cop on screen. Very believable, very real, he just has a natural feel for this type of role. I think its due to the fact he starred as one on TV in The Streets of San Francisco. Everything blends in this cop thriller. It oozes style and panache. It also has an underlying emotional core that I think gets underrated by critics. Douglas as Nick Conklin has some fine moments playing off the characters played by Andy Garcia, Kate Capshaw and especially Ken Takakura. This movie combines excellent acting, gorgeous cinematography, great atmosphere, along with some solid action set pieces...and gets it right. Director Ridley Scott brings all his cinematic guns to bear and spins these elements into a definitive police action thriller. I loved this flick when I saw it in 1989 and I still do. It may not be as audacious as when it premiered, time has seen to that(ex.action scenes have really gone virtual reality)but it's still a respectable addition to your DVD library. And of that fact there is no gray area! "},{"Title":"Ridley Scott's Most Underrated Film","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"32 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Black Rain (1989) Starring Michael Douglas and Andy Garcia.Running Time 125 min.  Rated RBlack Rain stars Michael Douglas(Wall Street, Falling Down) and Andy Garcia(The Untouchables, Desperate Measures) as Detectives Nick Conklin and Charlie Vincent.  One day while eating lunch at a local diner, they witness a horrific mob killing.  The twist is that the killer is a dangerous gangster named Sato(Yusaku Matsuda) from Japan who is also wanted their for various other crimes.  Soon after, a chase ensues and Sato is captured.  The police tell Nick and Charlie that he must be returned to Japan in order to be prosecuted.  When they finally get to Japan, the police there are very generous in accepting Sato, only they're not the police, they're Sato's thugs in disguise.  So Nick and Charlie must go after him, but because they are foreigners, no one will help them in their investigation and they must also accept a new partner (Ken Takakura).Filmed on location in Tokyo, Japan, Ridley Scott, who also directed Alien(1979), Blade Runner(1982) and Gladiator(2000) sets up a really dark tone for, much as he does in most of his films.It's also surprising how low the rating is for this movie.  It's a classic like so many other of Scott's films.10/10  "},{"Title":"Moving and thrilling action movie  with cool visual style by Ridley Scott","Date":"1 December 2008","Score":"16 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This solid thriller deals about a down-home cop(Michael Douglas)accused of corruption and his young partner(Andy Garcia). They witness a grisly killing by a Japonese murderer named Sato(Matsuda). They pursuit him and barely escape with their life, but get detain him. They're assigned to protect him but with painful results when the mobster is transported to Osaka. Then they are assigned to upright Inspector(Ken Takatura) and forced into action against Yazuka. Thus starts a clash of culture and a cobweb of intrigue which keep the spectators on the edge of their seats.This is a superb, though predictable at times, blending of tough American police genre and Japanese gangsters by means an organization called Yazuka, a kind of oriental Mafia .Michael Douglas as down-and-out police and Ken Takatura are honorable Inspector are very fine . Good secondaries actors such as Andy Garcia and Kate Capshaw, Spileberg's wife. Appear uncredited John Spencer as the chief official and Luis Guzman. This first rate suspenseful action pic benefits from intelligent screenplay and visual dynamics, however is overlong, two hours and some. This special buddy-movie is full of neon lights from Osaka with a videoclip and advertisement spots style . The motion picture is glamorously directed by Ridley Scott as stylish as ever , similarly his previous film(Someone to watch over me) and others(Blade runner,Duelists , Legend) in which his visual style is impressive. "},{"Title":"Osaka Runner","Date":"13 October 2005","Score":"14 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" It's been said this is the movie Ridley thought he was going to make when he was given Blade Runner. Whether there's truth in that hardly matters the movies share a lot, especially in terms of the stark thick imagery.Word has it the DVD rendition is terrible, which is a shame as this movie offers so much visually.But Black Rain is more than an aesthetic visual experience it's a morality play, and what the morale is supposed to be might be difficult to articulate, but it's there.The supporting cast is excellent, as is Douglas, but especially impressive are the Japanese stars Ken Takakura and the legendary Yusaku Matsuda. Takakura, a star in his home country, is eminently sympathetic, and Matsuda's way of playing his role - with a touch of smart aleck snooty adolescence - is nothing short of brilliant.This was Douglas's project; perhaps he had something in mind. It's interesting with respect to the title, what that title means, and the fact that a documentary on the subject (and with the same name in Japanese) came out the same year.Matsuda succumbed to bladder cancer a month after the premiere. He'd known about it for a year but didn't think it fatal. He'd been on his way to making a new film with Sean Connery. Matsuda is a legend in his home country, and was so before his illness.The movie is largely about the Douglas and Takakura characters, but as always when Hans Zimmer has a hand in production, the music really takes off. Zimmer is perhaps the most effective film composer today if not of all time. He's done wonders with movies that might otherwise have not come to people's attention. And this is another great score. The title song with lyrics by Will Jennings is a knock-out.And let's not forget Lady Kate Capshaw.This one is bloody and violent, and that might not be your cup of tea and it certainly isn't mine, but just like with Leon there is a kind of quiet subtle poetry that emerges, gore or not.Three days after seeing it again and the music and scenes are still playing in my mind. It's that strong.And it's a definite keeper. "},{"Title":"A tour-de-force","Date":"23 March 2011","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I grew up watching many crime action flicks. Heat, The Untouchables, The Lethal Weapons, Die Hard, you name it. Black Rain is among them. There are so many levels about this film that I love the story, the acting, the action sequences, the cinematography, the music&#x97;to name a few.The story is simple; Nick Conklin (Michael Douglas) is a New York cop who is under investigation by Internal Affairs for corruption. When eating lunch, Nick and his partner (Andy Garcia) witness a bloody double homicide. They catch the perpetrator, but because he is Japanese and a wanted criminal in Japan, he must be taken back to his home country for trial. Reluctantly, Nick and his partner take him home but lose him in their custody. They then team up with the Japanese law enforcement to catch the criminal. The film really explores the different styles of cop work from New York and Japan. Nick is a hardass who breaks the rules to get the job done. In contrast, the Japanese law enforcement does everything by the book, which provides no help, particularly with the Japanese cop (named Masa) Nick and his partner are assigned to (played wonderfully by Ken Takakura). Not only do the two cops buttheads, but when the film's plot takes a dark turn, Nick and Masa learn to tolerant their differences and work together. As a result, both also learn some important lessons from each other. Critics have always said that Michael Douglas's best role is his 1988 Oscar winner for Gordon Gekko in Wall Street. I beg to differ. Douglas as Nick Conklin is his best performance. Why? Unlike Gordon, Nick goes on a journey that ultimately changes his character. There is a strong sense of ambivalence in his character as he teams up with the Japanese law enforcement to catch the Yakuza boss. As mentioned above, Nick is a jerk at first, but as the film progresses, he learns some important lessons in Japan and likewise with the Japanese cop. This is what I love about Douglas's performance. He should have received a nomination for this film.Andy Garcia is perfect as Nick's partner; he supplies the comic relief&#x97;fulfilling as the good cop. Ken Yakuza as Masa is another great addition to the film. I wish I had seen him in more movies. The actor who plays the villain (I can't remember his name) is perfect. He carries both the demeanor and facial expressions of a natural-born psycho. It is sad that he was dying of bladder cancer when he was filming this movie&#x97;he would have had quite a career. Another aspect worth noting is Jan De Bont's cinematography. He captures a very Blade Runner look dim lighting; smoke filled rooms and streets, and skyscraper vistas. His work is truly breathtaking&#x97;capturing Tokyo at the rise of its peak in the late 1980s. Hans Zimmer's score is flawless. He incorporates oriental instruments to accommodate the Japanese atmosphere, as well as includes synthesis, brooding drums, and electric guitar to reflect the two Americans in Japan&#x97;a West meets East feeling, I love it! People do not talk much about this film, perhaps because it has fallen under as just another crime action flick. Yes, there is plenty of action, including a big shootout at the end, following a sweet motorcycle chase, and a brutal hand-to-hand fight between the good guy and bad guy. However, there are so many levels to this film that I feel most people overlook. It has action, but there is more than it. Black Rain has it all drama, some light humor, brilliant performances, an interesting plot, and a tour-de-force in the filmmaking aspects, specifically in direction, cinematography, and music.My rating (obvious) **** out of **** "},{"Title":"Uneven and clichéd","Date":"6 December 2008","Score":"15 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I have never been able to warm up to BLACK RAIN, a cliché-ridden 80s cop thriller. Michael Douglas, who by 1989 was a big Hollywood star with a mullet, plays a crooked cop who escorts a Yakuza home to Japan after witnessing the guy kill two people. His partner Andy Garcia is along for the ride. As soon as they touch down in Tokyo, they lose the killer and the chase is on. Soon enough, they are teamed up with a by-the-book Japanese detective, played by the doleful Ken Takakura. The problem with the movie is, it is shot MTV-style and we are all over the place with this one, rarely sitting still long enough to catch our collective breath. You'd think Tony, not Ridley, shot this one. Douglas is fine and basically carries the movie, and Garcia is believable as a naive, fresh-faced youngster who lacks Douglas' street smarts. The bad guys are stock characters and just not that interesting. In the end, too much chasing around without much of a payoff will have worn most viewers out long before the final scene. "}{"Title":"Douglas and Garcia go to Tokyo to take on mob","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"13 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Douglas, as a tough american detective and his partner played superbly by Andy Garcia chase down a murder suspect on his home turf- Tokyo An excellent movie that explores the culture shock felt by Douglas on his chase and the bureaucracy that tries to stop him..this violent tension filled film is not for the young ones but provides loads of action from the director of Blade Runner.. on a scale of one to ten... a 7  "},{"Title":"If you pull it-you better use it.","Date":"31 December 2012","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Black Rain is directed by Ridley Scott and written by Craig Bolotin and Warren Lewis. It stars Michael Douglas, Andy Garcia, Ken Takakura, Kate Capshaw, Yusaku Matsuda and Tomisaburo Wakayama. Music is by Hans Zimmer and cinematography by Jan de Bont.After New York cops Nick Conklin (Douglas) and Charlie Vincent (Garcia) arrest a sword wielding psychopath named Sato Koji (Matsuda), they are tasked with escorting him back to Osaka in Japan. From here they are plunged into a war that is brewing in the Japanese underworld.You see there's a war going on here and they don't take no prisoners.Welcome to Blade Runner's younger brother, Black Rain, a Ridley Scott film I feel has never received the credit it deserves. Viewing from the outside it looked like one of those 1980s cop movies, one where the main cop is washed up and perched on the edge of oblivion, his partner his sanity and voice of reason. However, Scott (brought in late to direct when Paul Verhoeven bailed) wasn't interested in the normalities of the cop drama, he saw the potential for cross continent culture clash and the chance to bring his visual skills to the fore.Yep, it's the big neon glitter of Osaka and the grime and dime of New York that is the big draw here, but characterisations are still rich for the drama, with Scott taking plenty of time to set up the lead protagonist. We know Conklin's troubles, we know how tight his friendship is with Charlie, and by the time things go grim and dour in Osaka we understand just why Conklin plunges head first into a do or die situation.Visually Scott infuses the picture with cramped locales, steamy streets, industrial wastelands and blood red suns, while his lead character is an unshaven trench coat wearer who still manages to look devilishly cool. It's perhaps the drawing of Osaka that is the most impressive, for it's an alien creation to us as much as it obviously is to Conklin, the ignorance gap between America and Japan still wide apart in 1989.Complaints? At just over two hours in running time the film does have periods of flatness, where some better editing wouldn't have gone amiss; though Scott's original cut was considerably longer, begging the question on if more could have been done to enhance the seething culture clash between cops Conklin and Matsumoto (Takakura)?Another problem is that Capshaw's character is under written, a crime when it's the sole female part of note in a two hour movie. Did more of the character hit the cutting room floor? Likely, because now it's a token eye candy offering, which is a shame since what little we do get hints at a savvy performance from Capshaw.Ridley Scott lifts Black Rain from merely being a fish out of water thriller to something more layered. True to say there is more style than substance (what style though), but there is still very much interesting juxtapositioning of countries and human interactions of credible worth as well. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Average cop thriller.","Date":"3 November 2009","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Black Rain starts in New York where cynical cop Nick (Michael Douglas) is under investigation by internal affairs after $10,000 of seized drugs money goes missing. While out eating lunch with his partner Charlie (Andy Garcia) a mob hit takes place as Japanese Yakuza gangster Sato (Yusaku Matsuda) slits the throat of a rival boss, Nick & Charlie give chase & Sato is arrested after a fight. Nick is told by his boss that the Japanese authorities want Sato deported to stand trial in his home country & that Nick & Charlie are to escort Sato back & hand him over to the Japanese police, however Nick releases Sato to his men who are dressed up as police & he goes free. Nick is determined to get Sato back while Sato himself is determined to have his revenge on Nick, together with glamorous American bar owner Joyce (Kate Chapshaw) & Japanese cop Masahiro (Ken Takakura) Nick finds himself in the middle of a gang war between Yakuza over counterfeit money...Directed by Ridley Scott I finally managed to see Black Rain in a very nice looking 2351 widescreen ratio version that a cable TV channel played over here at something like 2 O'clock in the morning (thank God for recordable set top boxes...) after meaning to catch up with it ever since it came out twenty years ago & while the wait wasn't exactly worth it Black Rain isn't a bad thriller with a bit of action thrown in there to appeal to the mainstream & look good in the trailer. The script for Black Rain is actually pretty clichéd & amounts to nothing more than a revenge thriller as some hard nosed cop sets out to take down some bad guy after things get personal, the partner is killed, there are fights, near misses & I suppose the thing that Black Rain has going for it to set it apart from the crowd is the setting where a lot of it takes place in Japan as Nick is teamed up with a Japanese cop & the whole clichéd 'fish out of water' scenario takes place. Just think Rush Hour 2 (2001) without as much action or personality or humour & your almost there. Black Rain takes itself extremely seriously which is at odds with action films of the period, if Black Rain had been a Stallone or Schwarzenegger film there would most likely have been one-liners all over the place & a lot more action. Despite it's overlong two hour duration not that much actually happens in Black Rain, it's a fairly basic revenge thriller with a simple plot although exposition scenes can drag on & there are loads of long establishing shots which get boring after a while & slow things down even more. There's the expected attempts to highlight the differences in culture & the way they are between America & Japan (honour, loyalty, etc) but it doesn't amount to much other than a token gesture to a country that provides a pretty backdrop.It is said that Howard Atherton was cinematographer on the majority of Black Rain but resigned & Jan de Bont (who gets final credit) was brought in & he finished it & one thing that Black Rain definitely does have going for it is some very nice cinematography be it Atherton's or de Bont's, the use of colour & movement is great & it seems every shot is grandiose in scale & packed with things to see & little details & I am sure a lot of time went into the look & feel of the film from the streets of New York to the clubs of Japan to the vineyard where the unsatisfying climax takes place. The makers should have spent a bit more time on the script rather than the look of Black Rain & maybe it would have been a better film. The violence is tame with a couple of slit throats, a severed finger & a stabbed hand. There is no sex or nudity although there is some profanity. Apparently Dutch director Paul Verhoeven signed up to make this but dropped out & Scott stepped in.With a supposed budget of about $30,000,000 this looks great but doesn't have that much action it it apart from an OK shoot-out at the end, Black Rain was actually nominated for two Oscars for Best Sound & Sound Effects although won neither. The acting is good, Michael Douglas is fine as is Andy Garcia, Kate Chapshaw provides the glamour while Jackie Chan apparently turned a role down in this. Main bad guy Sato was played by Yusaku Matsuda who had bladder cancer at the time of filming & died just seven weeks after it's US premiere.Black Rain is actually quite a basic & clichéd cop thriller that probably doesn't have enough action for mainstream audiences & is too simple for the cerebral crowd. It's not the worst film ever but it's not the best & as far as cop thrillers go there's much better out there & I can see why it wasn't a crowd pleaser or much of a success. "},{"Title":"Existential Synthesis Both Benefit","Date":"26 July 2015","Score":"16 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Spoilers AheadIf you want a narrative review, skip this, I am going to give you a philosophical review. I love the movie because it is honest about the flaws of both cultures; the Japanese collectivist society above the individual and the American individualism who cares how it effects anyone else. Each one learns from the other. Each sheds a bit of his indigenous culture. My favorite scene is when Masa explains to Nick that he shames himself and his group by stealing. The way he does it is very gentle and understanding. Yet, Nick teaches Mas to stand up for himself against the suits and go it alone when there is no other choice. Ridley always has great depth in his movies. Charlie's murder pushes Nick over the edge and there is no coming back. The movie was made when the Japanese economy was really booming and there was great anxiety in America that they were going to buy us out. The hostility is realistically depicted coming both directions. The only scene I disliked was the Hiroshima lecture which forgot to mention that tiny historical fact of Pearl Harbor; they attacked us first. We could talk about the 200 men that took days to suffocate trapped in the bottom of the Arizona in Pearl Harbor. That scene, the lecture about Hiroshima, was undoubtedly the price paid for the Japenese locations and actors participation. It reminded me of that awful revisionist Midway where we have Japanese Naval Officers weeping over shooting our pilots down, please. The movie works well as a straight crime drama. There is a counterfeit ring going on being run by a Japanese nationalist who wants to bankrupt our country. I know, young people, it sounds so silly now, back then the Japanese were buying up tons of our stuff every day there was this great anxiety in the country. Garcia gets killed early; he is the comic relief and once he goes the film darkens. Capshaw is gorgeous to look at, unfortunately if you saw Indy and The Temple Of Doom, you already know she cannot act one scene. The movie changes from just a crime drama into more of a revenge picture after Sato murders Charlie right in front of Nick who is trapped behind a chain link fence. I love the movie because on the whole it has real depth of studying two antithetical cultures and modeling a great piece of wisdom.Nick and Masahiro each take something from the other. Each emerges a stronger, wiser individual by being together and absorbing the other's culture. Believe me, a film that teaches people that each culture has elements that are good and bad. The wise individual sheds his religious devotion to his indigenous culture, which always contains negative elements, and takes the cultural treasure from each culture he meets. I love the above scene that highlights the beauty of Japanese culture but I also love when Nick snaps at Mas and says,And yes, if one of you guys had an original idea, you couldn't pull it out of you tight A's. This is the balance of the movie, except for the Hiroshima lecture, there is a fair equilibrium of both cultures looking, unabashedly, at each other. The movie opens to a great song that contains Conklin's being I'll be holding on. A ruthless individualist on the take cop who is tough, cold and mean. By the end of the movie, watch for the existential changes in both men. Mas goes it alone with Conklin, risking everything to bring Sato into custody. Nick's lone wolf individualism rubs off on Mas. Nick returns the counterfeit plates to Mas in a funny way but the point is made. Nick teases Mas into thinking he is going to make off with them and sell them for money. Look at the relief on Mas' face when they are under a goodbye shirt. A great little movie. Not Ridley's Best But Not Prometheus Either. "},{"Title":"Black Rain","Date":"14 August 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I usually get kissed before I get f**ked.Veteran, highly commendated (but under investigation by the Internal Revenue Service for skimming drug money) NYC detective Michael Douglas collars a Yakuza gangster after he slits the throat of a Japanese mobster in an Italian restaurant and, along with partner Andy Garcia, must take the murderer back to Osaka, Japan thanks to the Japan Embassy's negotiations with the State Department. Once they arrive by plane to Osaka, Douglas and Garcia accidentally release their prisoner to his own Yakuza who are dressed as police and must remain in Japan, trying to track him down, but on his own turf this will not be easy. The cultural divide, the language barrier, two New York cops, forced to be classified civilians, without their guns, attempting to catch a killer, how in the world will they make it on foreign soil, out of their element?The Yakuza killer is named Sato, quite a reputation as a dangerous individual waging war with an Old time boss named Sugai, with Douglas and Garcia embroiled in the middle as they continue to investigate even in Osaka, much to the chagrin of the Japanese police who want them to stay out of their business. Matsumoto ( a police detective who takes a lot of s**t from Douglas and doesn't deserve to be treated so harshly) is to work as a sort of console for Douglas and Garcia, while his superior Ohashi wants the Yank cops to know their place.80s urban noir, photographed by Jan De Bont (director of Speed), Osaka looks a lot like the futuristic city in Ridley Scott's other film, Blade Runner&#x97;what I found fascinating was how Osaka looks practically identical to the New York presented in Black Rain, the traffic and congestion of heavily populated streets, steam and people, through De Bont's lens the city is dark even during the day. Douglas, wearing a trench coat and shades, looks a lot like Harrison Ford in Blade Runner, has plenty of aggression, is hard-nosed and tough, and dogged in his pursuit of the man who got away. He's on the hunt and when he's motivated further by the murder of Garcia, there's nothing going to stop him from getting Sato, but he needs help navigating through a foreign terrain and that is where Mas comes into play. Sato is ambitious, wants to be a Yakuza boss, and have his own territory to run. Good part for Ken Takakura as Mas, an honorable cop who, to his credit, swallows a lot of Douglas' wise-ass remarks and tolerates his snarky attitude. Black Rain has the fish-out-of-water theme along with the unlikely partnership angle the film is as dead serious in tone as the lead character it follows. One thing about Douglas' character, he doesn't scare easy, the man has brass balls to actually confront a top Yakuza boss just so he can get closer to Sato, revenge firmly his only motivation it seems. Kate Capshaw is a high-price call girl in Osaka who provides Douglas with assistance, although she wishes he would just go home to America and leave her out of his feud with Sato (she's pretty smokin', too). Yûsaku Matsuda's Sato is a Yakuza hood right out of a Takashi Miike film, hotheaded, gutsy, sociopathic, and volatile, but not directionless as he seems to have a strategic plan for the more traditional Japanese mob bosses who want him out of the picture. Ultimately, what is desired by the Yakuza is engraving plates, one of which is in the possession of Sato, giving him an edge. Douglas is the wild card who stands in Sato's way. Garcia is a nice addition to the movie, a good cop who has the misfortune of being aligned with a partner who has stirred the nest, so to speak. "},{"Title":"Ogami Itto as a Yakuza Boss","Date":"28 February 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Quite frankly, my main reason to watch Ridley Scott's Black Rain was the fact that it features the great Tomisaburo Wakayama in one of his last roles, as a Yakuza Boss. Wakayama is best known for playing Ogami Itto in six Lone Wolf and Cub (Kozure Okami) films, all of which are personal favorites of mine, from 1972 to 1974. Wakayama, who died in 1992 (the film is from 1989), is always a very convincing reason for me to watch a film. Otherwise I did not expect too much. I am not the biggest fan of Michael Douglas, but he was a good choice to the role of the burned-out cop with an anger issue he plays here. Andy Garcia is good as usual, and the film furthermore stars prolific Japanese character actor Ken Takakura, who very good as a Japanes cop. And everybody knows that Ridley Alien Scott is a more than capable director. The film is entertaining, and yet I cannot say I was satisfied with it. Douglas plays Nick Conklin, a scruffy American Cop who goes to Japan in order to bring a Yakuza assassin to justice. He is accompanied by his younger friend and fellow cop Charlie (Andy Garcia). The two did not expect to get caught in a war between Yakuza gangs however... That's all fine, and so is the action, but the film maintains to provide an aspect that I hate Black Rain is simply so damn stereotypical that it hurts. The two American cops, Nick a rough-and-ready tough guy, Charlie a womanizing young fellow, are both really 'coool', whereas the Japanese characters are entirely stereotypical, duteous but pedantic and exaggeratedly submissive to bureaucratic rules. The constant stereotypes that are yelled at the viewer at every opportunity are really annoying and lessened my enjoyment of the film quite a bit. Otherwise, the story is decent enough (though by no means original) and the action entertains. Tomisaburo Wakayama, is, of course, great as always. My advice In case you wanna watch films about the Yakuza, watch Japanese ones. "},{"Title":"Your Methods Are Crude And Disgraceful","Date":"30 December 1999","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  If you have ever visited a US military base in Europe, the one thing that will have impressed you is the way in which Americans overseas build 'little America' around themselves.  They seem unwilling to engage with the society in which they find themselves, sticking instead to familiar food, drinks and pastimes.  Black Rain is another manifestation of the same phenomenon.In the late 1980's, two American cops travel to Tokyo to hand over a Yakuza killer into the custody of the Japanese authorities.  Things go wrong, and so the Americans remain in Tokyo, determined to ensure that justice is done.At the heart of this film is a deep American mistrust of foreigners. Only the New York cops are capable if the Yakuza is to be fought, it's the Americans who will have to do it.  Chopsticks are fiendish alien implements, and a regular guy like Michael Douglas won't learn how to use them.  This refusal to meet the host culture on its own terms permeates the whole film. Not only do cliches of Japanese life proliferate they are offered up for the (American) audience to snigger at.  If there's a bar, there has to be a karaoke performance, with a Japanese singer giving a 'flied lice' rendition of an American song.  Of course, when Charlie of the NYPD takes the stage, he rocks the joint - he's showing Japan what popular music is all about.Concentrating as it does on banal examples of Japanese culture (for example, the removal of shoes on entering a home), the film profoundly misunderstands the Japanese mindset.  We meet Sugai, the mighty oyebun ('godfather', to use the clumsy American parallel).  He not only sits and chats with Nick (Michael Douglas's character) but discusses with him the behaviour of another Yakuza member, and even follows Nick's instructions concerning a forthcoming ambush.  This is lunacy.  In the real world, a man such as Sugai would disdain even to NOTICE a lowly American cop.  Mas is dishonoured by his association with the New Yorkers.  It is inconceivable that he would so much as mention his disgrace in Nick's presence, let alone undertake the course of action shown in the film.The two Americans (and especially Nick) are offered to us as heroic figures, because they defy authority.  They use unorthodox policing methods, including the physical abuse of prisoners and the destruction of evidence. By contrast, the film represents the Japanese police as rather 'square' because they follow procedures.  This glorying in lax professional ethics is, quite frankly, insulting to the Japanese.  Their cultural values embrace concepts such as correctness and scrupulous honesty, civilised virtues which this film sees fit to scoff at.Apart from being a coarse affront to the Japanese whose hospitality the project enjoyed, Black Rain is simply a bad movie.  The thing that happens to the police officer in the shopping mall would constitute a full-blown international incident in real life, but here it is lamely treated as a mere street crime.  Charlie performs What Did I Say? flawlessy to perfect accompaniment, even though he and his Japanese backing-group have never met before and cannot communicate.  The idea of Joyce, the high-class escort girl, having to walk home alone in the early hours through downtown Tokyo is utterly ridiculous.  Even more preposterously than that, the Americans bluff their way onto a dangerous police raid, and are allowed into close unsupervised contact with arrested Yakuza members.  Nick is able to move around the steelworks unchallenged, as if the intrusion of unauthorised westerners was a daily occurrence. Motor bikes and cars explode for no discernible reason, and Nick is able to escape from an airliner by simply climbing into a food cabinet.  Though he is a stranger to Tokyo and cannot read Japanese characters, he has no trouble making his way to Mas's apartment in the suburbs.All these things are sloppy and improbable, but they are as nothing in comparison with the preposterous goings-on at the film's climax.  An American policeman runs around the Japanese countryside, weilding a pump-action shotgun.  The Yakuza has entrusted its problem-solving to the lone foreigner.  Professional gangsters with Uzis and martial arts know-how are brushed aside.  A man is arrested without authority or legitimacy. The restoration of the shamed man is ludicrous, showing total ignorance of Confucian notions of disgrace.Director Ridley Scott will always be associated with the 'Alien' films, and if he sought by the making of Black Rain to break that connection, he failed.  With its coloured lights, spark showers, gouts of steam and cruets of molten metal, Tokyo is just another beleaguered spacecraft floating in nothingness.  Nick is a masculine Ripley, pursued by The Unknown along the sinister passages of the labyrinth which is Spaceship Tokyo.Nick is an oaf and a crook, and Joyce is a carelessly tacked-on token love interest.  The 'black rain' of the title is a past horror, inflicted on the Japanese by the Americans.  Plus ca change ...  "},{"Title":"Doesn't disappoint","Date":"28 January 2003","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  STAR RATING*****Unmissable****Very Good***Okay**You Could Go Out For A Meal Instead*Avoid At All CostsRidley Scott scored again with Black Rain,a stylish and engaging thriller.The movie has an absorbing visual feel to it,as well as an involving story to move things move along nicely.On the performances front,Michael Douglas makes for an even more convincing action man than I would have given him credit for and Andy Garcia brings his usual searing intensity in his screen presence to the role of the sidekick,but the real star of the show is Yusaku Matsuda,who sadly died shortly after the film was released,as the villain,bringing a creepy and sadistic undertone to his role.*** "},{"Title":"This is typical Hollywood claptrap","Date":"28 June 2000","Score":"16 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Black Rain is your typical Hollywood movie...shallow. This movie contains so many stereotypes about Japan and the Japanese people it is almost insulting. The audience is led to believe that an American cop with a chip on his shoulder is able to infiltrate the Yakuza, Police system etc.in less than 24 hours. Haven't we seen enough 'America saves the world' type movies? Perhaps the only good thing about this movie is that for a change they actually have Japanese actors playing Japanese people and not an Asian looking face. Save your time and watch Sidney Polack's 'The Yakuza' which at least digs deeper into the Japanese mindset. "},{"Title":"Black hole sun,Wont you come,and wash away the rain.","Date":"16 April 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Despite owning the video for a number of years,I always found myself pushing it to the side,due to the film appearing to be rather dry.With a poll taking place on IMDb's Classic Film board for the best titles of 1989,I was happily caught by surprise,when a very kind IMDb'er gave me the chance to at last take a look at the movie,which led to me getting set to see the black rain pour.The plotSitting in a bar with a rookie cop called Charlie Vincent, police officer Nick Conklin begins celebrating the fact that he's been officially cleared from an internal investigation related to missing cash from a criminal case.Putting a stop to Nick and Charlie's planned night of partying,2 separate gangs of Japanese men enter the bar and begin getting into a fight.Showing signs that he clearly disagrees with what the rival gang leader says, a gangster called Sato kills his rival as Sato's gang starts to tear the bar apart.Grabbing a small box that the rival gang had brought with them,Sato and his gang start to run away from the scene.Quickly gathering their wits,Vincent and Conklin chase after Sato,so that they can hit him with 'the book'.Catching Sato, (who has made the box disappear)Charlie and Nick are ordered by their boss to escort Sato to Japan,in order for him to be taken by Japanese authorities.Originally expecting this to be a simple handover,Vincent and Conkiln soon discover that they have inadvertently entered the middle of a gang war,where they will soon learn the meaning behind the word 'Yakuza'.View on the filmTeaming up with the cinematography who had given Die Hard its crystal clear appearance, (who would end up working with this titles originally chosen directed,when he crossed legs with lead actor Michael Douglas on the Erotic Thriller Basic Instinct) director Ridley Scott and Jan De Bont give the movie a strong futuristic appearance,thanks to Scott and De Bont's making Black Rain's US look like a burning industrial zone,whose colour patterns are emphasised by De Bont and Scott brilliantly covering Japan in flashing,face meltingly bright,neon lights.Cut by over 30 minutes,the screenplay by Craig Bolotin and Warren Lewis never quite gel the 2 excellent strips of the title into one whole entity.For the US set part of the ,movie,and also the beginning of Vincent and Conklin adventure in Japan,the writers decide to take a fish out of water approach with the plot,which despite allowing some charming 'buddy cop' moments to rise to the surface,leads to the potentially interested new Japan based characters to be rather 2D,thanks to all of their relationships with Vincent and Conklin being shown as disconnected.Taking the movie in a wonderful Neo-Noir direction for the second half,the writers peel the buddy cop side away and instead introduce a burnt out cop,who despite having been used as a punch line for the first half,is successfully used to pull Charlie and Nick into the vicious underground of the Yakuza.Made just 5 weeks before he was to tragically pass away from cancer,Yusaku Matsuda gives a terrific sharp performance as Sato,with Matsuda keeping Sato away from becoming a simple boo-hiss villain,thanks to showing that Sato has a real skill in making others drop their guard,in order for he and his gang to strike at their hardest.Taking on Sato,Andy Garcia gives a delightfully playful performance as Charlie Vincent,with Garcia showing Vincent to be a quick-witted cop,who will also never turn down a chance to party.Entering the movie on a stylish motorbike,Michael Douglas gives an excellent performance as Nick Conklin,thanks to Douglas balancing Conklin's laid-back attitude that he has with Vincent with a wonderful tough'n'gruff Neo-Noir edge,which Douglas brings to the front of the title,as Nick Conklin starts to see black rain fall from the sky. "}{"Title":"A hugely underrated movie masterpiece","Date":"27 September 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Some may think that this is just another cop action movie but nothing could be father from the truth.It is a story of good,evil,love,friendship and deep loyalty.A clash of two different culture creates a unbreakable bond between them.The music that was made specifically for this movie is what makes a part of the greatness of this movie.The rest is just great acting.I watched this movie a very long time ago(like 20 something years ago)but i never forgot it and the feeling i had when i watched it.This movie contains all what makes a human being and the essence of life. "},{"Title":"An Entertaining Mixture Of Style, Action & Humour","Date":"18 August 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" When a movie has Ridley Scott at the helm and Michael Douglas and Andy Garcia in the leading roles, expectations are understandably high. What Black Rain delivers is an entertaining thriller with a number of decent action sequences and good performances from its talented cast. Its strongest feature, however, is its stunning cinematography which enhances the look of the film enormously and contributes strongly to the atmosphere of the whole piece. Exotic locations always add interest to any production and in this case, the city of Osaka provides a wonderful backdrop to a great deal of the action.NYPD Detective Nick Conklin (Michael Douglas) and his partner Charlie Vincent (Andy Garcia) are enjoying a drink at a restaurant when they notice a couple of Japanesse men having a meal with some Italian gangsters. Shortly after, another Japanese guy who's accompanied by a small group of men, brutally kills two of the diners and leaves the premises. Nick and Charlie chase the killer and arrest him but soon after learn that he's a Yakuza gangster who has to be extradited to Japan. Nick is disgusted when he and Charlie are assigned to escort their prisoner to Osaka because he feels strongly that Sato (Yusaku Matsuda) should be tried for the restaurant killings in the United States.Things get worse for Nick when they arrive at Osaka because almost immediately, his prisoner escapes after some of his gang members dressed as police officers collect Sato at the airport and disappear. Nick and Charlie are then regarded by the local police as being incompetent and are advised that whilst they're in Osaka, they will only be allowed to observe the investigation and will not be allowed to carry guns. Japanese detective Masahiro Matsumoto (Ken Takakura) is then appointed to accompany the Americans for the duration of their stay.It soon becomes clear that Sato has defected from the gang he used to be a part of and is now engaged in a turf war with them. He's determined to establish his own organisation and territory and sabotaging his ex-boss' counterfeiting business is a key part of his plan. Sato continues to avoid being caught by the police but Nick eventually devises a means to hunt him down in his own way.At the beginning of Black Rain, Nick Conklin is under investigation by Internal Affairs for his part in a scheme to misappropriate money collected from criminals. He's rude, tough and streetwise but also unprincipled and frequently angry. The breakdown of his marriage left him feeling bitter and financially impoverished because of the alimony payments and he automatically resents everyone in authority. The experience of working with Masahiro eventually has a profound effect on him because, despite initially ridiculing his colleague's code of honour, Nick starts to respect some of his values and beliefs and returns from Japan feeling that he's learned a great deal.Nick isn't a particularly likable character and Michael Douglas is at his most convincing in the role when he's being boorish or indulging in mindless macho posturing. Andy Garcia brings charm and humour to his portrayal of Nick's more diplomatic partner and Ken Takakara is very impressive as the Japanese detective who Nick eventually regards as a friend.Black Rain did great business at the box office and its entertaining mixture of humour, action and tension keep it thoroughly enjoyable throughout. "},{"Title":"Implausible and Ridiculous","Date":"2 March 2013","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Two NYC cops arrest a Japanese mob figure and escort him back to Japan, but promptly let him escape upon landing in Japan. The premise that has the prisoner escape is so contrived that it's laughable. In fact, just about everything in this fish-out-of-water story seems implausible and ridiculous. Douglas is such an arrogant jerk as the tough cop that it is hard to care what happens to him. Garcia is his kinder, gentler partner but inexplicably goes against his personality in a key scene. Scott has certainly shown himself to be a capable director, but here he can't overcome the terrible script. It is much too long and dreary, and the gratuitous violence doesn't help matters. "},{"Title":"A clever movie","Date":"1 February 2011","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I was searching a review from a Japanese reviewer and found one, very tough with the film. It made me react here.First, I consider myself as neutral as nor American nor Japanese even if I know those two fascinating countries inhabitants a little. And I did not feel the same the Japanese reviewer did. In my sense the film does not mock Japan. It does not show Japan as 'inferior' but as different. And this is all the interest of this film whose purpose in my opinion is to show the opposite mentalities and culture. Both sides are presented. The bad and the good ones.The Bad  Japoneses are showed as ridiculous with red tape and bureaucracy matters, with shy behaviors, weird violence (for occidental people). But Americans too. Those are presented as brutal stupid beasts, for example when Charlie Vincent run after a motorbike without understanding the trap is going into or when Nick Conklin does not manage to restrain himself from knocking everywhere. Or when Nick signs a stupid sheet of paper without distrust. The two Americans are also presented as arrogant as they don't even think that foreigners could speak English .. because they don't imagine it is even possible. Even the American/Japanese prostitute rejects their arrogance. Also American police is presented as corrupted and messy ... So no one wins here I guess.The good  Japaneses are also presented as good. Cops are straight but cooperative and honor respectful, mainly instructed, efficient. Even if they lack of adaptiveness and are bad inspired to reject the American cops help. The mafia is well presented too. Franckly, they really are scary guys but gain respect with their honor code. Sato is impressive. Here I agree with the Japanese reviewer  The Americans are glorified (music helps ). Nick manages on his own (yet with the help of Mas) to solve a difficult case in a country he obviously even doesn't know. This is clearly the weakness of the film.Yet what I really appreciated was the oppositions between Mas and Nick. Wiseness and honor of Mas, for example when he feels insulted by Nicks thief behavior or when he learns from Nick. Humanity and pugnacity of Nick.I also liked mafia's leader speech with Nick. Here we definitively can't say the film only runs for America, obviously.One regret. We definitively see too little of Japan. Even if the film does much in presenting a country that we mainly bad know in occident, it could have done more. That said, I think this was not the purpose of the director who just wanted to focus on mindsets.Another regret  the ridiculous sounds of the motorbikes especially in the beginning of the film and in the last scene. The actors are all perfect. The soundtrack is really cool. Contrarily to the Japanese reviewer, I appreciated the way the director represents Japan, with subtlety, as Japan is all about. And USA with strength, as USA are all about too, sometimes too much ). If the oppositions between the two countries are exaggerated, it is in the purpose of showing them better and make understand, I guess. This is a 'must-be-watched' film for me. One of the best of Ridley Scott. "},{"Title":"Not brilliant plot but great visually","Date":"8 November 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Nick Conklin (Douglas) and Charlie Vincent (Garcia) are US cops who get involved in a Yakuza killing and capture a dangerous murderer Sato (Yasuka Matsuda). When delivering him to authorities in Japan, Sato escapes and Conklin and Vincent are forced to team up with Masahiro Matsumoto (Ken Takakura) in order to hunt him down. The clash in cultures creates tension as the investigation continues.On the surface this is a mismatched partner movie that thinks it's more than that because it addresses issues of honour between culture. It is more than a buddy cop movie and manages to be a tense thriller and look at the clash of East & West. I'm not a Douglas fan but he does play the darker characters quite well and is pretty good here. Garcia is good but is really only a plot device when you look at his character. Takakura is strong in his role as the cop trying to hold to the ways of honour of his bosses but torn by the action methods of the West and Douglas. It is him who has to carry much of the moral weight of the film. Matsuda carries off Sato well and makes him more that a gangster character.The real star of this is Scott's direction. He makes his city-scapes a present day version of Blade Runner - Japan is darkly dangerous and lit in neon. The direction is very stylish but can sometimes take away from the quality of the product and make it seem all style and no substance. Hans Zimmer score is as haunting as ever and fits the mood perfectly.The story is perhaps a tad hackneyed and is not anything that different. Some of the East/West clash stuff doesn't work but it is still interesting to see the characters change to take elements of the other's cultures. The style and action carries the film well - any insight into culture differences is a nice bonus, overall an unoriginal idea is turned into a good film by good actors and a good director. "},{"Title":"Boring","Date":"29 July 2004","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  After a stunning start in films, Ridley Scott staggered a bit before returning to form with Thelma and Louise. This is part of the staggering. Black Rain starts like a made for TV movie, then improves slightly by becoming another bland, boring cop movie. Water on the streets to give the shots depth, and just about every other modern mainstream movie cliche. Plot trot while eating or drinking or just standing around trying to look interesting. OK - some of the shots have echoes of Blade Runner, but without the atmosphere and intelligence of that film those echoes just make this mess all the more painful to watch.One for the money, two for the show, three to get ready and four to go home. "},{"Title":"Cliché-ridden film which really hasn't aged gracefully","Date":"29 January 2002","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This film, made in the era of Japan, Inc has not aged well (neither has the idea that the Japanese model is the superior way of organizing an economy or society). I do not know any NYC Cops but I simply cannot believe that the scriptwriter could have intended for Michael Douglas' character to be so insultingly brash. He's not a complex character at all but a spiteful cynic tough guy who fires off insults right and left to anyone near enough to hear them. No cultural ambassadorship for Douglas' Nick by any stretch of the imagination. But this characteristic could have been displayed with a great deal more subtlety. The ending is typical hollywood rubbish, which allows Douglas to get the bad guy, show that he's been somehow cleansed by the experiences in the film and wind up with the girl in the end. Just far too unbelievable.The cinematography is quite spectacular though (if a little bit reminiscent of Blade Runner in its styling, unsurprisingly), and the industrial city of Osaka (not Tokyo as another reviewer suggested) plays its grim role well. "},{"Title":"Pedestrian output from a talented director","Date":"26 April 2003","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Ridley Scott has made at least two memorable films The Duellists and Hannibal that displayed immense potential of a director who could make intelligent cinema. Even Aliens was interesting to some extent. But Black Rain was a movie in which Scott showed his lack of knowledge of the Japanese culture--quite in contrast to the extensive research he put into Hannibal and The Duellists. Scott in Black Rain seems to be comfortable insulting the imagination of the viewers--top US cops signing an important government form all in Japanese, an US cop weighing 80-100 kgs getting inside a airplane food cart that had to be pushed at some point to make good his escape, two US cops who can't read Japanese walking down an empty Tokyo street at night when they hardly know the city, etc. If any director wanted to make this movie, he/she should have a feeling for Japanese sensibilities--which was absent. The good moral Japanese policeman is made to look like he is outsmarted by an amoral US cop. Tch tch! Friendship overshadows morals? What is evident is that Scott made an US movie in Japan, recreating a Japan seen through Hollywoodian stereotypic Japanese situations that is ridiculous to an Oriental standpoint. Even Hans Zimmer's music is unusually lackluster. In fact there is no department where the movie inspires--unless you love motorcycles.  "},{"Title":"Blowhard opera","Date":"10 May 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Okay, so I'm particular about things in some movies while not in others, but what really has to do it for me at the end of the day is the forces that move the cinematic world. These can be all sorts, a set of values that a protagonist embodies, or abstraction about how we see; long story short, the world has to be held together in some way that I find interesting.This lets me like Lethal Weapon and Die Hard even though the worldviews at play are different. Duellists, Alien and Bladerunner, and even Thelma and Louise to an extent, they all come with structured experience about how their worlds move.I leave without anything here. The protagonist is a blowhard full of ego and noisy energy, constantly griping and thumping people, as unlikable a presence as Douglas was in Falling Down. The way we see is cowboy bluster without any other awareness of how the world moves. It tries to transfer to the Japanese, cops and yakuza, some of that awareness that eludes him, duty in the abstract, all sophomoric on that end and fails to really know Japan except as scented orientalist postcard.So what's the use if Osaka is marvelous, neon-streets and gleaming cityscapes seen from above? The relation of the cinematic eye to this world is random, incidental. It's one operatic backdrop wheeled in after another for a cop story where we chase after bad guys. Compare for example with Kar Wai where the neon city is ink from a lover's poem that melts to become breath, or how Assayas in Demonlover makes it tear from the woman's mind. This is like Cimino in Dragon, the notion that you'll write big if you hold a very big pen or write in a big room. Not for me.Something else I'd like to note is that this isn't noir as mentioned a lot of the time, I don't believe it is, and it speaks to the existing confusion about what modern noir really is. It seems every other crime film has been lumped as neo noir at one point or other so long as the world is gloomy, or there's a case to be solved. The closest call of this to noir so far as I see is that it takes place in the big city at night. Noir, next to the other tropes, for me is to be found in a certain relation between a narrator and the world. We get action dynamics here.One interesting thing here is that he wouldn't have been sucked into this story, he would have simply boarded the next flight home, had he not been tricked to release the prisoner in the wrong hands. "},{"Title":"Action!","Date":"1 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Two New York City cops arrest a Yakuza member and must escort him when he is extradited to Japan.I got this movie on accident. I was looking for Black Rain, a 1989 Japanese film. Instead I got Black Rain, a 1989 American film that happens to have Japan as a big part of the plot. Strange, and I am sure I am not the first one to make this mistake. But you really cannot complain when you get to check another Ridley Scott film off your list.This is a rather strong film for Michael Douglas. Not quite as strong as Falling Down, but it does have some of his most vulgar and tough dialogue. The line I usually get kissed before... has become a small part of the popular culture. "}{"Title":"tgchan says YES  /  www.tgchan.pl","Date":"2 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" How about, some vintage action film from late 80's by none other than Ridley Scott ? It has Yakuza, must be good! Right?1 minutes - and I already love the scenery, music and what I see... Ah, 80's and 90's, those were the times...2 minutes - oh... music is made by Hans Zimmer... that explains it 23 minutes - the action is decent and so far it is a pleasure to watch it 54 minutes - boring1h 55minutes - LOL at the final fight scene, this is badOh well, I don't know... I hate films which are not bad but far from good, and this is one of them. If you are really a fan of Michael Douglas or Ridley Scott, go ahead and try it. If not, you will miss nothing skipping this one.tgchan's rating 6/10 "},{"Title":"Loss of face","Date":"11 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" When Ridley Scott filmed Black Rain in Japan and got some top players in the Japanese cinema to appear in it, it was at a time when relations between Japan and the USA were tense. Japan was in the midst of an economic boom that got a lot in America quite jealous. Can't really blame them that much as Japan's prosperity was due to American protection because Japan spent a pittance on a defense budget as compared to what we spend. When the Japanese boom eventually went bust ironically things got a whole lot better.Michael Douglas and Andy Garcia are a pair of American cops who arrest a top Yakuza boss right in New York. They'd like to keep him here, but are ordered to extradite him to Japan as a matter of good will, sorely needed in 1989.Upon landing in Osaka they lose the prisoner and I won't say how. Garcia's all for going back to New York and face their music but Douglas wants to get him back. It costs Garcia his life. Some elements of the Robert Taylor/George Raft police drama Rogue Cop are present here. Douglas is a cop who at a minimum shuts his eyes to corruption and Internal Affairs is on his case. Garcia is relatively new and a Boy Scout. He's more in line with the Japanese who according to Black Rain just don't have corruption. It's all about honor and saving face in their tradition. Douglas teams up with Japanese detective Ken Takahara and they take down a pair of feuding Yakuzas more in an American movie style shootout.Michael Douglas plays well of both Andy Garcia and Ken Takahara, their scenes have both bite and poignancy. The feuding Japanese Yakuza are played by Tomisaburo Wakayama as the older and Yusaku Matsuda as the younger and more evil and violent. Matsuda was in fact dying of cancer when he took on the role in Black Rain. I suspect a whole lot more doubling than usual was working here.Black Rain is surely dated now that America and Japan seem to be back on track together again. It's still a good action film with some fine acting by Michael Douglas and the rest of the cast. "},{"Title":"Not one of Ridley's best... But still worth a look!...","Date":"12 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I noticed at the beginning of the credits there was a piece of text that said 'In Association with Michael Douglas'; and boy can you tell! You are left under no illusion who the star of the show is and I have to admit I did take an instant disliking to his character at first. He had almost redeemed himself by the end, but there was a big chunk of cheese that came with it. Putting my personal feelings aside for a moment, Michael Douglas didn't do a bad job as Nick Conklin, although I felt Andy Garcia put in a better performance as Charlie Vincent. I also thought Ken Takakura did a great job as Matsumoto Masahiro. Honourable mentions go to; Kate Capshaw as Joyce, Yûsaku Matsuda as Sato and Tomisaburô Wakayama as Sugai.Back in the eighties (& early nineties for that matter), your heroes had to be tough and uncompromising. This is what you get here, although by now it's all become a little cliché, back then it was what was expected. What you end up with is a film that looks great, thanks to Ridley Scott, but one that is also quite dated. Not to say it's not a great drama; I would love to see a modern remake of this without all the eighties cheese. Oh, I also have to mention a great musical score by Hans Zimmer, interspersed with pop songs but well worth listening to. Over all, I did enjoy this film, once I got over my dislike of Douglas's character; it's a great drama that's well worth a look, if a little over-long (IMO), if you get the chance.SteelMonster's verdict RECOMMENDED.My Score 7.7/10IMDb Score 6.5/10 (based on 23,878 votes at the time of going to press).MetaScore NO DATA (Based on 0 critic reviews provided by Metacritic.com at the time of going to press).Rotten Tomatoes 'Tomatometer' Score 52/100 (based on 21 reviews counted at the time of going to press).Rotten Tomatoes 'Audience' Score 30/100 'Want To See' (based on 26,792 user ratings counted at the time of going to press).You can find an expanded version of this review on my blog Thoughts of a SteelMonster. "},{"Title":"sometimes you just have to go for it..........,","Date":"24 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Brilliant!!!!..that is the only word that can describe this epic movie.Bold,rough,moody these are the words are perfect to describe the theme of this movie and more specifically it is a hardcore bad-ass action movie along with the perfect flavor 80's thriller.This is a kind of movie which can be made with all its charisma only once and ridley scoot did it perfectly; his direction along with the dashing acting of Michael Douglas made the history.Other side character were at their best to made the film perfect.one thing I must say about this movie is its score...ITS BRILLIANT,MAN..hats off to Hans zimmer, he did his outstanding work in this film. I can watch this film over and over because it is that good. If you already seen it, then you knew what I meant. This is a must watch movie; believe me you will not regret after watching this kick-ass movie. "},{"Title":"Visual Feast Enhances Well Worn Story","Date":"21 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" An entertaining, if somewhat familiar, police yarn that is enhanced by stylish direction and outstanding cinematography, Black Rain seems far better than it really is. A tough, street-hardened New York cop, Michael Douglas, witnesses a gangland-style killing carried out by a Japanese hit man. With his partner, played by Andy Garcia, Douglas escorts the captured murderer back to Tokyo, where he becomes involved in a wider war between Japanese gangs. Initially insensitive to cultural differences, Douglas clashes with the bureaucratic Japanese police, with whom he is supposed to cooperate. The friction intensifies, the violence escalates, and the plot moves towards a predictable conclusion.What elevates Black Rain above other crime dramas is the sure handed direction by Ridley Scott, who re-conceived Tokyo as an alien landscape similar to the futuristic Los Angeles in his 1982 masterwork Blade Runner. Abetted by Jan de Bont's superlative photography, the film captures the wet neon-lit streets, the deep pollution-red sunsets, and the otherworldly landscapes of a teeming city that teeters on the brink of tomorrow. In Scott's Tokyo, even the buses are dazzling neon light shows. Like a 20th-century Blade Runner, the initials of whose two-word titles coincidentally match, Black Rain is a visual feast of slowly whirling fans and light blown windows that echo Scott's science-fiction gem. While Harrison Ford as Deckard pursued outlawed replicants, Douglas seeks to retire lawless Yakuza that replicate currency. Douglas and a Japanese cohort eat noodles in a Japanese food market that further evokes the atmosphere of the earlier film.While action-film devotees would appreciate more gunfights, car chases, and swordplay, fans of film style will relish the lingering atmospheric shots and attention to detail. Douglas heads a solid cast that is largely Japanese other than he and Garcia. However, among the unfamiliar Asian faces, Ken Takakura as Douglas's primary aide stands out. Viewers may have seen this plot before, but they have never seen it as elegantly wrapped and delivered as here. The old cliché applies, and Black Rain's style triumphs over its lack of substance. "},{"Title":"A very good early film from Ridley scott, underrated","Date":"9 March 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Black Rain is a very good film in my eyes. I love the whole 80s vibe and style used by Scott and the screenplay is quite good. its a cop story about two ny cops who get involved in a Japanese gangwar. Douglas is good and cool here, but Garcia stole the show in my eyes. Garcia's character was on point with his performance, he was better here than in godfather 3 which came out around the same time. i really like him here. The film is done very well and i think although Ridley Scotts films got better as the years passed, this film is a good early indicator of his talent behind the camera and plot-crafting abilities as a director. good movie IMDb rating 6.3---- My rating 9/10 "},{"Title":"Blade runners...","Date":"15 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Michael Douglas and Andy Garcia star as two police officers who travel to Japan to escort a wanted criminal back, however when the triads trick the cops into giving up the criminal, now the two cops help the Japanese cops led by Ken Takakura, to bring down the gang once and for all. Ridley Scott as usual can be counted on to deliver a beautiful movie and one of course expects the movie to contain sweeping action sequences but one is shocked to see how mean spirited and gory the movie is. Which of course made me even happier, after watching this. Also Black Rain contains good chemistry between Douglas and Takakura, plus the action sequences are intense. The only flaw is Kate Capshaw who contributes nothing, in terms of importance and acting.* * * out of 4-(Good) "},{"Title":"Black is IN this season!","Date":"29 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I remember wanting to see this film back when it came out (I was 8) because it had a cool poster. The hero was unshaven, had a big gun, sported a black leather jacket and sat astride an awesome beast of a motorcycle. I didn't pay much attention to Ridley Scott in those days, but the hardboiled promotional campaign was enough to hook me in. Those concerned primarily with 'image' - no matter what age they are now - are likely to enjoy this. Most of the time you could watch a Ridley Scott flick with the sound turned down, just enjoying the visuals, still not feeling shortchanged. The same is true here. You won't miss much if you don't hear what the characters say, because the plot is very familiar indeed. It's almost as unremarkable story-wise as the film Scott made two years earlier - Someone to Watch Over Me - but it has the same moody feel. As a simple calling card of style, though, Black Rain is effective enough to work. Like the Yakuza themselves - menacing, no fuss required.Fashion models on a runway are there to do a job, they're not expected to discuss world events. Macho-men of all ages don't want much in the way of substance, it only confuses the issue. Today, in 2006, I finally saw this; and by being able to take myself back to a time when my cinematic wants were much simpler, I managed to enjoy it. Forget that you're not managing to advance civilisation in any way - primitively setting it back, even - it doesn't matter, because those shades would look really good on you... "},{"Title":"DVD release quality","Date":"18 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Being a Ridley Scott film, the accent is on the frequently breathtaking visuals on show here. So can someone please tell me why Paramount, in all their wisdom, have released such a shoddy DVD version of this terrific film? In some scenes, the transfer is almost unbearably grainy, and really distracts attention away from the film. Is Ridley Scott aware of how bloody awful this version looks? Hang your heads in shame, Paramount. This is(was) a beautiful looking film until it's release on DVD.Even my old laserdisc copy is streets ahead of this horrid-looking mess.I've been a fan of this film since it's initial release, and am looking forward to a special edition some time in the future. The current one is frankly unacceptable. Lift your game, Paramount. "},{"Title":"Can't Help But Like This One.","Date":"15 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Like most Michael Douglas movies--very entertaining and full of surprises. It's one of those guys movies, that guys watch more than a few times. I guess because we get a kick out of the Douglas character and his macho behavior makes us smile--we know it's BS, but we love it just the same. Andy Garcia's character is also just as endearing, because--who hasn't had a friend that makes some bad choices, but we still care about the guy--as Andy's character does about his partner. Yes the bad guy is the coolest dude that has ever worn a black hat and ridden a black motor cycle, so that makes him a worthy opponent for the two good guys. This is a high caliber action movie with great cinema photography&#151;the shot of their plane flying into Japan is amazing! Buy it, rent it&#151;guys, just watch it. Trust me. "}{"Title":"Great cinematography and soundtrack, poor script and mediocre acting.","Date":"14 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I'm going to start by saying I'm one of the many people who did not particularly enjoy this movie. Id expect a lot of the clichés and so forth from a cop action/thriller film, but I really didn't expect it from from a director like Ridley. That said, I don't blame Ridley, he did the best he could with a weak script. And in fairness to him, the visuals and soundtrack are the only things that stop this from being a completely forgettable. The soundtrack alone is particularly good.I'm not going to write a synopsis, it's already been done by hundreds of other reviewers, and frankly it isn't worth another attempt. Save to say, it's a fish out of water cop film, starring hard nosed cop, streetwise girl, rookie partner and an evil gangster. Basically take any other cop film you have seen and change the setting to Japan. I noticed another review touting this as the thinking mans cop film, which I found quite amusing as the storyline isn't exactly homers odyssey in terms of complexity. The acting is, at best, passable, but nothing overly attention grabbing. I'm not a great fan of Douglas, I find his acting a little contrived at the best of times, but his is probably the strongest performance, which isn't really saying a lot as his character is thoroughly unlikeable and you can't help but savour every bad thing that happens to him. The Japanese cast appear to be there purely for decorative purposes, and to enforce various stereotypes and tired clichés. The saddest thing about this film is the potential it had, and in the presence of a script that wasn't totally worn out and lacking in plausibility, it could have been something quite spectacular, instead of an aesthetically pleasing waste of time. "},{"Title":"Too long a duration for such a predictable plot","Date":"24 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Well, the opening gets way too long, and in my opinion, doesn't really detail anything except to connect at the finale action sequence. That, in my opinion is kind of stupid because it waste enough minutes to have a not so significant connection. The story gets so very predictable, just like a typical Steven Segal or Van Damme movie where he would go into a place outside the US and wreak havoc and beat the living hell out of the sorry people there. Having a very predictable plot, it gets even more stupid by presenting it just over two hours long. The scenes take too long while most viewers would have guessed where they would lead to after the first 2 or three minutes into them anyways. Michael Douglas tried to act as the tough guy cop, but in my opinion, he should stick to dramas, or at most thrillers, and stay away from action movie. "},{"Title":"A hybrid of The Yakuza and Lethal Weapon","Date":"21 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" What could be a more flattering gift to the world's second most prosperous nation than Nick Conklin? He rides a motorbike, awkwardly struggles to master using chopsticks, pronounces Sato as Sate-Oh, and instructs his veteran Japanese counterpart with lines like sometimes you have to go for it! Black Rain is one of the very few legitimate explanations foreigners have for being concerned about arrogance in America. Japanese are characterized as by-the-book squares who immediately allow impersonators to snatch someone on their most-wanted list right from under them. Luckily, two rough-mannered New York buddy detectives, one of whom later admits to being crooked, help teach those Osaka keystone cops how it's done---American style!! I enjoyed the cinematography of Japan's bustling metropolitan scene and peaceful rural setting, but isn't that what the Travel Channel is for? "},{"Title":"Flashy but lacking in substance","Date":"19 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" For me, Ridley Scott is something of a mixed bag as director. While he's made some classics - such as ALIEN and GLADIATOR - other films look good but feel distinctly lacking when it comes to genuine plotting and narrative; his recent stab at ROBIN HOOD is a good example of this. BLACK RAIN, a fish-out-of-water story about the Japanese mafia, is another of his failures.BLACK RAIN is all style and no real substance. The clichéd storyline involves a couple of American cops travelling over to Japan on the trail of a dangerous criminal (just like RED HEAT in reverse) where the film takes time out to indulge in the usual clichés of the genre karaoke bars, gangsters cutting their fingers off, motorbike gangs and the like. Unfortunately, Scott is so obsessed with constructing artfully-presented shots, like light shining through massive wall-mounted fans, that he fails to create anything new or original in any way, shape or form. Indeed, this is a real seen-it-all-before type movie.Michael Douglas, whose films I typically enjoy, seems to be subdued and almost on autopilot as the cop-with-an-attitude. As for Andy Garcia, his character is so underwritten as to be almost a caricature of itself. To make matters worse, the action scenes are all distinctly underwhelming, and as time went on I was just waiting for this boring film to finish. It's certainly one of Scott's least interesting movies... "},{"Title":"sometimes you just have to go for it..........","Date":"4 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Brilliant!!!!..that is the only word that can describe this epic movie.Bold,rough,moody these are the words are perfect to describe the theme of this movie and more specifically it is a hardcore bad-ass action movie along with the perfect flavor 80's thriller.This is a kind of movie which can be made with all its charisma only once and ridley scoot did it perfectly; his direction along with the dashing acting of Michael Douglas made the history.Other side character were at their best to made the film perfect.one thing I must say about this movie is its score...ITS BRILLIANT,MAN..hats off to Hans zimmer, he did his outstanding work in this film. I can watch this film over and over because it is that good. If you already seen it, then you knew what I meant. This is a must watch movie; believe me you will not regret after watching this kick-ass movie. "},{"Title":"You're Sure This Is Top Ramen?","Date":"6 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Exciting action sequences as Michael Douglas, a corrupt New York cop, and his partner, nice guy Andy Garcia, capture Sato, a young, ambitious Japanese gangster and are assigned to escort him back to his home city in Osaka Prefecture for prosecution.The two American cops, only too happy to dump their prisoner, release him to gangsters posing as Japanese cops after doing the paperwork, which in this case consists of Douglas signing a laundry bill written in Japanese.The rest of the movie has Douglas and his Japanese partner, Ken Takakura, tracking down and nailing the mob in the expectable mêlée, Garcia having gone the way of all good-natured sidekicks.The film isn't just another shoot 'em up, although fundamentally its origins are in the Mafia movie, a genre unto itself by now, and a successful one.The Japanese locations are made good use of. Osaka is known as a city ablaze with lights. It's like living inside a Christmas tree given to excess, except that this tree has pachinko machines and plenty of noodle shops.And it's not just the settings that matter, but the evolution of Douglas's character from unabashed crookedness to the Royal Road of ethical conduct. The mechanism of this transformation is his Japanese partner, Takakura, famous in Japanese movies for his many roles as a brooding tough guy.After Garcia's gruesome death, Takakura takes on the job not only of cornering the Mafia but of educating Douglas in Japanese behavior. We've seen that before, of course, in A Majority of One, Sayonara, Teahouse of the August Moon, The Yakuza, and other exercises that arose out of the contact between the Japanese and American Armed Forces in the years following the way. The educational factor is made explicit in Rising Sun. When Takakura explains that thievery shames not only the thief but the thief's friends and family, it may sound like an exaggeration, perhaps a deliberate scolding of America's dog-eat-dog mentality, but it's not. Like any other society, Japan has its miscreants, but by and large they simply don't suffer crime rates comparable to ours. I knew a guy in the military who was walking off down the street after patronizing a Japanese sporting house, and one of the hostesses came running after him, waving her hand, and shouting that he'd forgotten his wallet. Let's eat THAT with our sashimi.There was also a moment when I thought the film might actually go deep. While examining a crime scene, Takakura spots Douglas snitching a hundred-dollar bill from a pile. He says nothing at the time but later tells Douglas of his profound disappointment at the theft. Douglas explains defiantly that he only boosted it to determine later if it was counterfeit, then he demonstrates that it was in fact fake, jut as he suspected. At first I thought this might be an interesting object lesson. The Japanese have stereotypes of foreigners just as we do. But on reflection I think the incident was included in the script chiefly to burnish the image of Michael Douglas -- American, hero, police officer, movie star. After all, at no point do we ever see or hear evidence that Douglas is as crooked as everyone claims, although the many accusations leave us with little doubt. But I can't imagine the writers ever considered making this point too explicitly. You don't want to insult the proxy of the audience. And the movie avoids few clichés. Near the beginning there is a slam-bang fist fight between Douglas and the chief villain, who clobbers Douglas as if with a hammer. Not that Douglas actually LOSES the fight -- it's not that kind of movie. But afterward, after this brutal, punishing hand-to-hand combat, Douglas isn't bleeding. He's not even out of breath. A brief later shot shows him with a tiny Band-Aid over his eyebrow, the kind you use for a paper cut.Not a bad movie, though. The performances are all by polished professionals. There are subtle comic moments as well as drama. And another exposure of Americans to an alien life style couldn't hurt. Yet, finally, it could have been much more than what it is, if the writers and producers had had more thumos. Instead, they went for the commercially successful, dragging in a kind of middle-brow lesson in morality, easily swallowed, not too challenging, soothing even. "},{"Title":"Stylish thriller  ***1/2 out of *****","Date":"9 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" BLACK RAIN is not as well known as it probably should be - When you think of Ridley Scott flicks you think of ALIEN, BLADE RUNNER, THELMA & LOUISE and GLADIATOR - very rarely do people think of this well made and stylishly filmed flick which happens to be as good as those aforementioned films.MICHAEL DOUGLAS & ANDY GARCIA play two NYC cops who get involved with a gang war raging between members of the Yakuza when they arrest and transport a Killer (Yusaku Matsuda - who was gravely ill during production and died only weeks after the film's release) to Japan, who gets help to disappear as soon as he gets to the Country.BLACK RAIN is surprisingly violent, and although the plot is pretty unremarkable - The Japanese location and good performances as well as Scott's Direction and Jan De Bont's dark Photography lift this above most generic 80's flicks.Released by PARAMOUNT PICTURES, Budget - $30M Worldwide total - $134M***1/2 out of ***** "},{"Title":"A lousy script extremely well-directed","Date":"23 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Ridley Scott is probably one, if not the, most underrated American director. The guy behind all-time classics like 'Alien', 'Blade Runner', 'Thelma and Louise' and more recently 'Gladiator', 'Black Hawk Down' and 'American Gangster' doesn't have all the recognition he deserves. He only had been nominated for three Oscars, and never won a single one, not even for his outstanding directing achievement for 2001's 'Black Hawk Down'. And 1989's 'Black Rain' is another example of this.'Black Rain' is focused on a New York cop called Nick Conklin (Michael Douglas). Nick loves motorcycles and has a disturbed family. But the movie really begins when he and his partner, Charlie Vincent (Andy Garcia) get involved with the Japanese mafia, witnessing a murder. They arrest the killer and bring him to Japan, but he escapes. Now both, in a foreign country, have to arrest him back. The plot sounds interesting and it really is at first, but the movie has every single cliché that any 80's cop movie has. When watching the movie for the first time, I got a weird deja-vu felling, that's how used the story is. The movie script also treats Japan in a quite strange way, using every kind of stereotypes on the book.The acting here is not so great. Aside from the two leads, the other members of the cast are most entirely Japanese actors, and they don't do a great job. It's just plain normal, with the exception of Yusaku Matsuda as the movie villain, Sato. A really nice performance. As for the two leads, I never liked Andy Garcia, and this movie didn't change my assumptions. He isn't good as Charlie, any other actor would go better instead of him. Michael Douglas, on the other hand, is the definition of bad-ass in this movie. He delivers a quite strong, cold interpretation. Thumbs up for him.Ridley Scott does a surprisingly incredible job directing this movie. Of course this is not his best work, but the way he shoots the lousy script is truly amazing. Every scene has some really interesting camera work, specially the action ones. He doesn't let the audience bored in not one single moment of the movie. If you still doubt of Mr. Scott's talent, just watch this movie. The soundtrack here is also good. In the first collaboration between Scott and Hans Zimmer, he managed to perform a great original music score. The other problem I have with this movie is about the cinematography. Everything it's too dark and grey that it gets freaking disgusting after some time. There could be also a better editing work. Overral, 'Black Rain' is a very nice cop movie from the 80's. The lousy script is extremely cliché and stereotyped, but at least the movie is fun to watch. The acting work here is very so-so, with the exception for Yusaku Matsuda and Michael Douglas. The movie also has a great original music score, but some bad cinematography and editing. The biggest attractive to watch this is Ridley Scott and all his talent as a director. A lousy script extremely well-directed.6,5/10, that rounds up to a 7 because of Mr. Scott. "},{"Title":"A high-class B-movie thriller, if that makes sense","Date":"27 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Black Rain may not be one of the best films I've seen from director Ridley Scott or from Michael Douglas. Despite all the work to make it a darker effort than one might see, and more exotic with the Japanese locales, there's still the good-ol' American style to the story of I always get my man, and it's the main thing that keeps it into the conventional and even 'safe' territory. But where it strikes its best ground, and stays fresh outside of its 80's period (and at this point it's a period piece thanks to the drastic drop in crime in NYC, if not in how the yakuza works in Japan), is in its focus as a character study, as opposed to the action which is more or less to be expected (there's even a ritualistic beheading of a character, of whom I won't reveal).For Michael Douglas this was an attempt to deepened his persona as a star from what his two huge hits had been two years before (Wall Street and Fatal Attraction). Here he's not in a 'gray' area as a character, he's a fallen soul who curses like a sailor, is even more of a hard-ass than Harry Callahan, and will go to any length to get his man as it continues to go against the Japanese police force. It's a good character for him to play, and he has good back up with Andy Garcia as a fresh-faced young cop and Ken Takakura especially in a subtle part as the Japanese detective who's along for, whether he likes it or not, the long haul of this case against the psycho yakuza Sato (bad-ass Yukatsu Matsuda, sadly his last film). It's such a fascinating batch of characters and actors (hell, even Kate Capshaw gets her due as a noir character) that it's a shame the plot sometimes gets in the way as the yakuza prepare for a counterfeiting scam.As luck would have it, almost in spite of the limitations of the script, Scott and DP Jan de Bont make the film cool to look at, with that touch of exotic locales and strange presences to scenes that Scott obviously loves, and with that smokey tint that was a trademark of much of the Scott brothers work (Ridley and Tony) up until the mid 90s. It's an atmospheric dip into some hard-edged pot-boiling fun and danger, just as long as you don't think too much about it amounting to a small hill of beans. 7.5/10 "},{"Title":"Good looking action flick","Date":"11 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Well-photographed from New York to Tokyo, Black Rain is yet another credit to the skills of Ridley Scott. The plot follows New York police officer Nick Conklin's pursuit of Sato, a young Japanese mobster who murdered two of his own rivals right in front of Nick (Michael Douglas). Scott handles the action well, and balances well with the drama.Ken Takakura is very good as Conklin's Japanese partner, while both Douglas and Andy Garcia are convincing in the lead roles. Hans Zimmer's music caps off this very enjoyable, and different (thank goodness) action film.Tuesday, May 19, 1992 - Video "}{"Title":"A Little Overlong And Plodding At Times, But It's Pretty Entertaining,With An Amazing Performance From Michael Douglas!","Date":"16 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" A little overlong and a bit plodding at times, but it's pretty entertaining, with an amazing performance from Michael Douglas!. It's very rough and violent, however for most of the running time i was entertained, however it does have it's moments where it's dull, and some of the characters were unlikable, plus they should have shortened the running time. I was engrossed by the story though, and the ending is very funny, plus the final fight is great!. Michael Douglas has a certain charm that you just can't help but love, and the film really has a few good scraps, plus it had it's shocking moments. It did leave me feeling rather cold at times, and Andy Garcia's character got on my nerves a little bit, however it's extremely well made, with awesome performances and a great plot!. This is a little overlong and a bit plodding at times, but it's pretty entertaining, with an amazing performance from Michael Douglas i highly recommend it!. The Direction is very good. Ridley Scott does a very good job here, with good angles, great shots during the action scenes, good camera work,good lighting and keeping the film at a good pace for the most part. There is a bit of gore. We get a slit throat and quite a few very bloody gunshot wounds. The Acting is awesome!. Michael Douglas is AMAZING here, he is such a bad ass, very likable, had very good chemistry with Ken Takakura, kicked that ass, and was quite charming!. Andy Garcia annoyed me here, and was rather mediocre in my opinion, and his chemistry with Douglas was off. Ken Takakura is very good here, he is very likable had good chemistry with Douglas, and was quite funny. Kate Capshaw looks bored here, however she did her job adequately. Rest of the cast do fine. Overall highly recommended. ***1/2 out of 5 "},{"Title":"A jalopy action","Date":"30 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  One of the few movies where Michael Douglas does not seduce a blond or has passionate sex. This is undowtedly a great actor with a great screen presence. Andy Garcia did he know his charecter was short lived and why try too hard to impress?. Douglas looks like John Wayne in a land where there may be two that appear to be bigger than him. Douglas is good as a brash and not so clean cop whose unrelenting pursuit of baddies on Suzuki's earns him kudos, but none to take home. "},{"Title":"At bottom, a story about loyalty, friendship, and trust","Date":"18 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  American individualism versus Japanese collectivism is an enticing subtext in this film, threading its way through the action like a classical leitmotif, usually with glib irony.   The drama unfolds when a NYC detective (Nick, Michael Douglass) and his partner are sent to Japan to deliver a Japanese mobster to the authorities.  They screw up, turning him over to the goodfella's gang, and, instead of enjoying a lovely vacation with the geishas, find themselves in the midst of a deadly serious manhunt.  Their angst is ratcheted up a notch because they are looked down upon as typical Americans, who are `less than perfect.' The subtext of `society versus the individual' makes Black Rain more than your typical action flick  these competing social attitudes are brought into play, not by pitting them against each other in opposition, but by creating an atmospheric ambience in which the two are separate parts of the same whole.  We see the `hero' lone wolf cop, Nick, for example, criticize Mas (his Japanese counterpart) for disloyalty when Mas goes to the `suits' about a troubling issue.  The right thing to do was to confront him privately first.  And we see Mas, who explicitly says that he belongs to a group to which he is bound by loyalty, take a greater risk for self-directed action than Nick could possibly take as a cop in NYC.One of my favorite scenes in all of moviemaking history occurs in this film.  At dinner, Mas asks Nick bluntly  `Did you take money?'  He'd heard disturbing reports from across the ocean.  After a long pause, Nick replies, remorsefully, `Yeah, I took money.'  Mas continues  `Nick, if you steal, you disgrace yourself &#133; and me.'  It's such firm and open intimacy.  Mas is saying, `I accept you, faults and all;  we are partners;  but, please consider how your behavior affects us.'   Not many films feature this type of action, the quiet choices and affirmations that create bonds of loyalty and friendship.  They're made without fanfare in moments such as these.  "},{"Title":"An under-rated gem of a movie","Date":"6 May 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I recently watched this for the first time in many years and was surprised that it didn't seem that dated. The film is very atmospheric and neon lit, rain drenched Osaka feels totally alien and claustrophobic. With the exception of one scene none of the Japanese is subtitled so those viewers who don't speak the language feel the confusion and sense of isolation felt by our New York protagonists.Michael Douglas plays New York cop Nick Conklin who is under investigation for the possible theft of some money seized in a drug raid, this isn't the story followed in the film but merely creates moral ambiguity with his character. He is partnered with Andy Garcia, a young detective. Early on they arrest a Japanese gangster they witness murdering other Yakuza members but much to their annoyance are told he is to be extradited to Japan rather than face trial in New York.When they get to Osaka they are met on the plane by a group of local police and hand the prisoner over. Minutes later they learn that they had in fact handed him back to his own people dressed as police; not reading Japanese they had no idea that the paperwork wasn't real. The end up working with local cop Masahiro (played by Ken Takakura) who is less than impressed by Conklin's boorish behaviour.What follows is a tale of strangers in a strange land searching for the man they lost while having no understanding of the language, culture or customs.If you don't have this film already it would be a worthwhile addition to the DVD collection of anybody who likes exciting police thrillers, if like me you own it but haven't watched it many years then dust of the video and watch it again. "},{"Title":"Miichael Douglas's best movie","Date":"5 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Black Rain is Michael Douglas's best movie like was The Game, A Perfect Murder,Basic Instinct,Disclosure,Romancing the Stone,The Jewel of the Nile,Traffic and Don't Say a Word,Michael was playing only two times cop in the movies in Black Rain and Basic Instinct,but he also played inspector in The Streets of San Francisco,but today is still the only action movie of Michael Douglas who plays a cop and his best today.The story begins of New York cop Nick Conklin and his partner Charlie Vincent a brutal murder from Japanese gangster names Sato,then Nick chase him and caught him,later Nick and Charlie must take him back in the Japan to his home town,but on the airport,Sato escapes him with help of friends later Nick and Charlie wont stay here and catch him,but its only one problem they are both strangers and they are both civilians,so local police don't allow them to were guns,later they give them someone tho be their translator,that was inspector Masahiro Masamoto,but later Charlie was killed by Sato and now it's personal,Nick will brining justice in the black rain.Best movie,lots a action,great soundtracks,great story,great cast,great director and great writer.What can i say more about this,probably the best movie with Michael Douglas. "},{"Title":"The Thinking Man's Action movie","Date":"4 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  An action Movie for the intelligent ones amongst us. Witty One liners and the best of the 80's style. Whilst other so called action Movies are forgotten (Demolition Man) Black Rain remains a timeless Classic. Michael Douglas at his best. The only logical conclusion about people not enjoying the movie would be their incapacity to digest the finer points of the film. "},{"Title":"The best movie by Ridley Scott due to its visual style","Date":"1 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Black Rain is not a typical action movie and it doesn't even include some amazing stunts or special-effects but the whole style and the atmosphere of it is just overwhelming. The locations are always in a dark and rainy environment, what reminds on Fincher's movies. Ridley Scott shows you a very sombre Japan in which actor Michael Douglas seems to be the only one who bring a little bit color in it. He does not fit to that cold society what makes him drop one brick after the other what makes the film being very humorous sometimes. Andy Garcia stars as Douglas' partner who has never been better than in Black Rain as his kind of character is totally different to that of Douglas. He tries to enjoy their involuntary trip to Japan whereas Douglas wants to get out there as quick as possible. As he has been blamed to have lost dangerous criminal Sato he wants to save his reputation and prove to himself that he's able to get him back what will cost him more he could have expected. Talking about Michael Douglas, I have to say that he's the kind of actor who is always good, even when he has to act in a bad movie but this performance is so amazing that you believe him to be this cop in Japan who really is fed up with his situation. A spectulary movie which gives you suspense and great actors in a very stylish movie. Entertaining for those who like well made movies.   "},{"Title":"Definitely underrated...","Date":"8 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  but not Ridley Scott's best.  But yet... still Ridley Scott quality.  This movie has a little of everything - action, suspense, drama, adventure, and characters you actually care about.  There are some times where you have to suspend belief for a few moments, but it's well worth the watch! 7/10 "},{"Title":"An overwhelmingly under-rated movie","Date":"18 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Empire Strikes back is my favorite movie of all time. Black Rain is a very close second. My thinking is when people see this film they don't give it a chance. A great many people who have seen it only saw it on video, and have probably been distracted during key moments. Most people just didn't imagine that they were watching one of the greatest films of all time so they didn't care enough about the movie, and didn't pay enough attention to it when they saw it. If you watch Black Rain all the way through with an open-mind all the way through I believe that most of you will love it. Michael Douglas stars as a kind of dark New York City police officer who is under suspicion of being dirty. He and his partner played by Andy Garcia, have to take a Yakuza gangster back to Osaka Japan. The actors don't get any credit for this film, so I will give it to Michael Douglas, Ken Takakura, Yusaku Matsuda, Andy Garcia, Tomisaburo Wakayama and Kate Capshaw. I wish one or more of the significant characters were female, but the casting was so great I just can't sincerely complain too much. Ridley Scott, who created Thelma and Louis, Alien, and Blade Runner, does a PHENOMENAL job with the most under-appreciated movie he will ever make. Black Rain is physically a very beautiful movie, but that is one of the least important aspects that Ridley is responsible for. His plot organization was brilliant to say the least, and he probably inspired these great actors to deliver the performances of their lives for most of them. I bet that many people were bored with the part of the movie where Andy Garcia and Ken Takakura were singing in a restaurant, but I saw it as just one of the several parts of the movie that reminded us that Japan and the United States have much to learn from one another. It was also about Charlie(Andy) and Mas(Ken) bonding with each other which was important to the plot. Most people don't pay much attention to music in movies especially on video, but I thought the organization of the music was a fantastic part of the experience. The last time I saw this film everyone in the room started talking at the end when the song I'll be holdin on started. Try listening to all of the lyrics at the biggining and end of the movie. If I hear someone get asked about the movie Black Rain and they respond by characterizing it as an action flick, I will think to myself there goes another person who just didn't pay enough attention. "},{"Title":"I've seen this movie several times and enjoy it always","Date":"5 January 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  WARNING - POSSIBLE SPOILERS!I've seen this movie several times and enjoy it always.  I am sad that Yusaku Matsuda who played Sato in the movie died not long after this movie was released.  His protrayal of the young arrogant gangster challenging the traditional ways of the Japanese mob (Yakuza) was great.Possibly the character Nick (Michael Douglas) could have been a little more sensitive and slightly less brash to traditional japanese customs and sensibility.  I like the character Charlie (Andy Garcia) who is more respectful and polite to Mas and other Japanese hosts.  It was shame that his character was killed off so relatively early in the film.My favourite moment is at the end where Nick is leaving and gives Mas (Ken Takakura) a present containing the plate bar thing used for forging money. We find that Nick does have decency and honesty after all.  This is quite a touching moment.The visual effects are great, capturing the ambience of Japanese city life. The moody dark rainy settings with lots of bright neon lights did remind me of Bladerunner.Some reviewers are very critical of this movie which is a shame.  I enjoyed it very much and would recommend it.   "}{"Title":"Dated but not bad...","Date":"22 March 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Typical great looking, atmospheric Ridley Scott flick, this time set in Osaka. I wasn't impressed w/ Douglas in this-he was grating, paunchy and seemed to be channeling Sonny Crockett in this. NYC cops aren't exactly Alphonse and Gaston-but still....I generally like Mike D's performances otherwise. Andy Garcia plays the typical Noo Yoiker ethnic cop role which he did alot then.I found the Japanese characters to such stereotypes-moronic by the book type cops and HashiMoto/Hawaii 5-0 level Villains. Did they import 23 Sumo wrestlers for the Goons? And what was with the meeting in a foundry? Strange. Then they have another one in a Vineyard....Oh and Kate Capeshaw-she is fine as the Madonna-ish windowdressing. I thought she was better here than in most other roles she's done.And yeah, it was still in the 'Japan Inc' era-now they're in the midst of a 10 year recession. Times change eh?I liked this alright-*** outta **** if that.  "},{"Title":"Underrated action thriller with depth and intelligence","Date":"28 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  BLACK RAIN is one of those underrated films that few people have heard of, let alone seen.  It manages to exist on a number of levels, as a superbly competent action thriller, and as a cultural study into the relationship between the U.S. and Japan.  It manages to exist on these multiple levels without sacrificing any for the good of another.  It has at its center a complex spherical character in Michael Douglas' Nick Conklin. Nick is at first glance another bad-to-the-bone hard-boiled cop who wears a leather jacket, rides a Harley and shuns authority.  Underneath, however, lies a man who is devoted to his children, and his personal integrity, who is now forced to struggle with the choices he has made.There are also strong supporting characters in Charlie Vincent and Masahiro Matsumoto, played by Andy Garcia and Ken Takakura respectively. Charlie is Nick's anchor, keeping him reigned in in front of authority, who tries not to take things as seriously as Nick except his job and his devotion to his partner. Mas is a man who stresses honor and propriety, who is at first repelled by Nick and his ways. As the film progresses, he comes to a greater understanding of Nick, and comes to respect him as a cop, as a man of honor, and as a friend.  On top of all these elements, the film also delves into cross-cultural issues, namely how Japan and the U.S. are different in terms of politics, police procedure, and organized crime.  It spends some time on the mutual exclusivity of these two cultures, how one cannot exist without the other, and how the have helped shape and form one another over many years without favoring one or the other.All these things combined the film still manages to maintain itself as a highly competent action thriller, with taught suspenseful pacing, and an intelligent storyline.  It also contains one of the best and most memorable endings in recent years, which alone makes the film worth watching.Overall, I highly recommend this film to anyone who might enjoy this unconventional type of cops-and-gangsters film, a film with depth and intelligence.  If you do, chances are this surprisingly excellent film will become one of your favorites as well.      "},{"Title":"Michael Douglas Put His Heart & Soul in this FILM !","Date":"2 May 2004","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"                Greatly enjoyed the performance of Michael Douglas(Nick),Traffic,2000, who was a cop that got deeply involved with the under world crime families of Japan and had some very close calls nearly being killed along with a fellow cop from Japan, Ken Takakura,(Masshiro), who acted as his partner unofficially and was kicked off the police force because of his friendship with Nick.  Kate Capshaw(Joyce),The Love Letter,'99, played a very sexy role and tried to help Nick stay alive and well, which was a very hard thing to accomplish with gangsters going after him on bikes.  Andy Garcia (Charlie), gave a great supporting role as an American partner with Nick who ran into big problems that had Nick going crazy through the dark streets and even a fish market.   There is plenty of action in this film and it will keep your eyes glued to the screen. "},{"Title":"Fear and loathing in Japan","Date":"9 September 2006","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This film, a Ridley Scott 'well made story' of Japan's-underworld, was intriguing to me, from the beginning. Back before the eighties were even gone, this was a cutting story of the Asian mobs, the Japanese in particular, and how they ruthlessly do business. As I watched this from the starting in New York, the capture and travel overseas to transfer the suspect, I was already on the edge of my seat, but then seeing their world, sent me over the edge. I had never witnessed anything like it. Being that I was only 21 at the time of the film's release and yes there are many in the military, who can boast world travel, I had never been in the hottest parts of Japan, so for me it was both eye opening and hostile information all at once. From start to finish, this movie carried a 'Hard-Edged' blade of a story. Everyone in Japan,(practically) knowing the American, less than 'Perfect' cop's 'business' from the six O'clock news. It didn't help them, but it drove the two harder for their intended target! It was solid, front to back. I gave it an incredible, '10' rating because, it blasts through with fearless action and a stone-cold story, that burns white hot.I was informed later on by law enforcement that the Asian gangs have taken over much of the Mafia's territory, since 1996. Interestingly scary, kind of like the movie. (****) "},{"Title":"The best thing Michael Douglas has done.","Date":"19 August 2000","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This has got to be just about the best thing Michael Douglas has ever done. The plot, the script, the photography and the music, let's not forget Hans Zimmer's music. A superior effort in every sense. All police action dramas should take note. This is the way a really good one is made. "},{"Title":"great at its time","Date":"26 January 2016","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" NYPD detective Nick Conklin (Michael Douglas) is under internal affairs investigation. He and his partner Charlie Vincent (Andy Garcia) are monitoring the local mob when Yakuza members crash in. They arrest the Yakuza thug and transfer him back to Japan. They get tricked and the prisoner escape. They hunt for him with the help of local cop Masahiro (Ken Takakura) and American ex-pat Joyce (Kate Capshaw).Director Ridley Scott injects this with great energy and intensity. Douglas plays up the fish-out-of-water angle. It's great to get the Japanese flavor no matter how hard it was for Scott. It did come at a time of high fascination with Japan before their financial crash and that added a lot to the intensity. The present Japan no longer holds the same fascination and that does diminish the movie. However it was great at its time. "},{"Title":"Ridley Scott makes good use of American and Japanese actors in a film about international criminals !!!!","Date":"26 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" In year 1989, two different films titled 'Black Rain' were made to depict Japanese realities. The first film was directed by acclaimed Japanese director Shohei Imamura. His film discussed the consequences of Hiroshima bombing on Japanese people. The credit for making second 'Black Rain' goes to American filmmaker Ridley Scott whose film makes good use of both American as well as Japanese actors to portray lives of criminals whose influence goes beyond the national borders of two highly advanced countries Japan and USA. It is fun to watch how American cops Andy Garcia and Michael Douglas get some major morality lessons from their Japanese counterpart Takakura Ken. American film 'Black Rain' features a lot of cops who are determined to catch tough criminals but it does not portray itself as a buddy movie. At times, it appears as a tale of cultural differences as American as well as Japanese police use all their best policing methods to catch hoodlums who have wreaked havoc in both countries. Action scenes are this film's major highlight. However, they do nothing to weaken viewers' interest in appreciating the dramatic elements of this film. Lastly, if exploring Osaka city without leaving your house is on your mind then 'Black Rain' is the ideal film for you. "},{"Title":"Terrifically entertaining crime film","Date":"21 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I first saw Black Rain on its initial release, sitting on the front row of the enormous screen of the Odeon Leicester Square London. It was very exciting then and after seeing it once again for the first time in over 25 years, it is still immensely enjoyable.Like many other reviewers, I am mystified by how underrated it is. In its day it was a blockbuster with a big reputation. The basic storyline is gripping with many interesting plot twists. The contrasts between American and Japanese culture are deftly handled and worked into the plot well. Of course it's shot in a moody, stylistic way, but it is of course a moody cop film noir thriller. I think the cinematography is superb, with one aerial shot in particular, of an impressionist sunrise over the industrial hinterland of Tokyo, absolutely breathtaking.Cast-wise, it's a strong showing as Kate Capshaw smoulders (even if we see her all too briefly), Andy Garcia is boyishly charming, and Ken Takakura is great as the perplexed Japanese detective, but Michael Douglas is immense and steals the show. Rarely has barely-controlled rage been portrayed so effectively and his performance stands up against all the cop portrayals in cinema history (and I am aware that is a big statement).In short, watch it - you won't be disappointed! "},{"Title":"ReActing of Michael Douglas","Date":"14 November 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" It was nice to watch a movie which came out 25 years ago. the best of this era is which i like is the Movie is Natural i mean no computer graphics involved. I never knew that Michael Douglas could fight so well with that Japanese guy. he really did well. i guess Black Rain featuring Andy Garcia was a huge hit back in 1989.i am not criticizing today's movies but when you look at black rain everything is natural but a movie today is all computer graphics generated even the fighting scenes has a bit of artificial kinda stunts. this is why i enjoy the 80's & 90's era movies.Surely Black rain would be in my collection of Movies to watch over & over again. and i wish if the original director could really make Black rain 2 i wish if Michael Douglas does a black rain 2 before he get too old. i saw him in Last Vegas 2013 a comedy movie but still he's good for his age.Sir if you ever see this comment on IMDb i wish you could do Black Rain 2.I would recommend anyone to watch this Movie you would never get bored i bet you. "},{"Title":"Fairly routine, but still enjoyable.","Date":"16 June 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Black Rain is a good crime picture, no more and no less. None of the characters are all that complex or interesting, but there's still plenty of atmosphere that's inherent to the setting. It's got a familiar culture clash / fish out of water story, and the fact that the extremely capable director Ridley Scott is at the helm ensures that it will be visually striking and never boring.Michael Douglas stars as Nick Conklin, a streetwise NYC cop who's being investigated by Internal Affairs on charges of corruption. Nick and his fun loving, brash young partner Charlie Vincent (Andy Garcia) happen to arrest a bold killer named Sato (Yusaku Matsuda), who butchers two associates in a restaurant full of people. Nick and Charlie are saddled with the duty of escorting Sato back to the authorities in Japan, and unknowingly deliver Sato to his own people, who masquerade as detectives. The two Americans get caught in the middle of a war among members of the Yakuza while the Japanese police assign a well meaning cop named Masahiro (Ken Takakura) to work with them.We've seen hard headed, reckless cops like Nick in countless other action movies, and as good as Douglas is, we kind of know what to expect from his character, and know that he isn't all that bad and will be looking to regain his honour. Ultimately, having or regaining that sense of honour is the theme of the movie. It's as slick as all get out, with Jan de Bont doing a bang-up job of capturing the colourful locales of Japan on film. The movie does go on for quite a bit, but it does end things on a high note with a solid action climax and a touching scene between Nick and Masahiro (or Mas, as Nick and Charlie start nicknaming him). Kate Capshaw doesn't make much of an impact as Joyce, an American living in Japan and working as a club hostess. Familiar character players among the supporting cast include John Spencer, Luis Guzman, John Costelloe, Stephen Root, Richard Riehle, Vondie Curtis-Hall, and in blink and you'll miss them parts, Professor Toru Tanaka and Al Leong. Garcia is quite likable as Charlie, Tomisaburo Wakayama has a great screen presence as mob boss Sugai, but the man who really makes Black Rain worth seeing is Takakura, who's endearing as the kind of character who's by-the-book to begin with, but who will eventually start following the maverick leads' example.Action fans should enjoy this, as well as Ridley Scott and Michael Douglas completists. It may not be terribly innovative (at least script wise), but it's good filmmaking and efficient storytelling that does entertain.Seven out of 10. "}{"Title":"Memorable look, forgettable story","Date":"19 June 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Man, I really wanted to love Black Rain. It just seems like such a foolproof proposition Michael Douglas all jacked up on '80s cop machismo, a fish-out-of-water story in Japan with Ridley Scott's famed artistic direction. No way you can cock that up, right? Problem is, it's a lame story that sinks this thing. Pretty sure this procedural was tired even back in '89, especially the dirty cop routine. I don't think it's a spoiler to say that Douglas' partner ends up biting it, and almost as n as he does, the movie hops the express train to snoozeville.That said, everything you know about Scott's visual flair is on display here. It's got the requisite indoor shafts of light, steam rising from wet streets lit by dazzling neon; it's very Blade Runner, and if that's not the man's signature look, I don't know what is. You've gotta love that the scary Japan depicted herein is fully of xenophobia and murderous Yakuza all under giant electronics billboards. It's just a really cool image.6/10 "},{"Title":"A Terrific Film!","Date":"3 May 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Legendary Filmmaker Ridley Scott's 'Black Rain' is A Terrific Film! An Edge-Of-The-Seat Action-Thriller, thats arrests it viewers attention! Also, The Performances, are Marvelous! 'Black Rain' Synopsis Two New York City police officers arrest a member of the Yakuza and must escort him back to Japan. Once there, he escapes, and the two police officers find themselves dragged deeper and deeper into the Japanese underworld.'Black Rain' is amongst Ridley Scott's Most Accomplished Works To Date. Warren Lewis & Craig Bolotin's Screenplay is Terrific! Its edgy, violent & very gripping. There is hardly a moment when the pace dips, in fact, the film only gets better with each passing scene! Ridley Scott is a Legend & his work in 'Black Rain' proves that fact right, once again. He's at the top of his creativity over-here! Cinematography, Editing & Art Design, are fabulous.Performance-Wise Michael Douglas & Andy Garcia are Marvelous. Douglas plays the no-holds-barred, no-non-sense cop, marvelously, while Garcia, plays a rather subtle cop & impresses big time. Ken Takakura is fantastic. Kate Capshaw is perfect. Yusaku Matsuda is excellent. John Spencer is decent. Others lend perfect support.On the whole, 'Black Rain' is A Winner All The Way. "},{"Title":"Good, Underrated 80's Crime Drama!","Date":"19 March 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Michael Douglas, Andy Garcia, Ken Takakura and Kate Capshaw star in Ridley Scott's 1989 crime drama. Douglas (Wall Street) plays Nick Conklin, a divorced, New York detective who gets sent with his partner, Charlie Vincent (Garcia) to escort a Japanese thug, Sato back to Japan. After unwittingly delivering him to his gang posed as cops, Nick and Charlie try to get Sato back with help of police inspector, Masahiro (Takakura). Soon, Sato kills Charlie and Nick stops at nothing to find him with Masahiro's help. Capshaw (Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom) plays Joyce, a woman whom Nick befriends in Japan. This is a good, underrated 80's film that's one of Michael's best and he and Andy are great together. Hans Zimmer's score is also excellent as usual and the film kind of resembles Scott's earlier classic, Blade Runner. I recommend this. "},{"Title":"Does Ridley Scott dream of neon signs in Japanese?  P","Date":"6 February 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I love this film. It's one of my favourites. The film-maker is Ridley Scott, who also made the critically-acclaimed Blade Runner and the popular Aliens. It is a visually beautiful and intense film, with some film noir elements. And I reckon the music is awesome, too! So what is it about? It's about a pair of U.S. cops who go to Japan on a murder case which involves the yakuza (Japanese mafia). They must of course meet and find ways to cooperate with the local police. It's a kind of gritty yet beautiful fish out of water story, a thriller... with action, drama, and tragedy, and the main character going through a spiritual journey of major change. I highly recommend it!  ) "},{"Title":"(en)vision, and prejudice","Date":"2 December 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" There are several things here, that make this a not so interesting film, but yet one that underlines characteristic features of the time it was made, and some of the participants that are in it .80's action i've been watching a good dose of the so called action films from the 80's. I grew up with them, my first model of what action meant was deriving between the hard heroes films (siegel, stallone, van damme, schwarzenegger) and the fantasy adventures of the Spielberg streak (which includes Zemeckis). Rewatching them, i sometimes have to redefine what action means. Mostly because in many of them, we have a couple of actual physical action, and a huge dose of funny dialogues. So, in the 80's, action and comedy are a suitable mix. Not so much here, of course, but this is still a sub product of the influences audiences were still accepting in those days..following the above, it is fundamental to notice how everything is bent to the vision of Ridley Scott. The man is great and envisioning things, at the largest scale the film allows, taking care of the bigger arc that every film should have. Even today, no one working now does this better than him. Here i think he tried to embed the film in a Blade Runner driven decadence. Of course it's another context, and definitely another script! But watch how every shot is carefully frame, not to be worth (only) on its own as, say, Bertolucci might do. Every sequence is chained to all the others. That's the big form. That's the best in this film..Douglas is not particularly interesting as an actor, but he is a character in real life, and eventually he could sometimes pass that to his film characters. Garcia's over the top terrible performance (partially compensated by Scott, who doesn't allow actors to look so bad) highlights the Douglas' character, on screen. Well, it's a limited pleasure to watch, but it goes with what is intended..Hollywood, and how their perspective over ethnic or cultural groups outside the American mainstream i'm glad that, at least to me, this film sounds terribly racist and absolutely uninterested in moving any bit away from common clichés. At least this means that i have moved forward and frankly, i think this is no longer done today. We have other clichés, other preconceptions, which probably i'll be detecting 20 years from now. But what we have here is sad. So, the bad guys are the Japanese, those from the Yakuza are plain evil, the other well intentioned guys are plain incompetent. So the 2 American buddies have to go there, break every Japanese convention, and show them how to be fair and just. That's it right? It's just a film, some will say, It reflects dark corners of human stupidity, says i.My opinion 3/5http//www.7eyes.wordpress.com "},{"Title":"TRULY UNDERRATED (however generic ending lets it down)","Date":"25 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" The general opinion of Black Rain seems to be that it is not much more than a trashy Hollywood cop/action film. However if you look a little closer you will see there is much more to it than that.The most prominent quality of Black Rain is the lead character. Michael Douglas successfully builds a character that is full of complexity, regret and self-loathing. When this character is immersed in a restraining culture clash, coupled with a severe personal trauma that occurs, he is driven to go trough a struggling process of self-realisation.The next prominent quality is of course Ridley Scott's stunning visual treatment. Black Rain is packed full of beautiful atmospheric scenes and images. There are too many to mention here.This film's major flaw is its ending. It feels like a slapped on, generic Hollywood ending where everything seems to work itself out perfectly. The ending bastardizes the previous emotional struggle. It also makes a mockery of the cross-cultural respect that developed.Overall this is a very good film. It is much more than just a trashy Hollywood cop/action film and definitely should not be forgotten. It should be 8/10 but the ending brings it down to 7/10. "},{"Title":"Kill Him, Kill Him, Kill Him,","Date":"8 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I remember the crowd cheering that over and over and over in the end. Then all I heard was AUuuuuuuuuuuuuugh. I saw it in the Mann's Chinese Theatre. It was beautiful. I was happy with the ending and it made me feel good. So good that I went to the bathroom to hide and snuck in to see it again. The Cop was a cliché, as well as the plot, and so was the Music. But the movie wasn't. It was different from the other 80's cop flicks. The ending was touching and sad because he was going back to a the world that wants to crucify him. He went against his own grain and did the right thing; arrested his guy. It was the better bunch of numerous great films that Micheal Douglas has done in his worthy career. "},{"Title":"Ken Takakura means everything to everyone","Date":"1 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Black Rain is a special movie that I was lucky to see on the big screen. I thought of KenTakakura as an A list actor with extraordinary talent for looking honorable since he is true to himself In my humble opinion. Lets face it in Japan Ken Takakuras character was the hero while the Characters of Douglas and Garcia were viewed as attempted invasions. In film most good guys have an oppo. I really like the Pollack directed sleeper Yakuza film Ken Takakura was in although I haven't seen it yet. Mr Baseball proved that this Thinker who is a Father to me has staying power on the world stage and the big screen theaters around the world. I read that Ken Takakura has more than 180 loyal Movie cast affectionados. Pardon my bad English spelling please. Sometimes I joke that I am watermarking to prove that I am not a robot. I am proud of my nickname cyborg though and I like to think of myself as important to my Creator. The Black Rain movie soundtrack is quite good. My previous Black Rain review was deleted sadly. The band Undercover sang They try to blame the Created but he cannot be faulted parahrased. At first I tried to speek great truths then great truisms, now I just try to prevent major loops in my thought process. I had so many people tell me I was nothing only my enormous ego from on high kept me believing I was smart with a good personality and amazing analytical ability and deductive reasoning. I would picture complex if then latticeworks of reasoning. May the Creator always favor the Japanese, their genetic codes and their friends worldwide. Thank you to IMDb for supporting the kind of freedom of speech that Ken I believe, Jack F Kennedy and I support. Support IMDb. "},{"Title":"Master painter breaks out the crayons","Date":"21 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This review contains spoilers.From a lesser director, his brother for instance, 'Black Rain' would be an entirely acceptable contribution to the Church of the Action Flick. But from Ridley Scott, the director of Alien, and Bladerunner, 'Black Rain' doesn't impress. Why?Set design Scott doesn't convince in terms of realism. Although the Oxford History of World Cinema singles out 'Black Rain' in a photo insert, praising its dark industrial set, the reality is that the interior of factories are very well lit. Molten steel doesn't flow at random, unsupervised. Sparks don't rain down on conference room windows. You don't need a flashlight to navigate the hallways. The interior of the factory where Sato makes his first meeting with the Oyabuns is so dark and menacing, you'd think the company was making a point of killing its hapless employees.I preferred the showdown at the Japanese farmhouse. In cinema, bucolic Japan is Kurosawa's territory, and it was interesting to watch an overlap between two master filmmakers.The strongest scene, however, belongs to Charlie's execution. For once, Douglas dropped his bemused smirk and convinced me that he actually cared about one of the film's supporting acts. In addition, the snorry cam tracking Sato's sword before the samurai-style execution was cool.I give it a 7/10. "},{"Title":"Still full of Eastern Promise....","Date":"26 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Michael Douglas' first post WALL STREET/FATAL ATTRACTION project provided a great showcase for the talents on show and was greeted with warm approval by a sell-out crowd at the Empire in London's Leicester Square when it was released in January 1989.This is one of Ridley Scott's style workshops, effectively a modern version of BLADE RUNNER with the interracial relationships between Conklin and his Japanese cop colleague and Sato marking an interesting context (Deckard and Roy Batty have a similarity in their personalities) Like the best cop thrillers, the relationship between cop and villaim is important to the effect of the film (HEAT's great duet of De Niro and Pacino is the ultimate idea of this)Hans Zimmer's score is still worth listening to and is one of the classic soundtracks (I would also rate Eliot Goldenthal's score for HEAT and Wang Chung's for TO LIVE AND DIE IN LA as equal in this case)Always worth seeing in the Widescreen version. "}{"Title":"A Classic","Date":"17 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This is a classic film.  Not on par with Ridley Scott's Gladiator but one of his best films.  This movie has much to offer and much more to think about. Black Rain has to been seen in full Surround Sound.  It's a feast for the eyes and only Ridley Scott could have done it. "},{"Title":"Excellent film!","Date":"29 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Black rain is very good! Beyond much action, the film passes a half shady, dark aspect, etc. Michael Douglas interprets well its personage very! Remember this film since child, when he was shown to the night. He is being shown at this accurate moment in the Globo TV. "},{"Title":"One of the best movies for it's genre!","Date":"18 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  1989 ending a decade of fantastic movies an era that was unique in so many ways, TALK about cop 80s movies BLACKRAIN is in the top 10 EASY this movie takes you on a journey that is unforgettable in so many, this movie is for the collection, Ridney used some of the similar styles from bladerunner, that dark mysterious filming which expresses touching realism, backgrounded with Hans zimmers music, and the passion half way through the film of accepting new cultures and the revenge for charlie, the awesome action form douglas,garcia,takakura ,make this movie perfect, the japanese actors are very famous and respected in japan, acually the badguy is no longer with us he passed away, but this movie is American/Japanese... the classic 80's styles music, scenes, and exploring new cultures for the first time makes this movie magical, if you have never been to asia this film brings you all the thoughts you may have about Japanese backstreet life ending the 80s .. I love this MOVIE.and it is one of most favorite films of all time! NOT TO BE MISSED!!!! "},{"Title":"Interesting cultural encounter","Date":"22 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I watched mostly this movie because I had heard good opinions about it's content as a movie which deals with cultural encounter of Japanese and American police. Same topic has been handled in many movies, and I think Black Rain beats them all quite much. Though there are some cliches, still I must say that the movie is worth of 8. Michael Douglas isn't bad at all, actually he's seen as quite vulnerable. Ridley Scott does once again great work. "},{"Title":"Ridley Scott takes the audience to a strange land....Japan! SPOILERS","Date":"2 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  After a Japanese mob hit in New York, two New York cops take a Japanese criminal back to Japan. Upon getting to Japan he is given to Japanese mobsters disguised as police officers....this is where the story begins. The two cops get involved in a Japanese investigation of the jap criminal and the character played by Michael Douglas ends up trying to avenge the death of his american partner while in Japan. This film is the story of a selfish New York police officer that likes to skim off the top who redeems himself in Japan. He is ultimately paired with a straight laced police officer played by KEN TAKAKURA. Ken Takakura was first seen by American audiences in the film TOO LATE THE HERO back in 1969. As the film develops, the high standards of the japanese cop begin to rub off on Michael Douglas and Michael Douglas's unorthodox investigative tactics begin to rub off on the japanese cop. The film is a commentary on honesty and honor, and how a jaded man who thought he lost it, regains it. The title BLACK RAIN is a reference to the black, tar like rains that followed after the A BOMB was dropped on Hiroshima. The title is sort of like a commentary on some old school japanese contempt for american culture. This concept is touched on only briefly in the film. What the heck, it's a cool title for a movie. If you enjoyed BLADE RUNNER and it's stylish look, I recommend this one. "},{"Title":"Carbon copy of 'Yakuza, The (1977)'","Date":"22 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I enjoyed Black Rain, it was an excellent film as I adore Ridley Scott.However, The Yakuza starring Robert Mitchum and Ken Tanaka (who also played the lead Japanese character in Black Rain) is infinitely superior.  Scoot obviously drew a lot of influence from Sidney Pollacks Yakuza and there are just so many similarities.Basically, if you enjoyed Black Rain, Yakuza will surprise and enthrall you.  It portrays a lot more of the reasoning behind the Yakuza traditions such as cutting off your little finger as a token of apology and why the swords are integral to their culture.  It goes a lot deeper into the honour culture etc.However, I rate both films.  Yakuza....a definate 9/10.   Black Rain...a good 7.5/10. "},{"Title":"Great way the Ganjin is played","Date":"12 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The story shows the true side of how the Japanese people view the Ganjin. The way of life shown is the darker side of the culture. It is accurate with Bushido and the way that the Japanese office views honor above all else. The night life is accurate. The only thing is that Kate Capshaw's character needed development to show just how White Blonde women really are viewed in a truer sense. "},{"Title":"Great cop thriller with an oriental twist","Date":"4 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  An atmospheric thriller that manages to add a little oriental flavour to the action, this is one of those movies that has a better second half than first. Alright, so the first half is competent enough, following New York cops Douglas and Garcia from America to Japan, straight into the middle of a counterfeiting ring, but it's in the second half that the movie really hits its stride, as Douglas is forced to work with a Japanese cop, and the two find themselves out for revenge on the crime boss behind the counterfeiting operation. In the acting department, Douglas' performance is patchy, and it's left to Garcia (in terrific form) to inject some real life into the story. Hans Zimmer's pounding score rockets the film to a mildly surprising conclusion and the final scene ends the movie on a perfect note. If you've never seen this movie before, its well worth your attention. "},{"Title":"Where predictability is acceptable","Date":"12 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Each review I have seen of Scott's Black Rain claims that it is predictable. Does this matter?Black Rain is a very good film, it mixes a reasonably good plot with excellent photography, soundtrack and style.There are two scenes which put the film down (the bike chase at the beginning and end) but otherwise Black Rain is a highly underrated film, worthy of some acclaim.A modern day Yakuzza. "},{"Title":"Underrated Ridley Scott crime piece","Date":"23 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I watched this movie for the first time yesterday and was instantly blown away.The cinematography and scenery was the main element that got to me. It's amazing how Ridley Scott can portray a wide array of emotions, atttitudes, and perceptions through the mere use of the dark-toned cyberpunk backdrop of Tokyo and the outer industrial rim.The acting was for the most part exceptional for a buddy-cop crime movie, and the cream of the crop for its genre.The major downfall would be the romance subplot (which I found simultaneously distracting and underdeveloped) and how underdeveloped the main villain Sato is. I was curious to look into his past and understand how he came to be the new kid on the block for the Tokyo underground scene.I was fascinated by the major Kingpin's story on WWII and its effect on Japanese culture (even when the socio-political effects of war played a part in changing the criminal culture!) and was intrigued by the Yakuza's customs and methods - which will seem alien to most North American audiences who are used to the usual villains in crime films - Mafia, Russians, petty crooks.I would rate it a 7.5 out of 10 on a usual scale, but was so surprised by the low rating, I've artifically raised it to a 9 to ensure this film gets the credit it deserves.A must watch and own for any cinema collection.If you enjoy crime films, drama, buddy-cop, Japanese culture, Ridley Scott's work or Michael Douglas, then you will ESPECIALLY love it. "}{"Title":"Tragically flawed by 80's cheese, but still a top notch thriller! A must for Ridley fans!","Date":"17 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Definitely not one of Ridley's greatest hits but still a must see if you're a die hard fan of his like I am. Overall, good story. Michael Douglas did a fine job portraying a man going through a mid like crisis, if that's the way to put it. Andy Garcia was charming as ever and Kate Capshaw looked amazing and gave a good performance as well.One of my favorite things about this story is that our hero, nicky played by Douglas is kind of an anti - hero. Even though he is an NYPD officer he does have flaws, morally. He had admittedly stolen money from crime scenes and has personal problems. There's no knight in shining armor routine going on anywhere in this film. However, what's up with that horrendously cheesy ending? Where Nicky gives a thumbs us as he leaves the airport? That was god awful.Other than that, it's a good film. The cinematography was superb as is with all of Ridley's films. Lots of beautiful wide shots as usual. The musical score was good, but the soundtrack with the 80's cheese is a definite flaw. It does not age well.Basically, if you're a Ridley fan, it's a must see. If you're into tight thrillers/action flicks and don't mind some 80's cheese you should check this out as well. "},{"Title":"Classy noir","Date":"27 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" A generic but striking Yakuza noir. I hadn't imagined Ridley Scott would fare well in this area but of course I just hadn't thought outside the box of it's obvious predecessor, Blade Runner. Michael Douglas and Andy Garcia are good cop/bad cop partners Nick and Charlie from the Big Apple. When one of their charges goes missing in Tokyo they have to go underground to drag him back out.The film brims with great and grimy period detail a super scene in a karaoke bar and a stealthy, heartbreaking sequence on bikes in a deserted shopping mall. Kate Capshaw, who seems to have simply slipped back into her role from the opening of The Temple Of Doom softens the neon-electric tesosterone. Michael Douglas plays out the familiar Martin Riggs/John MacLean self-destructive-vigilante-cop role in vogue in the late 1980s and has good support from Ken Takakura as the statutory Japanese point man Matsumoto. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Holds up over the years","Date":"28 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I remember going to see this film in the theater. I think it holds up over the years.Great to look at, well acted. 1 thing I have NEVER liked about it is the Andy Garcia death scene. Just to look at, not realistic. For film only. And, what started this story. IF Michael & Anthony were in this restaurant WHY DID THEY NOT STOP THE KILLINGS BEFORE THEY HAPPENED? They were police & had guns.Still can't figure out little scene at the beginning of the film. WHY TAKE YOUR KID TO SCHOOL IN THE RAIN ON A MOTORCYCLE? Can?t the kid get sick?Film has the Ridley style. 1 of my favorites of his. "},{"Title":"Black Rain!","Date":"8 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Black Rain is a cool film with a cool cast including Michael Douglas, Andy Garcia, Ken Takakura, Yusaku Matsuda, and Kate Capshaw! Also in the movie are brief appearances by some familiar actors including Luis Guzmán, John Costelloe, and Professor Toru Tanaka! There is solid acting by the actors especially by Douglas and Matsuda! The score is by Hans Zimmer which it is really great music! Ridley Scott directs the film very good! The action in the film is really good and realistic. I think that Black Rain is an unusual film and its quite good to watch. If you like the cast mentioned above and want to watch a very different and exciting film then Black Rain is an excellent one to check out today!Movie Nuttball's NOTEIf you like Ridley Scott then I recommend that you check out the following films Alien, Blade Runner, Legend, Someone to Watch Over Me, and Gladiator!  "},{"Title":"Black Rain","Date":"10 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Michael Douglas is electrifying as detective Nick Cochlan, a loose cannon that plays by his own rules. Nick is definitely at a low-point in his life, as he is divorced and under investigation by Internal Affairs for stealing money. As if things couldn't get worse for Nick, he accidentally lets a killer, that he is responsible for delivering to the Japanese, escape. Consequently, Nick and his partner Charlie (Andy Garcia) decide to stay in Japan to track down the killer. Director Ridley Scott is no stranger to creating stylish and provocative films. One just needs to look at his work in 'Blade Runner' and 'Gladiator' to realize his talents. Certainly, Scott provides plenty of eye-popping visuals in the scenes taking place within the streets of Japan. Another point of interest is the way the movie handles the cultural clash in the scenes involving Nick and the Japanese detective, Masahiro (Ken Takakura), that has been assigned to watchdog him. When Nick first arrives in Japan, he seems to be rather contemptuous towards his Japanese counterparts. By the end of the movie, Nick develops an attitude of respect and shares a friendship with Masahiro.However, the movie's nagging flaw is its depiction of the Japanese mafia and police department. Most of these characters are under-developed and sink to level of being caricatures. There is also a subplot involving a developing romance between Nick and a cocktail waitress (Kate Capshaw) that is pure filler. As a result, too often the film feels like an all looks, no soul kind of show.Rating 6/10 or (2 stars) "},{"Title":"excellent movie, fast paced, good story line","Date":"15 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  SPOILER Black Rain, although not a new release, is an excellent movie.  It is fast paced and has a good strong story line.  The casting is very good with strong actors, Michael Douglas and Andy Garcia. Kate Capshaw has a very good part and although I don't recall the Japanese actor who was the detective, I think his portrayal was very good. Don't understand why in the world of reruns on TV this movie doesn't show up more often. Have seen it many times and would watch it anytime it comes on. Hate it when they kill Andy Garcia's character!!! "},{"Title":"a guilty pleasure","Date":"25 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This ones a guilty pleasure!Its got a really corny,far fetched plot,treats the japanese as a bunch of bureaucratic morons,is full of groan inducing dialogue,and has a scene where Andy Garcia and an uptight japanese detective sing a Ray Charles number, that will have you cringing with embarrassment.But i love the film!There's something about it that brings me back to it time and time again.It's certainly well directed,even though it's far from being Ridley Scott's best film.The film has an impressive look,with some stunning photography,and some memorable japanese locations.The main reason why i love Black Rain, is Michael Douglas,whose performance is quite simply awesome.He takes a really cliche'd character and brings him to life,giving the film more credibility than it deserves.Add some explosive action,and some brutal fight scenes,and you've got a dumb cop film thats hard to beat. "},{"Title":"Yet another 80s run of the mill ...","Date":"13 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Ah, the 80s. that era of arrogance and disdain to all thing 'not American'. This was the height of Reaganism when nationalistic crap like Rambo and Iron Eagle drew crowds! Another prime example of 'patriotism gone awry' the country was suffering from in the 80s. The blatant mockery of all things Japanese, some traditions dating back to a culture that has flourished for thousands of years, make this a movie for morons and Yee-hah hillbillies, not for people capable of independent thought. The preposterous behavior of two cops from NY, defying all Japanese traditions and insisting on being 'American' in their host country is something to be ashamed about, not cause for applause. Until this movie, I was a fan of Ridley Scott; not any more. "},{"Title":"Dirty Harry meets Romancing the Stone meets Rising Sun","Date":"28 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  After several dramatic flicks such as Fatal Attraction and Wall Street, Michael Douglas bounces back nicely into the action genre as a maverick New York cop named Nick, in Black Rain. Nick and his partner Charlie (a goofy-but lovable Andy Garcia) are assigned to extradite a nasty Yakuza mobster named Sato back to Japan, but a critical error in the Japanese airport results in letting Sato to escape. So, our heroes are forced to work with a hard-knuckled Japenese detective (played nicely but Ken Takukura) to bring Sato down. Black Rain is an awesome cop drama flick, with cool performances, a musicaly number by Garcia (!) and great motorcycle chase sequences. An ultimate thriller all the way. "},{"Title":"Not worth it","Date":"5 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Black Rain is a typical action 80's type film about a cop with an attitude, who's got family problems, and has to go off somewhere to kill some Asian mob. The film stars Michael Douglas who has to bring some Japanese boss back to Japan for a trial, but by mistake, he gives the boss right back to the mob! The rest of the film is how the American and Japanese cops try to find him. Tedious, not enough action to keep the movie floating, but good acting by Michael Douglas, as much as he was wasted in this movie, and good moments showing how Nick (Douglas) has to lose the attitude to work with the Japanese. Slick cover, but a good action movie to rent would be The Year of the Dragon. As trashy as it is, it's more entertaining than this. It's sad, right after the Wall Street oscar, he did this movie.  "}{"Title":"Maybe the best modern movie made.","Date":"10 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This is a genuine Ridley Scott movie featuring 1) Excellent photography with highly skilled use of light, color, contrast and movement. 2) An exciting plot. 3) Precise drama on a psychological level. 4) Excellent and highly credible acting. 5) Beautiful and fascinating display of a country and its culture. "},{"Title":"There is a different way, and it's Nippon.","Date":"2 July 2009","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Directed by Ridley Scott, so we already know it's going to be good.For me, the film belongs to Ken Takahura, who epitomises the cultural clash this film is all about. Quiet, structured, and obscure - he is typically Japanese to our eyes. I had a friend like this some time ago, and just loved the bounce of cultures between us. I always liked the Samurai way, and he came to see that a bloody Irish gaijin could see it too.Back to the film. It has all the action you could want, and with great cinematography and soundtrack throughout.And the best part?. The cultures meet and finally reach an understanding in the final sequences.Yusaku Matsuda showed a Samurai spirit too in this filming. He certainly looked healthy enough to me. Apparently not.Highly Recommended. "},{"Title":"A decent cop thriller. Spoiler Alert!","Date":"23 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Black Rain is a decent cop thriller that takes place in Japan instead of say, New York. Michael Douglas does a good job of playing the rogue cop playing by his own rules. Andy Garcia does a good job of being the goof off cop that dies early. The plot and execution are strictly by the numbers but this movie still manages to be entertaining. The film's Japanese actors pull off some good character acting but otherwise they are unremarkable. Bottom Line This film is ok considering the formulaic plot. Worth viewing once.  "},{"Title":"Wet Streets","Date":"5 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Just when I thought I'd understood Ridley Scott's work, along comes Black Rain.  He seems to not want to stay locked in one genre, unlike DePalma and Cameron, and always keeps on the move.  It's amazing that someone with as much talent as he goes through so many dryspells in creativity before finding an audience.  I'm certain by now he'd rather forget this movie.Black Rain takes a load of cliches and other familiar items to the genre and tries to hide them with elaborate cinematography and production design.  Scott is a greater visual artist because he supplements his story with visuals, even obscure one, whereas illiterate people like DePalma try and have their visuals work separate of the story.Unfortunately, unlike Blade Runner, the story takes the biggest beating in Black Rain.  Whilst the mist and neon worked in 'Runner, they wind up overshadowing the characters and burying any smart advancement of the story.  I found myself staring at the Japanese signs scattered throughout rather than the cast.  Michael Douglas in particular is not a poignant actor, he follows in the footsteps of his father, and I am unsettled that Ridley would work with someone as lamebrain as him.Overall, this gets marks from me for its visual fluidity, but not much else.  Scott has done so much better than this, we'll see how Matchstick Men winds up.  2.5 out of 5 stars.   "},{"Title":"The Riddler Rules","Date":"10 June 2004","Score":"9 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This is a great film. This is the film that drew me to really appreciate The Riddler Ridley Scott. At the time in my life when I first saw it I was visiting Japan and New York City often, and I felt that the director and the Director of Photography got the feel of the two locations spot on. This is also my favorite Michael Douglas film, as this was the perfect role for the kind of visceral energy he could portray when he was younger (which he used to comical mastery in Romancing The Stone). The Japanese culture is extremely complicated and just about as foreign to Americans as you can get, and I really felt that alienation from Douglas' character Conklin, and yet true to his character he cut through the BS to get what he wanted no matter the cost. Like Conklin said, If you pull it, you better use it., and boy did The Riddler ever make a fine on with this film.  "},{"Title":"Sometimes you gotta choose a side.","Date":"22 April 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Ridley Scott's Black Rain might get classy treatment with its stylistic touches and professional performances, but underneath it the commonplace screenplay is a dark, moody b-grade crime thriller at heart. Sometimes you got to forget your head and grab your balls. It dips itself into incompatible buddy cop territory, but it's the interesting East and West cultural differences between the detectives (I don't know Charlie. I can't figure this place out?) that drives this one within the exotic, but dangerous Japanese underworld. The script is sharply written, packing bite and some light humour amongst the drama, but it could have gone much deeper in the character's psyches than what it actually did.Nick Conklin and Charlie Vincent are two New York Cops who end up escorting a vicious murderer Sato back to Japan. A mishap occurs and Sato escapes, which to clean up this mess leaves Conklin and Vincent working alongside the local police, but as observers. Detective Masahiro Matsumoto is ordered to look over them, as their methods begin to clash throughout the investigation.Director Scott really knows how to present stunning imagery with many exhilarating action consisting of suspense and brutality. There's a smoky look, being smoothly shot and the night sequences are filled with atmospheric, neon lighting as Hans Zimmer's notable music is hauntingly pitched. It's slick all round. The performances are very good. Michael Douglas is right at home, providing plenty of edge to his hardened rouge cop. Andy Garcia is a bright spot as his partner. Ken Takakura is humbly solid, where his character tries to stick the rules but finally sees beyond that to get the job done. Yasuka Matsuda makes for a lethal Yakuza killer and Kate Capshaw turns up.A conventional, if plodding story brought to life by its director, actors and striking backdrop. "},{"Title":"Cops And Wobbers","Date":"9 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Basically we're talking Coogan's Bluff with chopsticks, i.e, cop(s) escorting prisoner from one jurisdiction to another, somehow 'losing' prisoner and then mounting a one (or, in this case, two) man crusade in alien territory to recapture said prisoner. It usually works, Coogan's Bluff worked and even inspired a TV spin-off, McCloud, French Connection II worked and so on and so on. Michael Douglas is effective as the main cop - Andy Garcia is also along for the ride - and is 'planted' as an accomplished motor cyclist in New York to enable a motor cycle finale in which he chases the Yakuza heavy on two wheels. It's done as well as these things ever are with enough violence and swearing to satisfy fans of the genre. "},{"Title":"I liked it...","Date":"12 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I liked it because it entertained me.  Sorry that I didn't try and pick out every subtle thing about this movie that I didn't like.  Maybe I'm just too easy to please.  Sometimes I wish I could be harder to please, so I could write a review that goes on endlessly about all the things that need fixing in a movie.  You know, I didn't like it because blah, blah, blah, blah, blah...   "},{"Title":"Iconic Cop Film and Much More","Date":"15 January 2009","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Black Rain is not just a masterpiece of cop fiction/action thriller but is also an iconic film that Hollywood produces from time to time. A technical marvel from Ridley Scott, that is excellent on setting, mood, lighting, editing and presentation. The overall mood of the film is enhanced by the intense musical score from Hans Zimmer which perfectly combines the gritty feel of the 1980s action genre with some nice keyboard styles so typical of the times.The story is a rather simple 'Buddy Cop' tale on the surface, but what it truly showcases is an encompassing picture of human will and grit. It is primarily the story of a man (in this case a cop) stuck in an alien almost surreal environment that was Japan in 1980s,and how he realizes on his own grit and determination to do what he came to do there. The setting of Japan as a surreal, myriad industrial wasteland is reflective of the confusion in America about Japan in that period of time. A Japan that was modern, highly industrialized, technological superpower on one hand but also one where society was breaking up and suicides were a all time high. But most of all a Japan that was dark, brooding and mostly still insular myth to America.The main character of dysfunctional, substance abusing and insubordinate but effective cop may not be original and indeed is less so today, the difference however, lies in the gritty portrayals like Bulitt, Dirty Harry, and Die Hard that stands out and remains with us for a long time, and Michael Douglas in Black Rain matches the same. The character of authority ridden and restrained Japanese cop by Ken Takakura is dynamically opposite of Douglas. Their coming together at the end reflects the fact that people may be culturally different, but age old values of human determination, grit and honor surpasses racial or geographical boundaries and separates the doers from watchers.All in all a very nice Movie that in many ways will always be representative of the hard and edgy action films of the 1980s. A genre that has sadly been replaced today by tech heavy self important films featuring caricatured leads. "},{"Title":"Very bad...","Date":"17 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Okay, so I will firstly start off with the fact that, Michael Douglas was superb in this film. Best role he has ever portrayed, and he deserves a gold star for his efforts in this movie alone. Now, with that being said...This was a really bad movie. I don't know what Ridley Scott was thinking, taking this film on, because it just really didn't work. It was almost like they followed two characters around Japan for two hours, and we got to see all the boring crap they did. I really didn't feel intense, scared, nervous or fearful for any of the characters.But, Andy Garcia was kind of hot...and he was really funny in it. And humor wise, I shouldn't discount Douglas, either. He actually made me laugh a few times, which he never does.I really found the movie slow, lacking emotion, and tedious at times. Not very good... "}{"Title":"Waste of time and talent","Date":"8 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This is one awful piece of crap. It's offensive on many levels, and Michael Douglas's character is so unsympathetic that one longs to see him get a bullet between the eyes almost as soon as he opens his ignorant, racist mouth. Combined with painfully bad writing, poor direction (from a director I often admire), and a very poor story, this film makes for about as much fun as gallstones.Unfortunately, the magnificent Yusaka Matsuda is completely wasted in this movie, which was his last before his death in 1989.Bottom line skip it. Hit yourself in the head instead -- it's cheaper, less painful, and less of an insult to the intellect. "},{"Title":"Lots of Noise Signifying Very Little.","Date":"6 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Wild and crazed action film that has New York cops Andy Garcia and Michael Douglas in Japan fighting the dreaded Yakuza. They capture a prisoner, but when he escapes the abyss the two police officers are in gets deeper and deeper. A film that dizzies more than it dazzles. In-your-face-direction by Ridley Scott and a lack of solid character development makes Black Rain little more than an easy way to give yourself a severe migraine. 2.5 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Decent cop action thriller.","Date":"26 March 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Black rain,turns out to be the most underrated movie of Ridley Scott.But this was not close to being special by his standards.Michael Douglas is back with a cop this time.A cop set to investigate about Japanese Mafia but he gets involve between the ongoing war between them.Andy Garcia also does well.The movie could have been much better.Expectations were higher being a Ridley Scott film but never lives up to it.Not bad as well.Action is gripping & compelling.Decent pop-corn action flick but just don't apply too much mind to it or else movie would turn out to be more of a time killer.I am never a fan of Michael Douglas though i felt,Ridley Scott could have given this role to someone else rather than him.The ending is good but very much predictable.Too far from being perfect but still a decent enough cop action thriller. "},{"Title":"One of the best cop thrillers of the 1980's","Date":"30 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Michael Douglas and Andy Garcia portray a duo of U.S. cop partners whose latest mission leads them to Tokyo to take on the Japanese mob. Douglas and Garcia make the most of their roles and portray them with gusto. One of the new classics. "},{"Title":"At Least They Took His Gun Away! For A While!","Date":"14 September 2009","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Michael Douglas can always be counted on to offer a strong performance in pretty much any movie comedy, drama, thriller, whatever. His talents were in evidence here, as he portrayed NYPD Det. Nick Conklin, a cop suspected of being corrupt, who's nevertheless given the assignment along with his partner of escorting a dangerous criminal to Japan. Unfortunately, upon their arrival, Conklin is tricked into letting the guy go, and the rest of the movie deals with his efforts to get him back into custody. In addition to Douglas, there were strong performances from Andy Garcia as his partner Charlie, and from Ken Takakura as Japanese officer Masahiro, who somewhat reluctantly helps track the criminal down.Unfortunately, the good performances were about all that was in evidence here. The basic premise of the story was weak. Regardless of how much his immediate superiors may have trusted him, I doubt that Conklin, under investigation by Internal Affairs, would have been given this assignment to begin with, so the movie had an unbelievable edge right off. The movie also fell into the trap that so many American movies fall into - Conklin arrives in Japan, loses the bad guy, and then becomes front and centre in the effort to find him, even though he has no business doing police work in Japan. True, the Japanese police made it clear that he was unwelcome, and they made him give up his gun - but he later got one anyway. He ends up as the hero (true, along with Masahiro) - even getting a medal from the same Japanese officer who originally disarmed him. In the same vein, the depiction of Japanese police struck me as less than flattering, and, of course, Masahiro only becomes a hero because he starts to act like an American cop. The movie also offered a look at the Japanese underworld that wasn't sufficiently developed, and for no discernible reason included Kate Capshaw in a totally meaningless role as an American woman who runs a nightclub in Osaka.This gets a 3/10, only for the good acting. "},{"Title":"just my opinion...","Date":"13 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This movie sucked. It was slow and made no sense, then explained itself later. The story telling lacked alot. Michael Douglas did pretty good in the role but the movie needed some more story. And I don`t think  Andy Garcia was right for that role. But that`s just my opinion. If you liked the movie, good for you. But I think it could have been better, alot better. "}]