[{"Title":"deserves cult status","Date":"8 January 2005","Score":"20 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" i thought this movie was unreal.it is certainly Brooke shields vehicle and she does an amazing job with it,she was totally impressive,endearing and mind blowing-ly gorgeous as the ace comic book reporter.her comedic abilities really shine through here so it is a shame that this film didn't become more recognized than it was. the editing in a certain part is terrible-witness Brenda Starr falling from a balcony in slow motion-but the rest is a hell of a lot of camp fun. Diana Scarwidis awesome in this role as is the Russian woman on Brenda's trail. i have watched this film over and over again and it gets better every time. do yourself a favour and dust it off a rental shelf and watch it. "},{"Title":"Brenda is sort of a star","Date":"9 July 2010","Score":"14 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" I searched for this for years, sniffing after it's bad reputation. Surprize-it's not that bad. The scenes with the comic strip artist are painful but brief. Most of the action is period 40's and the costumes are fun (Bob Mackie?). Brooke is just gorgeous, of course, and makes a plucky Brenda. Diana Scarwid is her nasty rival and Timothy Dalton her sexy love interest. If this had been done for TV (which it looks like) I think the critics would have been far kinder. If I recall, no one crucified Jill St. John for the 1976 version. This movie is strictly for comic book buffs or Brooke Sheilds fans.CC "},{"Title":"This film had its premiere in the Florida Theater a couple of years after it was made.","Date":"6 May 2000","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I am one of perhaps a couple thousand people to actually view this film in a theater and not on video-tape.  I attended the premiere in the Florida Theater in Jacksonville, Florida.  From the cast and crew, only the director, Robert Ellis Miller, managed to attend, introducing his film that was made in the Jacksonville area a few years before.Overall, it's a fairly good film.  The tongue-in-cheek acting is right on, with Brooke Shields and a pre-007 Timothy Dalton having a lot of fun with the material.  Unfortunately, a couple of scenes were really hard to believe... especially when our heroine Brenda Starr waterskis on the backs of a pair of alligators!!!The other effects in the film were nicely handled, including the animation and the scene showing an older New York City behind the historic Ritz Theater which played host to a scene early in the picture.It's not a great film, but deserving of a viewing if you'd like an adventure flick without much seriousness.  7 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"Fun, fun, fun!","Date":"13 August 2002","Score":"15 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is great, campy fun!  Light-hearted fluff, but wonderful.They say I need four lines, so I guess I'll say it again, because it really says all that needs saying.This movie is great, campy fun.  Light-hearted fluff, but wonderful! "},{"Title":"Lighthearted exotic comedy-adventure with a gorgeous Brooke Shields","Date":"24 January 2016","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" Despite its troubled production & release history and its low reputation, Brenda Starr is a movie with a lot going for it a lively jazz score by Johnny Mandel, colorful cinematography by Freddie Francis, lots of comic-book-style flourishes by director Robert Ellis Miller, and one fabulous costume after another for Brooke Shields (this may not be a great movie, but it's a great fashion show at the very least!). Speaking of Brooke Shields, she's gorgeous with a great body the director seems fetishistically obsessed with her legs - there are many frames with only her legs in them - and who can blame him? There are weak spots, too the story has little drive, Tony Peck (who?) doesn't have enough charisma to be a leading man (on the other hand, Timothy Dalton is perfectly cast), and the cartoonish Russian villains are unfunny, but if you're a Brooke fan, you do not want to miss this film. **1/2 out of 4. "},{"Title":"Interesting","Date":"24 March 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" Let me start off first by saying that this movie is not very good but I would put it against other movies of the same era and say that it is better than average.It certainly doesn't deserve the bad rap that it has gotten over the years and isn't a terrible movie either, however. I'm not sure why so many people hate this film. The direction, writing and acting are all just fine.Brooke Shields looks great and does a fair enough job of playing the main character.The story is also very unique and fun with her literally coming out of the comic strip as a real life character. Maybe the strangeness of that turns some people off.But it's a fun movie and worth seeing... if you can find it that is, it's not super well known or loved! "},{"Title":"A Lost Classic","Date":"12 February 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" Brenda Starr is a wonky, wacky, campy good time at the movies. Based on the classic comic strip, this movie captures all of the fun and innocence that saturated the childhoods of the seventies. Brenda Starr, brilliantly portrayed by the effervescent Brooke Shields, is a reporter who goes that extra mile for a good story, and when she gets fed up with the artist who draws her, he jumps into her comic strip world of instant outfit changes and convenient plot segues and helps her on her newest search for a scoop.This movie blends real story with caricature quirk and you will not be able to stop smiling from start to finish. The movie is aware of how ridiculous some of the misadventures are and instead of looking the other way it playfully points it out. Brenda Starr is a hidden gem that should be viewed by children and adults everywhere. It is reminiscent of The Goonies and Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles. Both silly and over the top and completely lovable. 8.5/10 "},{"Title":"what a strange and bizarre movie...","Date":"9 February 2016","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" i seriously cant believe the script for this was even green lit and actually filmed, what a strange movie to make. I get that because it was a comic movie maybe they didn't know how to handle it... But There were Other movies based on comics before this one and those movies did a better job. So I really do not understand why they went with the way they did. The movie started off really strong actually, we get to meet the character of Brenda Starr and we get to see her world (Which I loved) I actually loved the city a lot. But like many people have said before, once they leave the city the movie becomes a mess. The movie felt hard to follow at times and some of the characters were really cheesy. The movie felt really boring. This could have been amazing if it was done in a more serious manner. "},{"Title":"Brenda Starr, So Misunderstood","Date":"29 December 2011","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" I can't say much more than what other reviewers have said here, so I'll try to be brief.Things I liked about this movie Brooke Shields was a good choice for the lead role, mainly because she really looks like Brenda Starr as I remember her from the Sunday morning newspaper comics, especially in close-ups. I do remember Brenda Starr being a bit more edgy, but Brooke was OK. Timothy Dalton was a good choice for her mysterious lover Basil St. John. The musical score is great. The fashions are gorgeous, the settings beautiful. Some of the humor works, but...Things I didn't like about this movie It totally misses the spirit of the comic strip. Some people like tongue-in-cheek camp, but I hate it because to me it makes fun of the story rather than just being humorous. If they had given the movie a serious plot but added in lots of humor, that would have been OK; but no, they have to make the story an unbelievable joke. Also, to have the cartoonist popping in and out of the strip as a rival to Basil St. John was just pathetic.As another reviewer said, the first part of the movie is the best. By the time it gets to the second half, it seems like they lost all direction and just decided to have some Marx-brothers style lunacy. It's fun, but when I couldn't believe in the story anymore it got boring real fast. Also, I don't recommend this movie for kids (if you see it, you'll know why).My comments reflect my taste, of course, and you may see things differently. As for myself, I'm going to explore some of the other versions of Brenda Starr that are out there to see if they have a story I can believe in. "},{"Title":"BRENDA STARR (Robert Ellis Miller, 1989) **","Date":"23 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" Witless adaptation of a comic-strip revolving around the titular female crime reporter (which had previously been the source of a 1976 TV movie with Jill St. John); Brooke Shields looks good throughout but seems undecided whether to approach the role straight, or else play it for laughs! Indeed, this dilemma afflicts the entire production to its ultimate detriment &#150; with the result that the film was shelved for some three years (it was, in fact, shot in 1986 i.e. prior to co-star Timothy Dalton's brief stint as James Bond)! At least, the latter seems to have had a good time making it for he subsequently tackled the part of the villain in another comic-strip adaptation with, again, some powerful gizmo as the object of contention between various factions (and nationalities) &#150; namely ROCKETEER (1991; which I watched a day previously and found to be vastly superior)! Dalton's character here is actually enigmatic &#150; dashing in spite of an eye-patch, he always turns up at unexpected moments to save, guide or otherwise romance the heroine.The chief villains are a gang of incompetent Russian agents (including a bald-headed goofball and the pint-sized cigar-smoking female leader), though also hindering Shields is the ambitious and vaguely vampish rival reporter played by Diana Scarwid. Incidentally, the plot involves a fantasy framework in which animator Tony Peck inhabits the world of his subject (they keep quarrelling about how he isn't fit to design Brenda's exploits because he continually looks down on her, something of which the film-makers themselves are guilty!) &#150; this doesn't really work and is actually rather pointless.I was surprised to learn that renowned veteran cinematographer Freddie Francis (a beloved minor genre director in his own right) was behind this one in the former capacity; his craftsmanship at least renders the silly and positively dreary goings-on (which relocates to Brazil during the second half) pleasing to the eye. A number of guest appearances (including Eddie Albert as the Police Commissioner, Charles Durning as Starr's flamboyant boss, Henry Gibson as the obligatory eccentric scientist and Ed Nelson as the piano-playing American President) add nothing of substance to the film. "}{"Title":"The Dumbest Movie Ever Filmed","Date":"7 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" Brenda Starr is based on a long-running comic strip of the same name that I vaguely recall years ago, when I got a newspaper and would turn to the funny pages for Calvin & Hobbes. (For you youngsters out there, newspapers are kind of like web sites . . . on paper!) A 20-year-old Brooke Shields plays Brenda Starr, and at this point of Brooke's career as an actress . . . she's a beautiful woman. We'll leave it at that.We are introduced to Brenda as a cartoon being drawn by disgruntled cartoonist Mike (Tony Peck, son of Gregory, evidence that talent often skips a generation). In his studio, Mike goes on an anti-Brenda Starr rant directed at his own scribblings of Brenda, concluding with I wouldn't even draw you if I didn't need the dough! In a development that made no sense at the time and makes less in retrospect, Brenda comes alive on the page in front of Mike and quits the comic strip I've had it! Who do you think you are? . . . Bug off, buster! Brenda Starr transforms from animation to Brooke Shields and walks off panel and into her next adventure in live action, which is still happening in make-believe CartoonLand.I'm not sure what law is preventing the artist from simply drawing the character on paper, but Mike is desperate to get Brenda back to save his job. I promise, I'm not making any of this up. Rather than consult a psychiatrist about the mental disorder preventing him from drawing an imaginary woman after she came alive, Mike feels he has to convince Brenda to come back.In CartoonLand, Brenda is a star(r) reporter for a struggling newspaper known as The Flash in post-World War II New York. She's your typical, chic, spunky gal reporter. Brenda's latest scoop involves a hunt for a former Nazi scientist who has invented super-duper fuel in the Amazon, and whoever gets their hand on the fuel will determine the fate of the world . . . though we know it's just a cartoon where the stakes don't matter.Mike draws a representation of himself to the exact location where he and Brenda had their spat, precariously perched on the ledge of a tall building. Mike is physically inserted in CartoonLand! I hope you are taking notes, because there will be a test later.During Mike's odyssey, he stops at a coffee shop where he picks up a paper, and finds a comic strip with his exploits depicted on it, The Adventures of Mike. The strip shows Mike coming into the coffee shop and reading the paper and having an encounter with a gypsy, which happens moments after he reads that's it's going to happen. So the gag is that in CartoonLand the comic strip shows the antics of a real person.Now, Mike is a real person currently in CartoonLand, so the idea is that there's a cartoon following a non-cartoon, unfunny cartoonist, but only while he's in CartoonLand, and this strip is capable of depicting events mere seconds from occurring.Mike ends up tagging along on Brenda's epic scoop hunt. Along the way they encounter lame comedic villains in a group of Russians (including Jeffrey Tambor, who in later years would become funny) and a rival, evil, lady reporter Lips Lipscomb. Brenda is aided by the mysterious, be-eye-patched Basil (Timothy Dalton, poor, poor Timothy Dalton). Basil's purpose in the movie is never entirely clear and his contributions in the story could be replaced by a helpful cab driver.Basil's presence does add a debonair character with an eye-patch and gives Timothy Dalton a chance to dress like Zorro (no, seriously).There is a bizarre subplot about Basil's family requiring toxins from a rare orchid or else they'll go insane before their time, which never comes to fruition. (Incidentally, is there a proper time to go insane? If so, witnessing Brenda Starr may be such an instance.) Basil and Mike vie for Brenda's love. All the while Mike is trying to convince Brenda to come back with him. Again, not to quibble over small details, but I had no clue what Mike means by getting Brenda to come back with him &#x97; she is a cartoon character after all, and he's a real person who draws cartoon characters.Does Mike want Brenda &#x97; who he now is madly in love with &#x97; to come with him to the real world? If that's the case and assuming it's possible, she was never there, so it wouldn't be coming back, she'd be going there for the first flippin' time! If it meant what I think it does, that Brenda just returns to the comic she somehow walked out on, what matter of consent or participation is required of her? Ultimately, after all the shenanigans are through and Brenda has played the piano with President Truman (seriously), gone through about 813 outfit changes, thwarted multiple spy agencies, skied atop crocodile steeds (again, not a joke), and saved the newspaper, Brenda tells Mike she can't go back with him. This leads to the following conversationMike You're not coming with me? (Brenda shakes head) At least I'll be able to see you when I draw you every day.Brenda (smiling) Only if you're nice.Mike then somehow returns to the real world, and begins to draw Brenda, the only thing that has changed is that he no longer hates drawing Brenda Starr.SO WHAT IN THE BLUE HADES DID MIKE NEED TO GO INTO THE FICTIONAL WORLD IN ORDER TO CONVINCE BRENDA TO RETURN WITH HIM? EVEN AFTER HE FAILED MISERABLY HE IS PERFECTLY ABLE TO DO EXACTLY WHAT HE NEEDED TO DO, DRAW A REDHEADED WOMAN ON PAPER! *sigh* Like I said, Brenda Starr is the dumbest movie I have ever seen. "},{"Title":"Badly conceived","Date":"8 December 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" The most that people know about this movie was that it was filmed in 1986, then spent six years on the shelf before being (barely) released to theaters. Was it deserving of its fate? For that most part, yes. Though obviously not a big budget exercise, the movie does boast (for the most part) passable production values. However, the rest of the movie falls flat. Brooke Shields looks the part of Brenda Starr, but her performance simply isn't very good. In fairness to Shields, her role is strangely not written to be a smart and resourceful woman, but kind of a bubblehead - such a demeaning role would make anyone reluctant to give a good performance. In fact, just about every character is written to be kind of stupid. The movie seems to think that the whole thing should be some kind of joke, when in fact this kind of movie needs a SERIOUS treatment. It doesn't help that there are several instances where key linking footage or entire scenes seem to be missing, leading to some very confusing moments. I'm willing to be that Dale Messick, the original cartoonist of the Brenda Starr comic strip, wasn't very pleased by this cinematic adaptation of her work. "},{"Title":"Well-Meaning but Embarrassing Cine-Wreck","Date":"10 April 2012","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" What the hell were the people behind Brenda Starr thinking (or were they even thinking to being with) when they made this&#x85;film based on the long-running, now-defunct newspaper comic strip by the late Dale Messick? Sure, comic strips, let alone comic books, weren't treated seriously then (Hollywood still had the Man of Steel on their brains), but if you make a film based on a fictional, antiquated female reporter (thanks, Gloria Steinhem), you have an embarrassing cine-wreck.In the supposed real world, comic strip artist Mike Randall (Tony Peck, son of the Oscar-winning legend Gregory) toils on the Brenda Starr strip for Messick. In an odd fourth-wall smashing fashion, Starr (Brooke Shields, The Blue Lagoon) refuses to be drawn by Randall and quits. Randall, in some unexplainable way (one of the film's problems), goes into the strip to convince Starr to return before the deadline. She's busy, though, with tracking down a scientist in Puerto Rico and Brazil. Seems the egghead has invented a unique rocket fuel that has attracted both a bumbling band of Russian spies (What? No Nazis?) and Starr's rival newshound, Libby Lips Lipscomb (Diana Scarwid of Mommie Dearest).Intrigued? If not, congratulations. You have better sense than me, who saw the film for free and still wants the 94 minutes of my life back! The. . .film tries to be cute and campy so much, it descends.Directed ineptly by Robert Ellis Miller, who used an obviously first draft script by James David Buchanan, Noreen Stone & Jenny Wolkind (a pseudonym for Delia Ephron, Nora's sister), Starr dims to black than shines, from start to end, especially from the start. After the women's liberation movement, the novelty of a female reporter seems dated, and those who know and enjoyed Brenda Starr are either dead or collecting Social Security. Who the hell is supposed to watch this film, let alone enjoy it? Casting then-hot fashion model Shields as the title role was a bad attempt to get young audiences. The fact she goes through silly, implausible costume changes (I didn't bother to count how many. Sorry, Bob Mackie!) did next to nothing to help her in a flat, cardboard role. It's not one of her best moments. Doe-eyed Peck's no help, awkwardly being both comic relief and potential love interest. When he tries to make Starr utter a foul profane word, instead of jeepers, it comes off a fact to the film's datedness. Also of no real use, aside of being beefcake with a eye-patch, is the dashing, mysterious Basil St. John (a pre-James Bond Timothy Dalton) who captures Starr's heart. At least poor Ms. Scarwid shares the sentiment of any unfortunate viewer when referring to Starr Oh! I wish I could kill her! Interestingly, the film was shelved to distribution disputes before premiering in 1986. Three years later, it bowed in France, where Shields was popular. Another three years, it came back here and bombed, without much publicity and wallowing in the shadows of better comic book/strip adaptations. If anything can learn from watching Brenda Starr, it's to make a better film involving a more interesting female comic book/strip character (Paging Wonder Woman&#x85;). "},{"Title":"In the days before Brooke Shields could act...","Date":"10 November 2002","Score":"3 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  She would cash in on her looks.  Her acting ability has finally reared its head with Suddenly Susan, but prior to her stint on TV Brooke Shields did a number of lack luster appearances films that were shot as A-quality pictures, but suffered from her poor acting ability.Brenda Starr shows a turning point in Brooke's acting career, largely because it seemed as though she actually projected herself into the Brenda Starr character, verse reciting lines in her previous roles.Even so the film is poorly directed, and veterans like Dalton and Scarwid cannot prop up a film that has a definate lack of vision.  In fact the best sequences of the entire film are in Act I; from Shields braving a ledge to get an interview with an Irish immigrant gangster, to her welcome home to the office by the Brenda Starr comic strip's supporting characters.The film was given a kind of feminine sense of adventure, which I believe detracts from what could've been a far more entertaining film; had the director just followed his personal instincts and created a good adventure film.  The high points are seeing Brooke herself in very alluring fashions of the late forties.  Beyond that there's not much here.  Brooke looks the part, but couldn't act it ... at least not then. "},{"Title":"Quite simply, the worst film of all time.","Date":"30 June 2009","Score":"2 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" Which is sad, as many people probably worked on this as hard as they did on any other film that made sense, had a workable plot, decent writing, any tempo, in short, something that is recognizably a film. So, what went wrong. Why did the studios put money into something, hire so many people, and look at the end result and table it for as long as they could hoping no one would go to the theatre and see it? ( They were almost right, with no advance pub, screenings, posters etc. it vanished ) However the stars were aligned in heaven, simply every single component of this film failed. Which is not to criticize anybody in the film, I will leave that to, oh, critical people. Every decision involved in this film worked out badly. 1. The initial sequence involved a man of undetermined origin (until you realise he's Irish!) with the worst accent in a major motion picture ever. NO,really. You have to see it.2. The love interest/cartoonist is supposed to be a straight man.Now I have no interest in gender politics, but the man in the role is so undeniably not heterosexual, that you would have to be literally blind and deaf not to notice. (back story is that no one bought a ticket for this when it was dumped out on a Friday, and after a couple of days of no shows, two local critics, and some friends of mine ponied up to get the theatre to show the film. One of the critics is openly gay, and turned around in the middle of the first scene to give a look of such utter perplexity, that to this day, he looked like a dog who had just been given the facility to reason and understand speech and was so utterly disappointed with our species that you could see his soul wither in front of you.) 3.OH a script would be nice. Somehow, someway, all of the ideas and revisions and changes that were made to this and at some point obviously made a director feel that he had made the chronological logic necessary to wrap and print, failed. FAILED. On a massive level. 4. Oh, there is lots and lots of amazing film to watch if you can make it through but find it yourself and go for it. ***Please find a copy and watch this movie. It is so less than the sum of its parts that it is hard not root for everyone connected to this. A jawdropping lack of coherency and committed sincerity, it will stay with you. To all fans who liked this, that is what makes the world so beautiful and why even though Something About Mary is seriously worse than this film I could not let the recommendation as calumnic-ish as it is, go by. "},{"Title":"Proof Positive that God has a sense of humor","Date":"30 October 2000","Score":"4 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  To quote someone I think someone say Dick Tracy and an A-Ha video and said, 'What a great idea!'This movie was really terrible.  Watching this was akin to having a Root Canal without anesthetics.  Rent only if you have a death wish on a rainy Sunday afternoon. "},{"Title":"Why did Brooke put on weight for this one?","Date":"17 December 2001","Score":"3 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Brooke apparently put on 20 pounds to more realistically play Brenda Starr (after Robert Dinero put on weight to play Jake LaMotta, this was for a while the in thing to do--I am not sure she just did not pig out).  I am not a big fan of the Comic Strip, but I do not remember Brenda Starr being particularly plump.  Well Brook never really got the weight off her thighs (although the face is still gorgeous, but puffy) and this movie is where I lost the Brooke I used to adore, now I just love a hell of a lot.For fans of Brooke that want to know What the hell happened to her after 'Blue Lagoon', this is her watershed (fat gain) public moment.Brooke, this movie was not worth sacrificing your figure for! "}]