[{"Title":"A must see!","Date":"9 November 2001","Score":"50 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  I was a theater manager in 1988. I got this movie called 'Without a Clue', and that describes what I knew about it. I never saw a preview, I had no one sheet (poster) for it......Nothing! When I put the thing together, and saw the beginning, I thought oh, no! Not another Sherlock Holmes movie! (I think they made too many as it is!) But when Watson yelled at Holmes You idiot!, that blew me away! I sat and watched it and laughed my butt off! Unfortunately, nobody else knew about this movie either! My theater was in a small town, and everybody knew me, and I told people if you want to see a funny movie that has no sex, really bad words, you have to see this movie! On Friday, when it opened, the theater was nowhere near full, on Thursday, the night it closed, we had a good crowd, some seeing it two, or three times (our admission price was $1.00 at the time). Granted, the teen-agers didn't care for it, but the adults loved it! In fact, one lady said to me, why don't they make more like that anymore! This movie IS an overlooked gem of a comedy!  "},{"Title":"A Sherlockian Comedy of Grand Proportions!","Date":"21 December 2001","Score":"40 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"     Its a shame this film is not better appreciated.Its the finest parody of the Holmes Mythos ever set to screen. The stories are sent up without being malicious.Its an absurdists view with loads of honest laughs.  Ben Kinsley shines as Dr. Watson,the true brains behind the Holmes cases.In order to continue his medical practice without repurcussion (Crime Solving is shunned upon for a respected professional)Watson invents a character named Holmes. His reputation grows to the point that people wish to meet him...enter Reginald Kincaid played to perfection by Michael Caine. Kincaid is a drunken,out of work actor hired by Watson to play Holmes. With the teaming of these two screen greats the chemistry is electric.  Add a solid supporting cast of wonderful character actors (including Paul Freeman as Moriarty and Jeffrey Jones as Lestrade)and a very convincing performance from the lovely Lysette Anthony and the film is off to a great start. The screenplay and Direction solidify its relevence as a first class comedic romp.  If you can catch Without A Clue on television don't miss it! Its not yet available on DVD and sadly out of print on video. "},{"Title":"A true lost gem","Date":"6 December 2002","Score":"38 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" The premise is so clever. Sherlock Holmes never really existed. It was Dr. Watson (Ben Kingsley) who had been solving these cases all along, and simply hired bumbling actor Reginald Kincaid (Michael Caine) to play the fake Sherlock Holmes.To those who are hard-core Holmes fans, this film will be cherished. Sadly, the VHS is out of print in the USA (I bought mine used at a flea market), and DVDs are available only in Europe. (UPDATE The film has been released on DVD in the USA, but in Pan & Scan.)Also, the film received hardly any promotion in the USA. But it is lavishly directed, cleverly written, and magnificently cast.Everything about this film deserves exclamation points!Track it down any way you can, and prepare to laugh out loud. "},{"Title":"Absolutely brilliant, Watson!  A Sherlock Holmes story where LESTRADE SOLVES THE BLOODY CASE!","Date":"23 September 1999","Score":"42 out of 56 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  The Sherlock Holmes stories are full of monumental blunders.  Watson's famous war wound, which moves about from limb to limb, is among the least of them.  Most of the blame for Arthur Conan Doyle's unparallelled clumsiness has fallen upon poor old John (or, according to one story, James) Watson - as if HE could possibly be responsible for the all (or any) of the inanities in, say, `The Mazarin Stone'.`Without a Clue' is an honest, meticulously researched film that does what it can to redress the injustice.  It reveals that Watson was really the brains of the Holmes/Watson team - that Sherlock Holmes does not, technically speaking, even exist.  How does this get us around all the inconsistencies that have puzzled Sherlock aficionados over the past century?  To be frank, it doesn't.  But no theory does.  There are just too many inconsistencies to be fended off and this theory is about as likely to be right as any other.  It's the theory I tend to believe.  At least it's funnier than any of its rivals.Anyone who loves the Holmes stories - anyone who has not been exposed to the stories but is genetically predisposed to love them nonetheless - MUST see this film.  You don't need to know who Holmes, Watson, Lestrade and Moriarty are in order to enjoy it.  Or rather, you need to know, but whatever you may think, you DO know - knowledge of the Sherlock Holmes universe has found its way into the water supply and 90% of all people are born with it.  That's why `Without a Clue' is so hilarious.  That's why it won Academy Awards for Best Picture, Best Screenplay and Best Actor.  Actually, it didn't win anything, but I presume this was only because of some footling technicality.P.S.  I should really set readers' minds at rest by telling them that Lestrade doesn't really solve the case.  `Without a Clue' offers us a radically revisionist account of history - but not THAT radical. "},{"Title":"Unexpected gem turns Holmesian lore on its head","Date":"16 May 2005","Score":"23 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" WITHOUT A CLUE Aspect ratio 1.851Sound format Dolby Stereo'Sherlock Holmes' turns out to be a ham actor (Michael Caine), hired by brilliant detective Dr. John Watson (Ben Kingsley) to play a character whose adventures are dramatized by Watson and published in a popular weekly magazine. But the two men are forced to set aside their differences when Prof. Moriarty (Paul Freeman) hatches a fiendish plot to destabilize the British Empire.An unexpected gem. Thom Eberhardt's clever revision of Holmesian lore foregoes puns and sight gags for character-based comedy, and a wonderful cast of experienced British thesps plays it with just the right degree of reverence and mockery (Caine and Kingsley, in particular, make a formidable comic team). However, the script - by Gary Murphy and Larry Strawther - is entirely faithful to the spirit of Arthur Conan Doyle's most famous creation Despite Holmes' incompetence and Watson's escalating outrage, the central mystery is genuinely skillful and engrossing, the clues are delightfully outlandish, and the Victorian atmosphere is conveyed with elegant simplicity, thanks to stylish art direction (by Brian Ackland-Snow) and costume design (by Judy Moorcroft). However, the writers aren't afraid to poke gentle fun at the established conventions, particularly Holmes'/Watson's uncanny ability to draw conclusions from even the most obscure scraps of evidence, and the climax manages to combine warm-hearted comedy and genuine thrills during a final showdown with Moriarty in an abandoned theatre. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Witty movie with great performances","Date":"6 March 1999","Score":"20 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Every once in a while you see a movie that most everyone overlooks but it still strikes a cord with you.  Without A Clue is a such a movie. It starts with a clever premise, Watson is the brains behind the bumbling Holmes, and while the actual criminal investiation in the movie isn't exactly a big stretch in deductive reasoning, what makes this movie worthwhile are the solid performances of Michael Caine and Ben Kingsley. The professional reviews linked with this movie would have you believe this movie isn't worth the bother, but that's not true.  Caine and Kingsley seem to be having the time of their lives in this movie.  (Granted Kingsley has the less flashy role but he still fills it with a great deal of subtley that the likes of Roger Ebert and his ilk must have missed) The quote page has some great excerpts from this funny movie, but there's so much more to it than just that. This one ranks as a guilty pleasure of mine, maybe not one that sits in everyone else's video collection, but it definitely holds a place in mine.  "},{"Title":"Most excellent comic turn on the Sherlock Holmes saga.  The game's afoot!","Date":"16 August 2001","Score":"18 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  This is one of Michael Caine's funniest performances and he and Ben Kingsley worked quite well together.  The supporting cast is top-notch as well. Jeffry Jones as LeStrade is very good and Peter Cook has a fine supporting turn.  As for the premise-that Holmes was a front for Watson, given the fact that Sir Arthur Conan Doyle was himself a physician and that he grew so sick of Holmes he tried to kill him off, I suspect he would have enjoyed the whole thing enormously.  Twists and turns throughout, as a good mystery should and enough comedy to keep you laughing.  Some interesting twists at the end.  Poor LeStrade!  Recommended. "},{"Title":"Witty entertaining farcical romp","Date":"4 May 2002","Score":"16 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  This si a great story idea speculating on the assumption that the real genius of the famous Conan Doyle detective duo is Dr Watson, the academic.  The acclaimed Sherlock Holmes is just a publicity front, played by a hack actor, while Watson does the real sleuthing.It an interesting idea and Ben Kingsley and Michael Caine make it work exceptionally well.  This is one of those films where the comedy works best if it's played totally deadpan seriously (which is the case with most comedy in fact).  If you run along with this idea, it runs as a very intriguing and wonderfully fun story, almost on par with any other classic Holmes film. "},{"Title":"Elementary, My Dear Holmes","Date":"26 May 2005","Score":"12 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Without A Clue might be called Without A Trace, as it sunk upon its 1988 release much like a set of five-pound-note engravings at the bottom of Lake Windemere. Hopefully the new DVD release, albeit pan-and-scan, will give people another chance to catch this terrific send-up of fiction's most celebrated detective.This is the film that dares reveal Sherlock Holmes is a fraud, an out-of-work actor named Reginald Kincaid (Michael Caine) pulled out of the gutter by a desperate crime-solving doctor named Watson (Ben Kingsley) who needed to produce someone to play the part of this invention of his. Dr. Watson, you see, didn't want the initial notoriety of his sleuthing successes. He desired admission to a medical college that would frown on such things. Now he wishes he wasn't so successful in playing Kincaid off as Holmes; Kincaid's a drunken womanizing blaggard grown too big for his britches, whining that Watson doesn't treat him at all times with the respect his borrowed robes command.I am the one the public really cares about, Kincaid/Holmes sniffs.Are we talking of the same man who once declared the late Colonel Howard had been bludgeoned to death by a blunt EXCREMENT?Is it my fault if you have such poor handwriting?The lines aren't all polished gems, but they complement a pair of nice comic performances by Caine and Kingsley that keep spirits merry as the game goes afoot.Also well-done is the understated late Victorian period detail and some strategic nods to the Holmes canon like the presence of Mrs. Hudson the housekeeper and the Baker Street Irregulars, all of whom are in on the Kincaid/Holmes secret. There's choice digs at Holmes' notoriety throughout, like a fellow who gives some meaningless eyewitness testimony to Holmes before a rapt hometown crowd who break into applause when Holmes tells Watson Make a note of it. Watson's slow burns here and elsewhere reward repeat viewings.With Henry Mancini doing the score and director Thom Eberhardt effectively working in a light Ealing tone, this film plays like some great lost Peter Sellers comedy, except Sellers would never share the screen so easily with another as Caine and Kingsley do here. Eberhardt also did good work in another film that went past too many people, Year Of The Comet; it's a shame we didn't see more of him.This would be a classic if the mystery at the heart of the story was more developed, and there are a pair of unnecessary killings that distract momentarily from the light tone. I'm not wild about all the supporting performances, but Jeffrey Jones is a very funny Lestrade as he chases Holmes around an abandoned house on his hands and knees, Watson having told his partner first to do his usual sleuthing routine so Watson himself can root around unobserved. Lysette Anthony is sexy and effective as the potential romantic interest, inspiring Holmes to try and solve the case without Watson, as well as look in keyholes when he's not supposed to.He's less successful attempting elementary deduction when he spies a man he takes for a reporter just back from the subcontinent.I'm a barrister and I've never been to India in my life, the man answers.But you do read the Times.Of course.Aha!You don't need to be an Arthur Conan Doyle fan to enjoy Without A Clue, though it helps. This is the best kind of parody, no less riotous and cutting from being a work of true love. "},{"Title":"highly underrated comedy film","Date":"4 February 1999","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  It's nice to be able to put forward my brief view on an extremely under-rated piece of  comedy.I have seen many reviews about this film which do not do it justice, and believe that the scriptwriting, and the comic acting by the two stars, especially Caine deserve a lot more credit.I am not a huge Michael Caine fan, although i do enjoy films like Alfie, and Educating Rita, but I thought his comic timing in this film was superb.There are so many examples of inspired throw away lines, that Caine gives inspiration too.Eg, the Holmes opens the study door after attempting to disprove his lack of intelligence to find the house keeper is stood there with a bottle in hand who announces in full Scottish Drawl 'he's been at it again' at which Caine close the door and states 'i've never liked that woman'This line is not inherently funny, but Caine injects it with a wit which eludes most stars. Moments like these, ('progressing nicely') establish Caine in my eyes as a hugely talented comic actor, who, unlike many comedy stars follows the golden rule of playing comedy straight. See his other inspired comic appearance in Dirty Rotton Scoundrels where he acts Steve Martin off the screen, funny though Martin is.I would love to see more of Michael Caine in this sort of role. "}{"Title":"Something quite wonderful...","Date":"4 July 2006","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" A much overlooked film of comic perfection, Without a Clue is a hidden gem of a movie that shows beyond doubt the true talents of its main actors, Michael Caine and Ben Kingsley.While not the funniest movie of all time, it is in its entirety both heart-warmingly humorous and adorable in its simplicity. The relationship between The two main characters is stunningly portrayed, and the gentle humour throughout is speckled with enough laugh out loud moments, touching character interactions and great supporting roles, as to leave the viewer with nothing but love for the movie and it's stars.Both Caine and Kingsley are great actors, but in pairing the two together, this movie shows their skill in a completely new light. The comic timing is flawless, and while neither men have had too much experience of comedy, you would never know it from their portrayal of the bumbling Sherlock Holmes and the genius Dr.Watson in this turnabout story of the traditional sleuthing pair.Where so many other movies have failed to put a worthy spin on Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's legacy, the chemistry of it's actors and the sharp but not too wieldy script, make this a must see for any fan of Sherlock Holmes, or any student of comedy.This movie is living proof that funny doesn't have to slap you in the face in order to grab your attention, and where many other films deemed as comedy classics may find their place in the your memory, this one will find a place in your heart. "},{"Title":"Excellent Acting, Wonderful Ironies, fun plot","Date":"10 January 2006","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Like the previous reviewer, I don't understand why this movie wasn't more of a hit.The acting and chemistry between Ben Kingsley (the smart Watson who actually possesses Holmes' famous qualities) and Michael Caine (who plays the bumbling Holmes) is wonderful, witty, and ironic. Some of the jokes are subtle, so if you have a dry sense of humour, you'll enjoy that angle of the movie.For example, when John Watson admits to his publisher at the Strand the HE is really the crime solver, and not the bumbling Holmes he's duped the readership into admiring, the publisher says Watson, you've compromised the integrity of English Literature.Shaken-looking, the publisher opens a secret cabinet door made to look like English Literary Works on his shelf, pulls out a shot of brandy, drinks it, and then replaces it in its hiding place.You'll also find the music well-above average in creating the mood and historical setting of the movie. The theme song sounds like something that could be used over and over again as a timeless piece of music -- upbeat, melodic, yet using instruments of the time such as a string section in an orchestra.I bought this on VHS and watched it so much I had to replace it, but it was out of print. Then it came out on DVD and I made sure I got a copy immediately.I don't think you'll be disappointed, and you'll most certainly laugh quietly and out loud..... "},{"Title":"Funny (but not hilarious) spoof of the legend &#150; made twice as good as it should be by the two leads.","Date":"16 March 2002","Score":"20 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Sherlock Holmes is the greatest detective to live.  Unfortunately he is only a creation of Dr Watson who is the true great detective.  Forced to give life to his creation Watson hires actor Reginald Kincaid to play the part in real life.  However when the pair are asked to investigate the theft of £5 note printing plates they find themselves up against Moriarty and in greater danger than they expected.It sounds like a terrible idea &#150; other films that have messed with the Holmes story have not done well &#150; but this comes off quite nicely.  The switch of characters is funny in itself and there are plenty of nice jokes and set pieces.  The plot itself is full of holes and never grips as a mystery for one minute - but it is more than sufficient to support a comedy spoof.  The real enjoyment comes not from the plot however but from another factor.The two main actors are superb and it's their class that lifts the film well above the material.  Caine is excellent and is visibly enjoying himself while Kingsley also looks at ease with his co-star.  Support from Jeffrey Jones and Paul Freeman is good, but really the lead duo make the film work so well.Overall, it is not a good mystery and it is not what you'd call hilarious &#150; but the casting helps raise the bar a bit to create an enjoyable lightweight film.  "},{"Title":"One of the best comedies ever!","Date":"12 January 2007","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" I am not using superlatives lightly, but this film is definitely the best Sherlock Holmes spoof that could possible exist in past, present or future. It is not only a very precise and accurate observation of the Sherlock Holmes heritage, it is at the same time very, very entertaining. Even if you don't know much about Holmes, you'll enjoy yourself.The story itself, and the idea behind it, are brilliant. One of the strengths of the story is, in my opinion, that it does not just concentrate on the spoof part, but gives you an entertaining mystery in the traditional Holmesian style as well. The atmosphere created by the supporting arts (score music, set, costumes, etc.) fits the film 100%.The cast list speaks for itself. Caine and Kingsley are at their best and their styles - minutely adapted to their characters - complement each other perfectly. And each and every one of the supporting actors is top-class.If you are a fan of Michael Caine and/or Ben Kingsley and/or Sherlock Holmes you HAVE TO see this movie. If you are neither of the above, go hide under the stairs and be ashamed of yourself. "},{"Title":"This one is a KEEPER!","Date":"9 June 2006","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" This movie is hilarious. If my house burned to the ground and I could save only a handful of items, this is one I'd go back in the house for  ) There are some movies that are so classic and/or funny that you just have to have your own personal copy to watch over and over again, and movies you watch over and over and learn all the lines from. This is one of those movies. Ben Kingsley and Michael Caine make the perfect team in this film. Michael Caine's role as Holmes is so ridiculous but played so deadpan that it's a total crackup. The film is also exceptionally well crafted and directed, to include the sets, costumes, etc. It's a period piece, and every detail is in place. Get this movie on DVD and share it with friends and family. "},{"Title":"Holmes I couldn't detect horse manure if I stepped in it!","Date":"19 May 2009","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Without a Clue (1988) directed By Thom Eberhardt is amusing, consistently very funny, impeccably acted Comedy/Crime/Mystery. The greatest mystery remains why this movie is so overlooked? This is a comedy that has got all the right elements, took the beloved classics of mystery genre, looked at them from different angle and retold them in the most enjoyable way. Two of the great modern actors were perfect as beloved characters that were created by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle and became real for millions of fans. In the movie, though, we are presented with the situation that it was Dr. Watson who not only had documented his celebrated friend's most famous cases but who actually had the outstanding deduction, analytical, and observation skills and had solved the great mysteries of his time. Dr. Watson also had the writing talent and created his alter ago, the eccentric detective, Sherlock Holmes. The stories of Holmes' adventures had become wildly popular. Dr. Watson hired the local actor named Reginald Kincaid to impersonate the legendary detective. Kincaid (Michael Caine) certainly looked the part but by his own confession, he couldn't detect horse manure if he stepped in it! In addition to that, he was drunkard, womanizer, and a gambler. As played by Caine, he is absolutely hilarious and very charming. The best and funniest scenes belong to him. How he was trying to figure out the meaning of the evil Professor Moriarty's name is one of all time's funniest scenes. I've been fascinated by Caine's versatility for many years. If there is an actor who can play practically any role, be dramatic, moving, chillingly scary or comically brilliant and always convincing and joy to behold - it is Caine. Ben Kingsley (not a Sir at the time but Oscar Winner already) was also exceptionally good as easily irritated but brilliant, brave though greatly underrated Dr. Watson. As a huge admirer of two gentlemen from 221B Baker Street, London, I am happy to recommend the film to any fan. I believe that Sir Arthur Conan Doyle would've enjoyed it. He had a wonderful sense of humor which shines through all Sherlock Holmes stories even the darkest ones and I believe he would've appreciated the idea of Holmes and Watson switching roles. "},{"Title":"Fantastically funny!","Date":"21 January 2003","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  I managed to get this on VHS (used) from a video store about 10 years ago, when I couldn't find it anywhere online.  This is one of my favorite comedies!  Please see it, if you can.  Don't forget to keep an eye on Ben Kingsley (Dr. Watson) to see his physical reactions to Michael Caine's fumbles as Holmes.Great entertainment! "},{"Title":"Very clever comedy - one of the best ever","Date":"8 January 2002","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  I consider best and worst tags ridiculous in the sense that, in the real world, people like or detest many things equally.  However, everytime I happen across this movie I find myself amazed that I wasn't even aware of it during its release, why it was never widely discussed, and most of all how much I enjoy it.  The acting, writing, and sets are all perfect. I consider a must see film. Perhaps it is my comedy best.  "},{"Title":"Funniest movie - EVER!!","Date":"23 November 2011","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" These days, most people's favourite shows will get dulled to their senses thanks to easily accessible videos and DVD's. But I must have seen this movie over 400 times (literally), can quote it verbatim, and yet it is still as hilarious today as it was when I first watched it over twenty years ago.The acting is sublime from all, especially Sirs Caine and Kingsley. They can both turn the simplest, overworked gags into total hilarity with such underlined subtleness you can't help but laugh. A mere raised eyebrow can have you rolling on the floor in an unsuppressed giggle-fest.I can honestly say I will never tire of this movie. The stellar performances from all involved means it will always stay fresh no matter how many times it gets viewed.If you don't find this movie funny, I'd advise you to check your pulse. "},{"Title":"Brilliant film","Date":"12 September 2008","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" This film has a rather basic comedy plot - Dr. Watson instead of Sherlock Homes is the one that actually solves cases, and he just uses Holmes as a front, for the public and the press. And Dr. Watson is about to attempt to solve the most difficult of cases, involving Holmes', or rather his in this universe, arch rival.The end result is one of the best comedies I've ever seen. The script is good, the jokes are intelligent and witty, but this not what truly sets this film apart from many other comedies. It is the acting of two lead characters, Ben Kingsley and Michael Caine as Dr. Watson and Sherlock Holmes respectively. What would otherwise be a merely interesting new take on Sherlock Holmes adventures, it was raised to the level of brilliance by their performance. Truly two great actors of our time.The humor is intelligent and sophisticated, as I've already pointed out. This is not a type of movie where you will at certain points laugh out loud (although I don't exclude that possibility - I did more than once) but rather it will keep the smile on your face for the entire time, and probably for quite some time after the end credits.If you haven't seen this masterpiece, do yourself a favor and do it. It is well worth your time... "}{"Title":"Brilliant!","Date":"8 March 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" This is one of those rare films that works on a number of levels. It's a parody that uses a thorough knowledge of the material it is parodying. It's a buddy movie. It's a period film. It's a mystery.Michael Caine plays Reggie Kincaid, a hard-drinking, gambling, womanizing actor hired by John Watson (Ben Kingsley) to play the part of his fictional creation, Sherlock Holmes. The problem is, the character of Holmes constantly pushes Watson (the real crime-solver) into the background, and Kincaid is almost impossible for Watson to keep in line.The humor is so subtle that at times, it's easy to miss. Obviously, the writers have read and reread all the Holmes stories, as references to them are scattered throughout. (If you've never read any of the stories, but have seen the movie, try reading the stories and then watching it again. You'll see just how many references there are.) The movie also has the tremendous boost of the truly heavenly casting of Kingsley and Caine, who play off one another effortlessly and seamlessly. Kingsley shows just what a wonderful comedian he is - why hasn't he been given more comedy roles? Caine looks nothing like the dark-haired, gray-eyed, hawk-faced Holmes of the stories, which only adds to the fun.The movie also takes a sly look at publicity and how it affects people. Kincaid, as Holmes, is viewed as almost superhuman, so that even his lightest utterance is treated with awe and applause, much to Watson's disgust. Holmes' face is on the cover of Strand magazine (which, as a matter of fact, was the periodical that published Arthur Conan Doyle's stories). Everywhere, people want more of Holmes. To this day, quite a few people out there think that Sherlock Holmes was a real person, and letters still arrive for him at 221b Baker Street.Watch it. It's well worth the time. "},{"Title":"Great fun!","Date":"16 October 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" My two brothers and I watched this movie often and still quote large portions of the movie from memory. Michael Caine and Ben Kingsley are hysterical and play off of each other through the whole movie. This is not a movie full of action or suspense. The true comedy gold mine of this movie is in the dialog. There are many memorable quotes, and watching Watson's (Kingsley) reaction to Holmes's(Caine) many bumbles are hilarious. I wouldn't recommend the movie for little children since most of the humor will be lost on them, and there is a tense scene or two. However, if you're looking for a comedy with a good script with two award winning actors, I highly recommend this movie! "},{"Title":"Very funny, well acted movie","Date":"20 May 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Reginald Kincaid (Michael Caine), an out of work actor, has been hired by Dr. Watson (Ben Kingsley) to satisfy the public's demand to meet his fictional detective Sherlock Holmes.  Unfortunately for Dr. Watson, the actor also turns out to be a womanizer, a lout, and a drunkard.  In disgust, Watson finally throws Holmes out, but when the plates to the Bank of England's five pound note are stolen the government calls for Holmes, and Watson is forced to take Holmes back for one last case.  This is a comedy that has it all  wonderful characters, a funny and inventive script, beautiful locations and costumes, and a couple of plot twists to keep you guessing.  Caine is hilarious as the bumbling, inept Holmes, who is without a clue, and Kingley is perfect as the true crime solver cum straight man. The supporting cast is wonderful as well.  Slapstick and sight gags, subtle humor, and a real mystery are blended into an excellent, highly underrated movie. "},{"Title":"Great pastiche  , but sadly underrated","Date":"4 July 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" This movie is probably the finest parody of Sherlock Holmes I've ever seen . Yes , I like Wilder's Private life of Sherlock Holmes  . Yes , Levinson's Young Sherlock Holmes  was fun . Without the clue in my opinion easily beats them all . The idea here is simple , but brilliant (like the most of ideas) &#x96; what if Watson was the smart one and Holmes was an idiot ? This little movie is a great character comedy.The movie actually really feels like a SERIOUS Sherlock Holmes movie . The music , the mood , the costumes and the art-direction &#x96; everything that is needed to bring the world of Holmes from the books on the screen alive is top-notch . Look at the beginning of the movie . Until the moment when Watson begins to shout at Holmes you could be easily fooled that this is just another adaptation of Conan Doyle's books. Hell , the whole plot is done well . If they would keep the original characterizations of the characters this would be a really good normal Holmes movie . This is something I feel that was lost by both Wilder and Levinson &#x96; the soul of Sherlock Holmes world .The jokes here are simple , sometimes predictable . There are some more subtle jokes that you might miss , if you're not watching closely ( joke with the disappearing watch , joke with the violin ) . The true strength of this movie lies in the performances of Michael Caine and Ben Kingsley . I was especially surprised by Kingsley . I've never seen him in comedy before . He usually plays a rather evil and menacing characters . I've seen Caine in comedy before , so I knew he was perfectly capable to give a fine performance.Kingsley and Caine have a wonderful chemistry together that is rarely seen on screen . They can make even the simplest line of dialogue hilarious and the interaction between them is a pleasure to watch . I seriously think that without them , the whole movie wouldn't have work . The other actors give them a good support , especially Jeffrey Jones . He's perfect for the role of Lestrade . He's got one hilarious scene when he's trying to figure out what Holmes said to him &#x96; he's facial expression is worth Academy Award . Great performance. As I mentioned earlier the movie is very attractive visually and the orchestral music by Henry Mancini (famous for Pink panther theme ) fits the story very well .Overlooked and unappreciated , even now . Too bad . I give it 8/10. "},{"Title":"I'm reminded of the curious case of the Manchurian Mambo","Date":"5 December 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" The Sherlock Holmes stories of Sir Arthur Conan Doyle have been adapted countless times into film and television, but never have they been so skillfully turned on their heads. When I first heard the brilliant concept behind 'Without a Clue (1988) &#150; that Holmes was merely a cover for the real genius, Dr. Watson &#150; I knew that it was a film I'd adore. Just as 'Murder by Death (1976)' brought absurdity to the classic country-house murder mysteries of Agatha Christie, this hilarious comedy shatters the immortal notion of Sherlock Holmes as the sharpest and most discerning criminal mind in nineteenth century London. Ben Kingsley, displaying a sense of humour I didn't realise he had, plays the city's greatest detective &#150; Dr. John Watson &#150; who is constantly exasperated by the incompetence of his hired stooge. In an inspired piece of casting, Michael Caine plays the bumbling and frequently-drunken hero, who first attempts to track down the evil Professor Moriarty by jumbling the letters of his name into Arty Morty. This is the real private life of Sherlock Holmes, and it isn't flattering.The British empire is in chaos. After two £5 banknote printing plates are stolen from the Bank of England, the Treasury fears that they will soon be flooded by a massive influx of counterfeit notes, crippling the economy. Dr. Watson tries to take the case himself, having just dismissed Sherlock Holmes from his service for his latest act of incompetence, but the idea is laughed away by the incredulous Inspector Lestrade (Jeffrey Jones), who knows nothing of Watson's little literary conspiracy. Reluctantly, the drunken Holmes is invited back to 221B Baker Street to carry out their usual act, with Watson whispering his conclusions and Holmes reciting them to his clueless admirers with all the understanding of a trained parrot. The prime suspect in the case is bank employee Peter Giles, whose beautiful daughter (Lysette Anthony) may know more than she's letting on (though Holmes has something else on his mind as far as Lesley Giles is concerned).Though spoof comedies typically take shortcuts when recreating a different time and place, director Thom Eberhardt here constructs a classy and believable 1800s London, a setting that (with one exception, concerning Lesley Giles) remains entirely faithful to the setting of Doyle's stories. All he does from here is to reverse the roles, a hilarious device that opens up dozens of exciting new questions concerning a character who has been endlessly debated by Holmesians for over a century. I enjoyed the more subtle subtext concerning the nature of history, and how Watson's (and, by implication, Doyle's) writing has had the effect of revising history and inventing reality, to such an extent that most characters in the film &#150; and, indeed, many people in real life &#150; never realised that Sherlock Holmes was a fictional creation. Also note how Watson tries unsuccessfully to kill off Holmes by proposing a new series about Watson, the Crime Doctor. Doyle tried to do the same thing is his 1893 story, The Adventure of the Final Problem. "},{"Title":"Manchurian Mamba","Date":"23 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Without a Clue is an hilarious parody with great performances and a clever premise based on role reversal. Here, Watson (Ben Kingsley) is the real detective, Sherlock Holmes just a fictional character to keep the illusion alive the doctor hires an actor (Michael Caine) to play the role of Holmes, but the man turns out to be an inept drunkard.Watson and his clueless partner investigate a case involving theft, kidnappings and murders, while professor Moriarty (Paul Freeman) plots against them. The supporting cast is fine, but the movie belongs to the two leads. Caine is priceless as the buffoonish, self-absorbed impostor; Kingsley is likewise perfect as the straight man increasingly irked by Holmes' popularity (shades of Arthur Conan Doyle's real-life irritation with his fictional detective here). Direction is competent, pacing brisk, the soundtrack by Henry Mancini fantastic. Without a Clue offers plenty of laughs and memorable quotes. A personal favorite.8,5/10 "},{"Title":"A little known gem","Date":"21 January 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Im pleased to see so many people have come across this little gem of a movie.  The premise is fun but without the interaction and talent of Kingsley and Caine this so easily could have been a one dimensional cartoon. This is one of my all time favourites and its little films like this that rebuild your faith in the movie business.  Its well directed well acted and very well written I feared it my have been a little too paroquial and our friends across the Atlantic might not have appreciated it but it appears alot of Americans have enjoyed it too. That classic line when Caine comes up with his anagram theory I tell you I was in stitches and it still makes me chuckle.  Theres never a dull moment with plenty of laugh out loud bits but also sometimes more importantly there are constant endearing smile to yourself moments which pulls you along the film and you grow very close to the characters which is an acolade of how good the two lead performances are. "},{"Title":"Charming, clever, funny ~ a classy production","Date":"18 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Another reviewer called this film underrated and I agree absolutely. Ben Kingsley and Michael Caine are delightful as the brainy Watson and drunken, womanizing Holmes. The dialogue is witty (sly, in places), with wonderful innuendos for the Holmesians. A strong supporting cast, -- Jeffrey Jones (as Lestrade) holds his own against Kingsley & Caine. Rounded out with music by Henry Mancini, and locations in London and the beautiful English countryside. Classy and (I think) a *classic* production.  "},{"Title":"An Absolute Gem","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  This is one of those movies you come across by total chance and it quickly becomes a firm favourite. Two of Britains finest actors, a strong support cast, a witty script and a light touch from the director make for an absolute gem of a movie. It's a complete mystery to me how this film has never found a wider audience.It's lovely to see the magnificent Ben Kingsley doing comedy (and I wish he'd do more!). The chemistry between Kingsley and Michael Caine is wonderful and their comic timing together is faultless.If you want to see two class acts in action and have a good laugh as well, then this is your film. "},{"Title":"Great film! Better than most Holmes spoofs!","Date":"14 May 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Unlike most comedies about the world's greatest detective, the script writers actually did some real research about the canon, even using the end of THE RED-HEADED LEAGUE almost exactly as it was written, except for replacing Jones with Lestrade and giving Holmes a near death experience. They also say that Moriarty was John Clay's boss (will ya look at that, they used the same names) just as William S. Baring-Gould did. They have the Baker Street Irregulars, and Lestrade, and they keep it in Victorian London, trying to put as much modern humour as possible into it. A must see for Holmes fans. "}{"Title":"Elementary!","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  More than one of the best films of the 1980s, this is one of the funniest films ever.  And I don't necessarily care for films from this era. Michael Caine is outrageous as Reginald Kincaid, the boozing, woman-chasing, actor who's hired by Dr. John Watson to pose as the fictional Sherlock Holmes while Watson solves the crimes.  A laugh a minute, with hilarious dialogue & a wonderful Henry Mancini score.  Not to be missed.  Holmes fans might not care for it, but they need to learn to laugh.  "},{"Title":"Michael Caine as  a  clumsy Holmes in a fun  film with an amazing amount of surprises","Date":"9 June 2006","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" This is a special perspective on the life of noted sleuth Holmes and doctor Watson turning characters each other . Now Sherlock (Michael Caine) is a bungler , coward , unknown ham performer addicted to alcohol and girls-chasing , while Watson (Ben Kingsley) is a broody , intelligent , obstinate detective . Mastermind Watson contracts an unknown , botcher interpreter in order to hide his own activities . He substitutes famed Sherlock and takes off some of his more dangerous cases . They solve unanswered mysteries and must rescue a damsel (Lysette Anthony) in disgrace from nasties , being beset by their rival , devilish Dr. Moriarty (Paul Freeman).It's a genuine ripping tale plenty of hilarious moments , engaging farce , spoof, and some fun . Michael Caine as Holmes is magnificently incarnated , he makes a fine performance , however his character is too much stupid and fool . Ben Kingsley as the clever but zealous Watson is the best role . Remaining secondary cast playing usual characters from Arthur Conan Doyle's novels  Inspector Lestrade (Jeffrey Jones), Mrs Hudson (Keen), Dr. Moriarty (Freeman) , all of them are frankly well . The film boasts a beautifully cinematography by Alan Hume and haunting musical score by Henry Mancini ; besides , an atmospheric production design . The movie details an un-mythical Holmes personage , along with ¨Private life of Sherlock Holmes¨ (directed by Billy Wilder) concerning about gossips regarding homosexual relation each other ; ¨Adventures of Sherlock Holmes' smarter brother¨ (filmed and played by Gene Wilder) upon his stupidest brother ; ¨Solution seven per cent¨ (by Herbert Ross) deals with meeting between Sherlock and Sigmund Freud to cure his cocaine addiction . The motion picture was correctly directed by Tom Eberhardt but received little recognition and limited box office . "},{"Title":"Without A Trace.","Date":"22 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Searching round for a Comedy film DVD which I could pick up for a friend's upcoming birthday,I suddenly remembered seeing a fun film on the BBC a few years ago,which involved Michael Caine in a Sherlock Holmes movie.Tracking down a wonderful review of the movie from a fellow IMDber,I got ready to find out if Sherlock Holmes is really without a clue.The plotPreparing to enter medical college,John Watson decides that the school would look down on his amateur detective skills.Being keen to continue his investigations, (and to start selling them as Mystery stories to a magazine for cash) Watson hires a washed up actor called Reginald Kincaid to act as a fellow detective.Feeling that Reginald Kincaid is not a catchy name,Watson decides to re-name himSherlock Holmes.9 Years laterSickened by his creation getting all the credit,despite his only job being to stand in front of the cameras once all the work is done,Dr.John Watson decides that it's finally time he sends Holmes back to the gutter from which he came from.Excited about being able to do his own detective work without a drunk actor taking all of the glory,Watson soon discovers that everyone is unwilling to give him any clues to a current investigation,which leads to Watson taking the decision,that he must once again team up with Sherlock Holmes.View on the filmFor the screenplay of the film,writer's Gary Murphy and Larry Strawther brilliantly combined sight-gags with a real sense of adventure which is threaded by a charming wraparound Mystery.Showing the Holmes/Watson relationship to be at the breaking point from the start,the writers use the character's off-the-cuff lines to deliver some cheerful in jokes to Sherlock Holmes past (from the opening being based on the Sir Arthur Conan Doyle Holmes story The Red-Headed League,to the movie taking a bite out of The Hound of the Baskervilles.)Smartly taking the mystery side of things serious,Murphy and Stawther reveal Holmes and Watson to slowly start re- building their friendship,as they pick up the clues one by one.Backed by a whimsical score from Henry Mancini,and terrific,fog covered directing from Thom Eberhardt,Michael Caine and Ben Kingsley each give excellent performances,with Kingsley showing a real stiff upper lip relish as Dr.John Watson,whilst Caine shows Holmes to be more keen on grabbing some quick booze,rather than grabbing the baddie.Joining Caine and Kingsley's extremely charismatic double-team,Peter Cook (who edited the UK's satirical investigating journalism magazine Private Eye) gives a fun,tough performance as Watson's magazine owner,whilst a very good Jeffrey Jones shows,that when it comes to Holmes & Watson, Inspector Lestrade will always be without a clue. "},{"Title":"Good Sherlock Holmes comedy","Date":"12 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" I'm a big fan of the classic Universal Sherlock Holmes films starring Basil Rathbone and Nigel Bruce, and so naturally I was a bit weary going into this film knowing that it plays around with the basics of the classic detective stories. Well, I have to give credit to all involved as while this is not what I'd call a brilliant comedy, it's fun and entertaining and at least does justice (in a comedic way) to Arthur Conan Doyle's classic character - although that is largely thanks to excellent central performances from Michael Caine and Ben Kingsley. The idea of the film is that Doctor Watson is the real detective, while Sherlock Holmes is just an actor hired to front the investigations. However, the actor hired likes to drink and frequently annoys the 'crime doctor'! The plot itself is influenced by a few Sherlock Holmes stories but isn't - as far as I know - based on any one in particular. We follow Holmes and Watson on the case of some stolen plates, used for printing five pound notes.The story itself takes some ideas from the classic Universal films in terms of plot - most notably The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes and The Spider Woman. However, the plot itself isn't really important; it's not particularly in depth and clearly the point of the film was to focus on the 'tweaked' characters rather than tell a mystery story. And this works quite well! Kingsley and Caine have a good rapport with one another and work well on screen together. Michael Caine is of course the standout and delivers an excellent comic performance. There are plenty of jokes in the film, mostly stemming from Holmes' ineptitude, and some of them are laugh out loud funny - although it has to be said that these are mostly few and far between and the film is generally more likely to raise a smile than a laugh. Still, the important thing is that it's entertaining for the duration, and the film certainly is that. I'd say it falls somewhat short of 'great' but if you're looking for a fun little flick to kill a couple of hours with, then you could do much worse than Without a Clue. "},{"Title":"More brilliant than bright","Date":"18 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Only The Brits can both reinvent Sherlock Holmes and make fun of him, or rather of us, the audience who made Sherlock Holmes into a reality, who was nothing but the figment of one isolated imagination. This film is a masterpiece of humor, of wit, of surprise, of funny and gay suspense, and I even mean strange, weird, frankly why not slightly queer. If your are learned you have a carriageful of allusions to anything and all of everything else you can think of. Oscar Wilde of course and his Lady Windermere's fan, Ben Jonson and his Silent Woman, and Shakespeare from the beginning of Titus Andronicus to the end of the Tempest, without speaking of King Lear and Hamlet who may sound banal, good enough for a couple of rooms in an inn. From time to time you have an allusion to Conan Doyle and the real Sherlock Holmes and the figment of Sherlock's imagination, Dr Watson, or something like that. I must say I loved Miss Giles. He was the best surprise, the cherry on the cake, the whip cream on the ice cream. And yet already twenty years old. Could we still do that today in our over serious time? Could we laugh at an institution like the Bible, whose Psalm 234 was made fun of in the punch line of the arrest? Are we gay enough to laugh at our little feelings and desires for ever locked up in, is it, a cabinet, a cupboard, a sideboard or a wardrobe? Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University Paris Dauphine & University Paris 1 Pantheon Sorbonne "},{"Title":"An original approach to spoofing Conan Doyle","Date":"12 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Take the approach that a doctor is forced to create a fictional character in order to allow himself to solve murders. Then forced to produced the fictional detective he hires a second rate drunken sot to be the public face of this great sleuth. Such is the case with Michael Caine as Sherlock Holmes, and Ben Kingsly as the ever suffering Dr. John Watson who ha at last grown weary of the constant bumbling of his alter ego, which goes by unnoticed by an admiring world. It is a lovely tribute to the relationship that actually existed in his mind between Arthur Conan Doyle and his famous detective whom he grew so tired of that he killed off in literature and would not return to writing about for almost a decade. With the remarkable talents of these two leads add Jeffrey Jones as Lestrade, Lysette Anthony as the woman in distress, and Paul Freeman as the notorious Moriarity, and you have a rich comedy. "},{"Title":"Even better than that . . .","Date":"10 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  The last reviewer was on the right track yet still failed to do this very clever, virtually flawlessly executed comedy the full measure of approbation it justly deserves.  With plenty of pratfalls and sight gags accenting an above-average satirical concept, one is particularly struck by comedic timing that is perfection.  Moreover, while Michael Caine rises fully to the occasion as the ersatz Holmes, Ben Kingsley is nothing short of positively scintillating as the frustrated, underappreciated Dr. John Watson. And Jeffrey Jones (no doubt familiar to screen aficionados as the principal in Ferris Buehler's Day Off, as well as many other noteworthy efforts)is a riot as the jealous if less than quick-witted Inspector Lestrade. The delectable Lysette Anthony provides a tasty dollop of eye-candy (can you say BAM!). Overall, the performances are nothing less than superb, the action flows and the plot develops quickly, and the humor is most cleverly conceived.  And should you be a real Holmes devotee, thoroughly familiar with the literary genre, you'll appreciate it twice as much.   "},{"Title":"Laughed Till I Ached","Date":"13 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  When I first saw the film 14 years ago, I laughed till I ached. The film still gives me the same vibes! To me, it's probably one of the best send-ups of the Sherlock Holmes films (another one being THE ADVENTURE OF SHERLOCK HOLMES' SMARTER BROTHER).  The on-screen chemistry between Michael Caine and Ben Kingsley represents one that is extremely enjoyable to watch. With Caine being animated in an overtly comedic role and Kingsley playing a more straight character, one looks expectantly every scene that they appear together. Supported by a good cast including Lysette Anthony and Jeffrey Jones (he does a great job with the British accent), this film is recommended for all Holmes fans as well as those who enjoy a good laugh! "},{"Title":"Ordinarily I do not bother with half-wits and buffoons.","Date":"18 May 2013","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Without a Clue is directed by Thom Eberhardt and written by Larry Strawther and Gary Murphy. It stars Michael Caine, Ben Kingsley, Lysette Anthony, Jeffrey Jones, Matthew Sim, Paul Freeman, Pat Keen, Matthew Savage and Nigel Davenport. Music is by Henry Mancini and cinematography by Alan Hume.Sherlock Holmes (Caine) is really a second rate actor hired for incognito purposes by the intelligent crime solver Dr. Watson (Kingsley). Tiring of him getting all the praise, Watson tries to dispense with the oafish Holmes' services. However, a major counterfeit case rears its head and Watson, with a bumbling Holmes in tow, must set aside differences to try and crack the case.The premise is role reversal and it makes for a lovely entertaining movie. Oh the plot itself is hardly ingenious, and the absence of Kingsley's Watson for a good chunk of the last third of the movie is sorely felt, yet the japery and chemistry of Caine and Kingsley see it safely home.Caine as Reginald Kincaid as Sherlock Holmes is a buffoon, a hard drinking pratfaller in waiting, someone who is not beyond peeking through a keyhole to ogle a shapely thigh. And Caine has a ball with the role! On the other side is Kingsley's Watson, continually irritated by his companion in crime solving, he's grumpy and stomps about like a spoilt kid. Kingsley also has a ball.Holmes aficionados will appreciate the characterisation of Inspector Lestrade (Jones), since he's played as clueless, while the Baker Street Irregulars (Savage sprightly), Professor Moriarty (Freeman not in it much and not playing it for laughs really) and Mrs. Hudson (Pat Keen wonderful and really given a character that impacts on the jollification on show) keep the Holmes/Watson world vibrant.Elsewhere Lysette Anthony raises the temperatures with her beauty and sexuality, whilst thankfully getting a character written as more than just an ingénue. Mancini strings together a jaunty and period themed musical score, while the Victorian production design is authentic and pleasing on the eyes. So all in all, one or two quibbles aside, it's good wholesome fun that is well performed and constructed by the makers. 7.5/10 "},{"Title":"Fun Pastiche","Date":"13 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  I have always enjoyed Without A Clue.  Ben Kingsley does an excellent job as Holmes, and while Michael Caine is slightly too....well-fed, to make a convincing actor playing Holmes, he is convincing too...especially his scenes at the end of the movie as his character progresses a bit (as of course it must).Admittedly Moriarty is a disappointment - I've always liked that actor since Raiders of the Lost Ark but he isn't given very much to do and is practically unrecognizable under black wig and imperial.But, it's a fun movie.  Not a masterpiece, but fun.  There's a homage to Rathbone and Bruce, with Kingsley and Caine silhouetted between boxes on a wharf, similar to the famous keyhole shot. "}{"Title":"Caine is King...","Date":"5 September 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Michael Caine is, and always has been, an excellent comedian. He has done his fair share of action (the original 'Get Carter') and adventure ('The Man Who Would Be King') movies, so his obvious comedic inclinations seem to be lost in the shuffle... unfortunately! THIS (and NOT 'Dirty Rotten Scoundrels' - good as that Frank Oz movie is, Caine is NOT cast in the comedy role, even though he plays Steve Martin's frantic Freddie off the screen!) is the movie which brings it all back to us Caine admirers... the fact that when it comes to comic timing and delivery of hilarious one-liners, Michael Caine is the King par excellence. It also helps that he has a straight man such as the proud and majestic Ben Kingsley to bounce jokes off as well as a hilariously bumbling Lestrade (brilliantly played by American Jeffrey Jones - the scene where Kingsley directs Caine to 'go through the routine' with Lestrade in tow while he (Kingsley) does some proper investigating is near pain-inducing funny) in the background all add up to a marvellously hilarious comedy. The funny scenes come thick and fast... the dead body near the lake which Caine kicks and prods with a branch in turn, slow crescendo of music in the background stopping dead for him to say It is MY opinion... that this man is dead! and the crowd mutter in awe He's a genius!; playing the violin to a record; his 'love-hate' relationship with Kingsley's landlady; final scene on the stage fencing with an umbrella (Buffoon, is it?) ...these and many, many more too numerous to mention make this possibly Michael Caine's best movie yet... but that's just MY opinion!  "},{"Title":"Clever but one-joke comedy.","Date":"13 June 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  If you stay all the way through the closing credits you'll finally read the phrase with apologies to Sir Arthur Conan Doyle. Well, no apologies are really needed this is an irreverent but still affectionate Holmes variation/homage, and Caine and Kingsley demonstrate a warm chemistry as Holmes and Watson, respectively. The film produces many genuine laughs, however the one-joke script (Holmes keeps getting credit for Watson's brilliant deductions) wears a bit thin after a while. In short, an amusing film, but no comic masterpiece.    (**1/2) "},{"Title":"A brilliant, Borgesian reworking of the Sherlock Holmes myth.(possible spoilers)","Date":"24 April 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  By suggesting Sherlock Holmes was a fictional vehicle for the brilliant - but unglamorous - Dr. John Watson, Crime Doctor, 'Without a clue' merely tweaks the subtext of Conan Doyle's original stories.  Holmes was always the creation of Watson, a receptacle for certain ideals, a certain way of looking at the world Holmes, within Watson's chronicles, is always complaining about his sidekick's exaggerations, mythologising and inaccuracies, while many adventures are left out, deemed inappropriate for public consumption, i.e. not fitting into the myth.  There is an unbuilt conflict in Conan  Doyle between 'Watson' and 'Holmes', which is given a twist by the real author's notorious dissatisfaction with his creation, and his many attempts to murder him.  Although Holmes is often seen as the archetypal figure of order, the reassuring interpreter of chaos and crime, he is also a creature of the fin de siecle, a drug-taking, atonal violin-playing, mad-scientist decadent.  This duality was the theme of Wilder's masterpiece 'the Private life of Sherlock Holmes', with which this film shares a comic, revisionist tone, and at least one plot twist.  Both films emphasise the figure of Sherlock Holmes as a role, something to be played for the public, masking a real person at odds with both role and his society.  In 'without a clue', there is no 'real' Holmes, he is literally a role played by the inept theatrical ham, Reginald Kincaid, the sort of character Vincent Price played in films like 'Theatre of Blood'.  The allusion is not gratuituous - both films make the theatre their central thematic motif, climaxing in an old theatre, site of the actor's greatest humiliation, in which he attempts  redemption.  For Edward Lionheart, this was tragic; for Holmes it is genuinely redemptive as he saves the day as 'himself' (or a role more suited to his own personality), and earns the respect of his creator.  And creator is the word.  Another motif running through the film is religion - the mystery and its solution centre on a man who reads the Bible.  Watson is a God who attempts to create a man in his own image; like the first God, his Adam is a miserable failure, prey to ever-accumulating temptations.  The film's best scene occurs when Watson dies - an eerie, nocturnal scene that moves from misty Victorian Conan Doyle to the metaphysical world of Borges; Holmes the role must live as a man without his creator, in a Godless world.  The idea of the bible as a code to be deciphered to solve the mystery is satisfyingly Borgesian too.  These two sets of metaphors - religion and theatre - culminate in the finale, set in the Orpheum, named after the poet who ventured into the underworld (a pun here on hell and the criminal fraternity), host to Kincaid's last performance, 'Shadow of Death', a multi-reference to the Psalms, Holmes himself (one of Basil Rathbone's films) and, again, a whiff of Borges.  The ceiling of a theatre, from which Holmes descends, and which constantly defeats Leslie (herself playing a role) is called the 'gods' the lighting by fire and the ultimate conflagration suggest hell.That this rich stew - about acting; creating; the role of the popular press; the police; the link between detection and voyeurism/misogyny; metaphysics; identity and gender; doubles (after all, Watson the creator, must play a role as the 'dim' sidekick); the Victorian age ('respectable' society's reliance on 'irregular' help from 'urchins'; Watson's strait-laced austerity contrasted with Holmes' indulgence of every appetite) - should result in such a funny film is remarkable.  Its true entertainment lies less in the filming (at one stage a boom glares at the top of the frame in a porto-Dogme moment of self-referentiality), the 'economic' recreation of 1900 London, or the tendancy to caricature in supporting roles, or the sometimes ill-advised 'visual' humour, than the two marvellous, gleeful central preformances, Kingsley's clipped, constipated, infuriated genius, and Caine's wonderfully lecherous, hammy drunk. "},{"Title":"Unexpectedly enjoyable","Date":"18 May 1999","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Rented this one and didn't expect much. Too bad this film hasn't reached a larger audience. The humor in it is not hilarious but more subtle and therefore very pleasant indeed. Wouldn't know with what film it could be compared. Will watch it again sometime.  "},{"Title":"Caine and Kingsley are surprisingly good comedic team","Date":"27 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Sherlock Holmes (Michael Caine) is actually a drunken degenerate gambler actor hired by the brilliant Dr. Watson (Ben Kingsley) to hide his hobby of detective work. Watson has enough of the idiot and throws Holmes out. Only Mrs. Hudson (Pat Keen) and the Irregulars know the truth. Watson tells his publisher Greenhough (Peter Cook) who threatens to sue him. Inspector Lestrade (Jeffrey Jones) and Lord Smithwick (Nigel Davenport) of the Treasury have a new case for Holmes. Nobody is willing to trust Dr. Watson with a case and he has to hire Holmes back. £5 banknote printing plates has been stolen orchestrated by Prof. James Moriarty (Paul Freeman). Suspicion falls on long time employee Peter Giles leading to his daughter Leslie (Lysette Anthony).Caine and Kingsley make a surprisingly good comedic team. It's always funny to have people fall over themselves for Holmes while they dismiss Watson. This is an inventive and fun spin on Sherlock Holmes. "},{"Title":"Caine and Kingsley in a brilliant barrel of laughs","Date":"21 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Without a Clue is without a doubt one of the best movies of the comedy crime genre. British comedy of the late 20th century was up to par with early British cinema as this movie proves. Michael Caine and Ben Kingsley are riotously funny in their roles as Sherlock Holmes and Dr. John Watson, respectively. Equally hilarious is Jeffrey Jones as Inspector Lestrade. Besides this film, another comedy crime film was made in Europe the same year &#x96; 1988, with Michael Caine and Steve Martin. Dirty Rotten Scoundrels took place along the French Riviera &#x96; the Cote d'Azur. Scoundrels was a smashing success, this one wasn't. It's curious to me that they were first released in the U.S. and then in several other countries before England, several months later. Scoundrels was released two months after this film, and was the more widely promoted and distributed of the two. So, it is better known today. But Without a Clue is an equally brilliant comedy, if of a different design. Scoundrels is a wonderful situational film with great humor and competition between two (or more) types of scam operators. Without a Clue is a farce built on witty, hilarious dialog. I don't know whose idea it was, but this parody of Arthur Conan Doyle's super sleuth stories is fantastic. The writers did a superb job. In a nutshell, Doyle's Watson is changed from a chronicler of Holmes adventures to a writer of fiction. He is the creator of the character, whose shoes are filled by Caine's character, an all but unknown stage actor by the name of Reginald Kincaid. And, Watson is the brains behind the duo, and the only real super detective. In essence, Caine is the front in his fictitious character. Trouble is, it's all taking place right then and there in London, and the cases are very real. So the public is eating up the Sherlock Holmes mysteries and the character. Because the cases are real, he's real. It is sort of a flight of fancy to imagine that Watson is writing a story, Holmes is memorizing his part, and then the actual crime/case takes place. But, rather than wrestle with that, it's best to go with the flow of the movie to enjoy the humor. This is definitely not one that some describe for turning off one's brain. Do that and you'll miss much of the humor in the witty lines. Besides the dialog, this is a great comedy of expressions. That's where the acting comes in &#x96; for the sake of comedy. Just watch Watson's face as he rolls his eyes at another Holmes goof-up. Watch Lestrade's face as he raises his eyes as though trying to look into his head &#x96; wondering if there's anything in what he just heard or saw. And watch the smile and the twinkle in his eye as Holmes boastfully pontificates on his achievements in the case. And, by the way &#x96; Caine's Holmes is not a buffoon. He does have a brain and is capable of giving a good rejoinder when put on the spot. But, as Watson says, he's just incompetent and doesn't have a clue. Finally, there are a number of hilarious situations &#x96; the writers put comedic stuff in everywhere. Caine, ever the ham actor Kincaid, is basking in the adulation of his many admirers. But the brilliant Watson wasn't smart enough to realize the psychological effect this would have on him. Because after a while, he's not content to let Holmes have the glory from the success of his story &#x96; so to speak. He's envious of the praise heaped upon Holmes. He can't stand it when an idiot like Holmes &#x96; which he calls him, receives all the praise and adulation. Particularly since Holmes really doesn't have a clue in solving any of the cases. I don't know if there's a word for this type of writing and film. But, the English Hollywood folks did an outstanding job all around on it. The directing, cinematography, editing, sets and all technical aspects are wonderful. The musical score by Henry Mancini fits the film perfectly. And the writers with their superbly clever and witty script provide the fuel to make this such a hilarious comedy. The threesome of Caine, Kingsley and Jones pull this off in riotous order. I can only image the laughs and fun they must have had in the making of this movie.I so enjoy laughing and chuckling in a wonderful film such as this. This is one of those rare films that a person can watch time and again, without much time between viewings, and enjoy it anew with much healthy laughter. It's so funny and so good, it doesn't wear thin. It is there to enjoy for years to come. What a clever plot! What a funny, witty script! What superb and hilarious acting! This is what great cinema entertainment is supposed to be. Without a Clue joins Dirty Rotten Scoundrels and a few dozen others in my library of 10-star comedy films. "},{"Title":"Ben Kingsley's Dr. Watson is the real detective behind Michael Caine's Sherlock Holmes","Date":"1 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" My review has disappeared into cyberspace despite being saved. It's impossible to replicate work like that. Therefore, this review will be shorter.This is a funny movie. All the familiar Holmes features are present, but imbued with comic twists arising from the very clever premise of this movie. You see, Dr. Watson (Ben Kingsley) is the real deductive brain and Sherlock Holmes (Michael Caine) is an actor whom he has hired as a front. Holmes has so caught on with the public that poor Watson is frustrated at getting no credit. Holmes is actually a drinker and womanizer who is constantly challenged to act as if he is a brain when he's not.Caine is pitch perfect in the part. Kingsley has his share of good lines and situations. At times, near the outset, he was too loud and abrasive for my tastes in movie acting. Moriarty is on the colorless side. The reproduction of Victorian times is attractive. "},{"Title":"The Green H...olmes","Date":"7 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Carolyn's thoughts This was pretty funny, and an interesting twist on the Sherlock Holmes franchise. Instead of Holmes being the brilliant detective, Watson is the detective and just uses Holmes as a cover. It was funny throughout, and it kept us sufficiently entertained.Clint's thoughts I was definitely reminded of the recent Seth Rogan version of The Green Hornet A hero who is pretty much useless, with a sidekick who does all the work, all the while during which the hero comically takes all the glory from the sidekick, who is ignored and never given credit.That's basically the same formula here... But with MUCH better actors!It was a total win. It had all the comedic feel of some of the recent Sherlock Holmes films, yet it was nothing like them at all. Funny adventures indeed... These guys could have done a series. It would have basically been the British Moonlighting. Would have been awesome. "},{"Title":"Caine, Kinglsey...and Cook...","Date":"25 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" How many films have these three names as stars, as Sherlock and Dr Watson, though Peter has a minor role, but also with the likes of Nigel Davenport and Jeffrey Jones too, the quality cast always keeps things interesting, even if the comedy comes and goes a bit, at times.My movie came by way of a job lot of Michael Caine films given 'free' with the Daily Mail, so in essence, it cost just 20p. Some of this lot are of frankly awful quality, sub-video actually but this one sparkles with crisp, bright visuals and good stereo sound.Despite Michael Caine playing Michael Caine (again) his comedic, often drunk portrayal of the sleuth is always engaging, if hammy and a little obvious. Of course, as others have also pointed out, director Thom Eberhardt's novel twist is the role reversal and that it's all Watson's genius and sleuthing and Holmes is just an actor acting him out - therefore, Sherlock is the buffoon, often (& comically) corrected by Kingsley's Watson - you'll see exactly how this works yourself, by watching it!Whilst it helps to be a fan of the Baker Street duo (I'm not an avid one, but can and do enjoy an occasional dip into) there is a breezy and broad appeal here whilst still retaining a good period feel, though Blenheim Palace near Oxford doubles as old London a fair bit. The whole family could sit down and enjoy this one, unlike the stuffier, more authentic Holmes', the jaunty and rather fun score by Henry Mancini helping. The steam train journey up to Lake Windermere is also a pleasant diversion, breaking up a rather ridiculous story about forged five pound notes.So, not a movie for those requiring - or expecting reasoned logic and by-the-book acting, but for a light, rainy Sunday afternoon flick that you can dip in and out of, then good fun and well worth the time, especially, if like me, you fancy a bit of good ole Michael Caine. "},{"Title":"I deduced this film was a hoot from the clues at hand.","Date":"27 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" The celebrated legendary fictional sleuth Sherlock Holmes becomes the source of much humour in this wacky comedy written by Gary Murphy & Larry Strawther and directed by Thom Eberhardt (Night of the Comet). The premise here is that Sherlock Holmes was an invention of the sly Dr. John Watson (Ben Kingsley), who loved to dabble in crime solving as well as work as a physician, and was forced to create Holmes as a cover so that his reputation in medicine would not be tarnished. He subsequently hired boozy, clueless actor Reginald Kincaid (Michael Caine) to play the role. The trouble for Watson is that nobody will take him seriously and they always want to talk to Holmes, so Watson has to put up with his bumbling partners' ways as they set out to solve the case of missing plates (for printing money) and a missing employee from their mint. This works merely okay as a mystery, as it mainly mines all of its situations and characters for all of the laughs possible. It never really catches fire - so to speak - but is often engaging enough, and funny enough, to make for pleasant if not uproarious fare. The recreation of Victorian England is effective, and there are some atmospheric moments along the way. The real joy is in seeing Kingsley and Caine showing off their comedy chops; Kingsley basically plays the straight man and does a lot of reacting to Caines' appealing buffoonery. A fine supporting cast is just as enjoyable to watch Paul Freeman (Belloq from Raiders of the Lost Ark) as the nefarious Prof. Moriarty, Lysette Anthony as the fetching Leslie Giles, Jeffrey Jones as the intrepid Inspector Lestrade, who's portrayed as not being terribly competent himself, Nigel Davenport as the worried Lord Smithwick, Pat Keen as the angry Mrs. Hudson, and Peter Cook as grumpy Norman Greenhough. The movie does go on for quite a bit, losing a bit of its momentum at times, but the lively performances help to keep it always watchable. Caine is marvelous, whether he's goosing a woman or trying to break down the name Moriarty. (Arty Morty?) Overall, a good if not great comedy. Seven out of 10. "}{"Title":"a very funny film with little said about it","Date":"2 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  with 2 such great actors you would think the movie would be more in demand. but i love it. really funny. michael caine plays his role great as does ben kingsly. 2 wonderful actors and a funny movie. definitely worth renting or in my case buying. "},{"Title":"two great stars in an amusing little farce","Date":"16 January 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" That sound you hear is Sir Arthur Conan Doyle spinning in his grave, from mirth more than outrage at the sorry state of his legendary Baker Street detective, depicted here as a bumbling third-rate actor living a role created by the real deductive genius and crime fighter Dr. John Watson.It's a convenient (if sometimes slightly antagonistic) arrangement, with Watson finding the clues and Holmes getting the credit, and both Michael Caine and Ben Kingsley play the one-joke premise for all its worth, having a lot of fun with their respective characters. Caine is the idiotic, clumsy, lecherous and vain Sherlock Holmes, but Kingsley's Watson is no less temperamental he has to solve the mysteries and match wits with the fiendish Moriarty while keeping his petulant alter ego under control.The plotting is conventional and Henry Mancini's cartoon music score makes the film sound at times like a mediocre sit-com, but it's a pleasure watching two award-winning talents trample a literary icon with such impeccable comic timing and malicious glee. "},{"Title":"loved the concept","Date":"1 May 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Michael Caine is Without a Clue as Sherlock Holmes in this 1988 film also starring Ben Kingsley, Jeffrey Jones, Lysette Anthony, Peter Cook, and Nigel Davenport.In this story, the real brains of the operation is Dr. Watson (Kingsley) - he solves a case, but because he was up for an important position at the time, he made up the name of a detective and told the police that he had solved it. The name he made up was, of course, Sherlock Holmes.When Holmes becomes in demand, Watson goes out and finds a drunken, womanizing actor (Caine) with gambling debts and has him front for him as Holmes.Watson gets fed up with Holmes, as does Mrs. Hudson, who loathes him, and at one point, they throw him out of 221B Baker Street. Watson tries to take an important case of counterfeit 5 pound notes himself, but the people involved only want Holmes. Watson has to go to a bar and talk him into returning.Very good concept that becomes a little bit slapsticky (though funny) in the middle of the film -- its strong points are at the beginning and at the end of the movie.Without a Clue is a little bit silly, and with actors like these involved, it should have been a much stronger script. The performances are all excellent. I just wish it had been a little better. "},{"Title":"I almost killed 6 men a week - 8 if you count matinees...........","Date":"16 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Third-rate actor Reginald Kincaid is hired by Dr John Watson to impersonate Watson's fictional detective Sherlock Holmes and thus take some of the spotlight off the author whose place at a Teaching Hospital could be jeopardised by the publicity surrounding his most famous cases. He has tried to discard his creation but the public will not hear of it nor are they interested in his proposed new series John Watson-Crime Doctor,so he is obliged to endure Kincaid's drunken incompetence and cover up for all his faux pas. Hired to recover printing plates stolen from the Treasury,Watson and his fumbling assistant embark on a dark and dangerous adventure. Without a clue is a quite brilliantly witty take on Victorian values and morals and an anachronistic delight at the same time.The music by Henry Mancini is full of Gilbert and Sullivan parodies as well as perfectly in - period melodies.Possibly his most fitting since The Great Race. Mr Michael Caine is in inspired form as Kincaid/Holmes,gifted with maniacal energy and completely unjustified pride in his thespic abilities.However,just once,in a splendidly choreographed swordfight,his theatrical experience helps win the day as he fences with Rathbonian skill and elegance,I almost killed 6 men a week - 8 if you count matinees,he quips nonchalantly,backing his opponent into a corner. Mr Ben Kingsley,only slightly more restrained,obviously enjoys this rare foray into comedy. Only the most po - faced of Sherlockians could object to this affectionate and knowledgeable unofficial addition to the canon. "},{"Title":"The Vidiot Reviews....","Date":"12 November 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Without a ClueWithout the hat, pipe, and magnifying glass Sherlock Holmes looked an awful lot like Jack the Ripper.However, this comedy about the super snoop doesn't speak to such speculation.Unbeknownst to the public, the character of Sherlock Holmes was a figure of Dr. Watson's (Ben Kingsley) imagination that never existed until this very moment.When a 5-pound banknote-printing machine goes missing, the Bank of England and the British government want Holmes on the case, and no one else.But since he isn't real, Watson must hire an inane actor (Michael Caine) to portray the savvy sleuth as depicted in his short stories.A second-rate send up of the astute literary figure, this spoof shows a darker side to Watson, while adding more slapstick to Sherlock's repertoire than fans may be comfortable with.Furthermore, if Watson wrote the Sherlock Holmes stories than that makes Sir Arthur Conan Doyle a talentless hack.Yelllow Lightvidiotreviews.blogspot.ca "},{"Title":"An excellent premise, many laughs, weak finale.","Date":"22 January 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" WAC, along with Blame It On Rio and Dirty Rotten Scoundrels, is perhaps the best example (though one of many) of why Caine is one of the funniest guys in movies. WAC is stylish and visually nice &#x96; in spite of being both a comedy AND having been made in the visually bland late 80s. This makes it unique, in a way. It was made to look very realistic not only because WAC is simply nicer to look at that way, but because a realistic backdrop only increases the effectiveness of the comedy. (The Pythons knew this well, hence the enormous effort they'd put into making Holy Grail and Life of Brian looking as good as they do.) The script is excellent. Laughs are continual, with the occasional quirky touches that elevate this essentially commercial comedy above the sea of formulaic turds that have been infesting (now more than ever before) the big screen.The only weakness, somewhat predictably, is the grand finale when WAC deteriorates into childishly unfunny slapstick farce. It is unfortunate that most writers and directors feel the need to end comedies with a big action finale, thereby sacrificing the laughs in favour of a couple of explosions or chases. "},{"Title":"Sherlock Holmes Exposed!","Date":"28 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" What if Sherlock Holmes was actually a third rate actor hired by Dr. Watson to be the public image in his investigations? What if he were a coward, a womanizer, a drunk? Now, that's the premise in Without a clue, and the jealousy of Dr. Watson when he finds out that the monster he's created (Holmes) is getting too popular, more than what he's prepared to put up with. This is a good comedy that relies on some delirious sequences and in the good work of Michael Caine and Ben Kingsley (respectively Holmes and Watson). Maybe they could've have got most out of that story, for it's pretty original and imaginative. However, it's quite funny, and it will make you laugh for certain.*My rate 6/10 "},{"Title":"Nice Try","Date":"9 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Almost brings off what's considered impossible  a good Sherlock Holmes spoof.  Ben Kingsley is a superb Watson, who is the real brains behind Sherlock Holmes.  Holmes has to memorize everything Watson writes out about each case.  Jeffrey Jones is a wonderful, longsuffering Lestrade, who seems genuinely flummoxed that Holmes beats him to every solution, and rolls his eyes at Holme's more ridiculous suggestions -- and yet is so intrigued by the success of Holmes' foolishness actually works he follows Holmes around like a puppy, trying to pick up how he does it.The weak link is Michael Caine, who is supposed to be a dead ringer for the Holmes of the magazine illustrations -- but who doesn't look anything like him.  Caine may have good comic timing, but his Holmes is utterly unconvincing (it would, in fact, have been a coup to get Jeremy Brett for the part).A lot of the humor works, some of it doesn't, and the big climax, while having some good gags, doesn't come off too impressively.  Nevertheless, it's the best Holmes comedy out there, with a solid script and more good ideas than other attempts, such as Billy Wider's Private Life of Sherlock Holmes.  "},{"Title":"Pretty amusing spin on the tale","Date":"11 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" This movie proposes that Sherlock Holmes is in fact a drunken idiot and Watson, his humble detective, is the real mastermind behind the investigations.Without a Clue isn't a great film but it works mainly due to its refreshing twist on the tale.Ben Kingsley plays Watson very well. He's not really the funnyman; he's the straight player and Michael Caine, as Sherlock Holmes, is the goofy and physically humorous one of the pair.When Watson grows tired of the fake Holmes' inactive life style and drunken oafishness, he decides to go it alone - only to realize the public wants the creature he has created, and not he himself.Without a Clue isn't the best or funniest comedy in the world but it works. It's likable and entertaining. I can't strongly recommend it, but if it comes on TV or you happen to pass by a copy at the local video store, it's worth a peek; who knows, you might really like it! Some people I know do. "},{"Title":"looking for clues","Date":"8 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  This is by no means a great film but there are some good things about it. Best of all is the very engaging performance of Michael Caine who looks like he's enjoying his part, and that really comes across. Ben Kingsley is also quite good and they play off each other very well. Henry Mancini's score is delightful, as is some of the location work.  It does lose steam a bit towards the end, but there are enough funny scenes and dialogue to enjoy before you get there. (6/10) "}{"Title":"Clever but a bit broad.","Date":"15 March 2012","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Considering that the Sherlock Holmes character has appeared in more movies than any other, it's not surprising that they would try making several parodies of the famous detective. Without a Clue has a very interesting premise--that it's Watson who is the genius and Holmes is just a boob playing in an elaborate ruse. It seems that the Holmes stories that Watson writes for 'The Strand Magazine' really are about him and his detective prowess. There really is no Holmes--just an actor (Michael Caine) that the Doctor (Ben Kingsley) has hired to play the part. The problem is that the actor is a complete imbecile, a womanizer and a drunk and Watson has had enough of this. So Watson has finally decided to expose the truth....but no one seems to care or believe him. Finally, out of desperation, Watson rehires the actor and they embark on a case that takes them on the trail of the dreaded Moriarty.The acting is pretty good here (I especially liked Kingsley) and the story has many clever touches. Unfortunately, the humor is sometimes a bit too broad and they make Holmes such an obvious idiot that I can't believe anyone would be taken in by him. Perhaps a bit more subtlety would have made a better film. Also, the ending just seemed to go on and on and on. Clearly the film could have used a bnit of editing. Still, it's worth seeing--especially if you are tiring of the same old sort of Sherlock Holmes film. "}]