[{"Title":"If you read the book, seeing this horrible movie might make you cry...","Date":"22 July 2000","Score":"31 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Watchers. An excellent, humorous, and poignant novel. Watchers, the movie. Everything I just said, only opposite.  Corey Haim plays Travis, who, in the novel, was a fourty year old man with a horrible curse.  The curse is that anyone who seems to get close to him dies.  Not only does the movie not touch on this (the major theme of the book), but it downplays all major themes of the novel.  It doesn't even come close to anything that made the novel so wonderful, which is why Watchers, the movie, is one you should miss. "},{"Title":"We get that it's not exactly like the book; it's not supposed to be","Date":"3 March 2005","Score":"29 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" When a saboteur blows up a controversial government research lab, two experimental animals are loosed in a small community in Washington State. One is a dog with unusual intelligence. The other is an Outside eXperimental COmbat Mammal, or OXCOM. Because of reasons divulged further into the film, the oxcom hates the dog, and so is trying to kill it. Watchers concerns the accidental involvement of Travis Cornell (Corey Haim), his mom Nora (Barbara Williams) and his girlfriend Tracey (Lala Sloatman) with the dog and oxcom, as two National Security Organization agents, Lem Johnson (Michael Ironside) and Cliff (Blu Mankuma), track them down.Many comments are made about Watchers being very different than the Dean Koontz book that serves as the launching pad for the film. This is true. But it should not affect your rating. If you want the book, read the book. Judge the film on its own merits, not how closely it matches the book. Bill Freed and Damian Lee, who wrote the screenplay, are just as much artists as Koontz is (that's not a quality comparison, just a statement that they're all artists). So is director Jon Hess. Their job as filmmakers isn't to slavishly follow the book as if it were a script. They're adapting the book, as artists, to make a unique artwork. It's based on the book. Not identical to it. You have to loosen your preconceptions/expectations when you watch the film, because you're going to be experiencing an artwork that you are not already familiar with, even if you've read Koontz' novel.So, is Watchers a good film? It's pretty good, not excellent. Good enough to earn a B, or an 8. Hess begins things on the right foot with one of the most beautifully filmed explosions I've seen in awhile. Unfortunately, he trips a bit immediately afterward as we listen to some very thick, jargonistic exposition. After that scene Watchers threatens to become a clichéd 1980s film as we first meet Travis and Tracey.Veering towards cliché is a tendency continually threatened. But it is only a skew. More often than not, Hess is able to transcend well-trodden territory with a number of interesting twists Both Travis and Tracey are from single parent homes, with their genders flipped. Both have unique, mature relationships with their parents. Although this is a horror film, a major focus is a cute, intelligent canine, and it often feels as much like an adventure film as it does horror, a thriller, or sci-fi, which are all genres it touches upon. Hess introduces a large cast of characters, some not entering until late in the game, yet the film is never confusing and no characters feel as if they are left in the dust--all of the threads are nicely tied up in the end. The structure is also complex in that there are two major villains, the second becoming less obviously ill-intentioned as the film progresses, until a twist accompanied by brutal violence makes one antagonist clearer. Soon after, Hess gives us a nice moment of doubt with the other antagonist.The biggest flaw in my eyes is a dreaded, common one with horror films since at least the 1980s--the attack scenes are shot too darkly, too close, too out of focus, and they're edited too choppily. It makes it extremely difficult to tell what's going on, which saps most of the tension from scenes that should be a highlight. Surely, part of Hess' motivation for the style, and this is the typical justification for this problem, was worry that the creature would come across as humorous and/or fake rather than frightening and suspenseful. In my view, presenting the audience with a dizzying blur isn't a satisfactory solution. We only get to see the creature costume/makeup clearly towards the end of the film. It was well done enough that better shot and edited attack scenes would have brought the film up to at least a 9.Regardless of the degree of correspondence between the novel and the film, Watchers presents a gripping story using smart, alluring characters. It is frequently a nail-biter and the horror scenes are more feral than you might expect, if not exactly gory (although there is a fair amount of blood in a couple scenes). Watchers tends to be underrated because of misconceptions about the role of film when it comes to adapting literature--don't pass it up or summarily dismiss it based on a misconception. "},{"Title":"Watchers is not as bad as you probably think.","Date":"15 June 2001","Score":"19 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A lot of people do not like this movie. In fact, almost all the reviews here are negative. The problem seems to be that a lot of loyal fans of the book were angered by all the changes made in this movie adaption. I had the same type of feeling after I saw The General's Daughter. The General's Daughter left a lot of stuff from the book out and changed lots of stuff too. I found myself disliking the movie barley a half an hour into it. Luckily I have yet to read Dean Koontz's book Watchers and that is probably one of the reasons why I liked it so much. I was able to watch it on it's own and not compare it to the book and in my opinion it is a fine little horror movie.Corey Haim wasn't as bad as I thought he would be. After I had seen the hideous Fever Lake, which is on the IMDB's bottom 100 list where it deserves to be, I became cautious not to rent anything with Corey Haim for a long time. Then I found out Michael Ironside was in it and decided to risk the dollar and thirteen cents. Michael Ironside was excellent as always. He seems to be at his best when he is playing villains, like he did in Total Recall and Highlander 2. The film is well directed and it moves at a very fast pace. The monster isn't that bad. You don't really see much of it thought, other then a flash of hair, or and arm coming out of the roof or something. You start to see the whole thing during the ending climax at the cabin, which by the way I thought was pretty exciting.All in all, I enjoyed this movie. It is fast-paced and it doesn't fall apart at the end like many horror movies do. It doesn't try to insult the viewer either with a dumb twist ending. Not that their bad, we just don't need them all the time. Michael Ironside was good as always and his scenes are the best parts of the movie. I think tomorrow I'll rent Watchers II. I give this 8/10 "},{"Title":"The movie doesn't compare","Date":"1 August 2003","Score":"18 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I rented this movie because I thought (and still think) that the book was a masterpiece. The book is still on my top five novels ever list. So when I rented the film I expected it to fail in comparision. But not on this level. Travis is a Kid? I mean come ON. In the book the guy was ex-delta with plenty of tricks up his sleeve. In the movie he's a sixteen or so year old kid who seemed to be taught everything about traps and guns by the age of 10 when his dad died. I'm from the south and I don't know half the crap the kid was taught. Hell i was shooting guns at seven sure. 22s. BB guns. Not even a very entertaining movie. If you want to see a Dean Koontz book that made a good movie watch Phantoms.*****/10 "},{"Title":"Worst film ever based on a great novel.","Date":"27 September 2005","Score":"24 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Based on the excellent novel, Watchers by Dean Koontz, is this extremely awful motion picture that probably shouldn't be viewed by anyone. Not since The Running Man have I seen a book butchered so far beyond recognition. The difference, however, is that The Running Man film was still enjoyable as an amusing action film laden down a million catch phrases. This film&#133; Nope, nothing remotely amusing. In fact, if you love the book, as I do, you'll hate this bastardization even more.**WARNING**CONTAINS SPOILERS** Rightio, I'm basically going to tell you the story here, almost in it's entirety. Why? Because you, dear reader, do not also need to suffer through this abomination&#151;it's okay for me, because I enjoy watching crap. Because I like complaining about sh*tty things. Now, on to the nasty This film revolves around a boy and his mother running away from the government and a mutant-monkey-creature-soldier which escaped from a destroyed Government genetics lab with a super-smart golden retriever which the hero calls Furface. Groan&#133; Trust me, in the novel, this story rocked. I'll get to that later. Anyway, the hero is none other that dreamy boy-child Corey Haim. Oh, I'm not kidding. Our hero runs around, crackly voice and all, trying to convince his Mom to help save this dog from the evil government which birthed him and made him genetically ultra-smart. The monkey-creature, retardedly referred to as an Oxcom (God help us) is also a genetic-stew of a creature built to be the ultimate fighter on battlefields of the future. Michael Ironside (Total Recall, Starship Troopers&#151;always plays a badass) is also in this film, and no, I couldn't figure out how anyone convinced him this would be a good idea. He plays a government agent with the NSO hunting the dog and creature. Oh yeah, here's some spoilerama He's also a creation from the government, and the same lab, and lo and behold spends most of the movie being a prick and killing people&#151;and all that killing is supposed to be done by the monkey-soldier. Instead of a rockin' kick-ass, creepy horror film, we have a rectal hemorrhage of a teenybopper horror flick. The dog's intelligence is discovered all-too-conveniently, and believed easier than we believe we can see clouds by looking outside. Breakdown!!Change from Book to Film--Lead character (Travis) turned from man to boy-child.--Man's love interest in book (Nora), is now his mother&#151;and all her depth and character growth is completely gone.--Lem Johnson, black man, is now white Mr. Ironside. This matters as the character's strength was built on his heritage in the book.--Relationship between two authority figures completely ignored, Lem now kills the guy who was originally his best friend.--One principle character in the book is now totally absent, the immortal that hunted the heroes--maybe this is supposed to be Ironside, but then why is he someone else?--Dog never receives deserving name of Einstein in the movie.--No part of the book took place in a High School&#151;at least nothing that had strong bearing on the plot.--Takes place over a matter of days, rather months like the book&#151;unrealistic pacing.--Corey Haim's girlfriend in the movie appeared in no more than two chapters in the book--and they never met in the book.--Character of Lem Johnson is no longer cool-headed; instead, he's a total asshole that bullies his way through people.--Hero Travis was part of Delta Force (military segment specializing in hunting terrorists), instead, his Dad, who is never seen in the film, was part of that group.--Perceived intelligence in the monster now totally absent.--Subplots involving Soviets and The Mob completely gutted out of the story.--These are just the most obnoxious changes, and the one's I could remember off hand (and a day later).The Good--Eventually, after 90-odd minutes of pain and mental anguish, the movie ended.Didn't Hurt It, Didn't Help It--Michael Ironside&#151;usually, I like him.--The dog is still fairly likable.--Wacky totally 80's title screen.The Bad--Okay, the writing for one is extremely awful.--The direction is so half-assed that anyone watching the film will feel superior to everyone involved in it.--The acting is crappy and weak, especially from Corey Haim.--Loose, weak, watered down story.--The monster looks just pathetic, that is, when we are actually allowed to see the bloody thing. Its head is gigantically over-sized, the yellow eyes that were so much a part of the thing in the book are seen for no more than two seconds. Instead of a lean, powerful, fast, intelligent killing machine, we have some jackass in a puke-ugly monkey suit forced upon us.--Absolutely no character development.--Even the violence and gore are done poorly, for f*ck sakes, this is supposed to be a HORROR film!! Usually violence is at least done well!The Ugly--The idea that Dean Koontz whored out his brilliant novel to become this filthy f*cking piece of sh*t brings me dangerously close to vomiting all over myself and anyone near me. There are movies worse than this (headache-inducing as that idea may seem), but so far, only Alien vs Predator, at least to me, is a bigger travesty and more painful disappointment. Memorable Scene Watching the end credits start.Acting 3/10 Story 4/10 (the novel was really good, this is just terrible) Atmosphere 5/10 Cinematography 4/10 Character Development 1/10 Special Effects/Make-up 4/10 Nudity/Sexuality 0/10 Violence/Gore 4/10 Music 5/10 Direction 3/10Cheesiness 7/10 Crappiness 9/10Overall 3/10I would recommend that no one watch this movie ever, except for a few extreme die-hard horror fans&#151;and only if you haven't read the novel. Instead, I would recommend that anyone interested in this avoid it entirely and buy/check/borrow the book.www.ResidentHazard.com "},{"Title":"Just watchable","Date":"26 August 2000","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I'm a great fan of Koontz, and thought this might be an adaptation worth watching. I admit that due to the complexity of most his books, with all its subtlety, it is difficult to make a perfect adaptation, but this movie just barely made as a mediocre production. In an effort to make the movie 'cute' instead of the full-fledged horror it should be, it concentrates so much on the dog and its antics, but leaves us to imagine the monster for the most part. Given that the monster is at least as smart and complex as the dog, to see it reduced to simply a killing machine was a waste. And I still prefer the book ending to the movie ending - at least it made more sense and left one feeling a bit sad at the monster's demise instead of gloating over it. "},{"Title":"Slightly Underrated","Date":"24 August 2008","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" If you went into watching this movie thinking it was going to be an exacting adaptation of the great novel, well, you apparently haven't learned your lesson. Because this is almost never the case, especially movies from this era.I will judge it for what it is a B-horror starring an early Corey Haim, still in his prime. There is plenty to like about the film, including some of the gore and terror sequences. Corey Haim's acting is still spot on and sharp (on of his last), and the movie does flow very well. It is an easy film to digest. There are frights aplenty, if you are prone to it. If you are a critical horror fan, you'll find the gore to be well-done, and the film amusing - so long as you don't judge it by the standards of the book.Having said all that, there are some down sides to it Some highly inane, and poorly written dialog at times. Also, the film itself, could stand to be spruced up. They could've also tightened up some of the editing.As far as B-horror fare goes, I recommend it. "},{"Title":"* *1/2 out of 4.","Date":"11 September 2002","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Adaption of Dean Koontz's book is about a teenager (Corey Haim) who takes in a stray dog. However, the dog was part of a top secret government experiment and a monster linked to the dog genetically is out to get the dog killing anyone in it's way. I have never read the book which most people consider brilliant. This movie is not brilliant, but it is entertaining and has some good shock scenes. It remains exciting from start to finish, but if your a fan of the book I would recommand staying away from this movie.Rated R; Brief Sexual Situation, Graphic Violence, and Profanity. "},{"Title":"Wonderful book - Horrible movie","Date":"2 January 2000","Score":"13 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I, too, have read the novel Watchers many times.  It is a masterpiece of story-telling by Dean Koontz about how love transcends all boundaries - including that of species.  Even the monster was given a soul that pierced the horror.  By the end of the book you knew that animals think and feel and that a dog is more than just cute.The movie Watchers offers no clue that anyone involved has even read this book.  We need another teen slasher flick like we need another Linda Tripp. The dog could give acting lessons to the rest of the cast.  Simply awful and I am embarrassed for Mr. Koontz.However, two years later, it seems as if someone else thought that this novel deserved better.  Watchers II - although unable to hold a candle to the book - at least came closer to the original storyline.  Decidedly not Oscar material, Watchers II is, however, at least 47,000 times more watchable than it's predecessor.Final words - read the book and open your heart. "},{"Title":"Stupid, stupid, stupid - but fun!","Date":"7 June 2005","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Bears about as much resemblance to Dean Koontz's novel as Jessica Simpson does to a rocket scientist. If you've read the book, I suggest you put it as far out of your mind as possible before watching the movie.Watchers is your typical Boy meets dog, dog turns out to be super-intelligent government lab experiment, dog and boy are pursued by super-intelligent and emotionally disturbed monster created by same lab, and, oh yeah, did I mention the shady government agents pursuing the monster pursuing the dog? movie.Corey Haim is the boy, Barbara Williams is his mother, Michael Ironside is one of the evil government guys, and Sandy the dog is, well, the dog (named Furface here; Einstein in the book).The monster effects are ridiculously cheesy, much of the dialogue is laughable, the script rarely makes sense or is believable - a good example is Haim's character's unquestioning acceptance of the dog's intelligence, as if every Fido off the street can type messages on a computer keyboard or bark once for yes and twice for no! Hmm, it's gotta be the puppy chow, right? Haim's performance is enthusiastic but shaky, as he carries off the stupid dialogue with the least amount of skill. Ironside has been the highlight of many a bad movie, and this is no exception. He easily gives the best performance of the movie, although I'm compelled to add that the dog (who's a pretty darn good actor himself!) comes in a close second.All in all, an atrociously dumb movie, and yet . . . And yet I watched it three times within a week. And yet I can't help liking it. Hey, what can I say, I have a taste for junk - and Michael Ironside (not that I've ever actually tasted Michael Ironside- I'm sure there are laws against that). But any movie that can make me laugh that hard (yes, even unintentionally) can't be all bad. Chalk it up to a guilty pleasure, a yes I know it's insultingly stupid but I like it anyway movie.It's tough for me to rate this. On a normal scale I'm forced to give it a D-, but on my own personal cheese scale, it gets bumped up to an A-.Yeah, I know. I'm weird like that. "}{"Title":"Silly and over the top, but also fun and entertaining","Date":"2 March 2009","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I would consider myself a fan of Dean Koontz; having read a number of his novels and liked them all, but unfortunately I never got around to reading Watchers so I'm left with no choice but to rate this film on it's own merits rather than comparing it to the book that I haven't read. I went into this expecting something awful, and while I didn't exactly get a brilliant horror film; I am lead to believe that it's fans of the book that are rating it down because as a film in it's own right, Watchers is an entertaining and somewhat original little horror movie. The plot obviously takes some influence from Predator and begins with an explosion at a research lab. It's not long before a rancher is killed by some strange beast and the boyfriend of the dead man's daughter has picked up an ultra-intelligent runaway dog. A secret Government agency is soon on the case, as the murders continue. The boy continues to be fascinated by the dog's intelligence, but it somehow ties in with the murders and the agency is soon on his tail too.The script for this film was originally written by Paul Haggis, who later disowned it. I don't know why &#150; the writing here is nowhere near as ridiculous as his 2004 hit Crash! Anyway, the main reason this film works is undoubtedly the dog, who aside from being rather cute, is also the best actor in the film. Corey Haim, hot off the success of The Lost Boys is the human lead and actually has a rather good chemistry with the dog, although it is a little bit ridiculous seeing him talk to it most of the way through the film. The plot is rather convoluted and as such the film is more than a little bit messy; but the ridiculousness of it all pulls it through during the more awkward moments. Michael Ironside also appears in the film and does well as the 'bad cop' side of the Government agents. The monster is, of course, one of the most interesting things about the film and the way it goes around killing people is always entertaining and gory; although unfortunately we don't get to see a lot of it and when we finally do it's rather disappointing - obviously the filmmakers had seen Bigfoot and the Hendersons! Still, this is the sort of film that can be easily enjoyed despite the numerous problems and I'd recommend to any undiscerning viewer of eighties horror. "},{"Title":"Mediocre movie based on a great book...","Date":"28 June 2000","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  As horror movies go, I've seen worst, but given the fact that this movie is based on Dean R. Koontz,s terrific novel, the film comes off as a very sad attempt. If 'Watchers' was an original concept for a film, I might have enjoyed the movie a bit more. Unfortunately, it's hard to enjoy an average movie after reading a great book. Still in all, Watchers isn't so bad for a friday night thrill with some popcorn and friends!      "},{"Title":"A great book made into a poor movie","Date":"31 October 2001","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Dean Koontz's book Watchers is one of the finest books I have read. Sadly, the movie is a sad caricature of the book.  The disillusioned middle-aged hero and the lonely spinster with whom he finds a meaning to his life are converted in the movie into a couple of silly teenagers, the stoic security agent and the conscientious sheriff are combined into a farcical villain - you get the picture?  The moviemakers have taken a moving tale of love, horror and adventure and converted it into a Z-Grade horror flick aimed - very poorly - at the teen market.Buy the book and enjoy many hours of reading - it will be far, far more rewarding than watching the movie. "},{"Title":"Thought the movie was okay, but I have heard the book was a lot better.","Date":"9 July 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" When I saw this movie I certainly did not think it was an award winning movie or all that good, but it was okay. It passed the time, had an interesting enough story, add some more gore and kills and it might have been a really good horror movie. Like I said in my summary though, I have heard from many people the book is better, but then when have you not heard that cry when a book is made into a movie. This one is about a boy who finds a dog, what could be more touching than that. In fact I would have to say a bit to much time in the film is used exploring their budding friendship rather than on the super creature that is now coming for said boy and dog. Which there is a creature of super power homing in on the boy and his dog, killing those that get in its way. The boy finally finds out about this and he and the dog and I think the mother go into a cabin and have a final showdown with said monster. You will not get to see said monster all that much and there could have been a few more kills or something, but for the most part I found the movie entertaining. I would compare it to another Corey Haim horror movie Silver Bullet, both are horrors that need more horror, but both can be called okay...just kind of fluffy. "},{"Title":"Alright but not as good as the book","Date":"4 March 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Watchers is a fun movie if it's not taken too seriously, the novel written by Dean R. Koontz is obviously a lot better but the movie itself is entertaining in it's own way. The film has a lot of changes for the novel Watchers, the one difference is the main character Travis. In the book he was an adult and an retired Delta Force soldier while in the film he's a teenager. Watchers has it's good points, the film does have some gory scenes in parts. I'm a fan of Micheal Ironside and it was cool to see him in this film, he always does a great performance in all his films. The OXCOM costume looks kind of cheesy but the camera never really shows the creature fully until near the end of the film. The dog Einstien was impressive since it was well trained.The film sees two genetic experiments escaping from a lab, a dog and a monster. Both experiments are linked telepathically since the two animals are part of a military project were the dog would infiltrate an enemy base then the Creature would attack and eliminate them. The Dog finds a teenager named Travis who takes him home and discovers that he's intelligent and so he names the dog Einstein, meanwhile the OXCOM is roaming around killing people and gouging out their eyes, two Government agents are sent to find the two experiments before this incident gets out of hand. Soon Travis learns that his not safe as the OXCOM is drawn to the dog and will stop at nothing to kill him and anyone in it's way, so Travis and his mom go to rescue his girlfriend who's being held at the hospital by the two agents. They then hideout in the woods while the Government agents and the OXCOM are not far behind.Watchers is not a great adaptation of Dean R. Koontz novel but it is a entraining 80's horror flick, some fans of the book may not want to watch this since it's not faithful to the book but fans of cheesy 80's horror movies may want to check this out. "},{"Title":"Forgettable B Movie is watchable thanks to some decent performances.","Date":"5 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" When a research lab got destroyed mysterious, a very intelligent dog is running away from a strange genetic mutation creature that wants the dog dead. Because these are two creatures nearly shares the same mind and there's something telepathic between the two. But the creature is designed to be a predator. This stray dog find shelter from a teenager Travis (Corey Haim), who's agrees to care of the dog after finding him in his truck. Now an mysterious man Lem Johnson (Michael Ironside) from the American government wants to find this mutation monster before it's causes more trouble with the help of the local police. But Travis finds out that this dog is just as intelligent as a human person and he belongs to the government after finding a code on his ear. But the Creature finds himself closer to the dog, while murdering people along the way to kill it. Now Travis, his mother Nora (Barbara Williams) and the dog are on the run from this monster. Travis has to find ways to prepare to kill this creature before it's too late.Directed by Jon Hess made an technically well made Horror movie that is completely forgettable, despite some interesting moments in this cheap B movie. The golden retriever dog gives the best performance in the film, The dog scenes with Haim are the best moments in the picture. Ironside is always a joy seeing playing a bad guy with a hidden agenda. Surprisingly Two Time Oscar-WinnerPaul Haggis (Screenwriter of Casino Royale, Crash, Million Dollar Baby) actually wrote the original adaptation of this movie. But they had many changes to his script, which his original script was probably closer to the novel. Since American and Canadian producers made many displacement that didn't look like from the novel by Dean R. Koontz (Hideaway, Phantoms) anymore. The most unconvincingly thing of the picture is the creature, which you never get a good look of the monster. Since most of the cinematography of the film is quite dark. Although it was probably wise since the directorHess felt the monster looked like crap. Who else than King of the B MoviesRoger Corman (Frankenstein Unbound, The Intruder, Little Shop of Horrors) executive produced this mess. Since he produced plenty of cheap films are actually better than this one, half of the time. Which it was followed by three direct to video sequels! Look for the familiar Canadian cast members in bit parts. If u enjoy B movies, u might like it. Best Watchted, When you are in a silly mood. (** ½/*****). "},{"Title":"This is a decent movie.  It just isn't a THING like the book...","Date":"28 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" As adaptations go, this movie is standard bastardized adaptation fare. Having been adapted from one of the very best novels Dean Koontz has ever written, this movie is the epitome of putrid sludge.I found the movie to be enjoyable. It isn't a bad movie really. I just can't figure out where, in this screen play, is Koontz's original literary work. Now, forgetting the teen-ager-oriented movies like Licensed to Drive, I typically like Corey Haim's movies. the Lost Boys and Silver Bullet were excellent movies, and so is this one. It wasn't his fault that the director, screen writer, and original author did not see eye to eye, and his performance in this movie was just as good as it was in the aforementioned movies I did like.However, the story told in this movie is so far from Koontz's original work that I am amazed he let it ride with his name still attached. The book is a masterpiece, and while I did enjoy this movie immensely, it was nothing like the book.The dog was genetically engineered to be the intelligence, and the monster was the genetic equivalent engineered to be the brawn. The monster will follow the dog relentlessly, wherever the dog goes, as it is not only trained to do so, but engineered to this task in order to allow the dog to lead it to its prey. The dog is the hunter, and the monster is the killer. They are a genetic assassination team, complete with an engineered psychic link, created by covert American underground government; one of those three-letter associations which officially do not exist.The dog is freed and befriends Corey Haim's character. But since the government can't have the intelligence half of their prized assassination team loose like that, they loose the monster to find him, thereby endangering the boy, as well. But the dog, by this time, has developed a kinship with the boy, and must keep him safe, which means running from the monster each time he draws near.This, of course, is the Reader's Digest Condensed Version of the movie, and just a drop in the sea to the deep richness and quality of the original literary novel by Koontz. If you rent this movie and enjoy it, I highly suggest reading the book, The Watchers, by Dean R. Koontz.It rates an 8.1/10 on the B scale.That's about a 6.4/10 on the A scale, from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"A Boy and his Dog &#x85; And the vicious genetic Bigfoot monster tracking them down!","Date":"3 October 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I'm often very glad that I'm not much of a reader. Quite often when I encounter a movie-adaptation of a (famous) novel, there are always hundreds of people complaining about how awful the movie version was in comparison to the book. Well, I've never &#x96; and probably will never &#x96; read the book, so at least I don't have to feel ashamed about tremendously liking the film! It's like I don't know any better, you dig? This is also the case with Watchers, for example. Allegedly, the Dean Koontz novel differs enormously from the 80's horror film version, with characters and story lines altered left and right in favor to appeal more to contemporary horror loving audiences. Travis, the lead character, is originally a 40-year-old social outcast in the book, whereas he's a poignant 16-year-old rebel kid in the film, portrayed by Corey Haim who was quite big at the time thanks to the success of The Lost Boys, Lucas and Silver Bullet. That's the 80's horror film industry for you. Can you blame them? Either way, Watchers is a shamelessly entertaining and virulent late 80's creature-feature with a pleasingly high body count, gruesome special effects, an irresistible charming 80's setting and ambiance, cool acting performances and one of the best use of an intelligent dog in a film ever. Travis Cornell lives, with his yummy mother, nearby a research facility where the government &#x96; in all secrecy of course &#x96; works on the ultimate warfare weapon. The weapon itself is a giant and nearly indestructible Bigfoot creature, but the breakthrough is that it is telepathically linked to a intelligent dog. The monster is programmed to track the animal down and kill everything on its path in between. The dog and the monster escape from the lab just before there's an explosion. The dog hitches a ride in Travis' truck and he decides to keep the animal when he notices its abnormally high intellect. The dog can type warnings on a computer and compose messages via a game of scrabble, for crying out loud! Meanwhile, the Oxcom monster leaves a trail of blood and mayhem throughout the area, and if that isn't worse enough yet, there's also the relentless government agent Michael Ironside. He's after Travis and his dog to cover up the failures. Watchers is fast-paced and exciting, with massacres that are delightfully gruesome. The Oxcom monster has the nasty habit of removing people's eyeballs, which leads to a handful of grisly images and eerie make-up effects. The acting performances are great. Barbara Williams is excellent as Travis' caring mother and Michael Ironside behaves psychopathic and nightmarish as always. Corey Haim uses his typical 'rebellious 80's teenager' charisma to maximum results and the dog &#x96; Fur Face &#x96; is genius. Oh, Watchers also provides the opportunity to admire hunky boy Jason Priestley and watch him get slaughtered by Bigfoot before he became world famous as Brandon Walsh in Beverly Hills 90210. Splendid 80's nostalgia! "},{"Title":"Highly watchable","Date":"25 November 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Scary in places though the effects did leave something to be desired unless you have bad eyesight or are afraid of the dark. However most of the acting was convincing and most of the effects were well done.  I thought the creature looked a bit too much like a man in a gorilla suit for my liking. It reminded me of the original pink panther film. "},{"Title":"Disgusting","Date":"3 August 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I still find it hard to believe that a fine - if overlong - novel by Dean Koontz was transformed into this utter excrement.This movie is so bad it's disgusting. Boos to all who participated. Shame on you!P.S. The fact that sequels have appeared just goes to show how little taste and discretion remains in Silver Screen Land. "}{"Title":"enjoyable once you ignore the fact that it is an adaptation","Date":"20 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" As it is with most book to movie adaptations the book fans weren't too happy with the result.Luckily I haven't read the book and am not handicapped with knowledge that could possibly taint my viewing pleasure.With that in mind I can say that Watchers is pretty solid and entertaining throughout.Is it thrilling or scary?The movie does move along in a nice pace and does contain some thrilling moments.There is just enough suspense to maintain interest.But scary?No,not really.Although there are some scenes that are bloody and gory to satisfy the gore hounds. In this adaptation the focus lies on the dog and his friendship with Corey Haim.A high cuteness factor that is very effective especially in the scene where the dog tells Corey Haim's character that he is endangering him.It makes the dog even more likable then he already was.Same goes for Corey Haim as he is not planning to abandon his new found friend.So it seems that the horror aspects have been dumbed down to increase the action and adventure elements.In this case it works.In my opinion Watchers deserves more credit and should not get slammed because it isn't a faithful adaptation. "},{"Title":"This has Sasquatch written all over it.","Date":"1 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Preposterous, but quite a fun gory and relentless late 80s creature-feature, where the screenplay is loosely adapted off a Dean R Koontz's novel. Instead it turns out to be a horror vehicle for teen heart throb Corey Haim, especially the amount of the time his character has and it becomes somewhat of an annoying distraction. Along for the carnage is Michael Ironside, providing plenty of ticker to his villainous ham portrayal of a devious government agent. Also the cast features good showings by Barbara Williams, Duncan Frazer, Colleen Winton, Blu Mankuma, Dan Wilson and a minor part for a young Jason Priestly. The plot has an intriguing back-story (a canine experiment gone wrong), but simply it gets lost in its cheesy dialogues and fashionable need to have a healthy body count leaving it to be a generic monster on the loose threat on a small town community. So you just take it for face value. Sometimes its hard to keep a straight face, make light of its choppy attack scenes and certain plot devices are vaguely penned, but it's commendably directed in its systematic patterns that you just go along with its genetic madness. The costume of the creature is downright tacky (a mutated ape?), but for the majority of the running time we only get jumpy glimpses of it&#x85; be it the hands, legs and then of course there's monster POV shot and growling.We're in this together. "},{"Title":"* *1/2 out of 4","Date":"24 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Escaping from a damaged medical lab, dog Einstein manages to run into Travis Cornell, (Corey Haim) and goes home with him and Nora, (Barbara Williams) his mother. Hearing that his girlfriend Tracey, (Lala Sloatman) has been attacked, he finds Special Agent Lem Johnson, (Michael Ironside) trailing the dog and a special project. As both he and the dog spend time together, he realizes that the dog is a real genius and begs his mother to keep him. As a series of strange accidents in town plague the community, the two discover that the project that also got loose with the dog was a vicious creature trained for military purposes, and has been trailing the dog for it's own reasons. Desperate to save them both, they team up to take down the creature before it attacks more residents.This was a very entertaining film in a surprising way, and it overcomes the few negatives it has. It's a great pick for those looking for a decent, under-the-radar creature feature or those looking for a night of cheesy entertainment.Rated R for Graphic Violence, Mild Sexual Situations and Profanity. "},{"Title":"80s Cheesfest","Date":"21 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Watchers is an incredibly fun and enjoyable creature feature.**SPOILERS**Escaping from a damaged medical lab, dog Einstein manages to run into Travis Cornell, (Corey Haim) and goes home with him and Nora, (Barbara Williams) his mother. Hearing that his girlfriend Tracey, (Lala Sloatman) has been attacked, he finds Special Agent Lem Johnson, (Michael Ironside) trailing the dog and a special project. As both he and the dog spend time together, he realizes that the dog is a real genius and begs his mother to keep him. As a series of strange accidents in town plague the community, the two discover that the project that also got loose with the dog was a vicious creature trained for military purposes, and has been trailing the dog for it's own reasons. Desperate to save them both, they team up to take down the creature before it attacks more residents.The Good News This wasn't all that bad of a film. One thing that really works is that this is actually a well-explained film for it's type. There's a really great reason given for the creature and the dog, which is quite different than most other films. This one's reasoning is a really unique and novel one that is pretty clever. There's some really new ideas in the theory presented with it taking on a really new ideas. There's a really big body count in here that makes it pretty good. There's some throat rips, a whole slew of eyeball-removals, being thrown onto an electrical panel, having their face scratched up and a decapitation included, as well as others in here. The decapitation is the single most brutal one, being shown in after-affect and having just a mangled stump left. The large amount of deaths gives it a pretty fast-paced feel to it, as a body is dropped in what feels like every other few minutes. That extends from the opening minutes, with a fantastic set-piece that really works and carries throughout the entire course. The action is pretty non-stop, from a great confrontation in the woods where three get it at the same time to a fantastic quest to escape inside an under-siege house and the final blow-out at the cabin, this one manages to contain a lot of action inside it. This is what makes it more watchable, since they can overcome a lot of negativity when there's some big series of action scenes along the way. Another big plus is that the creature is basically kept off-screen for the majority of the film. This is one of the smartest moves possible. It's seen in quick, fleeting moments here and there but never really anything that could give a good, definitive viewing of it and it's not revealed until a couple of second-long scenes at the very end surrounded by shadows. It keeps it away from the trap of constantly showing a cheesy, non-frightening creature for the during of the film and taking the fear of it away. Since it's unknown what it looks like, the reveal of it at the end despite seeing glances along the way gives way to fear when it's on-screen. A great move, and one in a series of good moves that make this one a good film.The Bad News There's only a few areas in here that don't really work. The biggest one that doesn't is the fact that there's a really cheesy stench that carries this flick over. It's not a necessarily bad thing, but to have the story lines about a mutant creature chasing after a genius dog being trailed by the government agents responsible for both is just a tad too much to take seriously. The high amount of action in here also plays into it a bit. The biggest problem is that most of the attacks are shown off-screen. There's a blurry flash and a lot of screaming during most of the attacks in here, and from there it's just impossible to tell what happened until it flashes back to the after-affects. Most of the attacks happen in that fashion, and it does get a little annoying when they're all in that manner. This is the biggest flaw, as it really devalues the ferocity of the creature, but these are the main flaws.The Final Verdict This was a very entertaining film in a surprising way, and it overcomes the few negatives it has. It's a great pick for those looking for a decent, under-the-radar creature feature or those looking for a night of cheesy entertainment.Rated R Violence, Graphic Language and Brief Nudity "},{"Title":"So it's not like the book but...","Date":"13 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Come on, this was still a fun movie, COREY HAIM plays a youth who comes in contact with a super intelligent golden retriever that is actually some what like a tracking device for a blood thirsty murderous creature that goes after the youth to get the dog back, but there's also a scientist looking for the dog as well, played by the always great MICHAEL IRONSIDE who may turn out to be a heck of a lot more dangerous than the creature itself!. Supposedly based on the novel by DEAN KOONTZ (a novel in which I am yet to read but heard good things about) by the reviews I've read, a lot of reviewers don't seem to be to pleased at all with this movie, since it supposedly ignores a lot of stuff in the book, but I mean if you look past the novel & view the film without thinking of the book, it can be pretty entertaining creature feature, I mean all the ingredients that make a good horror/sci-fi thriller are here, lots of suspense, neat pov's & plenty of scares & several good performances make this a fun movie for fans of the genre. Just don't compare it to the book & you'll probably enjoy this a lot more. Followed by WATCHERS 2 **** stars "},{"Title":"Average 80's movie, not for fans of the book","Date":"24 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The ratings on this movie are perhaps a little unfair. If you look at the movie in the context of a fairly low budget 80's horror and ignore all else it is actually pretty good. I remember seeing it for the first time shortly after release and actually liking the film quite a lot.That was most noticably, before I even knew it was based on a book. It was also in the late 80's and when I was in my early teens (my video store was never too worried about certificates). Now many years later and after being introduced to the very fine novel on which it was based, the film is very dissapointing. But still I would not call it a bad film and have to take into account that I did once think it was really good (although a lot of that may have been down to the story concept rather then the film itself).The bottom line is that it is an average 80's movie. If you're a fan of the book, you will hate it. If you saw the film like me when it came out and haven't read the book, you will probably enjoy the film still. If you've never seen the film or read the book you'll probably be totally indifferent, so not really one to go out of your way to watch. "},{"Title":"Gets better as it goes along","Date":"12 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This one started out as pretty cheezy and I had my doubts, but it definitely got better as it went along. In the film (based on a novel by Dean R. Koontz that I've never read), a genetically altered dog gets loose from a government-funded laboratory. The dog is incredibly smart and is on the run from another genetically altered creature, a full-fledged monster mutation that is telepathically linked to the dog. Corey Haim and his mom end up having to go on the run with the dog when government-hired tough guys come calling. I think this film generated some great suspense and was a pretty enjoyable movie. The dog will win your heart even if you hate horror movies, and I actually think the ending did generate a bit of sorrow for the out-of-control, rage-filled monster. That final pleading look on its face as Haim offs it in the end really is pretty pathetic and sad. Still, I haven't read the book, so if I had, I probably would have been let down, too. After all, that's about the only brief moment in the film where one could feel for the monster, when books go into so much more detail. All in all, though, I found Watchers to be a fun, suspenseful monster movie and would definitely have to recommend it.  "},{"Title":"best Koontz film adaption -- and that is NOT a compliment!","Date":"26 November 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The other reviewer pretty much nailed it -- if you read the book, this movie will bring you to tears, and the book was never intended to be a tear-jerker. Here is the issue Hollywood has never, even on its best day, done an especially good job of adapting these sorts of stories. Look at the mess they made with Stephen King (a very odd author who, history may well record, peaked in the 1980s -- and no one bothered to tell him). After butchering one King novel after another, after another -- and even trying cheap movie tricks like getting the author to adapt his own material, a clear sign of desperation! -- ultimately King's newest stuff ended up in miniseries only, with not even a pretence of making it to the big screen. My point? Well regardless of which author you favour (and Koontz has an army of fans, or, at least, used to) if they could not manage to bring King to the screen, you can only guess what a mess they made of Koontz. This is widely held to be his best work -- a brilliant suspense tail (pun!) that incorporates one of the best dog roles ever -- and essentially they shot themselves in the foot before even the first reel was in the camera. Packaged as a B movie, with Corey Haim (?) and Michael Ironside, this film was over before it even began. Don't see this, don't rent it, don't stream it, don't download it and -- depending on what decade or century it is when you access this IMDb entry -- don't even have it beamed directly into your cortex. Read the book. "},{"Title":"A Dog (Possible Spoiler)","Date":"13 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I love dogs, and the most interesting character in this movie is a Golden Retriever. He is smarter, better looking and more interesting than any of the human characters. Like many other contributors I have not read the book but I doubt that having done so would change my opinion of the movie. It is predictable from the first five minutes on. No surprises. Mad scientists create a monster that gets loose and a teen age boy and his wonder dog collaborate to destroy it. All in all the movie is a dog. But as I said, I love dogs and will therefore give this movie a 7/10 rating. Watch it if it comes on TV, rent it if you are bored and nothing else catches your eye, but don't buy it unless it is on special. "},{"Title":"Perfect fare for undemanding viewers.","Date":"23 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I can't be sure whether it's the fault of the book (since I haven't read it) or its adaptation to the screen, but the story here doesn't seem to be very intellectually demanding, and gets pretty repetitive in the second half. However, the film is directed in an energetic manner, and the dog gives a great performance. It holds the picture together on its own.  (**)  "}{"Title":"To use a phrase of juvenility, `Yuckers'!","Date":"26 April 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This was a film based on the Novel written by the modern literary god that is Koontz?  I refuse to believe that studio bought the rights to this movie for anything using the Genius' Koontz name.  Ever since my sight became poor enough to require Large Print, I have been unable to read this book as I had at least twice a year since first reading it.  I missed the book greatly and was unable to find it in Large Print.I was hoping by renting this movie I would at least get my vicarious Watcher's pleasures, but this movie was a travesty.  Because of subtle plot points, it is my belief none of Mr. Koontz's, or most decent authors for that matter books can be crammed into 1-2 hours of film.It will be the wise network, cable or other wise, who buys the rights to this novel and makes a multiple part television movie, i.e. mini series, of this book the RIGHT way!one a star out of five - would that I could go lower ...  "},{"Title":"The worst adaption of a book I ever saw.","Date":"13 March 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" It is hard to believe that anyone could take such a great book and and make such a terrible movie.Imagine King Kong being recast as an organ grinder's monkey and Fay Wray's part being played by a young boy. How about Elton John as Rambo!!!!.This movie is even worse than the TV remake of The Night of the Hunter.By using the title Watchers and Dean Koontz's name the makers of this movie should be sued for fraud by readers of the book who expected a reasonably accurate adaptation of the book.Read the book, I have never talked to anyone who didn't like it. Another good book is The Winner by David Baldachi. "},{"Title":"another review","Date":"17 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I remember watching this film as vividly as going to see Tommy Gunn in rocky Five. I remember the damn loud humming crickets, and the white dog...and he had been in a few films like silver Bullitt as well as another one RUDY maybe, no, i guess it was LUCAS.. so anyways... it was entertaining. i haven't seen it recently, and i did read the book. I liked them both. I don't think that i was like a lot older than when i saw the film to compare an obvious difference between these two films... plus Now after all, he passed away. and that kinda blows or is sad, but you could just think of him as zack galligan or something. gosh ten lines total. I forget about all that nonsense. "},{"Title":"B-movie horror with some weakness","Date":"12 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" There is an explosion in a classified research laboratory. Lem (Michael Ironside) is called in to clean up the mess. A super smart dog escapes followed by an OXCOM (Outside Experimental Combat Mammal). The OXCOM is linked to the dog killing anyone in its way. Travis Cornell (Corey Haim) is sneaking around with Tracey. They are almost caught by Tracey's dad so Travis leaves. The dog sneaks into Tracey's barn. The OXCOM attacks Tracey and kills her father. Then the dog hitches a ride from Travis. Sheriff Gaines thinks it's a bear but Deputy Porter thinks it's Sasquatch. Lem takes over the case waving his NSO credentials.The clueless parent is one of my least favorite cinematic tropes. The mom is literally talking to a dog and she stubbornly refuses to accept it. Barbara Williams does her best especially later on. It's not the worst thing in the world but this movie has so little going for it. Corey Haim has always been a better nerd struggling to get the hot girl's attention. There is something lost when he starts off with the hot girl. The special effects are pretty tame and a bit lame. The bloody violence looks cheesy with the creature mostly off screen. Again it's not the worst but the film doesn't have the skills to make lemonade out of lemons. There are no Steven Spielberg and John Williams when the shark isn't working. It is fascinating to see a young Jason Priestley. With Lem hiding Tracey, it seems obvious that Travis should contact the doctors or the cops. There are massacres but these two NSO agents continue to dominate. Even if the movie forces the conspiracy to continue, the whole area should be saturated with cops or military or both. The final twist isn't much of a surprise and comes off again rather cheesy. "},{"Title":"Adequate time waster.","Date":"26 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Unfortunately, if one enjoyed the Dean R. Koontz novel, reviews here indicate that as an adaptation the film is an abomination, with far too many changes from script to screen. If, however, one isn't familiar with the novel, they may take this for what it is a fairly harmless, routine creature feature with acceptable pacing, a very likable dog, a typically appealing Corey Haim in the lead role, and a decent body count. Direction (by Jon Hess) and presentation overall is highly undistinguished, but (very) undemanding horror junkies may still be just amused enough to not turn it off.Haim plays Travis, a teenager who makes the acquaintance of a super intelligent golden retriever that stows away in the bed of his pick up truck one night. Dubbing the dog Furface, he quickly realizes just how smart the dog is. Unfortunately, he finds that anybody who gets close to the dog gets targeted by a big hairy brutish animal, the result of the same kind of genetic testing that created the dog. Eventually, Travis takes it on the lam with his mother Nora (Barbara Williams), while being pursued by cold eyed, resilient government agent Lem (Michael Ironside, bad ass as always).So-so movie, executive produced by Roger Corman, that does get off to a good start and hit the ground running. It doesn't have a lot of suspense, or memorable kill scenes. The music is by Joel Goldsmith, eldest son of fellow composer Jerry Goldsmith, and his score does sound similar to what his dad did for First Blood a few years previous. The acting helps to keep things somewhat palatable; both Haim and Ironside do well. Some of the dialogue and moments are rather silly, however (such as when a frightened janitor phones the police).Certainly worse, and better, horror movies have been made, but this proves to be very mildly diverting, and quite forgettable in the end.Look for Jason Priestley as a teen on a bike.Five out of 10. "},{"Title":"right after hearing of Steve Jobs's death, I saw people use early Macs","Date":"6 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" After watching Watchers, I read that it bears only the loosest connection to the novel on which it's based (kind of like how Who Framed Roger Rabbit bears only the loosest connection to Who Censored Roger Rabbit?). Overall, the movie is pretty much a typical '80s horror flick. It's too bad that Corey Haim died having never branched his career out.And yes, I had just learned of Steve Jobs's death when I watched the movie, and the scene of the computer class shows a bunch of early Macs. I always -- or should I say, iAlways -- thought it really cool that Steve Jobs named his company after the Beatles' record company. "},{"Title":"Shoulda, coulda, woulda","Date":"22 November 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This failed adaptation of the Dean Koontz novel about a man befriending a super smart dog. Why do I say failed? Because they took the book's thirtysomething ex-Delta Force lead and made him Corey Haim. Yes, Corey Freakin' Haim. I'm sure Dean Koontz started rolling before he even gets close to being in a grave. Even sadder, the dog co-star acts circles around Haim. Seriously. Director Jon Hess makes a fine looking film (shot in British Columbia) and stages some nice attack sequences with some decent gore. But the monster design, something instrumental to these kind of flicks, is downright sad. Not as sad as Feldman, er, Haim being the lead, but sad enough that they have to keep it hidden in tight close ups or shadows. The always reliable Michael Ironside also gives a nice performance as the Government agent tracking the dog. Look for Jason Priestly as Boy on bike who gets offed.Corman made sure to get his money's worth out of his license of Koontz's novel as he made three sequels to this; they all basically remake the film with the second one being closer to the book than this one. As I said about RAWHEAD REX somewhere in this thread, I'm not a proponent of remakes but this is definitely a case where some filmmakers could make a movie 100% better from the source material. "},{"Title":"Bland and inoffensive.","Date":"28 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Watchers, for its first half at least, is two quite different movies at once and they fit together awkwardly. One is something of a family film involving young Corey Haim and an intelligent pooch and the other a horror movie with a monster and evil government spooks. Obviously the horror side is the dominant one but it takes a while for the two parts to come together and there is definitely a tonal inconsistency in the first half of the movie as it cuts between a teenage boy discovery how smart the stray dog he found is and people getting butchered.Overall the Watchers fit into the category of okay timewaster- it isn't very good but its diverting enough to watch. The central concept is a fairly creative if silly one- the setup with the dog and the monster seems a bit convoluted and impractical but not totally infeasible. Nothing or nobody really stands out here. The plot and its execution are average as are the cookie cutter characters. Needless to say Corey Haim lacks any personality or charisma but the worst actor in the movie is easily the guy playing the mother's squeeze/handyman, who adopts an awful fake sounding British accent. Michael Ironside is as fun to watch as ever hamming it up as the lead baddie charged with retrieving the pooch and the monster- obviously he needlessly brutal and evil because that's what government scientist/agent types are in these movies. Some of the stalking scenes are well handled and things move at a brisk pace.I'm still not really sure why it is called Watchers. "},{"Title":"Not Very Good","Date":"23 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Taped this film years ago appearing on HBO and was in for a big surprise when I finally viewed it and I am sorry I wasted my time. The film starts off rather interesting with Corey Haim, (Travis Cornell) having fun on his farm with a girlfriend in the hay loft of his barn; when a sort of Tazmanian like Devil Dog snarls and gobbles up everything in sight and seems to love Eyeballs. Travis falls in love with a stray dog who seems to have super intelligence and when this dog comes into contact with any person, the Devil Dog has a big bloody meal with either his head or like I said before Eyeballs. The best actor in this film was the Golden Retriver and Michael Ironside,(Lem Johnson) was a great supporting actor. However, Lem Johnson in this film was just as evil and maybe worse than the Tazamanian Devil Dog as I call the monster or whatever! "},{"Title":"Pretty good old school horror flick, but terrible but compared to the book","Date":"27 June 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Me and my girlfriend went out and rented this movie after we both had already read the book, hoping that it would be like the book since the book was one of the best I have ever read and to see a movie, it would be pretty awesome.However we were greatly disappointed in the movie in that respect. But for someone who has never read the book and if they enjoy an old school kind of corny horror movie then it decently would be worth the time to watch it. Some parts of the movie are pretty.. well it was probably top notch back around the time that it was made, but with the newer standards put out by todays movies, it doesn't quite rank up there. Still I don't regret spending money to rent it, and I give it a 5/10.  "}{"Title":"Spoiled chance","Date":"14 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This was one of the cult movies of my childhood. No, I wasn't a Corey Haim fan. At that time (try to understand me I was 7 or something) this movie used to scare me maybe because of all the howls of the creature or the fact that you see it very little. Nowadays I think it's just a spoil of a quiet good horror novel they basically transformed it into an almost pre-teen TV movie directed with a very poor style. Basically, in the should-be-horror sequences, the camera shakes furiously trying to not shoot too much the stunt in the furry bigfoot-like costume. No really scary things around but I still find the eye-gouged deputy a nice gore shot. The only really good reason to see this is the great Michael Ironside, evil as ever. "},{"Title":"very good !!","Date":"6 October 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" i can't believe people are giving bad reviews about this movie! i wonder why......maybe because of the book..... i have to admit, it really doesn't follow the book... for sure...the book by dean koontz is much better... but the movie is also good as well!!! it has the suspense...the acting are good... especially michael ironside, whom have given a superb acting in this movie!!!come one guyz...give this movie a chance...there are still lot more worse movie than this....like sum of all fears...phantoms...the da vinci code...this are some of the worse movie i have seen...really boring if compared to watchers which really have great elements in the movie...this movie contains great suspense and non stop action!!! i'm looking for this movie...but it is really hard to be found on DVD...by da way...i really recommended this movie to everybody... watch it!!!! you will never regret !!!10/10* "},{"Title":"A total mutilation of a very good book.","Date":"23 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I am a huge fan of Dean Koontz books, and when I see the movies, they usually butcher them.  I thought I'd seen the worst with Hideaway, which was not only horrible but could barely keep the facts straight in the movie.  But when I saw Watchers, I was practically screaming.  For starters, casting teenage Corey Haim as Travis Cornell, a character who's in his thirties in the book, alone, nearly suicidal, and has no family left, is an abomination in itself.  Then the movie makes Nora Devon, Travis's love interest in the book, his mother!  Now, that's just sick.  This movie is not only horrible in itself, it's a disgrace to the book which is one of my favorite Dean Koontz's books of all time.  Listen to me and spare yourself the pain of having to watch this movie. "},{"Title":"A great book turned into a grating movie.","Date":"11 May 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Corey Haim is never going to be known as one of the great actors of his time, but at least in movies like Licensed To Drive, he was more in his element... lowbrow humor.Dean Koontz's book Watchers was one of his earlier works, and still probably his finest to date.  Sadly, this magnificent tale of a brilliant dog, a deranged mutant and a genetic experiment gone wrong is butchered horribly. The acting is so lifeless, you might think you're watching a zombie movie.  Only the dog gives a respectable performance, and if you want to see a decent movie about a dog, you'd be better of watching The Incredible Journey, Cujo or even C.H.O.M.P.S....okay, maybe not C.H.O.M.P.S.If you've read the book, avoid this movie at all costs.  If you haven't read the book, read it and avoid this movie.  You'll thank me later.A somewhat better translation of a Dean Koontz book is the capable thriller, Phantoms.  "},{"Title":"Completely unwatchable","Date":"27 October 1999","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Possibly one of the worst adaptations of a book ever put on celluloid, this movie translates a solid sci-fi novel with chills, laughs, and unique characters into a slow moving, low budget teen slasher film that left me wanting to wretch. I just felt grateful that I got it on two-for-one deal at the video store. At all costs...avoid this mess. "},{"Title":"The Writers strike dooms another film","Date":"31 July 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Lem (Michael Ironside) is tasked with finding an experimental dog that escaped from a government facility, not knowing that a teenager, Travis (the late Corey Haim) has since, reluctantly, 'adopted' the dog for his own. However, a second escapee, this one much less benevolent, is also on the loose.Hollywood has had a history of screwing up Dean Koontz's source material. The later more abysmal Hidaway would further prove that sad fact. So coming at this film as a bastardized adaptation of his novel would be like shooting fish in a barrel. As such, I won't and shall try to take this movie on its own merits (or more appropriately, lack there of) Starting with the main gripe against this movie, simple and trite dialog (specifically, the banter between Travis, his mom and the dog is cringe-worthy and borders sitcom-level awfulness) quite frankly, the only actor that even attempts to not embarrass himself in this movie is Ironside himself, yet sadly he finds that goal foiled at every turn. One could only imagine what would have been if the writers strike didn't adversely affect the quality of this movie. But what is is and what is, isn't good. "},{"Title":"Why mess with good!?","Date":"27 July 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" No one has ever argued that Koontz is the second coming of Shakespeare. But the man has put out some very entertaining and intriguing (albeit formulamatic) horror novels.Yet, when they decided to make Watchers (one of his more thoughtful and provoking title) did the writer of the screenplay say Hey! Why don't we change the story and make it a teen slasher AND use it as a Coerey Haim vehicle!? I will tell you why! Because it made it suck!They changed the whole plot, setting and most of the story and basically forced the audience to watch teen pretty boy Haim, doe-eye his way through a performance. "},{"Title":"Intelligent Dogs - One Good, One Evil","Date":"23 March 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Based on Dean Koontz's breakthrough bestseller published the previous year, Watchers takes the same central idea of the book - a secret government agency is creating super-intelligent creatures. The film proper opens with the explosion of a large government research facility. A golden retriever and a savage beast escape the facility. Another early scene finds teenager Travis Cornell (Corey Haim) rendezvousing with his girl Tracey at the barn at her house, before having to make a hasty exit when Tracey is sought out by her suspicious dad. As Travis starts to drive away, the golden retriever jumps into the back of his pickup. Soon after, Tracey is attacked, but not killed by the savage beast and ends up in the hospital. Here she is questioned and then kidnapped by two government agents who work for an outfit called the NSO. The more sadistic agent is played by Michael Ironside (Top Gun, Scanners, Total Recall, Starship Troopers). The agenda and motives of these agents actions is only partly explained.Some early scenes involving Travis and the golden retriever bonding have a winning Lassie-adventure-story charm to them. What is unfortunate is the radical shift away from a central theme of the book - individuals ability to find emotional rehabilitation through love and community.The central storyline in both the book and the film - of super- intelligent creatures created to perform specific tasks, remains interesting. However, the film manages to fall into a lot of b-movie clichés, while ignoring many of the tense and compelling set-pieces of the novel.However, if you like 80s horror, and/or Corey Haim and don't mind a bit of cheesy dialogue, you may enjoy some of what's on offer here. "},{"Title":"* * Out Of Five","Date":"15 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Corey Haim plays a kid who teams up with a dog to take out a giant troll and OSA hit-man (Michael Ironside) with a 30/30 and homemade bombs (Which plays plausible considering Haim) Oh and he also protects his mother and girlfriend as well in this watchable yet disappointing adaption of a decent story. Corey Haim is terrible, of course but the movie's sheer momentum as well as Ironside's imposing presence make this at least a modestly effective film. Still the plot is ridiculous and it would've been nicer if we could've seen a monster or at least more gore. At least it's something different. Also it's fairly likely that this film will be the last teen movie for awhile to show a teenager making pipe bombs.Matt Bronson 2/5 "},{"Title":"Not a very good rendition of the book!!!","Date":"14 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Dean Koontz is such an awesome author and, regrettably, this movie doesn't capture any of the great qualities of the book. My suggestion would be to forgo seeing this movie and go to the library, get the book and read it!!!! You won't regret it, it is awesome and definitely leaves you wanting to read more of his books. His writing grabs your attention and engulfs you into the story, scaring you....yet not bad enough that you feel you have to put the book down. POSSIBLE SPOILERS!! Whereas the movie doesn't come near depicting the intelligence of the dog or relating the terrible sadness that envelopes the other. Also, it really doesn't show the depth of the hatred that the other has for the dog or the overwhelming empathy and understanding that the dog has for the other while at the same time being terrified of it knowing the hatred it feels for the dog. Just read the book!!!  "}{"Title":"I bought this film cos i loved the book, big mistake!","Date":"4 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I got this film for £5, and its not even worth that. The book was amazing, exciting and had one of the best ongoing plots i have ever read. It's powerful stuff, but the film lacks just about all of that. I just hope that those who've seen the film but not read the book realise that this is not a direct version of Koontz's book, because it was not done justice. "},{"Title":"Uggg.","Date":"9 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Every time I think about this film I feel physically ill. To read such a great book and later discover there's a film of it was a great feeling. Years later and imagine my joy at switching on the sci-fi channel and finding it starts in just 5mins!!! Up go the titles and then uggg. If just a couple of things had changed OK. Everything is changed. Numerous characters are removed entirely new rubbish ones are added. The main hero is shrunk and de-aged by about 30 years, and hilariously his girlfriend/wife is now his mother! Even the dog is reduced to sub-lassie capabilities. This is truly appalling cinema at its absolute worst. I would quite happily remove my own toenails with pliers rather than sit through another horrific viewing, and I urge anyone thinking of watching this - please don't. If you own a copy burn it now, right now and think how much better your life would have been had this celluloid insult never occurred. "},{"Title":"Worst Novel Adaptation Ever","Date":"30 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Anytime you take a novel in which the main character is a 30-ish man and changes him into an adolescent boy for the movie, you know there are problems ahead.  If they had stayed true to this excellent, entertaining novel, life would have been good, but as they make some very significant, fundamental changes to the plot and story, I think it is an outrage to even claim that this movie is based on Dean Koontz's novel! "},{"Title":"Cheesey and Boring","Date":"23 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I watched this movie at a slumber party back in 7th grade, so thank God I didn't bother to rent it, and even I saw it, I wouldn't have.  This movie was cheesey and boring, and totally uninspiring to any kind of film.  It's just there, there isn't anything to it.  I was bored when I watched this movie. "},{"Title":"Terrible, nothing like the book...","Date":"10 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  okay, my question; who's the idiot that wrote this movie, giving it the same name as Dean Koontz's awesome book? its terrible, nothing like the book...you got the dog, and the watcher, but there the similarities end...might be good, if you haven't read the book, though...but it disappointed me, really.they should make a new one, and let koontz write it... now that would be a good movie... I'll say it again, this movie disgusted me...absolutely disgusted me. it was terrible, it was absolutely nothing like the book. I would never again watch it.  "},{"Title":"Put that movie down and walk away!","Date":"6 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The book upon which this waste of film is based is one of my favorites; I've read it many times.  Had the movie not borne the same name, I'd never have recognized it.  Dean Koontz shouldn't have needed the money THAT bad! "},{"Title":"Fair","Date":"14 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Watchers (1988) ** (out of 4) Apparently we shouldn't trust any government agencies. Out in the middle of nowhere the government is trying to create superhuman creatures that they can use for war. Two creatures are created one being a Golden Retriever who has been taught pretty much everything a human can do. This includes answering questions, being able to type and best of all he can retrieve his own food. The second creature is a Bigfoot type creature known as an Oxcom. The secret is that the dog would go into the enemy's camp to find targets then the Oxcom would follow and kill whatever is by the dog.However another government agencies tries to destroy this project and blows up the building where the two are being held but neither are killed and they both head off into the woods. The dog has the advantage but the Oxcom is close behind and ready to kill whoever the dog goes near. The dog eventually ends up with 16-year-old Travis (Corey Haim) who takes a liking to the animal and also understands how smart it is. While all of this is going on the Oxcom is stalking and killing people all over the county. Meanwhile the government agents, head by Michael Ironside, shows up to track the creatures down.Watchers is based on the novel by Dean Koontz but I haven't read it so I'm not sure how close the movie follows things. The executive producer was Roger Corman so that there should tell you what type of film this is going to be. If you've seen any of the low-budget drive-in shockers from the 1950's then you've pretty much seen this film. This film plays out exactly like all the others, although this here does have a few good aspects but there isn't enough to make the film worth watching.The biggest problem is that the film is simply too cute to really be a horror film. The dog in the film is so darn lovable that you really can't take your eyes off of him and the scenes between him and Haim seem like something you'd see in a Disney film and not a gory horror movie. I'm actually a fan of Haim but he's also a problem here due to the rather silly performance. Most of the time he's trying to act tough but it comes off laughable especially the silly ending, which seems like something Rambo should be doing.As I mentioned earlier this film plays out just like the monster movies from the 1950's and this is a problem. The director uses Corman's trick of not showing the monster too much throughout the film, which is fine if the movie runs a little over an hour but coming in at 92-minutes the film simply runs out of steam very early making the rest of the film drag along without anything interesting happening. The story is laughable and not too believable but this could have been overlooked had the viewer ever feared the actual creature. That's not the case so there's very little here except for the cute dog. "},{"Title":"worst book to movie adaption ever","Date":"28 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I couldn't agree more. The book is one of Dean Koontz's best novels and this film is a total travesty. I watched about half of it then threw the tape in the bin in disgust! I have NO idea what the idiotic director was thinking making this piece of crap but I would rather poke my eyes out with a sharp stick than watch this useless movie again! Everything about this film is just wrong. First the main character is changed from an ex marine to a high school KID. WHY??? Second the love of his life in the book becomes his mother in the movie! hem I bet Freud would have something to say about that! LOL. The dog is cute enough and the best thing in the movie and completely outcast everyone else! Also a main character who helps them in the book betrays them in the movie. There really is nothing good to say about the film except that at least it's relatively short at an hour and a half or so. If anyone hasn't seen the film yet do yourselves a favour! READ THE BOOK! It is so much better than this worthless waste of time! "},{"Title":"Wow, the film is actually worse than the book","Date":"4 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I hated the book. A guy meets a smart dog, gets a virgin girlfriend, and all the while they're being chased by a hit-man and a ape beast thing (both of whom want the dog). Dean Koontz really can't write (I read the book at my sister's recommendation, I should have known better). When I saw this, (mostly out of a morbid curiosity) I actually found myself criticizing it because of the fact that it was untrue to the book, even though this is a book that its impossible to make a good movie of. I figured at least if they're going to make a film adaptation of the worst book I've ever read the filmmakers might as well be accurate. They turned the guy and his virgin love interest into a boy and his mother, for some reason that bothered me most of all (even though I seriously doubt keeping it a guy and his chick wouldn't have made it any better). Quite simply; bad book, bad movie, don't see it. "}]