[{"Title":"Nostalgic treat","Date":"12 November 2001","Score":"24 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" I had not seen Spike Lee's School Daze in 13 years, the first weekend of its release. This movie has a very special meaning to African Americans like me who were college students in the 80s. The school setting acts as a microcosm of black life as a whole. The social issues it tackles are all too familiar to black life light skin vs. dark skin, college kids vs. the surrounding economically disadvantage community, and the social responsibility of African Americans to Africans across the entire black diaspora among others.Watching it in 1988 I thought the dance sequences were too long, but in 2001 I now see their worth. The DVD is visually beautiful, while being gritty in spots where it should thanks to the beautiful work of the great Ernest Dickerson. This was a huge leap for Spike as a director, coming from a $175,000 budget for She's Got To Have It to School Daze.This film does a great job of giving us some of the inner workings of Black Greek letter organizations. It also shows what abuse people will go through to belong. I was actually living School Daze when I saw it in 1988, so I come from that perspective. It was thrilling to figuratively see myself on that screen in 1988.If you are looking for Academy Award winning performances, then this isn't the film for you, although there are some really fine actors in the film. If you haven't ever lived this existence, it is really hard to appreciate School Daze. I have a great appreciation for Spike, the era, and the story Spike has written and brought to the screen.Most folks don't get the ending Wake Up scene, but it absolutely belongs. The entire movie and most of Spike's works are wake up calls to America, but specifically to the black community. "},{"Title":"An examination of one of the worst forms of racism that African-Americans deal with!","Date":"11 December 2002","Score":"14 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":"  This film dealt with a lot of inner conflicts that African-Americans where unwilling to deal with at the time. Class struggles, light skinned vs. dark skinned and greeks vs. non-greeks. I just purchased it on DVD, but I remember seeing this film when it first came out in February of 1988 and it is just as powerful and entertaining now as it was then. It's amazing to look at this film now and see all of the actors who went on to successful careers afterwards, like Laurence(then Larry) Fishburne, Tisha Campbell, Giancarlo Esposito, Roger Guenveur Smith, Kadeem Hardison, Jasmine Guy, Darryl Bell, Rusty Cundieff(director of Tales From The Hood), Bill Nunn, Branford Marsalis, and of course I can't forget Samuel L. Jackson. Three years after this film came out a cousin from Seattle came to visit, I showed him this film and he was surprised to discover that there were actually historically black colleges and universities(HBCU's) in this country. He later attended Southern University here in Baton Rouge. That was the effect this film had and continues to have on young African-Americans and their views of HBCU's. "},{"Title":"A Breath of Fresh Air","Date":"21 October 2004","Score":"17 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" I am only 18 years old and I just saw the movie School Daze. I do not attend a H.B.C.U., but I have friends that tell me what goes on there. To the older people out there, can you believe that that type of stuff is still going on?! My friends and I were just talking the other day about how this guy on her campus would only date lighter skinned girls. If that is his thing, than it is, however, he would not date them because of their personality. He said they just looked better on his arm. My mother and I always discuss the future of African-Americans and I am going to tell the truth. I am scared. We hurt each other more than any other race and we have to stop. I am a dark-skinned female and I just learnd to love myself. I thank Spike Lee for not being ashamed to call us out when we needed it. No, I do not think that the movie was an Oscar winner, but I do know that it was a mind opener and should be a lesson to all of us on how we allowed the European standard of beauty to shape our self-worth. "},{"Title":"If you aren't Black and/or you didn't go to an all-black university, you might not get it...","Date":"29 May 2001","Score":"16 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":"  Spike pegged this.  He couldn't get it all in, but he was darn close.  The light-skinned vs. the dark-skinned, exclusionary syndrome perpetrated by Black Greeks to non-Greeks, Homecoming, the sweaty and hot parties, the rift/resentment between lower-class local Blacks and the students, sexuality... It was great.  Unfortunately, my main man Spike failed to make it universal, so if you ain't what I mentioned in my one-line summary, you might not get it.  God Bless the ones that try to understand the mentality instead of dogging out the man's obvious and enormous filmmaking talent.  You can hate Kobe Bryant for taking all the darn shots, but you can't hate the young man's game!  PEACE! "},{"Title":"It's not a good movie because you didn't go to a Black school?","Date":"27 June 2006","Score":"16 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" So what if you went to Harvard and not Hampton, this film is still well-shot, well-acted and damn funny. If you can't understand the light vs. dark, town vs. gown, Greeks vs. GDI conflicts, maybe you don't... under... stand... English... well. I never saw the movie in its entirety until I was about 20 (and pledging at an HBCU, but that's another story) but it just got better as I got older. This movie is like many of Spike's it's for a group of people (Black ones) that rarely get to tell their own stories. If other people get it, super. On a sidenote, what's so universal about Dirty Dancing? I've never had to drop out of a contest because of my botched abortion that Lenny from Law & Order had to come help me out with. I've also never been a small, Jewish man in New York City, but people seem to find Woody Allen's movies universal enough. Why don't these issues come up with movies made by whi... (ahem) other filmmakers? "},{"Title":"Fascinating, flawed but compulsively watchable","Date":"14 April 2008","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" School Daze is billed as a musical comedy but is better described as a comedy-drama with musical numbers as commentary--the only non-diegetic number is Good and Bad Hair, Lee's all-girl fantasy homage to West Side Story that addresses colorism between the paper bag-light sorority Gamma Rays and the darker activist girls. Ebert wrote that this was the first movie he'd seen in a while where the black characters relate to each other instead of a hypothetical white audience--it is this that gives the movie its engrossing authenticity. (If it matters, I'm white.) As funny as the movie can be, it's also incredibly hard-hitting--there's a sequence in the last 20 minutes where Julian, Big Brother Al-migh-tee, insists his girlfriend prove her love, that's almost unwatchable and yet brutally honest. Lee has been called sexist for his underwritten female characters--there may be some truth to that but School Daze is far more critical of the men than the women. Rachel, Dap's girlfriend, is perhaps the most levelheaded, likable character in the movie, and is strong and supportive of Dap while still maintaining her independence. Even the Gamma Rays, who come off as shallow and colorist in the beginning, are sympathetic as they stand up for and try to aid the pledges during hazing. The characters who come off the worst are the GPG brothers who are, almost to a man, brutish, sadistic and crude. Julian in particular is unredeemable--clever, manipulative and almost sociopathic in his treatment of Jane. Lee supposedly based the movie on his observations at Morehouse and the movie stands as a scathing indictment against the black fraternity system and its abuse of the women's auxiliaries (aka Little Sisters).The movie has structural weaknesses (the ending is problematic and seems to come out of nowhere although it fits thematically) but its biggest problem is Lee's flat performance as Half-Pint (and, frankly, he looks a little too old for it). I love Lee's movies but his early tendency to cast himself in major roles was a real weakness--he's just not a good enough actor and his performance always jerks me out of the story. The rest of the cast is fantastic, though, especially Tisha Campbell as Jane and Giancarlo Esposito as Julian. Notice must also be given to Bill Lee's wonderful score. Ultimately it's a movie whose heart and imagination overcome its flaws. "},{"Title":"My favorite movie of all time","Date":"17 September 2002","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":"  This is my favorite movie of all time. I have seen it at least 300 times. I saw it the first time about a year after it came out. I was about ten years old  and I was mesmerized. I really loved all the singing and dancing. But when I got older, thats when I got the message of movie. Thats what makes this movie such as classic. The only thing I don't like about it is that I read the book about the making of School Daze and Spike cut out so many scenes that would have been good for the movie. It would have made some of the scenes easier to understand. I wished he would've put them on the DVD. But still, one of the greatest black films of all time. "},{"Title":"The Best Black College Movie of all time","Date":"16 December 2004","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" This was the best black college movie of all time! This movie went places that know other college movie to this date have yet to explore. I was eight when I first saw this movie and the message that Spike was making was over my head at the time I viewed this movie, but his message is still a point for our people today. I every once in awhile will set down to look at this great movie and come up with things to talk about with others. This movie made me want to attend a HBCU and I did Delaware State University and I even joined a frat. This movie comes with my highest recommendation. If you missed the message in the movie, its over your head and you need to watch it again. "},{"Title":"School Daze declares today's society must Wake Up!","Date":"7 August 2004","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":"  (SOME SPOILERS) Coming off the heels of the successful She's Gotta Have It, Spike Lee examines tension between blacks in School Daze. When School Daze was originally released it caused an uproar in the African American community. African Americans accused Lee for airing dirty laundry. A lot of this happened because School Daze showcases the tension between light skinned African Americans and dark skin African Americans. A lot of this true. This is seen more recently in music videos. A lot of models with darker complexion complain that women with lighter skin get all the spotlight. This has been going on for a long time in the African American community. This is seen in the rivalry between Tisha Campbell's character Jane and Kyme's character Rachel. They even get into an entertaining musical titled Good or Bad Hair. The funny thing about that scene is that the darker women is in the group called Nappy and the lighter women is in the group Straight. This is also carried on in the feud between Dap (Laurence Fishburne) and Julian (Giancarlo Esposito). There is also a very thought provoking ending that is a must see (common Spike Lee trademark) With School Daze you get three in one, it's a frat comedy that turns into a musical that turns into a social statement. But nonetheless, this film is entertaining form beginning to end. Watch out for a lot of familiar faces, most of the cast went on to be huge stars.School Daze- rated R *** out of ****  "},{"Title":"Great movie but not for everyone","Date":"9 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" I loved this movie! I have it on VHS and DVD.I always related to this movie. As an African American man who was actively pressuring the institution of higher learning that I was attending at the time to divest from South Africa, I felt like one of Da fellas. My boys and I even went to see it in a raggedy Chevrolet.I completely vibed with the whole frat versus GDI issue. As a student at a northern predominantly white institution some of the other issues around skin color were new to me.A must see for any African American student attending or planning on attending college - especially if they plan on attending an Historically Black Colege or University. "}{"Title":"School Daze is Spike Lee's college autobiography","Date":"13 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" Spike Lee is a weird little character; however, he is a brilliant filmmaker. School Daze captures every element of the Morehouse College experience, the school Lee graduated from (and I attended Morehouse last year.) The only thing different between the movie and reality is that the school in the movie was called Mission College, which merged Morehouse (a historically black, all-boys school) and Spelman College (the historically black, all-girls school across the street). Everything else is the same, from the fraternities and sororities, to the campus (it was filmed at Morehouse, Spelman, as well as two other HBCUs nearby) Spike brilliantly captured the experience of Morehouse and Spelman, added satire and awesome compositions, and merged it into a film that is timeless. "},{"Title":"Lee's sophomore effort is far from great, but it's a fine effort nonetheless","Date":"12 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" School Daze isn't something that is exclusive to those who went to all-black colleges, despite what some other commenters have said on IMDb. Coming from an average state school, there's still nothing *big* in the movie that comes from specifically being all-black, as there are many things like fraternities/sororities, male and female camaraderie, sex, fashion, insults, sports and rituals in general that are common to any college experience. Spike Lee captures that, when he's at his best here, very well. If you *did* go to an all-black college ala Lee's alma mater Moorehouse, then I'm sure it will have more relevance. But in general, Lee's made a solid, technically wild college comedy/musical/drama, with some major missteps.There are some messages thrown about in School Daze, mostly around sexism, not so much racism (there's barely a white person to be seen in the film so it's not really an issue to deal with per-say), but they're all used in relativity with the story and characters, which is good. We're given Mission college, an all-black college down south, where classes are pretty much moot and everything revolves around cliques of various sorts the Greek frat, which Half-Pint (Spike Lee) is trying to join, and his cousin Dap (Fishburne) who definitely is not and is defiant against a lot of things on campus, which nearly get him expelled. There are also the jigaboo's and the wannabes, two sets of girls on campus who are certainly opposed (as we see, brilliantly, in one of the better musical numbers).While Lee's plot isn't always connected together, there's so much that works when he keeps the dialog moving along. He has a great sense of the characters, the BS that binds guys together and how the rhythm of a conversation with these 18-22 year olds goes, and about the ambivalence between the opposing sexes, leading up to the dramatic climax. Even most of the actors, close to all of them their first time in a Lee joint (Esposito, Davis, Bill Nunn), are terrific when given the chance showing off how absurd and, in retrospect in life, abstract all of this becomes. What keeps it down from being a lot better- and, sadly, what makes it look a lot more like an exercise in style (which, granted, was Lee's first movie with a budget above 100 grand and for a studio)- are the padded musical performances, and specifically those that don't contribute anything to the story. The first sequence is dynamite as the actresses all perform in an energetic performance about the differences between the sororities. After that, it's more or less (more for the one scene with the singer intercut with the sex) just filler that is shot well but empty.Nevertheless, School Daze shows a filmmaker ready and hungry behind the lens to try and do things and show us bits and pieces of life that haven't been much in American movies, and at best it's riveting and entertaining. For this it's commendable, but it's also a stepping stone for Do the Right Thing. 7.5/10 "},{"Title":"School Daze, forget about going to college.","Date":"18 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":"  School Daze brings to light the politics and hierarchy of college life. When Spike Lee's character is initiated into Gamma Phi Gamma his ethics and morals stay behind.  This film describes these institutionalized problems through a musical genre in a interesting way.  "},{"Title":"Boring and meaningless","Date":"1 December 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" This movie is a mess. Hardly anything works. There are too many story lines going on with no clear direction or focus to it. It is a crude mishmash of story lines, all of which are equally uninteresting. School Daze is Spike Lee's second feature film. It is set at the fictional black college Mission University where there are two opposing groups of students who can't accept the differences between each other. Laurence Fishburne plays an unpopular student who opposes pledging to fraternities in a school where that kind of thing is the social norm. The most prestigious of these fraternities is the Gamma Phi Gamma fraternity which Spike Lee's character, Half Pint, is trying to become a part of. There are many other story lines about other underdeveloped characters, but in the end I got no entertainment out of a single one so they are hardly worth noting or remembering.School Daze is a poorly stirred mixture of genres that confuses more than entertains. It is dominated by aspects of drama with some unfunny comedy mixed in. The jokes for the most part aren't even amusing and the drama is useless and uninteresting. Oh yeah and it's also a musical. I knew almost nothing about this film going into other than the fact that it was a Spike Lee film, so I engaged in some hefty head scratching when the first musical number kicked in about 25 minutes into the film, which should be a big no no in the musical genre. School Daze is the only musical I can think of that doesn't open with a big production number. However, what songs there are in this film are sparse and unmemorable. All the dance numbers seem awkward and every song feels out of place. I think this film could have done slightly better if the musical aspect had been dropped completely. The songs appear at the most random and scattered moments of the film and contribute nothing to the film, story wise or artistically.Honestly, School Daze is a pretty boring film. Nothing much happens and scene after scene makes the film as a whole feel more pointless and misguided. I felt like I was accomplishing nothing by watching this film, which can be OK as long as the film has some entertainment value, which School Daze has none of. The film supposedly has a deep seated and heartfelt message about African American relations, but I didn't feel this at all until the cheesy and abrupt ending of the film where I once again proceeded to scratch my head in confusion. Maybe I missed some of the more important aspects of the film amidst my boredom, but it was hard to stay mildly interested in these mediocre characters and dull story lines.Overall I can respect Spike Lee for trying to make an important and relevant film, but the execution of his idea went horribly wrong. I couldn't get into this movie at all. There was nothing interesting about School Daze. It was a jumbled mess of story lines and characters that had little motivation or development. There were times when a certain character that we hadn't spent any time previously developing would all of the sudden pop up and be important. But really everything towards the end of this film didn't resonate with me in any way because I was already fed up with the movie and wanted nothing more than for it to end. I truly wanted to enjoy this film, but it was just impossible. School Daze was a major disappointment. "},{"Title":"What Many Don't Understand","Date":"17 July 2000","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":"  Most of the people who watched this movie never have been to a historically black college and or university. That's why people don't get it. Spike Lee captured many of the essential essences  that make the black college experience unique. So, before you degrade the picture like so many have before you, get a point of reference to compare it "},{"Title":"HVCC Student Yuchen Bai Review","Date":"6 May 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" I like musicals, but I don't know if that was really a good way to present this material. That, and only one of the numbers really grabbed me. I will say that the stomp competition sequence was well choreographed and executed though. The performances are good, and you can see Lee's innovations and techniques getting better and better, but the film is a little weak structurally and leaves a few too many loose ends. However, it is entertaining, and makes some important contributions cinematically (but most culturally and socially) It's not too bad i think. I admire Spike's efforts, Spike Lee's Version of college life was real, funny, and I could relate to this film. "},{"Title":"Powerful, but only for Adults (or Mature Teens)","Date":"17 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" I pray that racism isn't the reason this film has such a low rating on here.I'm a black college student who used to be in a white fraternity and this film is actually fairly accurate to the ideas those organizations promote.The acting is stellar, Laurence Fishburne, Giancarlo Esposito, Tisha Champbell, and Spike Lee steal the show but as much effort is put into almost every supporting role.The cinematography is done pretty well, not flawless but as a film buff I appreciated it. The music is awesome and keeps you engaged, it really serves as a nice break for the more dramatic scenes.The storyline is overall about finding yourself in college which is a very difficult task and even more difficult now in the age of social media.The only complaint I had about this film is that the actors don't really look like college students, but it's minuscule in comparison to the film's themes.I would recommend this film, but the primary audience is adults and I would keep high school students away from this film unless they're exceptionally mature for their age.Go into School Daze with an open mind and be prepared for a powerful film that sticks in your mind well after your initial viewing. "},{"Title":"A Look Inside The American Black Culture!","Date":"13 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" Spike Lee's School Daze is an interesting film, one that reveals the struggle of black society in the 1980's. This was the time period when they were struggling to keep their head afloat in this world despite the civil rights movement some decades before. This film has many flaws, but it's not a letdown thanks to the clear message Spike Lee was able to bring across. The opening of this film is powerful as Lee is showing the history of his people and the end.....well it came out of nowhere but I think it's rightly justified.Spike Lee's film takes place at a historically black college during homecoming weekend and it's about how the sororities and the fraternities clash against each other.The acting is decent nothing to rave home about, but nothing to be ashamed of either. Laurence Fishburne may have had the best role as the revolutionary leader who wants to change how his school is ran.Overall, School Daze is very interesting and it sends the message to America and more specifically to black people, to wake up and be proud of their heritage. These morals are a strong presence throughout the film and quite frankly, they elevate the movie. For the music itself, it's quite enjoyable though some songs are a tad too long. Kudos to Spike Lee for going somewhere that directors rarely go. I rate this film 8/10. "},{"Title":"Worth the time and the celluloid","Date":"3 September 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" This movie isn't for everyone so if you are afraid of talking about racism, colorism and other types of discrimination this movie is not for you.If you interested in watching something enlightening and educational, this is a movie that is worth the celluloid it was recorded on.The first time I saw this movie, I was very young and unaware and did not realize the importance of this movie.However, after seeing it as an adult, I have to say that it was quite ahead of its time and still very relevant today.If you purchase or rent the DVD, make it a point to listen to the director's commentary. It was very enlightening to learn that a lot of what was going on in the movie was actually happening while he was filming this movie and that is what makes it all that much more important of a film. It was also interesting what he did to create the friction between the groups as well. There was mention of how sorority sisters were being treated by the fraternity men in these colleges. It was also ironic to hear that the person chosen to be play the president of the university was frowned upon because of the way he looked.I only gave it a 9 because the only flaw that I could find in it was that it could have gone deeper in the discussion of colorism. I feel it did not go deep enough. However as I stated, it is relevant and ahead of its time. "},{"Title":"Not Lee's best work","Date":"20 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" I like this film only because it is an early effort by the master Spike Lee before he hit his stride with Do The Right Thing in 1989. I believe one reason this film baffles me is that I come from Kentucky and as far as I know there are no immediate black colleges in my area which is a sorta of a shame. I never experienced life on a African American campus and this film is just over my head. I feel that Lee new what he was talking about he just should have made the film a little more open for the general public to follow. I know he could have done better as the show A Different World which is about the same subject matter and is overly entertaining to watch. It also includes most of the cast Lee brings to this film. Lee makes other inspired casting choices in this film with then named Larry Fishburn, Bill Nunn, Ginocarlo Espasito, Tisia Cambell, and an early, early appearance by Sam L. Jackson outside of the KFC. This actors bring a lot the table and somewhat pull it off. I just think the film should have been a little more open as Spike's latter films are. I guess you gotta learn somewhere. Rock on Spike. "}{"Title":"school is cool if you can protest apartheid","Date":"27 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" In what looked like Spike Lee's first major movie, different groups of students on a black campus clash over social status, apartheid, and similar things. We can clearly see how the darker-skinned people are more revolutionary, while the lighter-skinned people are a lot creepier (almost militaristic).Maybe parts of School Daze seem like they could have used more - perhaps at times it seems preachy - but it's overall a very well done movie. As political activist Dap, Laurence Fishburne is as good as we would expect, and Giancarlo Esposito also does quite well as pro-status quo Julian. Also starring Tisha Campbell, Kyme, Joe Seneca, Ellen Holly, Art Evans, Ossie Davis, Bill Nunn, Branford Marsalis, Kadeem Hardison, Spike Lee and Samuel L. Jackson.And remember Wake up! "},{"Title":"School Daze","Date":"29 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" When this movie first came out I was six years old. From then on I would see it from time to time, but wasn't aware of what School Daze was about. Until I decided to go to an HBCU,then I knew exactly what the meaning of this movie was all about. If you have never attended an HBCU, you can't get the full effect of what this movie is saying. This movie gives you just enough of an HBCU. School Daze is special to me because it was filmed in the AUC, where I attended Dear ol Morris Brown College. This is one out of two of my favorite black college movies, Drumline is my other favorite black college movie which was also filmed in the AUC and which I was apart of. "},{"Title":"One of Spike's best","Date":"4 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":"  School Daze has to be one of Spike's best films. I really did like the message Spike tried to give to the audience and the cast. This film launched the careers for people such as Tisha Campbell (who later starred in the show Martin), Jasmine Guy and countless others. Spike did a good job setting this up to be a musical. The Good or Bad Hair piece gave the film a Broadway musical type feeling. The message played a huge part in the film. With much chaos going on with skin color and such, Laurence Fishburne set things straight and bolted out the words WAKE UP!. That should be a memorable quote. School Daze is worth every minute of your time. It is a memorable black film. "},{"Title":"This movie is a classic","Date":"17 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":"  I think this is one  of Spike's best along with, Crooklyn, and Malcolm X, to me it kind of touched on what black college life was like at the time, The good or bad hair number was too long, and the end was kind of stupid even though i got the point, The Gamma men didn't look too bad either ha ha but if you want to see a good black film, it is worth taking a look at. "},{"Title":"BGLO's on HBCU's","Date":"14 May 2001","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":"  Considering that Spike is not a member of a Black Greek Lettered Organization (BGLO), his take on portraying the life of a college guy on-line to become a member of a made up frat is...cute. His take on life at a Historically Black College or University was more true to life than his version of Greek life. His portrayal of Black Greeks was extremely stereotypical, borrowing pieces from a few national Black fraternities, putting them together and making characteristics of Gamma Phi Gamma. The film revolves around 2 characters, Half-pint and his cousin Dap, both away at the same University. Half-pint is on his way to becoming a Gamma Man and Dap is dead against it, perhaps because he didn't become a member himself. It also shows the friction between the Gamma's sweets knows as Gamma Rays and other females on campus. It gets into some of the mind games and hazing that men online for a fraternity endure. The movie has a few musical numbers. It was an early Spike Joint, it's now a classic.  "},{"Title":"the movie","Date":"26 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" I watched School Daze for the first time on July 25, 2006. I must say even though it does despite some of the frats and sororities it is a very good movie. because I am apart of an sorority and the jig a boos and the wanna bees act just like my sorority and another one the way the fight. and I really like the movie and I was very powerful in the message it was trying to put out. that the Historical black college people do need to wake up. and I really wish that an updated version could be done because I really think that HBCS have really come along way. and especially with the none hazing policies that are issued for the Greek letter organizations keep a lot of hazing out of the schools which gives them bad reps. "},{"Title":"Great film.  The best look at HBCU life that has been put to film.","Date":"30 March 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" School Daze takes us through the homecoming weekend of the fictional Historically Black College Mission College. Spike Lee has gone out of his way very successfully to recreate the events that surround an HBCU homecoming. We have the parade. The Homecoming Dances and Pageants. The football game. Even a crossing over of a fraternity. This is the best film I have ever seen that features HBCU college life and gives an inside look at it. Various issues that were a big deal on college campuses then are discussed such as light skinned vs dark skinned, almost obsessive interest in the apartheid situation in Africa. The film covers some good ground. Most of the movie, however, revolves around the character Half Pint, whom Spike Lee himself portrays. He is online for the fictional fraternity Gamma Phi Gamma and if he lasts the weekend through, will be joining the G Phi G family. I won't say that Half Pint is a nerd, but he isn't the most popular guy on campus. After he crosses over, we see a definite change in him though. A change that a big majority of people can relate to if they have ever known someone close who has pledged a frat or sorority.I had a few problems with the movie though. I just found Laurence Fishburne unconvincing in this role. This is not his best performance and since he didn't really have a role to challenge his true acting ability until What's Love Got To Do With It, I can't really be surprised. Another problem is the ending. Spike Lee goes from reality to something that looks like it's right out a dream. It's so unique that it jumps from interesting right into the realm of ridiculous.Be on the lookout for some absolutely stunning musical pieces. Especially a performance by Tisha Campbell and three other sisters titled I Don't Wanna Be Alone Tonight. Another great number is Straight and Nappy. You'll know it when you hear it.Another thing, the wanna be's were like a thousand times finer than the jigaboos. I'm sorry. The wanna be's couldn't hold a flame to em. They couldn't even hold an unlit match to em. And it ain't got nothing to do with their skin color.I would recommend this film highly. It has flaws but they are few and in-between. And when you look at the fact that it is Spike Lee's second feature, you'll have even more respect for it.8/10 "},{"Title":"Spike at his best","Date":"27 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":"  School Daze is the film that inspired me to go into film. Spike Lee made a socially concicous film with music, real to life problems and drama. Larry Fishburne is great in the lead role as Dap as is the huge supporting cast. This film is in my top ten of films done by ubran directors. "},{"Title":"Not Spike's best, but a good film nonetheless","Date":"4 August 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":"  I'm a fan of Spike Lee and look up to him, being an aspiring director.  I wouldn't rank this film up there with Do the Right Thing, since it has its flaws, but I still found it entertaining and the characters generally engaging.  Spike has a knack for writing, as well as directing.  The minor problems I had with School Daze were that it dragged a bit (quite a few scenes could've used trimming), some of the acting is wooden, the occasional music numbers seemed forced (this is also considering I'm not a big fan of musicals) and the ending didn't satisfy me.  Aside from the end scene being pretentious, it seemed way too forced in an otherwise realistic film.  Laurence Fishburne, who's a naturally brilliant actor that never disappoints, gives the best performance of the film.  He compensates for some of the more amateurish members of the cast.  By the way, expect to see a lot of Spike's regulars--including Bill Nunn, Ossie Davis and Samuel L. Jackson in a nice bit part.  Also, expect to see several actors from A Different World.  It's evident that Spike was probably in a frat back in his college days, since the film feels authentic and the frat scenes are rich with detail.  I recommend School Daze, if you're a Spike fan like me, though it's nowhere near as powerful as most of his work.  (7 out of 10)   "},{"Title":"I Don't Wanna be Alone Tonight....","Date":"7 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":"  is the totally mesmerizing musical number headed by Tisha Campbell in an all-out Supremes homage. Try taking your eyes off Jasmine Guy as she gyrates through this number. Great song with campy, over-the-top choreography as Guy and 2 other slink and stalk across the stage in skin-tight gowns. The high point of the film! Was this song a hit back in 1988? "}{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"5 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" This is probably Spike Lee's best movie, except for Malcolm X, growing up in Washington DC and being dark skinned, I can relate to what the movie is really saying, I went to one of the lesser known colleges in DC, and I do wish that I could of went to Howard University, but it seemed that if you are light skinned, you will be noticed more than others, I was truly inspired about Spike Lee's performance as Half Pint, he was infatuated as being a gammar man, and was really trying very hard to fulfill his obligations and make everyone believe he is strong and not weak, I also liked the other actors in the movie like Lawrence (Larry) Fishburn and Sammuel L. Jackson whom went on to become huge stars of there on. "},{"Title":"A Great Spike Lee Movie, But His Movies Just Get Better After This!","Date":"30 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" I was very young and naive when I first saw this movie. I was a young innocent kid who never even thought about going to college. But I bought this movie on DVD, 17 years after it originally came out. After I completed 5 1/2 years of college at a non HBCU, I understand it better. Once again, Laurence Fishburne was type-casted in this movie. He always plays the guy that knows it all. Spike Lee once again put himself in one of his movies. Most of the Different World cast was in this movie. Tisha Campbell was a very old 18 year old girl in this movie. Tisha's character was a gullible fool in this movie. She licked the guy's head! She also cried over that fool after she was dumped for sleeping with Spike Lee! Jasmine Guy looked as good then as she does today! This movie proves how ignorant men who pledge to fraternities really are. Take the blinders off your eyes! Hazing really occurs in college like the hazing these guys experienced in this movie! It is just not reported. I was amazed to see Tyra Ferrell as a jigaboo instead of a wannabe. If you want to see a great Spike Lee movie, keep looking. But if you want to see a good Spike Lee movie, watch School Daze. "},{"Title":"a great film!!","Date":"11 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" First off,I disagree with the other poster on here.This film was truly great and showed some remarkable filmaking.This movie was first off made in the Cosby era,which means you will find a different view of African Americans here.It wasn't about babies,or even killing.It was about segregation between African-Americans themselves.It covered all the bases and showed there was a lot to learn dealing with that subject.As for the music scenes,they were great as well.With not a singe rap song in there,it conveyed through broadway style song and dance numbers.Something which will never be seen again in an African American film I'm sad to say.A good deal of these almost look like they were inspired by the Alvin Ailey dance group.The movie is rarely heavy handed,and when it is,it uses comedy to dull the edge.A true piece of work that should not be missed.Fans of the old show A different World would be pleased to know that half the cast is in this show. "},{"Title":"Laurence Fishburne and Spike Lee","Date":"26 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":"  Having appeared in 'A Nightmare on Elm Street 3 Dream Warriors', Laurence Fishburne went on to appear in Spike Lee's film 'School Daze' with an appearance by Samuel L. Jackson who plays the same sort of bum as he does in Eddie Murphy's 'Coming to America'. Perhaps the reason why his talents wasn't spotted at this stage in the Spike Lee films was because he wasn't portrayed as an intelligent bum. The film drags and has characters that are not endearing or engaging. It builds you up to a disappointing end, and makes you feel that Spike is carrying a lot of baggage and having the same conversation in his films. "},{"Title":"slice of 80's life","Date":"3 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":"  I don't really enjoy many of Spike Lee's films, but I did enjoy this one. I was in college when it came out, and I always considered it a pretty accurate depiction of college campuses, and of the political and social undercurrents existing everywhere in the late 80's(apartheid, integration vs desegregation, viability of black campuses). I think it was pretty bold to make a quasi-musical in only his second film; much bolder than making the race-sensitive accusatory dramas he's been making since Do The Right Thing. I think Spike is potentially a great movie maker if he can get past these issues he seems to be so stuck on white people are evil, white people(especially jews) are plotting the death of the black man, it's okay to denigrate and hate whites cause they did that to us in the past. School Daze will allow you to gaze at the talent that was, and could be, Spike Lee.  "},{"Title":"Bus hop","Date":"3 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" Why do you all sit around snootting about left and right? What is wrong with your minds? The pain of yesteryear should be gone if your not going through that yourself... Telling others to wake up when you should wake up first. The meetings of your peers and elders is crucial to the stability of your society. No one man is your saviour and you all know this. You all know i own the damn planet not the damn people. You have your own ways and means which i have tried to respect. You just do not and have not ever respected mine. Thinking to back in history even from the time of King Tut who died early. Catch yourself with your anger and mind frame of deceit it is not healthy to your long term goals. Nature rapidly changes on us all. "},{"Title":"Sophomore Slump","Date":"6 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":"  I am a big fan of Spike Lee's work.  No matter what his subject matter, he has consistently been able to create films populated with vivid and intriguing characters.  Such can not be said of his second feature 'School Daze.'  In fact, if there was a great big dictionary of film terminology, the entry for Sophomore Slump should say ...See 'School Daze.'  I think the biggest problem here is that there is no focus.  One minute it's a frat house comedy, the next it's a musical, the next it's a drama.  The film only dwells on the negative sides of all it's characters, thus we have no one to root for.  A brief appearance by Samuel L. Jackson is fun, however.  But the ending of the film is one of the worst endings I've ever seen on screen. I know I'm being pretty harsh, perhaps it's because I expect so much more from Spike Lee.  Of course, this was his second feature, and he did follow it up with 'Do the Right Thing.'  So I guess we can forgive him. "},{"Title":"a blunder, but an early one","Date":"17 July 1999","Score":"5 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":"  There are things I liked about School Daze.  In particular, there was the scene near the end of the film between Giancarlo Esposito's Julian and his girlfriend.  It's when he breaks up with her for sleeping with another student, all the while completely aware that he made her do it.  I've actually seen guys do this -- trick their girlfriends into doing something that, later on, they can use as cause to dump them -- and the reality of the scene carried such a raw, emotional weight that it nearly derailed the rest of the film.School Daze is, first and foremost, a period piece of 1980s pop culture. Many of the sequences, especially the ones requiring dancing and choreography, are hopelessly dated, like early break-dancing videos.Dated is okay, as long as there are other elements to counterbalance its datedness.  Example  All That Jazz is a relic of Bob Fosse's toxic, overindulgent mind, a '70s time capsule item.  However, the untouchable authority and supreme confidence he brought to it, along with the visual beauty, and the letter-perfect performances, made up for any drawbacks, and then some.  ...Jazz went from silly to sublime inside of sixty seconds.Lee's direction is alarmingly hesitant and amateurish, giving no hint of the originality, vitality, and sheer genius he would display in his later films. It's certainly difficult to believe he made this film between She's Gotta Have It and Do the Right Thing.  His editing is sloppy, his staging is slapdash, and the performances from his actors and actresses range from sleepy to histrionic.  The stories lose their punch through careless juggling, and the illogical Wake Up! scene at the end is unearned and unwarranted.  Most disappointing of all, the thing I value his films for most -- his constant pushing of the cinematic envelope in all sorts of unexpected ways -- is all but totally absent.I love most of Lee's films.  I'll go so far as to say that he's one of the last risk-takers left in the business (Stanley Kubrick is dead, Quentin Tarantino is MIA, and anything done by Spielberg, God love him, automatically becomes non-risk).  His Do the Right Thing is as good as any other film released in the '80s.  The best thing I can say about this one is  I'm glad he got it out of his system. "}]