[{"Title":"Well, the eighties makes you feel just fine..","Date":"8 April 2004","Score":"30 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I've seen this movie about 30 times and it always makes me feel good.. I don't know what it is about this movie but it seems to help me through bad times. Theres something in the atmosphere in the film that makes me feel good and the environment where the movie is made is just beautiful. (yeah, sure.. the 'real' film critics are saying that you can't rate a movie just on behalf of the spectacular scenery but FU, I say). I can rate a movie just the way i want to! Isn't that what IMDB is all about? I enjoyed this movie and I hope many others will too. Don't stare at the ratings. If you want to see a fun movie that's not too serious. Rent this movie and let your brain rest for awhile, just enjoy the the scenery, the acting, the story and the eighties !! Cheers to all from Finland.  "},{"Title":"A Delightful Adventure/Romantic Comedy","Date":"11 July 2004","Score":"27 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Vibes entertains me immensely. While I can somewhat comprehend those who don't enjoy this movie, I don't share their attitude at all. Cyndi Lauper's lovelorn portrayal of Silvia is perfect in style and comic timing. She is utterly believable. She also pronounces Scandinavian and Incan sounds with flair. Peter Falk displays his usual mastery of comedy as the pathologically lying Harry, reminiscent of his role in The In-Laws (1979). He has the best and most absurd lines dealing with static electricity, a friend's infidelities with his former wives, his desire to be someone (someone with money), and how women are soft and might bounce out of a hotel, among many others. I like Jeff Goldblum in just about every movie he does, including this one, though here as Nick he seems a bit more distracted than usual. Still, that's a trait of many of his characters and is perhaps a component of his charm. Supporting players (Sands, Gress, Lerner, Bieri, &c.) all perform excellently, and the music is enchanting, particularly during the scenic settings in Ecuador. Although I've dubbed a fine DVD copy from a late-night movie channel, I'll buy a commercial release as soon as one's available. If I always wanted an intricate intellectual acting masterpiece with minimal music and scenery, I'd watch 12 Angry Men (1957) another dozen times, but Vibes is just the thing for light, fun fare.  "},{"Title":"This movie always cheers me up!","Date":"14 May 2000","Score":"22 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is a lovely story of two psychics (Cyndi Lauper and Jeff Goldblum) being hired by Harry (Peter Falk) to look for his missing son, but later realize that he actually wants them to help him find a rumored room of gold in the deep mountains. In the end another team of searchers joins them to discover the greatest psychic energy in the world - the so-called room of treasure.The plot is adventurous, mysterious and hilarious. Lauper's performance is surprisingly stunning and funny, the scenery and the soundtrack are both beautiful, the movie is wonderfully shot in Ecuador and full of witty remarks. Whenever I feel a bit low I'll play the video for Vibes and then I'm full of joy again. I am well-entertained by this nice, interesting work. Watch it, you won't be disappointed.      "},{"Title":"DVD?","Date":"12 June 2004","Score":"23 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is one of my favorite movies from the 80's, I know it's cheesy but thats what I loved about it and Peter Falk is hilarious. The way the three main characters play off each other is brilliant and who knew Cindi Lauper could act???This movie was never going to win any awards and they all knew that before they started filming, Jeff Goldblum has always shown up in oddball movies ranging from Comedy to Drama To Sci-fi to Horror showing his range in acting.OK, no matter your opinion on this film the big Question is.... when will this movie be released on DVD?Has anyone heard any possible release date?  "},{"Title":"Absolutely Loved It","Date":"17 January 2005","Score":"19 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" I saw this movie in the theater when it was first released in 1988. I was 10 years old and my mom took me and my cousins to see it. It has been an absolute favorite of mine ever since. I used to have it on a VHS tape, recorded off of HBO or some other movie channel. That tape had been viewed sooooo many times it became degraded and was all fuzzy when I went to play it. I recently, after several years had gone by since I'd last seen it, began searching for a DVD copy. Much to my chagrin, I've learned it is not available on DVD (which I really want for the obvious reasons, plus, then it could be widescreen.) I finally bought a used copy of the full screen VHS tape. I still love it after all these years. In fact, my niece(age 10) and my nephew(age 11) just watched it with me tonight. They liked it as well. They thought it was very funny (but, not as funny as Transylvania 6-5000 - which we watched on DVD last week). My nephew was particularly amused by Cyndi Lauper's acting - he thought she was great. This movie rocks and even goes beyond the generation gaps! I still consider it one of my favorite movies of all time!!! "},{"Title":"Jeff Goldblum and Cyndi Lauper are a  quirky romantic match","Date":"17 September 2005","Score":"15 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" Cheerful, underrated comedy about psychics served as a showcase for pop singer Cyndi Lauper (in her acting debut). She's a comic natural playing Sylvia Pickel, an unlucky-in-love single gal whose psychic guide leads her into the arms of fellow clairvoyant Jeff Goldblum (in possibly his smoothest comic performance to date). Both have been duped by con-man Peter Falk into finding a lost city of gold in Ecuador, and for the most part Vibes is a funny, knockabout journey with witty vignettes scattered about. The last-act drags its feet, but the script is full of great exchanges and a wonderful scene on the dance floor between the two stars. Lots of amusing one-liners, such as my favorite from Goldblum after Elizabeth Peña disrobes Parts of me are already applauding. *** out of **** "},{"Title":"I will talk about the choice comedy, fine sound track,","Date":"28 March 2000","Score":"16 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is a light hearted film featuring a knock out comedy performance by Cindi Lauper.  Jeff Goldblum is charming, bemused and droll and Peter Falk is so funny.  They all wind up in South America seeking a room of gold, and dancing a lovely tango.The scenery is beautiful, the music lush.I consider this movie a friend.  "},{"Title":"A very underrated film","Date":"31 December 1998","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I think Vibes was a very funny film. Jeff Goldblum and Cyndi Lauper were very cute together and Peter Falk was very delightful to watch. The plot was crazy but I think it was supposed to be. The special effects were very good and you couldn't help but like the characters (mostly Cyndi Lauper) "},{"Title":"Pickin up good and goofy vibrations!","Date":"7 August 2006","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" Sylvia (Cyndi Lauper) and Nick (Jeff Goldblum) meet at an institute studying those individuals who have psychic abilities. Sylvia channels a lady named Louise, who can predict the future, and Nick can touch objects and then give detailed accounts of the objects' history. Whew! This twosome do not exactly hit it off, at first. Then, Sylvia learns that her boyfriend only wants her around so he can win at the racetrack and Nick discovers his long-standing partner has been cheating, too. Suddenly, Harry (Peter Falk) appears and asks for the duo's help in locating his missing son in Ecuador. He'll pay bigtime, of course. It's off to South America, to battle forces of evil in a quest for truth and, possibly, a treasure. Can Sylvia and Nick begin to like each other among the Inca ruins?This is, truly, a funny movie. Lauper does a great job as the much put-upon Brooklyn dame and Goldblum is quite nice as her more learned and unexpected suitor. Falk is just down right hilarious as the scheming Harry. The script has some great one-liners and surprises while who can resist an exotic setting south of the border? If you should stumble across this film on television or at the video store, give it a whirl. It will bring a dose of sunshine into your life. "},{"Title":"Mysteriously entertaining Rom-Com","Date":"4 October 2003","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" I was impressed with Cyndi's portrayal here. She handled herself like a real star.Like your comedy to have a little history about ancient civilizations? Ever wanted to see the Yucatan? Ever wanted to be in an exotic jungle hotel with Cyndi Lauper or Jeff Goldblum? Ever wanted to see a really good comedic venture? Then Vibes is your movie. It has all that, a fun comedy/adventure plot, witty and clever dialog, good direction, wonderful scenic shots of South America and convincing portrayals, all rolled into a high hairdo and deep, soulful brown eyes. Nice portrayals by Julian Sands and Peter Falk are also featured here.Jeff Goldblum and Cyndi Lauper portray psychics hired by a man of questionable motivations to find his son who disappeared while looking for an ancient Incan city. At least, that's how it begins. Where it goes from there will lead you on a grand adventure fraught with magicks more ancient than mankind itself, and treachery.This is one of those movies I can (and do) watch all the time.It's one of my absolute favorites, and rates an 8.7/10 from...the Fiend . "}{"Title":"Vastly underrated extremely funny for the new-age viewer","Date":"24 October 2002","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I have seen this film at least five times and each time I find it hilarious.Not only are the jokes funny, the performers superb, but unlike many comedies the jokes fit tightly with the action and the plot line is solid and engaging.  It has components of the romantic comedy and the action-adventure film.  It has not been a big success and this must be because the jokes are all about new-age topics- psychic powers, astral travel, mysterious Incan cults, etc.  Nothing is funny if you are not very familiar with the subject. The best mother-in-law joke is not as funny to someone who has never had a mother-in-law, and not funny at all to someone who doesn't even know what one is.The cast, as you can see, includes Falk and Goldblum, two extremely funny guys who give superb performances.  But Lauper also gives, in her first screen appearance, an extremely funny performance; she is a gifted comedienne, and it is a shame her film career never took off.  Sands, Gress and the other supporting actors are also very good in their roles; each character is very vivid and three-dimensional in spite of being comic caricatures.The script, by veterans Ganz and Mandel (Splash, Parenthood, lots of TV stuff) is in my opinion their funniest by far.  So if you have interest in psychic, new-age, metaphysical, channeling and other such eccentricities, you might also find this one of your favorite comedies. "},{"Title":"A Great B Movie - Under-appreciated","Date":"25 February 2009","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" Not all movies are Citizen Kane. They can't all be Schindler's List. Some of them are just good little entertainment pieces of silliness. This is one of those movies.Lauper is Sylvia and Goldblum is Nick, they are both psychics. He is a highly educated museum curator and she is a wrong side of the tracks wanna be hairdresser looking for Mr. Okay and always finding Mr. Wrong.They meet when they are being tested for a study on para-psychology and get involved in a mystery by Peter Falk's character. But it turns out that Falk's Harry is a shady guy at best and is actually just looking for Incan treasure. But so, as it turns out is just about everybody else they know.It is silly and doesn't try to be anything else. There are some great one liners overall (What do we do now? Have a Psych-Off?) and if you are a movie lover and not a stuck-up Cinephile, then you might enjoy this lighthearted and fun movie. "},{"Title":"Cyndi Lauper sparkles in this film.","Date":"20 April 2006","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" I do not like many rock-pop stars especially of the '80s and '90s because of the violent nihilism and eroticism of their music. But I liked Cindy Lauper ever since she sang Time After Time. If one simply ignores the naughty entendre of some her songs like Girls Wanna Have Fun, you can feel that she exudes the aura and exuberance of the teenybop, bubblegum crowd which formed the base of her fans at the zenith of her popularity in the '80s despite the fact that she belongs to another age group altogether.Cyndi is funny and can definitely act. Pity that up to now comedic actresses are still under-appreciated. However, we can look to the past and take solace in the fact that actresses like Fanny Brice, Myrna Loy, Barbra Streisand and Goldie Hawn all enjoy sizeable cult followers.Full of witty and hilarious repartees, Vibes is worth viewing over and over. Just looking at Cyndi's cutely expressive rubber face a la Goldie Hawn is enough to drive away all ennui. "},{"Title":"Turn off your brain for 90 minutes, it won't kill you","Date":"29 April 2002","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Vibes is a totally fun, light, cotton-candy puff of a movie and a bit more. The plot is stupid but still hilarious, and Cyndi Lauper turns in a surprisingly (or not surprisingly) wonderful debut performance as an ultra-quirky psychic. Incidentally, the track she recorded for this movie- Hole in my Heart (That goes all the way to china)- is awesome, and arguably the best song she ever made after the She's So Unsual era. The rest of the cast is also a pleasant surprise. A colourful, cute little bubblegum flick...you can rent Apocalypse Now Redux another day. "},{"Title":"Fantastic one-liners and spot-on casting","Date":"30 August 2006","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" Films, in which pop stars act, are usually denied critical acclaim (just as film stars, who sing). But I believe, there is should be no automatic condemnation! Of course, watching 'Vibes' does not make you a better or more intellectual person, but it has absolutely brilliant one-lines throughout the conversations between Cyndi Lauper and Jeff Goldblum, which are hard to beat, such as 'I like breathing &#133; I'm good at it' or 'do you number everything?'. And if you are looking for two people, who do not take themselves seriously at all, Lauper and Goldblum are the perfect couple.As long as you like 'weird' movies, 'Vibes' will not disappoint you. If you can only digest mainstream, you are likely to be bored. All I can say 'a shame it's not on DVD yet!' "},{"Title":"A surprising, entertaining movie","Date":"24 April 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" It has been about 4 years since I've seen this movie. I still, up until as recently as last weekend, look for it at the swap meet, in libraries, at Blockbuster. All to no avail. Glad to read it is supposed to come out on DVD early in '09.Jeff Goldblum is always interesting, Peter Faulk is always likable and hilarious.The biggest surprise is Cyndi Lauper. She can not only act, but really wins you over with the sincerity of which she played her character. I was blown away by the strength and beauty of her voice when she sang without accompaniment. Although that scene was a very small part of the movie, she really impressed me.Am looking forward to the next time I get to see it. "},{"Title":"A must watch movie filmed in Cojitambo (Cañar, Ecuador)!!!","Date":"1 April 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" I know its a cheesy movie, but overall it was entertaining and fun. I'm also Ecuadorian and I come from the place where they shoot the film, Cojitambo (Cañar, Ecuador). This movie brings good memories for me, since I can see some known people from my village and my elementary school.daria84 says they showed an awesome footage of Ambato (a City located in the highlands) in the end of the movie when Sylvia is out in the balcony, let me tell you that's not Ambato, but that's Cojitambo's Hill shot from Azogues. If you don't believe me, search online for Cojitambo and you will see. "},{"Title":"killer comedy for new-agers","Date":"13 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" Every time I see this film I find it hilarious. The film-makers have great resumes, much of them in TV. The cast includes comic masters Falk and Goldblum, and Lauper does a great job in one of her first roles; these are little gems of comic performances. Peter Falk is nearly as funny here as he is in _The In-Laws_. Sands and Gress are great as well.The plot moves along briskly and the action/adventure/travel side of the film works on its own as well as framing the humor. The romance is like something from screwball comedy.So why did the film get such a cold reception? I think this film has done so poorly because the humor depends on being familiar with new-age religion, psychics, channels, ESP, magic, etc. The script lampoons the kind of new-age/psychic phenomena popular in Hollywood. The target audience- those who are familiar with such things and at the same time don't take them too seriously- must only include the three writers.Although the film appears cynical and pessimistic about people, it cheers me way up. It has the same uplifting effect as another under-rated comedy masterpiece, _Into The Night_, also featuring Jeff Goldblum.Films like _The Matrix_ and _Star Wars_ are sometimes praised for communicating a philosophical and spiritual message. While those films certainly wear philosophical robes, I suspect they are actually driven by motives of greed, violence and melodrama. On the other hand, _Vibes_ and _Into the Night_ are both low-key, pessimistic, even cynical films that paradoxically seem to be driven by an inner engine of warmth and insight that can give viewers a real lift instead of hollow thrills.If you like _Vibes_ try another way-out-there under-rated comedy, _Simon_ (1980) with Alan Arkin. "},{"Title":"Good Clean Fun","Date":"6 May 2004","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Whatever the quality of the acting, the scenery, the locations etc., this movie is just good clean fun - so much so that you can see the actors themselves grinning during certain scenes.There are some great one-liners, some unique actions - find the handshake at the racetrack for a good example.The opening music is dramatic (low end's are cool) and Cyndi's closing number is a classic.Yes, this film is not as sophisticated as many others but who want's sophistication all the time?  I've chilled out in front of this movie several times and find it as endearing and never one I'd want to sleep through!If you get a chance to see it, then do so - chill out, have a laugh! "},{"Title":"This film actually gave me rather good vibes.","Date":"8 December 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" I can see by its rather low score here and its measly box office take that most people did not enjoy this film all that much. I, for whatever reasons, did. I thought it was a good comedy/action hybrid movie that was good almost all the way through. Sure it got a bit heavy near the end, but overall it was a fun movie. The story has a guy recruiting a lady with psychic powers to help him find some sort of lost city and there is gold to be found. Her powers though are not the most reliable as she gets messages from a person long gone. So she in turn recruits a gentleman with more consistent powers. They end up though being sought after by a more dubious person who is also in search for the ruins. I thought both Jeff Goldblum and Cyndi Lauper were good in their roles, though I do believe Cyndi's character was not to much of a stretch. I also enjoyed Peter Falk who played the man who wanted their assistance. I liked it when they went to the foreign country, and for the most part the comedy was good in this one to me. I do think it got a bit to strange during the end, but it was not a total hindrance to the rest of the film either. All in all I thought it was a rather good film. "}{"Title":"a fun filled adventure with Cyndi Lauper, Jeff Goldblum and Peter Falk ,","Date":"28 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" We have seen this movie quite a few times and would love to do so again. Cyndi Lauper does a fantastic job of acting the part of Sylvia who is psychic and Jeff Goldblum has a ball in his part as another psychic , both of whom are conned into traveling to South America to help Harry(Peter Falk) find his son. The comedy is really good and it is such a fun movie that our kids love it too. We would love to get it on DVD but have not been able to find it anywhere. Good to see that other crazies exist out there who love it as much as we do. If prayers are answered, please release this fantastic movie on DVD for all it's fans. We had a copy of it on VHS ages ago but as it no longer works, would love to get it again. "},{"Title":"One of my ALL-TIME FAVORITES","Date":"27 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is a great movie. Highly underrated, the chemistry between Falk, Goldblum and Lauper could not be better. Peter Falk is so funny in just about everything he does, if you like Falk. Who doesn't? Goldblum plays a vulnerable, neurotic nerd with psychic powers. A wow first time performance by Lauper. Her talent has clearly been overlooked. Maybe Hollywood politics kept her from the big screen, but she has a lot of potential. If you are in the mood for a silly adventure movie with some witty humor, this is a great choice. I have seen this movie about 20 times.Other comedic favorites include - Jack Nicholson, Adam Sandler, Chevy, Bill Murray, Michael Keaton, Tom Hanks "},{"Title":"Very Engaging","Date":"15 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is a light comedy that delivers. Jeff Goldblum as a psychometrist and Cyndi Lauper as a (sort of) trance medium are good; Peter Falk as a conniver is nearly perfect. The story, partially presaged in the opening scenes, is pretty straightforward, with a touch of Indiana Jones in it, where competing parties go after a treasure.Possible spoilers ahead.One thing that many films do in dealing with paranormal issues is to trivialize them (the Bill Murray character in Ghostbusters is an example of that). Here, they're played straight. So when the Goldblum character discovers his girlfriend's infidelities, it's especially, and amusingly, believable.To his last line in the film, Peter Falk plays somebody who's always trying to find an edge that will bring him some extra benefit. His character was a good addition, to leaven some of the more serious stuff.This is not a film everybody will enjoy, but I found it very entertaining. "},{"Title":"hilarious and thoroughly enjoyable film","Date":"14 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I found the combination of Jeff Goldblum and Cyndi Lauper on screen to be captivating. Jeff's endearing bumbling and Cyndi's cute and clever English brashness made a winning combination for my tastes. Overall, I found the movie to be hilarious and a thoroughly enjoyable theater experience. "},{"Title":"Cheesy Entertainment","Date":"30 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" It's really hard to judge this movie, while it has its Indiana Jones and The Golden Child (1986) moments with the eerie PG-rated horror and dramady, the results is a bit uneven as the comedy/drama balance seems to clash. This is a relatively predicable, light-weight adventure thriller that has its moments and humor as post-Big Chill (1983), post-The Adventures of Buckaroo Banzai Across the 8th Dimension (1984), post-The Fly (1986) and pre-Jurassic Park (1993) Jeff Goldblum character goes about his quirky self and known more for her singing than acting Cyndi Lauper. There really isn't anything too memorable here except for the puzzle and sometimes a bit harder edge, though not quite as intense nor as originally wild or balanced as Jumanji (1995) and instead turning in as a standard mystery adventure with the typical bad guys. "},{"Title":"If I'm lying. May god strike me dead.","Date":"26 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" It's all about the vibes. An endearingly quirky late 80s adventure comedy with a bit of romance on the side, sees Jeff Goldblum and Cindy Lauper as psychics hired on to head to Ecuador to find a treasure of a lost Aztec civilisation. The support cast is remotely good with the likes of Julian Sands, Peter Falk, Michael Lerner and a very minor part for a pre-stardom Steve Buscemi. The chemistry between stars Goldblum and Lauper is delightful, as Goldblum's dry gawkiness matches well with Lauper animated perkiness. The indistinct plot is quite slow going, often silly and never does it feel all that complete with little going on, but it's the snappy script with its one-liners and performances (especially Falk's comical turn) that makes it quite agreeable along with the exotic South American locations. Some moments bestow atmospheric touches and danger, namely the sequences around the ruins when something mystical eventuates, but these moments are probably weakest inclusions.What's your problem? Besides from your face. "},{"Title":"Frantic fun film that deserves cult status  ...........","Date":"20 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" Vibes is an overlooked gem, waiting to be discovered. It's faults (weak special effects, and underdeveloped script) are swamped by the enthusiastic performances of Cyndi Lauper and Jeff Goldblum. There are so many quick one liners that could easily be missed, multiple viewings are almost mandatory. Peter Falk delivers some real gems too. I can see why the film never found an audience, because it is very silly in parts, yet knives in the back are nothing to laugh at. I say this, go in expecting some dark humor along with endearing acting from Lauper and Goldblum and you will not be disappointed. Simply come along for the ride and leave logic at home. - MERK "},{"Title":"Vibes Movie Review from The Massie Twins","Date":"12 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" 1988's Vibes is definitely cheesy, but wholeheartedly light, flamboyant, and funnily romantic. Packed with verbal comedy, facial expression contortionist Jeff Goldblum, loopy quips, and ditzy Cyndi Lauper, this Ken Kwapis-directed adventure film is worth a look, especially for fans of (not so) perilous journeys and silly excitement.At a Department of Paranormal Studies research center, Dr. Steele gathers several of the most brilliant psychics to help him with a special project. The two brightest of the bunch are Sylvia Pickel (Cyndi Lauper's acting debut), the epitome of incredibly sexy but dumb-blond girls, and Nick Deezy (a young Jeff Goldblum), a museum employee who prefers not to sacrifice his humanity to be used as a walking Ouija board. His specialty is psychometry, the ability to touch objects and see where they've been &#150; his other gift is skepticism. Sylvia, on the other hand, is accompanied by invisible friend Louise from the other side who forewarns her of dangerous events. She also deals with astral projection, the power to place conscience awareness outside of the physical body &#150; and bad luck with manipulative men (Steve Buscemi makes a brief appearance) and utter losers my last boyfriend was a guy who drank soup by putting his head in it.Harry Buscafusco (Peter Falk) recruits the two talented psychics (for a cool $50,000 in counterfeit bills) on an expedition into the mountains of Ecuador, where they hope to find his missing son. But the mission leads the trio into danger and disaster when it's revealed that they're really in search of hidden Incan treasures &#150; with supernatural powers! With 3-foot-tall multi-colored hair, bright makeup, squeaky voice and loud clothing, Cyndi Lauper is surprisingly entertaining as Sylvia, and brings a pleasantly contrasting character to Goldblum's straight-laced, sensible Nick. The two have an undeniable chemistry, filled with giddy flirtations and lots of cheesy one-liners. Add to that the dawdling and obnoxious villain Ingo (Googy Gress), Falk's rapid-fire jokes, a consistently kooky tone, music by James Horner, and Lauper's luscious legs, and Vibes isn't such a bad way to spend 99 minutes. - Mike Massie "},{"Title":"Fun!","Date":"14 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" This film is a blast. Jeff Goldblum and Cyndi Lauper are a comedic smash together. I think people would go see this film if it were released today. Googie Gress is impressive in his role as the Nemesis of our heroes, with some truly witty lines of his own. Peter Faulk plays a con man who entices Goldblum and Lauper to travel with him to Equador and use their psychic gifts to find his missing son. The son doesn't really exist, and we discover that he is really hunting for a lost Incan city fabled to have a room of gold. A sampler of their whit and humor includes...Ex-Boyfriend No hard feelings, huh? Lauper No. No feelings at all.Faulk I wanted to be a somebody. Lauper You ARE a somebody. Faulk A somebody with money.Joseph Where wouldn't you like to be shot? Goldblum South America. "},{"Title":"Laughter is the best medicine","Date":"27 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" This movie is great for a good laugh. The title really fits the whole basis of the story plot. It has wit, suspense, mystery, love and great scenery. I absolutely love Cyndi's song Hole in my Heart. Why that song never showed up on any of her albums is a mystery. I enjoyed the chemistry between Cyndi and Jeff. The love hate relationship that grew between those two was comical. Of course, any mystery has to have its villains. I also loved the location of the filming. It appeared so peaceful and beautiful and I'm sure the crew enjoyed filming. I would recommend this movie, especially for Cyndi Lauper fans. It is always fun to watch singers acting. "}{"Title":"Mindless Fun","Date":"2 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  My opinion differs from the previous comments.  Although VIBES is by no means a great film, I found it quite entertaining.  Cyndi Lauper plays her role adequately, and somehow the not-quite-serious tone of it all makes it a fun movie.  Goldblum is pretty much business as usual, and Julian Sands is appropriately villianous.  I suppose it's the quirky interplay of Lauper and Goldblum that I find enjoyable, along with the overtones of mysticism, and the South American locations are lovely to look at.It's what I would call a bubble-gum movie - - not a lot of substance, but not a bad way to while away a couple of hours.Your taste may vary.  Give it a try. "},{"Title":"Comic Genius Revealed","Date":"11 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I thought this movie was absolutely wonderful.  Cyndi Lauper is almost as talented an actress as she is a musician, and this movie reveals that fact again and again.  Cyndi's character Sylvia was hilarious, and they couldn't have picked anyone better for the part.  I would recommend seeing this movie to anyone, it will make you run to the video store to search for more titles starring Cyndi Lauper. "},{"Title":"Hugely enjoyable film.","Date":"1 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Vibes was Cyndi Laupers' first movie project and I can't for the life of me understand why most reviews I've read are poor.The film is beautifully shot on location in Equador and has an enjoyable and atmospheric soundtrack. It co-stars three very successful actors and manages well to mix comedy with drama.I can only imagine that reviewers have not given the film enough credit because they might expect it to be bad.This is one of my most favorite films and although, yes, I am a fan of Cyndis' I admit her other films are not as good.Watch it and enjoy ******** "},{"Title":"a fun movie","Date":"23 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Hey Equador girl, give it a rest!  You are ashamed of the movie?  Geeez, you're only from the country, it's not like you helped finance the damn thing!Anyway, I found Lauper and Goldblum to be extremely charming and so on time with their witty banter.  I quote lines from this movie all the time. One of my favorites is when Steve Buscemi's character asks Sylvia (Cyndi) if she has any hard feelings about him taking off with another girl.  And she replies, No....no feelings at all....  Genius line and genius delivery. Enjoy the fun! "},{"Title":"unique casting makes for a fun film","Date":"9 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" Jeff Goldblum, Cindy Lauper, and Peter Falk star in Vibes, a 1988 comedy.Goldblum and Lauper play psychics Nicky Deezy and Sylvia Pickel (pronounced pick-EL) who are at an institute where their abilities are being tested. Sylvia has a spirit guide named Louise, and Nick's specialty is psychometry, which is picking up vibes from objects. They are approached by Harry Buscafusco (Peter Falk) to find his son in Ecuador. Since he's offering a great deal of money, they accept.Falk is lying, of course, and it doesn't take Goldblum long to figure it out. He wants them to find a hidden temple in the mountains where all the psychic energy in the world comes from. One of his friends found it, but is now comatose. But they're not the only ones looking for it.This is sort of a Raiders of the Lost Ark meets The Power. What makes it a cut above a fluffy comedy is the casting of Cindy Lauper, a unique personality, the talented, quirky Jeff Goldblum, and the always wonderful Peter Falk. I think my favorite scene is the one where Goldblum confronts him, and Falk quickly makes up another story to support his lies.Fun movie. "},{"Title":"One of My Favorite Films Ever","Date":"10 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" Vibes is one of my favorite movies of all time and I watch it at least 5 times (sometimes more) a year. I was a teenager when this movie came out in the theaters back in the late 80's and I don't remember ever seeing it advertised on TV or anything. I did not know it existed. That's probably because it was overshadowed by bigger more expensive blockbuster movies that got more advertisement. I discovered this movie in 1993 and fell in love with it. It is a lighthearted comedy that is not to be taken very seriously...as it was meant to be. Don't expect some large budget masterpiece with serious dialog, serious characters, plot and complicated hidden meanings. It is not and was not ever meant to be that. I've met many people that watch Vibes over and over every year and never grow tired of it...I thought I was alone on that, but no. It raises my mood and just generally makes my day so much better after watching it...I can't really explain it there, but others say the same thing that love this underrated movie. It raises your spirit...something that all the other big expensive highly ranked movies just never did. Don't exactly know why and don't care. Give it a watch and maybe you'll discover a new friend like I did. This is what this movie feels like to me...a reliable old friend that always lightens my spirit. "},{"Title":"goofy, genial comedy adventure","Date":"31 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" I have fond memories of this movie from when it came out, so all these years later I decided to watch it again, and I still really like it. It's very silly, but it's reasonably funny and the Indiana-Jones-style adventure aspects are pretty well done.The big surprise of the movie when it came out was Cyndi Lauper as a wacky psychic who dresses like a very colorful hooker. She was surprisingly effective as an actress, even though she was simply playing her basic persona. She and Goldblum make one of the most atypical Hollywood romantic couples I think I've ever seen. I won't call this a great comedy, but it is a hugely likable one. "},{"Title":"This is one of my trashy loves.","Date":"7 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I want to give this movie a 10, but I know it is not a good movie. Everyone has a 'thing' they consider 'bad' but still they love it. This is one of my trashy loves.A very unique story line about psychics looking for the lost city of gold. A few great lines and some great body language here and there if you watch for it.This is one of those types of movies that if it pops on the TV you end up finding yourself watching it and saying I wasted my time when it's over. Next time when it comes on TV again, you'll find yourself glued to it again just to see you favorite scenes, hear your favorite lines, and stick it out to the end again just to once again say I wasted my timeBasically, if you had the same reaction to Clue, you'll react to this movie the same way. "},{"Title":"Cheesy, 80's Fun!","Date":"22 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This was suppose to be a silly adventure, not Dr. Strangelove!The movie is simply a fun movie to watch on a rainy day, or at a party with friends. Let go of your brain and enjoy the quirkiness of it all.I loved Cyndi Lauper in this flick. She made the whole movie! No other actress could have pulled off the right mixture of cute, funny, sass and sex appeal then her! Cyndi has a real talent for comedy. She could have been the next Imogene Cocca if given the chance.Remember to relax, laugh, and don't analyze.3 out of 5 stars! "},{"Title":"Creative and really funny.","Date":"11 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I agree with Rick (I'm glad someone else feels the same way), I really loved this film, and I've watched it more than once.  It really held my attention and Goldblum and Lauper played off each other really well. Peter Falk and the other actors were excellent.  It's not a big epic picture, but it's really fun to watch. Offbeat and quirky, original and silly, and I laughed a lot.   "}{"Title":"Deserves a second look","Date":"3 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  When most people rely on critics for which films to go see, the really miss out on some truly wonderful films.  Case in point,  Vibes. When it was released in 1988, most reviews were poor and the film was entirely dismissed as a credible notation on Cyndi Lauper's career. However, Vibes deserves a second look from those critics and especially the public, who brushed this off as a poor film. Beautifully filmed on location in Ecuador, Vibes is the story of two psychics (Lauper and Jeff Goldblum) who are hired by a man (Peter Falk) who is looking for his missing son. What they do not know is that he just hired them to help him find a mythical Room of Gold. The chemistry between Lauper and Goldblum is there. Their bantering and bickering play off well and Falk is there to add even more high comic touches that brighten the film. With a gorgeous, mellow soundtrack (with music by James Horner of Titanic fame), Vibes offers pleasant, light comedy (if many times corny), but will leave those who have viewed it with a smile on their face.Give it a try...you will not be disappointed. Also stay tuned through the credits to hear Cyndi Lauper's fantastic song, Hole In My Heart. "},{"Title":"Actually, an Excellent Movie!","Date":"5 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" Not on DVD though. Only VHS. I don't give away the ending, but some of the funny scenes.Psychics Cyndi Lauper and Jeff Goldblum are hilarious. Peter Falk (Columbo) enlists their aid to find his kid.Cyndi and Jeff are just hilarious.In the opening scene, Cyndi points a gun at Peter Falk, after he asks her for psychic advice, and says, Oh, yeah, you're gonna ask me to do something really weird. I laughed throughout the whole thing. In one scene, I think it was Cyndi who says, Someone had ... on this table. The laughs kinda come from nowhere.If you want a kinda strange love story mixed with Jeff's satire and Cyndi's Girls Wanna Have Fun energy, you'll love it.Cyndi's video, Hole in My Heart (All the Way to China), is also hilarious.-Rach "},{"Title":"bad, but funny","Date":"31 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" Jeff Goldblum. Say the name, and most of the time, you'll find yourself thinking about the B-quality movies he has made. This is one of them, but it's fun. If you can handle Cyndi Lauper's voice. If you can handle a pretty bad script. If you can set aside your realism. You might like this one. I just enjoyed the humor. You can get that pretty much anywhere, right? So, if you just want a funny movie, maybe you can find better. But if you want to see one of Cyndi Lauper's few movies, one of Goldblum's most-likely-not-to-be-listed-among-movie-credits (except for possibly Earth Girls are Easy) movies, then sit back and enjoy. I liked the beginning. Lots of psychic humor. Also one of the first movies I ever saw Steve Buscemi in. (If you're a Steve Buscemi fan, maybe you'll like it just because you get to see him for a bit.) Whatever floats your boat. "},{"Title":"More Junk From the 1980s.","Date":"14 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Vibes is another loser from the 1980s as Peter Falk hires psychics Cyndi Lauper and Jeff Goldblum to find his lost son. It turns out that they are really looking for a temple far, far away where the world's psychic energy comes from. A real yawner that tries to be funny, but is just plain tedious. 2 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"yikes!","Date":"26 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" One of those times when you wonder how all that talent and money could result in such an utter TOAD of a movie! The part where Cyndi grabs the pyramid and goes into what I guess is supposed to be a mystic trance is truly embarrassing to watch.Cyndi Lauper was a great performer as a singer, and I would argue that singers become successful actors more often than actors become successful singers.(Cher, Bruce Willis...rest my case) Cyndi, unfortunately, apparently learned her dramatic chops from Hulk Hogan, and has all the natural screen presence of a biological specimen.As for Jeff Goldblum, I admit I've never really 'got' his appeal. All his characters are the same smirking, self-satisfied, yet slightly nerdish guy...interesting enough I suppose...once. Still, he has been in one or two decent movies, but this...this....words fail me....This movie is to dumb to even make 'cult' status. "},{"Title":"I am so ashamed!","Date":"28 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  As an Ecuadorian girl, I feel terribly embarassed about this movie! I know, it was a movie made IN Ecuador, not FROM Ecuador, but still!!! Good God that was the longest and most boring hour and a half of my life!Ok, so I have always been a big fan of Cindy Lauper as a singer, and Jeff Goldblum, but gosh they are so awful in this movie that it's not even funny!  Cindy Lauper is probably the worst singer-actress alive! (yes, even worse than Madonna), and I am so surprised by Jeff Goldblum, he was just bad!  He is such a great actor in other movies, such as Jurassic Park and Nine Months, but in this one, his performance sucks! (I tried to put it as nice as I could)Well the landscape is ok, they could have done a better job with it though; even though they showed an awesome footage of Ambato (a City located in the highlands) in the end of the movie when Sylvia is out in the balcony, they could have done better with the mountains scenes, I mean it was just depressing! everything so foggy and dark... Something that I wonder.... Why did they film this awful film in Ecuador?? why not Peru?? Peru has far more Incan stuff than Ecuador, they could have done a way better job with that! And something else.... producers of Vibes take note  have you ever heard of background music?? Gosh they had nothing at all! I mean from times to times you could hear some Ecuadorian music (from the highlands) but that was pretty much it!  I had a lot of trouble not falling asleep in the middle of the movie without music and with those terrible dialogs!   Well all I can say is that this movie is a total disaster from the 80's  bad acting, bad plot, bad dialogs (except when Cindy Lauper starts to speak in Quechua; the Incas native language, that was pretty clever!  I don't understand that language, except some words of it, and I'm not even sure what she said made sense, but who cares?)Anyway bottom line  if you are into Incas, hiking South American mountains or just want to see Cindy Lauper as an actress, you can rent this one, otherwise, AVOID AT ALL COSTS!!!!  "}]