[{"Title":"An entertaining, detailed thriller","Date":"27 July 2000","Score":"45 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  One of Wes Craven's best, Serpent and the Rainbow is as much a psychological thriller as a horror movie.  Some horror fans may find it too slow (it takes its sweet time to come to a climax) but it's worth it... the journey is entertaining and interesting.  This is a polished, professionally filmed movie with higher production values than the average for its genre.I've never seen a film before that went quite so in-depth into the subject of voodoo.  Filmed on location in Haiti, this movie goes into a lot of detail about various voodoo practices and introduces the voodoo versions of the good and evil magician, the houngon and the bocor.  If you have any interest at all in this subject matter (or the supernatural in general), I recommend the movie on that basis alone.Acting is uniformly solid throughout, if nothing really outstanding.  We do not come to care very deeply about these characters, so their trials, tribulations and deaths do not bother us much... but Craven's attention to detail really shows, and there isn't a moment of this movie that lacks entertainment value.  7/10. "},{"Title":"For horror fans","Date":"5 January 2005","Score":"43 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Wes Craven's The Serpent and the Rainbow is one of the more original and ambitious horror movies to come out of the '80s. Not only does it seek to reconnect cinematic zombies with their voodoo roots, ala classics like White Zombie, but it also uses the creation of zombies as a political allegory. The film is set in Haiti during the last days of the dictatorship of Baby Doc Duvalier.Based - very loosely one surmises - on a true story, the plot follows Dr. Dennis Alan (Bill Pullman) as he investigates a powder that is said to turn people into zombies. He is aided in his quest by Dr. Marielle Duchamp (Cathy Tyson), who he quickly falls for, and Louie Mozart (Brent Jennings) an expert in voodoo. Dargent Peytraud (the chilling Zakes Mokae) is the snarling villain of the piece, a man with sinister powers both government-sanctioned and supernatural.The film abounds with creatively gruesome imagery - a man is buried alive, screaming, in a coffin as it fills with blood, a fiendish hand reaches out from a bowl of soup - this is one of those rare films that genuinely makes your skin crawl. Horror fans should not miss it. It's a shame that the film runs just a little longer than it should and becomes disappointingly routine in its final moments.There is a sense that this movie was aiming a bit higher than it ending up reaching. I can't quite hold that against it. "},{"Title":"Do you believe in voodoo?","Date":"19 April 2001","Score":"32 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The story of a chemist who is investigating a rumoured drug that brings people back from the dead. This is a great movie which keeps you in suspense right through. Not a horror movie but more of a suspense type movie that enters the world of black magic and voodoo. Very underrated movie and well worth watching, great plot and the story works. "},{"Title":"A Touch of Style","Date":"27 October 2000","Score":"31 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I remember watching The Serpent and the Rainbow in a cinema when it opened 12 years ago, and although it did not strike me as a masterpiece, I never forgot it. I had always had a memory of it as a good horror film, but tonight I saw it again on television and I was impressed about how good it is. One may associate Wes Craven with Scream or A Nightmare on Elm Street, but this one is certainly one of his best films. I still see it as an adventure film with horror elements, but this time I found it full of style -a touch of documentary approach, clever use of colorful locations, good handling of massive scenes with many unprofessional extras, attractive ethnic art direction, a bit of grand guignol in some performances (mainly Zakes Mokae), humor and a sensitive and sympathetic approach to a different culture. Many times one sees American films dealing with others' cultural aspects -such as political affairs and religion-, without any respect or concern. It is true that The Serpent and the Rainbow is not a serious drama about people's revolt, or a tract on synchretic religions (such as Cuban santería, Haitian voodoo or Brazilian candomblé), but both aspects are not just décors, but elements well integrated to the story in its own terms -that is, in a low budget feature, whose main objective is to entertain and scare the audience. The so-called South is such an exotic locale for most First World filmgoers, that cultural details often pass unnoticed, because these persons seem to be too obsessed with their own cinematic hedonism. Craven knows it, and that is why he makes foreign tourists applaud when they have seen a real possession, thinking it is just part of Paul Winfield's show. One of the reasons that this film is good is the script. Someone mentions in another comment how cleverly it introduces more than one level in a single scene for example, when Dennis and Marielle are looking for Christophe in a cemetery, they not only meet grave robbers for scaring effect, but they also discuss about the possibility that Marielle is using Dennis to obtain funds for her hospital, and the scene fulfills its expectation they find Christophe, who tells them about the mysterious 'powder'. What turns off some viewers -and myself, in a way- is the cinematic forms that take all the things dealing with energy and human capacity for evil. They are sometimes too gross, others just plain funny or ridiculous; but this is a Craven film, and they did not detract me from the main objective I mentioned earlier. Besides, there are other things I enjoyed watching the film again. First, to see once again the Bill Pullman whom I used to enjoy so much (remember the dumb blond in Ruthless People?) when he was beautiful and had not turned into the dull American president of Independence Day. I also recognized elements I've witnessed. A lot of the things that you see and hear in this film are not just fiction (after all it is based on a true story) they are all part of many Caribbean cultures -from the sensuality of the islanders, to the rite in the river, or the powder itself. And believe me the powders work! Not only for making zombies, but also for many other things. Don't ask me how, I do not know how they do it, but I have seen them work (in Cuba -no joke intended)! So beware. "},{"Title":"Interesting, But Could Be Even Better","Date":"5 October 2004","Score":"19 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The best thing about The Serpent and the Rainbow is probably the topic it covers Not known to the general public (including me, until I watched the film and researched the subject a little more afterwards), the so-called zombies, which legend has it that they are people who were condemned by sorcerers to become living deads, are in fact nothing more than the victims of a special powder thrown to them, whose active ingredient is a substance which is now well-known by scientists worldwide. This substance has the effect of rendering the person in a dead-like state (no ostensible breathing, moving, etc.), while his brain is still lively (which means that the horrified person is even able to understand what surrounds him, without being able to do anything about it); in such cases, an inexperienced doctor claims the person deceased, and he is then put into a grave. When the effect of this substance starts to diminish after 12-24 hours, the sorcerer is usually there to undig the completely shocked and shattered person, convincing him that he is now his zombie-slave.The movie is based on a true story by a scientist (Pullman) who went to Haiti, a country were such practices were rife, in order to get his hands on this substance and provide it to his employer, a pharmaceutical company, in order to analyze it and use it as an anaesthetic. In his quest he was assisted by a female local psychiatrist (Tyson), who treated several zombified people. However, he soon realized that things were much more complicated than that, as the police chief (Mokae), who used this zombie-trick as one of his suppression tools, was quite unhappy with this intrusion.Although based on a very interesting story, the movie goes a bit far and becomes a typical horror film, full of black magic, terrifying visions, etc. In my opinion, it would be much better if the plot sticked to the basics, as from some point onwards everything (and especially the ending) becomes too unconvincing.The cast does a fair job, despite the fact that it includes actors not widely known. The make-up and scenery produce and impressive atmosphere, traveling the viewer to the mystifying secrets of Haiti.Grade 7/10.  "},{"Title":"Zombies in modern times, would you expect the movie to be good?","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"25 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Much to my surprise, this film was actually an excellent horror flick, one that I plan to watch again some day. I am glad a friend of mine recommended the movie to me, I am just hoping others will find the time to look into it.Even more, if the story actually is based on a true story, I will shudder at the thought of it...  "},{"Title":"Very Different and Intriguing","Date":"22 September 2003","Score":"15 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Bill Pullman is an anthropologist who on a previous visit to Haiti experienced the power of black voodoo,filling his mind with evil dreams and eventuating in the murder of his pilot. His Jaguar spirit leads him to safety. Upon returning to America he is asked by a drug company to return to Haiti and investigate the process of Zombification as proof of a man being brought back from the dead has been discovered and the Americans of course would love to know how it is done.In Haiti Dr Allen meets a beautiful female psychiatrist and together they become embroiled in a world of good vs evil voodoo style in search of this miracle which is in the form of a powder.However, their is evil at work in the form of a very nasty voodoo witchdoctor, who unfortunately also happens to be Chief of Police in the very much oppressed Haiti.This was a great film. I only just purchased and watched it for the first time on DVD for $6.95 AU, at that price I wasn't expecting much - Reviews I have read regarding this film dubbed it dissapointing, but I found it to be highly entertaining.The film is eerie, the acting is excellent. I have found in most reviews that people have complained that the film is far-fetched and doesn't make sense. Well, in my opinion - that is the nature of voodoo -it is un-explainable and to a skeptical mind is silly, but there have been many accounts in real life of voodoo magic and it's power and this film was based on some such accounts.The film starts of a little slow and can be described as a bit messy. However, as the plot unfolds, not only are we watching an eerie film about the supernatural, we are also watching an action packed political thriller. This is a very unusual film. There is just enough blood and gore to entertain the slasher fans, but not too much discourage the general film appreciating public.As opposed to common belief, I found the story-line of this film to be tight, different and utterly engaging. "},{"Title":"In Haiti, there are secrets we keep even from ourselves...","Date":"21 April 2001","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  First I have to mention that while the book (The Serpent and the Rainbow by Wade Davis) is infinitely better and deeper than the movie that shares its name, comparing the two is unfair.  The audience is informed that the movie was inspired by the content of the book, for whatever interpretation you give inspired.  What makes the book more interesting, aside from it being a true documentary, is how it balances light and shadow in much the way the Vodoun religion balances both.  This film may leave you thinking that Haiti is a horrible place filled with monsters and boogeymen, and I don't think that's a fair estimation.The film confuses many things and ideas which I feel should have been explained.  Not everyone is an ethnoreligionist, after all.  Totems, houngans, hounfours, mambos, bokors, le Bon Dieu, and the Amazon shaman are just mentioned in passing as if this is everyday vocabulary to the audience. The character of Marielle is presented as a dedicant of the goddess (loa) Erzulie.  Well, this is a nice touch, but what of Damballah and his consort Aida-Wedo--the original serpent and the rainbow?  And what about the man dressed as a skeleton in an obvious tribute to Baron Samedi--yet the Baron is never mentioned.  What really made me chuckle is how Alan's totem saves the end, a totem we had only seen in glimpses without the concept of a power animal ever being explained.Through in the confusion of the collapse of the Duvalier government and we have the perfect recipe for movie mayhem.  Oh, come on...you just knew the overthrow of Duvalier had to work itself in here somewhere, right?  We must have the obligatory I am an American citizen--you cannot touch me scene when dealing with the so-called Third World.Bill Pullman was entirely wrong as the protagonist.  I just found it unbelievable that this man could find his way out of a Happy Meal box let alone 200 miles of Amazon rainforest.  He is abrasive and unpolite, two things which are professional suicide for anybody dealing in international cultures.  All right, one can allow for a certain degree of cynicism on his part, but I find it difficult to believe that a man of his caliber and academic background would be fool enough to shoot his mouth off as he does.Watch this film with an acrostic eye.  It isn't a bad film, in spite of the faults I personally found with it.  Just watch it cautiously.  If it whets your interest, definitely go check out the Davis book. "},{"Title":"Horror Maven, Wes Craven, Does it Again!!","Date":"18 January 2004","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The best, most realistic movie featuring zombies and the darker aspects of the Haitian way of life ever made! While this movie was billed as a true story, one must remember it was BASED ON a true story. The story surrounding the actual facts, well, that is up to the viewer to decide. That not withstanding, this was a purely entertaining endeavor with some of the best elements of voodoo mysticism I've ever seen.This movie was extremely disturbing for me on many levels. The story was compelling, the acting was exceptional, the dialog was believable to those who are enlightened, the sets and scenery was breathtakingly realistic, and this production was even greater than the sum of its marvelous parts.It was frightening, suspenseful, intriguing, and thrilling. We were horrified, dismayed and thoroughly entertained by this endeavor. The explanation of zombies and their origins, as Haitian lore is indeed the birthplace of these creatures, was wonderfully told and brilliantly presented.Don't bury me! I'm not dead! Absolutely wonderful.It rates an 8.8/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"There are secrets on this island that we even keep from ourselves","Date":"27 August 2005","Score":"13 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" ***SPOILERS*** At the start of the film The Serpant and the Rainbow we see Anthropologist Dennis Alan, Paul Pullman,drink a potion made up for him by an old tribal shaman,Evencio Mosquera Slaco. it's that potion that saves Alan's life by guiding him back 200 miles to civilization from the dense and dangerous Amazon jungles but at the same time causes him to have mind-bending hallucinations for the rest of he movie.Back in Boston Alan is contacted by his old friend Prof. Shoonbacker, Michael Gough,about going to the island nation of Haiti to find out for the pharmaceutical company, Boston Bio Corps, that he represents. Prof. Shoonbacker wants Alan to find out if there's any truth to what is known as Zombies and if so to find out and bring back what kind of drug is used to create them. Alan was to find on that strife-torn island at lot more that he could have ever expected or imagined. Arriving in Haiti Alan gets in touch with Dr.Maricelle Duchamp, Cathy Tyson, who runs a hospital in Port-Au-Prince and has evidence that Zombie's do exist. Finding Christophe ,Corad Roberts, legally dead yet wondering aimlessly around in a local graveyard convinces Alan that there's something to this myth of the walking dead. Tracking down the person who can make the drug, that put's people in this suspended animation that's mistaken for death, Louis Mozert, Brent Jennings, Alan is further convinced when Mozert gives the drug to a goat who suddenly dies after eating it and then the next day finds the goat alive and well. Giving Mozart $500.00 for a sample of this Zombie drug Alan goes back to the US to have it tested by the laboratories of Boston Bio Corps.What Alan doesn't know is that he's been put under a spell by the brutal Baby Doc Duvalier's, the Haitian president for life, chief of the dreaded Tonton Macoute Baby Doc's secret police Dargent Peytraud, Zakes Mokae, that cause his mind to go haywire. The only way to break it is for Alan to go back to the island and confront and battle Peytruad at is own game, voodoo, or end up going insane. The Sepernt and the Rainbow is a lot like the movies I Walked with a Zombie and Premature Burial in that it's more realistic in it's subject matter and tries to keep the supernatural angle in check and not let it overwhelm it's story. There is a drug, like in the movie, that cause simulated death called Tedrodotoxin and at the conclusion of the film were told that no scientific study has been able to figure out just how it works on humans, and animals, in causing their heart to stop yet keep them alive. Even though there are a number of gruesome scenes in the movie like decapitation's and immolation's as well as cannibalism nothing can compare, or condition you, to the horror of being unknowingly buried alive and not being able to scream in order to prevent that terrifying act from happening and In the film The Serpent and the Rainbow it happens twice not once. With all the mind-blowing special effects in The Serpent and the Rainbow The most eye-popping scene in the movie has to do with modern day Voodoo Priest Lucien Celine, Paul Winfield, going bananas and literally screwing his head off. The final sequence in the movie has Alan having it out with the crazed yet cunning Peytraud as the people of Haiti finally revolt and throw Baby Doc out of power and out of the country. Peytraud who had the souls of his victims, who he turned into Zombies over the years, stored in sealed urns break out and then bring the madman of Port-Au-Prince to ultimate and final justice in what has to be the ending to end all endings. "}{"Title":"Death is not the End in Haiti","Date":"7 March 2015","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" In 1985, after a successful research in Amazonas, Dr. Dennis Alan (Bill Pullman) from Harvard is invited by the president of a Boston pharmaceutics industry, Andrew Cassedy (Paul Guilfoyle), to travel to Haiti to investigate the case of a man named Christophe (Conrad Roberts) that died in 1978 and has apparently returned to life. Andrew wants samples of the voodoo drug that was used in Christophe to be tested with the intention of producing a powerful anesthetic. Dr. Alan travels to meet Dr. Marielle Duchamp (Cathy Tyson) that is treating Christophe and arrives in Haiti in a period of revolution. Soon Alan is threatened by the chief of the feared Tonton Macuse Dargent Peytraud (Zakes Mokae), who is a torturer and powerful witch. Alan learns that death is not the end in the beginning of his journey to hell.The Serpent and the Rainbow is one of the creepiest and most originals zombie movie ever produced. Directed by Wes Craven, the story uses the background of political environment of Haiti and entwines horror and politics. Bill Pullman has good performance and Cathy Mona Lisa Tyson completes the romantic pair of the story. But Zakes Mokae steals the movie with a scary performance in the role of the wicked Peytraud. My vote is seven.Title (Brazil) A Maldição dos Mortos-Vivos (The Curse of the Living Dead) "},{"Title":"Burials of promise","Date":"29 June 2011","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" It is interesting to think what could have been of this movie. What we get is almost worthless but with enough to actually imagine it in better hands.The original story, reportedly based on facts, about a white man's encounter with a strange, exotic culture and how small and ill-prepared he discovers himself to be in the density of that jungle calls for a mystical gaze, an earnest way of accepting worlds beyond. The author of that story wanted Peter Weir for the project, for good reason. Instead he got Wes Craven, who probably qualified based on the nightmares he concocted for the Elms Street movie but who is completely out of his depth here.The result is an overkill of garish voodoo ceremony and hysteric hallucinations inside coffins. Craven piles so much frenzy upon it that whatever serious intentions existed behind the material are completely lost in it.There's a political commentary with some bite to it; about the chief of secret police who is also a voodoo priest, making sure that people remain prisoners of their bodies inside their own minds, frightened, subservient drones. Like the military regime he serves.The rest? The rest is impossible to take serious. The finale is particularly stupid, with people flying out of walls and a fistfight.The situation has promise. A way of shutting people off inside their own minds, removing them from reality so that they see without seeing. Which may be conditioned superstition or more, about communion with something beyond. And about the American disbeliever eventually succumbing to this. Interesting things to play around with.Peter Weir could have made something great with this, the movie seems tailored to his world. Perhaps he did already with The Last Wave, about white man's encounter with a mystical Aboriginal culture which, shuttering his safe notions about reality, brings him to the yawning brink of apocalypse.I love Weir but he has his limitations. Sometimes his visions of that otherness are too tawdry, or wistfully naive. Noble savages and magical gnomes abound. The other filmmaker I would love to see make this movie is Werner Herzog with his Wagnerian romance about tragic monomaniacs battling vast, inscrutable natures. A brief glimpse of the cosmic as a revelation of individual madness and folly.Skip this and go straight for The Year of Living Dangerously or Cobra Verde, where the encounters with the other reveal things. Or if you're specifically interested in the voodoo zombie, go further back for I Walked with a Zombie. "},{"Title":"The Vision Within","Date":"26 November 2002","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Spoilers herein.Wes Craven is no dummy, he just acts like one. But slyly behind the scenes he does some clever stuff. Ordinary viewers of the first and seventh `Nightmare' will be secure in knowing what is a dream and what not. But -- especially in the seventh where the dreams merge with his own writing -- this is not so clear. Perhaps the whole thing is a dream. Perhaps the whole thing is the private hell of Krueger's soul.Same here. Superficially we have a dumb voodoo movie, which shamelessly (but honestly) exploits racial stereotypes. But look closer. Which is the vision and which not? I prefer the ambiguity of the first spell encompassing the whole film. No reason why not. No reason this is not the prolonged vision of a man going mad in a coffin.Ted's Evaluation -- 1 of 4 You can find something better to do with this part of your life. "},{"Title":"Mediocre Craven movie","Date":"24 August 2000","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Wes Craven is a survivor. Starting his film career in 1970 with a porno film called TOGETHER starring Marilyn Chambers and just recently directing both SCREAM 3 and MUSIC OF THE HEART in the same year, he has come full spectrum as a director. Yet he has a few dogs littered throughout his resume. While SERPENT AND THE RAINBOW certainly isn't a dog, it is not that good, either. As one reviewer already said, It's just OK.Bill Pullman is paid to find a special powder that creates zombies in Haiti. He is harassed by the secret police and eventually sees the horror of voodoo. Pullman is OK, but I liked Cathy Tyson a lot and also the guy who played the sadistic voodoo dictator. Paul Winfield is forgettable. Great scenes are few and far between, but Pullman's voodoo dream sequences are amazing. The best sequence in the movie Pullman being buried alive with a tarantula. Amazing claustrophobic/arachnophobic stuff that should have been longer than its approximate 5-minute length. The ending suffers from too many special effects and an unrealistic culmination to the story.Based on a true story, SERPENT AND THE RAINBOW seems to be fairly faithful to the real-life adventure up to a point, where it definitely turns Hollywood. Not recommended, but shouldn't be avoided, either. "},{"Title":"Good, Underrated Craven Horror Flick!","Date":"19 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Bill Pullman, Cathy Tyson, Zakes Mokae, Paul Winfield and Brent Jennings star in Wes Craven's 1988 horror film based on the book. Pullman plays anthropologist, Dennis Alan who is sent to Haiti to find a formula that is able to resurrect the dead. He learns that those who take it can still hear while not being able to move. Dennis is determined to find it and becomes thrust into a nightmare when he meets twisted voodoo priest, Dargent Peytraud (Mokae) who thrives on inflicting pain and fear onto others. Tyson plays Marielle Duchamp, a woman who helps and falls for Dennis, the late, Winfield plays other voodoo priest, Lucien Celine and Jennings (Red Heat) plays Louis Mozart, a man who makes the substance. This is a good horror flick that's underrated. Pullman is great in it and the late, Mokae was a terrific villain. I recommend this. "},{"Title":"An intense and involving Wes Craven film.","Date":"19 May 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Serpent and the Rainbow is true horror, a deeply sinister tale just dripping with flavour and atmosphere. It's based on the non-fiction book by Wade Davis, and tells the story of anthropologist Dennis Alan (Bill Pullman) who travels to Haiti for the purpose of investigating what could be causing supposedly dead people to still be alive. He finds himself in a whole lot of trouble, what with his stubborn insistence on solving the mystery and poking his nose into places where other people don't want it. His chief antagonist is local policeman Dargent Peytraud (an effectively scary Zakes Mokae), a man who's not exactly subtle about his malevolent intentions. Fortunately, Dennis has some allies, in the form of crusading doctor Marielle DuChamp (gorgeous Cathy Tyson) and business owner Lucien Celine (Paul Winfield). There are some absolutely great horror moments in this very competently made chiller, and some very vivid characters. Dennis, unfortunately, is an intelligent but not terribly likable protagonist, and Pullman can't do much to make us want to root for him; it's the other actors & characters that really make this sing. Tyson is appealing and Winfield solid as always; Brent Jennings as Mozart, Conrad Roberts as Christophe, Michael Gough as Schoonbacher, Badja Djola as Gaston, Theresa Merritt as Simone, and Paul Guilfoyle as Andrew Cassedy are all fine, especially the engaging Jennings and the haunted Roberts who is able to mine his part for much pathos. Adding to the feel of the piece is its political subtext as the movie takes place during the reign of the notorious Baby Doc Duvalier. Makeup and visual effects are nicely done, and the movie has some good zombie action and highly surreal moments. It sizes up as one of the more interesting and entertaining films of Craven's career, projecting a strong sense of doom & gloom; it could have used some more humour, and the finale gets a bit silly, but overall, it's definitely worth a look. Seven out of 10. "},{"Title":"Would you like room service delivered to your coffin, sir?","Date":"23 October 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I watched this movie again last night. I have to say that I think it is still pretty scary even after the umpteenth time. There are scenes in this movie that give me the chills just thinking back to them. One in particular, a scene with a veiled bride on a burning boat, always gives me the willies. Never fails. I happen to think that this is one of the better overlooked horror movies that I know of. It's not Wes Craven's best but it is still better than average. I strongly recommend this movie to anyone who'd like a couple of good chills.Don't let them bury me! I'm not dead!Priceless.Rating ***1/2 out of *****.   "},{"Title":"I want to hear you scream....","Date":"4 May 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is Craven's finest piece of work, explores the voodoo, black magic almost like a religion, set pieces are great and the music score is haunting! Craven takes a mature step into the world of magic/spirits, with its narrative story telling approach it grips the audience.The biggest star of the film is Haiti itself, with the action taking place in several beautiful and exotic locales. This gives it a real sense of authenticity, as many of the actors and extras are actual Haitian natives. I also very much enjoyed Dr. Alan's dreams and hallucinations, which were disturbing and led the film to an even more sinister edge. The story is not far-fetched and when the word Zombie is mentioned you can understand the meaning of the word. Not, like our wonderful George A. Romero of the walking dead back to life, but an interesting in-sight into Zombiefication and how it occurs and the onset of long term mental health issues. The powder that is mentioned, and seen, in S&T.Rb is today still secretly under wraps and even to this day medical professionals are still trying to work out the affects and how it is made.Overall rating 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Cravin's...","Date":"23 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" THE SERPENT AND THE RAINBOW boasted one of the greatest trailers I've ever seen; the movie, unfortunately, didn't live up to its promise. Bill Pullman in the lead was a big part of what went wrong his delivery throughout is as dull and monotonous and as lifeless as... a zombie... There ARE a couple of good scenes the scene where the missing man, Christophe, turns up (...) in a graveyard and the scene where Pullman is buried alive. The Big Finale drags on for far too long and it doesn't help that Craven employs the same type of stunts he used in SWAMP THING (which were not unlike the stunts we saw every single week on THE INCREDIBLE HULK teleshow). For all that, I still think this is the late Wes Craven's best effort. "},{"Title":"like the exotic voodoo zombie","Date":"2 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" In 1985, Dr. Dennis Alan (Bill Pullman) from Harvard is in deepest Amazon studying the locals. He is given hallucinogens. His helicopter pilot is killed and he's forced to travel the 200 miles on his own. Back in Boston, he's recruited by a pharmaceutical to study a possible case of zombification in Haiti. Christophe Durand was declared dead in 1978 and buried. However he has returned under the care of psychiatrist Dr. Duchamp (Cathy Tyson). She introduces him to Lucien Celine (Paul Winfield) and local hustler Louis Mozart. There is also Dargent Peytraud, the leader of the feared Tonton Macuse who are the thugs of dictator Jean-Claude Duvalier.I really like the exotic realism and the idea of voodoo zombies. Actually the more traditional horror gimmicks from Wes Craven in the last act is not that exciting. I like the woman eating glass at diner but the last section tries too much. The strength of the movie is any remote connection to reality. It's creepy and Zakes Mokae is such a great villain. "}{"Title":"Serpent and the Rainbow 7/10","Date":"10 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" For starts, one thing that Wes Craven's Serpent and The Rainbow doesn't lack is originality. Everything is just a little different about Serpent and the Rainbow, the main character narrating at different points in between scenes to fill up loose ends. Also, it's different to see filming in poverty stricken Haiti, as a setting for a horror film. Craven definitely made this interesting and it the story itself is written in a way, to leave the viewer guessing on what's reality or dark voodoo magic. Normally, Bill Pullman as a lead in a movie ends up being a stinker, but he didn't overact his role and seemed to be in the moment. The film should actually be watched with an open mind, so leaving out plot details will lead to a better view. Believe this, it's hard not to spoil the movie right now since the main climax is so chilling and leaves you in awe. Serpent and the Rainbow is dull at parts and not something with a lot of re-watch-ability, but it's definitely one of a kind, that's for sure. "},{"Title":"The Real Walking Dead?","Date":"6 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" It seems safe to say that we are experiencing something of a wave of interests in zombies at the moment. Yet I'm sure many of those who are interested in the various movies, shows and books based on the undead might well be unaware of their real world roots in Haiti and voodoo. Offering something of a contrast with George Romero, 28 Days Later and The Walking Dead is this film from 1988. Directed by Wes Craven and inspired by the real events detailed in Wade Davis' book of the same title, The Serpent And The Rainbow presents a look at the real-life zombie phenomenon with dashes of horror added to it.Note that I used the word inspired above. The film itself claims to be inspired by true events and cites that it is inspired by the book rather than based on it. I must confess that I've (yet) to read the book but watching the film and doing a bit of online research makes it clear that a liberal amount of adaptation must have taken place. The real life ethnobotanist (a scientific field that mixes elements of anthropology and botany) Wade Davis becomes the fictionalized Doctor Dennis Alan in the first of many changes the film makes. Amongst the changes are a shifting of the time frame in which events take place from across several years in the late 1970s and early 1980s to a short period of time in 1985-86 (which was in fact after the book had been published). Nor does it appear that Davis went through many, if any, of the hellish experiences presented in the film. In other words, it is VERY important to take what the film presents in terms of events with a grain of salt though there are, to mix metaphors, nuggets of truth in an otherwise barren landscape of fiction.Judging the film on its own merits, it's actually pretty good for what it is. For much of its running time, we're presented with a film that's part Indiana Jones, part The Omen as the cynical American Doctor Alan goes to Haiti in search of a presumed drug responsible for the zombie phenomenon and begins to encounter a series of strange people and events that leads the film into psychological horror territory. Not that the film has the budget or story for Indiana Jones large scale action sequences but it's hard not to see Doctor Alan as something of a Jones type though his brashness and cynicism quickly lead him into trouble. With the horror being played out in largely dreams and hallucinations, combined with threats and a moment of slightly overplayed but unsettling torture, the film has an air of menace to it that lends tension to proceedings. For its first seventy minutes or so, while the film is firmly in this territory, it works.It's in the last twenty-five minutes or so that the film goes off the rails a bit. Having presented a solid tale of intrigue and psychological horror, the film shifts into full-on horror film mode for its last act. In a full departure from real events, we see Alan go through the zombie process and have a showdown with the sinister head of secret police who it turns out is at the heart of the phenomenon. Neither the writing, nor the special effects for that matter, are up for much here (nor are they in another major departure from real events earlier on in the film) as clichés including the villainous cult leader combine with low budget effects to give the film a rather unsatisfying ending.More satisfying perhaps is the film's cast. A young Bill Pullman does quite well as Doctor Alan, bring the right amount of both American naiveté and scientific cynicism to the role as someone who has to deal with increasingly strange happenings while also just trying to get out of the country in one piece. Indeed the film's American characters, including Paul Guilfoyle and the always delightful Michael Gough, probably come across best of all the performances. The film's Haitian characters are, largely due to the script, little more than walking and talking clichés. The standouts from those include Zakes Mokae as the villainous head of Haiti's secret police who, despite the clichés attached to his character, gives quite a good performance under the circumstances and Conrad Roberts as Christophe Durand (a character inspired by the real-life zombie case of Clairvius Narcisse). Despite some of the script issues that hamper them, the performances by and large work and serve the film well.Looking past the script and sometimes iffy special effects, the production values are quite good as well. The film benefits immensely from being shot in location in both Haiti and the nearby Dominican Republic, both of which lend the film a strong sense of both place and (perhaps more importantly) verisimilitude that it might otherwise lack given its subject matter. The sets, costumes and especially the make up all look good when they're trying to be done subtly and not (as mentioned earlier) when they're put to full on horror effect. All of which leaves the film feeling solidly made at the very least.Despite its far removal from reality and its ill-done shift to horror movie in its last act, The Serpent And The Rainbow stands up decently. As a tale of intrigue and psychological horror, as well as presenting an interesting look at the real-world inspiration behind zombies, it works quite well thanks to its cast and production values. Those expecting a horror film might be disappointed while those hoping for something that plays more to the film's strengths will likely be left feeling likewise with its last act. The film seems to fall between the two and, due to being unable to pick a side and stay there, ends up being intriguing though perhaps a tad unsatisfying in the end. "},{"Title":"The Master of Horror Tackles Voodoo","Date":"7 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" In our modern horror cinema, the zombie genre has been overtaken by flesh-eating ghouls and infection films that come from the Romero/ Fulci family tree. However, before Romero's Living Dead films, the word zombie often had a very different connotation, going back to the voodoo rituals that would create mindless slaves. From classic horror movies like WHITE ZOMBIE and I WALKED WITH A ZOMBIE to Hammer's PLAGUE OF THE ZOMBIES, this was the archetype that Hollywood explored when it talked about zombies and it is this territory that Craven hearkens back to in this late 80s classic.There is a lot to love about this movie, starting with that general concept. Though lovers of classic cinema may be familiar with the films I mentioned, most modern horror fans hadn't really seen a voodoo zombie movie before. To me, as a 13 year old kid when this was released, this was something completely new, exploring a culture that was wild and exotic and more than a little creepy.That creepiness pervades this movie. There is so much atmosphere created. Craven does a great job of introducing his main character to psychotropic drugs right in the beginning. This allows him to play with some surreal dream imagery thereafter and create all sort of bizarre images for us, all wrapped under the guise of our heroes mind being opened up to the spiritual. Beyond the dream images, Craven injects all manner of wonderful imagery into this movie, using the Haitian landscape, human fear of being buried alive, catholic and voodoo iconography and some of the creepiest cemeteries you'll see. All of it creates this world where just about anything is possible and most of it will be nightmarish.The writing is actually pretty good, for a horror movie. They work in the requisite budding romance, without it ever feeling tacked on and unnecessary. They manage to add in several subplots, as well, that add to the movie instead of detract, created a very layered film that not only explores voodoo, but the temperature of the Haitian political climate at the time.Some of the effects now look a little dated, but I'm not going to hold that against a movie. They are products of their time, naturally. If they are one of those lucky films that manages to hold up, even better, but many look dated 30 years later.The biggest negative to me and the thing I notice the most on recent viewings is that Bill Pullman is just...bad. He's presented to us as an almost Indiana Jones type of explorer and I'm not buying it for a minute. His vocal tone seems more high-pitched than I remember him being in his other roles. The worst parts of his performance come when he's relied on to perform the more physical aspects such as the torture scene, or his big moment when he's been drugged and looking for help. He just looks really amateurish to me in these moments and I find that he's the biggest thing keeping this from being a little higher rated in my opinion. "},{"Title":"Voodoo and Zombies","Date":"19 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Dennis Alan (Bill Pullman) is an anthropologist who is sent to Haiti to acquire a mysterious drug rumored to cause people to enter into an unconscious state similar to death. However, given the turbulent state of affairs within Haiti it is no easy task for Dennis to get his hands on this drug as violence and corruption are extremely problematic. Another difficulty lies in the fact that he also has to delve deep into the dangerous realm of voodoo in the process. Assisting him in his search for this drug is a pretty Haitian doctor named Marielle Duchamp (Cathy Tyson) and a couple of voodoo practitioners by the names of Lucien Celine (Paul Winfield) and Louis Mozart (Brent Jennings). Unfortunately, another devotee of the black arts, who also happens to be a high-ranking member of the secret police, named Dargent Peytraud (Zakes Mokae) jealously guards any and all voodoo secrets with a violent passion. And he doesn't want Dennis poking around. Now, rather than reveal any more of the story and risk spoiling the film for those who haven't seen it I will just say that this turned out to be a rather creepy horror movie which kept my attention from start to finish. I especially liked the way it captured the Haitian people and culture. In any case, I think that those who enjoy movies relating to voodoo and zombies will certainly appreciate this particular film. Above average. "},{"Title":"Real Zombism","Date":"24 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Very interesting movie! What makes this movie scary is that things like this really do happen in certain parts of the world... it seems South America mainly.Most people are familiar with the get bit by a zombie you will turn into a zombie scenario which is not that realistic. Romero's Night of the Living Dead or other zombie films are good examples of it. But Serpent and the Rainbow is not that type of a zombie film.Serpent and the Rainbow is a very underrated and extremely creepy film about REAL ZOMBISM. Yes I say REAL ZOMBISM! To understand the movie Serpent and the Rainbow on a deeper scale research REAL ZOMBISM Scopolamine aka Devil's Breath is one such drug from the Borrachero tree it is also known as Angel Trumpet Brugmansia. This plant is known turn people into a zombie-like state... people will even give up their free will.If one is interested in real zombism and other magic from South America I recommend a book by Jaya Bear Amazon Magic The Life Story of Ayahuasquero & Shaman Don Agustin Rivas Vasquez -- very good book that goes well with the the theme of the movie Serpent and the Rainbow.Yes I loved Serpent and the Rainbow! It maybe Wes Craven's best movie to date! 9.5/10 "},{"Title":"Silly at times but still enjoyable and very creepy.","Date":"16 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Serpent and the Rainbow is a film that works best if you don't think through the plot but instead just take the movie as it comes. This is because if you think about it, the plot doesn't make a lot of sense---especially the amazingly silly finale. On the positive side, the film has a wonderful sense of creepiness--all brought to you by the guy responsible for the Nightmare on Elm Street series, Wes Craven.The film is set in Haiti during the latter part of the Baby Doc Duvalier era. For some completely insane reason, a doctor (Bill Pullman) has been sent to the country by a pharmaceutical company to learn the secret of zombification so that they could possibly use the zombie formula for positive/curative purposes. This really makes no sense at all. What also doesn't make sense is how horrible and dangerous it is there--with all sorts of voodoo, zombies and terror. The ending is amazingly stupid--where some of this terror is really scary and creepy and some of it is hampered by the 1988-style prosthetics which look very fake by today's standards. Still, the creepy factor is an A+ for the film overall. It's not the sort of film I'd usually watch, but for a change of pace, it was pretty good. "},{"Title":"Probably the Most Realistic Take on 'Zombies'","Date":"19 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Dennis Allan (Bill Pullman) is an anthropologist who goes around the world searching for rare traditional cures from the far corners of the world. He visits Haiti on the strength of a rumour of a drug which renders the recipient totally paralyzed but conscious. The drug's effects often fool doctors, who declare the victims dead. Could this be the origin of the zombie legend? Alan embarks on a surprising and often surreal investigation of the turbulent social chaos that is Haiti during the revolution.. Alan must decide what is science, what is superstition and what is the unknown in an anarchistic society where police corruption and witch doctors are commonplace.This is a very underrated movie directed by Wes Craven and based on a true story (book). Dennis comes off as an Indiana Jones kind of protagonist in this adventure horror film. While he does take some questionable moronic decisions, he's not completely unlikable. The stereotypes of the Haitian community in the eighties are wholly embraced by the writers. Most horror movies that deal in some way with voodoo have absolutely no idea what it is really about. The movie is genuinely creepy because it showcases some of the real kind of voodoo effectively. Voodoo is not all black magic as glorified by terrible Hollywood movies.The visuals are powerful and the dream sequences are terribly eerie and fantastic. Allen is often attacked in his dreams (and in real life as well as shown in one very disturbing scene where a nail is driven through his scrotum) and the situations can cross the line of reality and still be plausible. Him being pulled into the earth while being grabbed at by a rotted corpses is a notable example. A villain and a leader, Dargent Peytraud (Zakes Mokae) and Marielle Duchamp (Cathy Tyson) are really good in their roles. The last 10 minutes is typical Hollywood nonsense which is a damn shame because what preceded it was very engaging. Probably the most realistic take on the phenomenon that is 'zombies'.7/10 "},{"Title":"Great horror film!","Date":"12 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Years ago I heard a brief plot summary of this film and thought it sounded a little boring. However, when I finally came to see it earlier this year - I was very surprised. I've not actually read the book, so I won't go into that - although it is on my 'to-read' list.What I liked most about this is the way it plays out as a supernatural adventure, a lot of horror films nowadays are more worried about creatively killing off characters and using snapcuts. But this film builds up a dream-like feeling of dread and sustains it the whole way through, with some truly memorable and disturbing scenes. Although I must say that the battle at the end is a tad over the top, but I'm not cynical enough to let that change my positive review too much.Bill Pullman's lead character is a kind of geekier Indiana Jones, and as much as I say 'geekier' he is still able to scrap with the best of them - he has no hesitation when it comes to smashing someone over the head with a bottle certainly.In short this is a well-worked adventure story with subtle, creeping horror themes running throughout it - put down that slasher film and watch this. "},{"Title":"My favorite Wes Craven movie","Date":"8 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Serpent And The Rainbow is one of my favorite horror films that I loved watching as a teenager and it still holds up 20 plus years later. This film has depth and realism to balance the surreal and the horrific . Based on supposed true events and dealing with Haitian voodoo , Wes Craven took this film seriously and made a very original and classy horror film . Bill Pullman as well as the rest of the cast did an outstanding job. The cinematography, South American landscape and f/x look great. The score sets the tone and the atmosphere is creepy. This flick might be a little heavy ( dramatic ) for some horror fans , but if you want to see a different kind of horror film that is original and well made you should give The Serpent And The Rainbow a shot. I much prefer this to the average, generic slasher movie. "},{"Title":"Do you believe in black magic?","Date":"7 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Serpent and the Rainbow has some great scenes of what is supposed to be Haiti, and I suppose some of it is, and there are some great sets as expected and some great scenery. The story itself is actually interesting however, the film is marred by poor dialog and a rushed feel. Also, the ending is flawed by Hollywood special effects that seem out of place in the otherwise gritty and rustic feel of the prior scenes.Bill Pullman's acting lacks conviction and he never really seems to get into his character too deeply. His characterization seems to have a loose, slightly comic feel to it.I would have much rather have seen something less slick and perhaps more low key or mysterious with some of the situations. Even Angel Heart, which is also about Voodoo, is able to convey mystery and death without splashy animated special effects. This is not a bad film and it does contain some very interesting scenes. Some of the dialog and acting seem a bit thin and weak at times which is too bad. It's strengths are the sets, the lighting and the atmoshpere. "}{"Title":"Don't let them bury me! I'm not dead!","Date":"21 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Anthropologist Dennis Alan (Bill Pullman) embarks on a journey to Haiti in search of a drug said to be the cause of zombification. Thrown into a world of superstition and surreal bedlam, the good doctor digs deep to find answers.Loosely based on a true story, this tale of rising corpses and scientific endeavour takes us on a genuinely creepy ride. Bill Pullman does a great job of leading the film and brings a noteworthy authenticity to his character. It's also worth mentioning that Zakes Mokae's performance as the villainous Dargent Peytraud is quite chilling.Since as early as I can remember, Zombie films have always fascinated me. A good zombie flick should be able to make you question it. Where would you hide? How would you kill them? And could you survive? Wes Craven did well to stay away from walking dead clichés and ask the mother of all questions &#x96; Is it real and how far would you go to find out?Direction 8/10 (Wes Craven keeps you interested with relative ease, thanks to the story) Cinematography 7/10 (John Lindley's choices were simple, but effective. Editing 9/10 (Academy Award winner Glenn Farr keeps us on our toes) Acting 7/10 (Bill Pullman and Zakes Mokae do a great job in their parts) Dialogue 7/10 (The screenplay was well drawn out, for the most part) Sound 6/10 (Works well enough to please the audience) Effects 10/10 (Some genuinely creepy looking corpses will keep you watching) Art Direction 7/10 (One of David Brisbin's more memorable achievements) Costumes 8/10 (Peter Mitchell's vision suits the film and the actors) Music and/or Score 6/10 (Brad Fiedel provides enough to satisfy)Total Score 75/100On release it was competing with The Blob, Child's Play and Critters 2. Wes would have known what the industry was looking for but stuck with it. Not his best work but Horror/Thriller fans will like it for what it accomplishes. "},{"Title":"A Lesser Known Wes Craven Film, But not a Bad One","Date":"8 February 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A researcher (Bill Pullman) goes to Haiti in order to find a zombie drug that can give someone the appearance of death, when in actuality their body is at its lowest functioning. They may not breathe, or bleed, but they are not truly dead. The researcher and the company he works for hope to use it as an anesthetic.The film started as a book of the same name by anthropologist Wade Davis, who is probably the world's authority on voodoo and zombies. Discussions were made to have Peter Weir direct and/or Mel Gibson star, but obviously this never happened. The script found its way to Wes Craven, and Bill Pullman (at that point a young rising star) was given the lead.Author Wade Davis was on set from the very beginning and wanted to make the best film he could regardless of who the director would be. He notoriously did not like the way it went, and Bill Pullman says that both he (Pullman) and Wes Craven were disappointed, too, because they wanted a more serious angle and the studio (Universal) was pushing for a horror story. In retrospect, Davis seems to have become more accepting of the film and does not hold it against Craven. In fact, he praises many of the scenes for their authenticity, especially in comparison to other attempts at making voodoo films.The filming took place throughout 1987, and the political tensions were getting nasty in Haiti. Dictator Jean-Claude Baby Doc Duvalier becomes part of the plot, which makes this not just an anthropological horror film, but a political one, too. If people are able to look past the horror aspects, there is actually an important cultural document here.While the film is quite interesting for a variety of reasons, it starts off slow, and does not really pick up until the second half. Bill Pullman's character is the only one you are going to get to know from this film, and the only character who gets a lot of development. The natives seem very flat, and most just come across as wanting to kill Pullman. In a way, this makes sense, because this story is essentially told from his point of view. Bill Pullman reflected years later, I don't think any other movie I've done is as adventurous as this one. He did most of his own stunts, met with real voodoo priests and took part in a variety of activities that may not be your typical Hollywood situation. One scene was filmed in an actual Dominican grave. He confirms that writer Richard Maxwell had to be admitted to an asylum after consulting with a voodoo priest.Fans of Craven ought to check this one out. It does not have the in-your-face slasher horror of Craven's Nightmare on Elm Street, Scream or Last House on the Left. But it is not intended to be. This is a film built on atmosphere, and in many ways a horror more realistic than any he had ever done before.As always, the must-have version was released by the fine folks at Scream Factory. Those interested in the movie will have to watch the 25-minute making of, which has interviews with cinematographer John Lindley, the father-son special effects team of Lance and Dave Anderson, Wade Davis, and some re-used audio from Pullman.The audio commentary is disappointing. On the one hand, it is the first time the film has had a commentary track, so credit must be given to Scream Factory for giving the disc the attention that past companies (specifically Image and Universal) failed to do. But the commentary with Bill Pullman only goes halfway through the film, with no one left to take his place. The real tragedy is in the passing of Wes Craven (the disc is dedicated to him), who could have offered more insight. There will undoubtedly never be a better release of this essential Wes Craven film... unless someone manages to convince Bill Pullman to hand over all the vacation footage he shot with his wife on set! "},{"Title":"The perfect horror movie!","Date":"5 January 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Okay maybe my title is a little exaggerated, but this movie really blew my mind. Why this movie has such below average ratings, I don't understand. I wanted to watch this basically just because it was a Wes Craven film I hadn't seen, but it really went far beyond my expectations.I always thought Voodo are the perfect theme for a horror movie. And I mean no offence to the people who believe in Voodo, believe all religion makes good horror, but there something mysterious about Voodo films. The idea of a Zombie, not the they will eat your brain ones, but the one that is more scientifically. Voodod zombies is based on real rituals and medicines. And more of this movie than you think is real. of course like all American movies they have exaggerated a bit for the showmanship, but many of the rituals were performed by real Voodo priests.The tag-line Don't bury me, I'm not dead may sound a little corny, but any horror fan would grad this film off the shelf and buy it when they read it. This is a chilling and terrifying film. The acting is great,and Bill Pullman's screams are one of the best I've seen, not to mention chilling at times. Unlike most films today, he doesn't overdo it and sound fake.The movie has been described by Wes Craven as a B-movie on purpose, so it has a bit of a TV film feel to it, but seriously you won't care a bit. it is well made, and have almost no bad effects. Unless you count being old as bad, but still it'll scare you.So what can I say; great acting, Voodo zombies, rituals, chills and thrills, this get's a 10/10 from me. "},{"Title":"Atmospheric and creepy  voodoo oriented Horror premise.","Date":"27 September 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I watched this movie for the last time about 15 years ago and it didn't make an impact on me. Oh I'm glad I picked it up again.The movie is genuinely positive on the aspect that it feels like a sandbox for the main character. I mean, he's able to explore extremely visually stunning places that can express fear, dread, and uncertainty.But a dark looking movie is not enough for the whole atmosphere; the plot is very interesting, macabre, and makes you think about the real possibility for it to happen. You know, the occult is something that relies more on faith that on science.The are nightmarish scenes involving black magic, voodoo, creepy nightmares, and even spirit possessions.The pace is excellent and grabs your attention since the beginning. The score is also great, some tunes will stay in your mind for a while.Overall, this is a prime example of how bid budget can create a fantastic horror movie. Vastly underrated, deserves a special recognition for being one of the best of it's kind.Bill Pullman delivers an extraordinary performance and demonstrates his histrionic qualities. Cathy Tyson is hot as hell and is convinced as the sexy and smart Dr. Marielle Duchamp.The show is stolen by Zakes Mokae as Dargent Peytraud. The man is one of the most creepy and sadistic villains who can torture victims through the mind. Vastly underrated performance!.I can recommend proudly this movie for Horror fans in general. "},{"Title":"Definitely one of Craven's better efforts!","Date":"12 December 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Serpent And The Rainbow is a very impressive film for the most part and is hardly noticeable as a Wes Craven film...that is, until the final 20 minutes or so. Then the movie digresses into cheesy special effects and action sequences that quickly remind the viewer of a typical Craven horror flick. However, since I'm rating the movie as a whole, it must be noted that there are some scenes that are extremely creepy (especially the freaky dreams that the main character keeps experiencing) and the whole Voodoo culture in Haiti is the perfect setting for this type of film. It also must be noted that this is supposedly based on a true story, but take this with a grain of salt as Wade Davis, author of the book this movie is based on, was reportedly disgusted with the cinematic depiction. Overall, I would say that this has some good value as somewhat of a cult classic. "},{"Title":"Craven's best?","Date":"26 November 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" During the turbulent reign of Baby Doc Duvalier in Haiti, Dennis Alan, at the behest of a drug company he works for, sets off on a quest to find the truth behind the origins of a mysterious drug that paralyzes its victims and the mystery that surrounds sightings of zombies. Pretty soon he is embroiled in a nightmarish endeavour to find the secret powder, as his dreams seem to herald bad events in reality. He gets involved with witchdoctors and a tyrannical police chief who seems to be the power behind the superstition. Craven's vision of traditional zombies is surprisingly engrossing, what the film lacks in visuals, is made up for by a brooding atmosphere of dread and the unknown. Much in the vein of Tourneur's I walked with a Zombie, Serpent and the Rainbow is an old fashioned horror, built on a good plot and fine characterizations that will engross its viewers. "},{"Title":"Voodoo along with Quantum Physics and the I Ching are the old  tools to affect serious change","Date":"28 October 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I like this film and I always perk up when Bill Pullman is cast. Pullman doesn't get nearly the credit he deserves. Whatever happened to Cathy Tyson? The late great Paul Winfield contributes to this somewhat contemporary academic look at the voodoo phenomena. Brent Jennings also needs to be lauded and celebrated, he has saved many a movie. Being a Black American I'd always heard that the black people from the islands were a bit...unusual. Some would say downright weird and not a little dangerous. I know that those are prejudicial ideas however the practises of Voodoo are still being researched by major universities all over the world because like quantum physics and the I Ching there are modern applications still being discovered. The military is always looking for new ways to either assault or defend. Of course medicine and the other hard sciences make inquiries as to how these three ancient disciplines can improve all of our lives. "},{"Title":"Breathtaking, Super-Scary, Haitian Voodoo  Adventure Thriller With Terrific Cast","Date":"23 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Dennis Alan is an anthropologist sent to Haiti to research a mystery drug which induces a death-like zombie state. During his quest he falls in love with Marielle Duchamp, a local doctor, and makes a dangerous enemy of Captain Peytraud, the head of the secret police.I think this is maybe my favourite of Craven's movies (it's a toss-up with A Nightmare On Elm Street), primarily because it's such a rich and varied film - it's equal parts jungle adventure, voodoo horror, political exposé, travelogue and interracial romance. The only movies which mix more genres are Big Trouble In Little China and The Adventures Of Buckaroo Banzai. Very loosely based on the real-life Harvard scientist Wade Davis, it's a heady brew of crazy ideas all thrown together, shot in fantastic locations in Haiti and the Dominican Republic. It goes a bit bananas towards the end, but the exploration of the vodou beliefs and rituals, and the juxtaposition of this with the political oppression is brilliantly handled. Craven mixes location footage, hundreds of local extras and even newsreel into his story with a sure hand. This is a horror movie for sure, packed full of arresting images (a zombie on a flaming rowboat, a blood-drenched dream of being buried alive, an animated torture-chair), but is so many other things as well. Pullman and talented British actress Tyson are both great, but Jennings and Mokae steal the acting honours. Jennings is wonderful as the tricky but self-assured witch-doctor Mozart, while South African actor Mokae is simply one of the best screen villains of all time - his teeth alone are scarier than most bad guys. As the devilish Peytraud, chief of the all too real Tonton Macoutes (rough translation - boogiemen), his eyes smoulder with hatred and misanthropy, and as both government assassin and bokor soul-stealer, his soft-spoken authority is truly chilling. With a great score by Brad Fiedel, this is a rich, romantic, scary horror movie with a fine cast and a refreshingly original story to tell. Don't miss it. "},{"Title":"Don't let them bury me! I'm not dead!","Date":"31 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Wes Craven (Red Eye, Scream) gave us this zombie film almost 20 years ago. It is not your traditional zombies, but more modern day horrors.Supposedly, this is based on true facts. Kind of like the early porn films that had a doctor in the beginning talking about the evils of nymphomania or some such sexual perversion to give the film some credibility. Forget that, it is a horror film and enjoy it as such.One of the interesting facts is that is gives us a glimpse of voodoo. As Marielle Duchamp (Cathy Tyson) said, 85% of Haiti is Catholic and 110% believe in voodoo. It makes for a strange religion and the film was interesting from that standpoint.It also has political over tones as It occurs in the last months of the Duvalier dictatorship in Haiti.If you are looking for the traditional flesh-eating zombies, they are not here. What is her is psychological horror and great makeup. "},{"Title":"Almost shockingly bad","Date":"2 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" In 1988's The Serpent and the Rainbow Bill Pullman plays an anthropologist who goes to Haiti to investigate a rumored drug that can make people seem dead, but they're really not. In other words, the plot addresses the reality behind the zombie myth. The story's supposedly based (loosely) on factual material contained in Wade Davis' book. Davis reportedly wanted noted director Peter Weir to direct the film, but he got stuck with horror maestro Wes Craven. Wes is great for cartoony horror flicks, like A Nightmare on Elm Street and the Scream series, but he was apparently out of his league here. I hate giving bad reviews to movies because I realize no one intends to make a bad film. Making decent movies is expensive and takes a lot of work by scores of talented people. The Serpent and the Rainbow had the funds, talent, locations and music to make a quality film, but it horribly fails.Over the years it's taken me four attempts just to get past the 20-40 minute mark. I finally forced myself to watch the entire film last night and it was a chore. It starts out intriguing, but immediately fails to engross. The story's fine, but the way it's told is bad, which includes the puzzling editing. It's incoherent and you soon find yourself bored watching interesting images and cool percussion-oriented music, but characters and a tale you don't care about, mainly because you were never allowed to comprehend it.There's a shallow love story with the requisite beautiful native (Cathy Tyson) and the second act gets a little better with Brent Jennings as Mozart, but the third act spirals into to ultra-horror cheese. Some scenes are so ridiculously bad they're laugh-out-loud funny. For instance, a classy white woman suddenly jumps on the dinner table radically attacking the anthropologist; a torture-chair moves across the room by itself on a couple occasions; someone's head falls off; a scorpion walks out of someone's mouth; something alien and diabolic comes out of someone else's mouth (or head); etc. On top of this, there are so many dream/hallucination sequences that they become tedious. These scenes were obviously included to up the ante with horror props and &#x96; hopefully &#x96; jolt the audience, but they utterly fail because, after a while, you suspect that what's going on isn't really happening and it's hard to be scared by illusions. Most of the time, they just make you laugh, like the (supposedly) creepy hand coming out of the soup (rolling my eyes). Don't get me wrong, scenes like these CAN work in horror films, but they have to be done right and in the right context, which isn't the case here, unfortunately.The only reason I'm not giving it an F is because of the positives noted above.The film runs 98 minutes and was shot in Haiti, the Dominican Republic and Boston.GRADE D "}{"Title":"The only real zombies caught between death and heaven.","Date":"27 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" When I first saw this film as a 12 year-old (what were my parents thinking?) I was unimpressed and recall thinking the movie was stupid. Now that I have done some research into the Vudu (the politically correct spelling) Tetrodotoxin zombies (and have begun to enjoy zombie theory in general), I appreciated this film much more.Though there are some cheeseball scenes (which I would expect in any Wes Craven film), I think this one was was intended to be taken serious, and some of these pre-CGI effects are done very well. The topic of real zombies has been an interesting subject since US armed forces veterans began bringing stories of the zombie powder Vudu traditions back from Haiti in the early part of the last century. Movies like White Zombie and several books detail the application of this medical condition into forced labor or worse.While Serpent and the Rainbow was entertaining, it's not likely that real zombie powder is standardized in such a way that it's efficacy will follow any reliable pattern, such as the Soap Opera-style rules described by the good doctor. i.e. total zero vital signs, a 12 hour effectiveness, etc. Additionally, this type of toxin will generally leave it's victim severely brain damaged, and most likely good-for-nothing. So, this film takes a bit of creative liberty, and a good imagination will help you enjoy it. Though it's nearly 20 years old, not much is dated (even most of the effects), and it's still a fun viewing now.Snag it on your DVR! "},{"Title":"Great movie and enjoyable for most","Date":"11 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Serpent and the Rainbow is one of the most underrated films of all time.**SPOILERS**In late 70s Haiti, a personal revolution sweeps the island. The voodoo priests on the island assume control and begin to practice their dangerous spells on the population. Dennis Alan, (Bill Pullman) a botanist working in the Amazon basin, is exploring the uses of a psychotic drug used there and has to crawl his way through the jungle to get back home. Once there, he is sent to investigate the discovery of a zombie in Haiti. Skeptical at first, David goes with the best of intentions to now how to reanimate the dead. When he arrives at the hospital that houses the rumored zombie, he is introduced to a powerful voodoo priest's ceremony. There he meets Lucien Celine, (Paul Winfield) a personal friend of Marielle Duchamp, (Cathy Tyson) one of the nurses. As he continues his relentless pursuit of the zombie drug, Dennis is immersed into the world of voodoo and ancient spells that goes way over his head. Tortured by what he knows and what he feels is going to happen to Marielle, David has to fight for his very soul amidst the powerful voodoo priests.The Good News This is one of the very few horror films ever made that treats it's subject matter as accurately as possible. It's true that all the depiction's and discussions about voodoo and its power are real. Those are real practitioners of voodoo performing on film, and how it happens in the film are real representations of how voodoo works. That adds to the realism to the film, because real-life horror is far scarier than anything else a human mind can come up with. To me, the world of voodoo is something that is beyond merely tampering with, and this film is a wonderful guiding principal for those who might be interested in it. Whatever the people in the film are doing to the regular characters to turn them into zombies are very powerful people, and the spells and potions used to control and create them are just as powerful. This gets so much better when he has been overwhelmed with the voodoo world, and everything comes crashing down on his world. The practice of making a zombie is fully explored, and the process is an incredibly creepy one. We get to know it in intricate detail, and the realness of it makes it that much more compelling. Once he knows the process of creating the drug, the movie kicks into hyper-drive as he is just relentlessly tortured by what he knows, and that it happens in a quick manner of time is staggering. What really gets to you is the dream sequences he keeps having. My favorite is the first one, early on in the film. He dreams he's inside this candlelit room and witnesses a wedding being performed. The bride wanders over to him with the veil down, and as she gets close to him, he lifts the veil to reveal the bride is a charred corpse. She pulls her mouth down, and out shoots it's tongue and latches onto his chin. One of my favorite scenes in the film, and one of the biggest scares in a movie as well. Another big one is the part where he's dissolved into a wall of blood, that was a creepy scene. It was also nice since the torture inflicted on him was more mental than physical. And what needs to be said for the heart-stopping climax? It is justifiably famous, and it is a true twist ending that hardly anyone will be able to spot coming, yet is completely in tone with the rest of the movie. It really is one of the best endings to a film ever.The Bad News Because of the supernatural and religious themes portrayed in the film are very accurate, it may upset the very religious persons out there. This is something that some may be put off against because it may clash with their faith.The Final Verdict I don't know why this one isn't more well known among horror fans, but this is one of Craven's best friends. It's very accurate about its subject matter, and that is so rare in today's movies. See this one at once, all Craven fans, supernatural and horror fans, but the overtly religious should exercise caution.Rated R Intricate details and discussions about occult themes, Violence, some Language, Nudity and a mild sex scene "},{"Title":"A remarkable horror film.","Date":"30 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  A Harvard anthropologist Dennis Allen is sent to Haiti to retrieve a strange powder that is said to have the power to bring human beings back from the dead.In his quest to find the miracle drug,our heroic scientist enters the rarely seen netherworld of walking corpses,blood rites and ancient curses.The Serpent and the Rainbow is actually one of the better horror films directed by Wes Craven.It's based on the true life experiences of Wade Davis and filmed on location in Haiti.The script is pretty good and there are some truly creepy moments.The cinematography is gorgeous and the score is excellent.So if you're a fan of Wes Craven's horror films give this one a look.It is certainly better than Deadly Friend,Shocker and Swamp Thing.7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Happy, Happy, Happy Island People","Date":"14 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Granted, the film adaptation of Wade Davis' mesmerizing 1985 book rates quite high on the Cheese Meter. And I could never quite buy Bill Pullman as a daredevil ethnobotanist--something about those clean-cut looks just don't jibe with dropping peyote and confronting Duvalier's secret police. But The Serpent and the Rainbow is noteworthy for two of the finest character performances in horror-movie history. As the Tonton Macoutes chief, Zakes Mokae radiates an evil that transcends the otherwise ordinary script. And Brent Jennings is superb as the wisecracking shaman--I could have watched an entire movie just about his character. Craven also does a fine job of evoking a fear-torn Haiti; the movie's opening shot, of Christophe's funeral, is among the director's most haunting moments. A B-movie, perhaps, but one that rises above the run-of-the-mill pabulum that populates most video-store shelves.  "},{"Title":"Guidelines for reviewing a horror movie.","Date":"29 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I do have to say if you are a Wes Craven fan this and Deadly Blessing are two overlooked gems that he did in the 80's although no where close to as good as Scream or Nightmare on Elm Street they both do have scenes that are effective in them.  I actually had a nightmare about the buried alive dream scene in this movie. One thing it seems like a lot of people forgot about horror movies is that they are not supposed to make you feel good about life as we know it, they are supposed to do one thing and one thing only and that's scare you. So did this movie scare me?  A couple of parts did.Was the movie good?  Who cares it already did its job.  "},{"Title":"Great underrated horror flick from Wes Craven.","Date":"27 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Dennis Alan ( Bill Pullman) is a Harvard anthropologist who just came back from the jungles of South America back to the United State has just been given an assignment to seek a formula in Haiti which has been said to bring the dead back to life and could be useful. As Alan is on the island, he falls for a female doctor ( Cathy Tyson) who's father is a voodoo priest and Hougan ( Paul Winfield) as he finds out what could the secret of re-animating the dead back to life could be but with some deadly results coming to Alan.Loosely based on a true story and on a book by Wade Davis, this is a strange effort from master horror maker Wes Craven on doing something different then the usual slasher flick but kind of a non-traditional zombie movie in the E.C. Comics tradition. The movie explores the secrets of voodoo and the myth behind bringing the dead back to life with elements of the classic zombie flicks like White Zombie to it, Pullman does great acting in this movie before he was the president in Independence Day and during the time he was Lonestarr in Spaceballs.The movie has some intense memorable moments like the cringe worthy I wanna make you scream sequence guaranteed to make a man flinch, OK make-up effects and there's also a good storyline to the movie. This is certainly one of the most different zombie movies then the usual George Romero material or the comical Return of the Living Dead stuff, it focuses on the zombies of island myths.Recommended if you want something different for a zombie flick.Also recommended Pet Semetery, Dead & Buried, The Return of the Living Dead, Undead, Shaun of the Dead, Return of the Living Dead 3, Dawn of the Dead ( 1978), Night of the Living Dead ( 1968), I Walked with a Zombie, White Zombie, The Skeleton Key, The Beliviers, Zombi 2 ( a.k.a. Zombie, Zombie Flesh Eaters), Day of the Dead, Land of the Dead, Dawn of the Dead ( 2004), Cemetery Man, An American Werewolf in London, Re-Animator, Bride of Re-Animator, Beyond Re-Animator, Ichi The Killer, The Crow, Hell of the Living Dead ( a.k.a. Night of the Zombies, Zombie Creeping Flesh), Children Shouldn't Play with Dead Things, Dead Heat ( 1988), Hellraiser, Hellbound Hellraiser II, Candyman, and Let Sleeping Corpses Lie. "},{"Title":"Ups and downs","Date":"12 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The Serpent and The Rainbow has many ups and downs, but unfortunately the bad parts of the movie outnumber the good parts. The theme of this movie from the very beginning is being buried alive. The movie is boring up until Dr. Allen starts dodging the cult leader. Dr. Allen is ambushed in the streets right after his friend is killed, he has the secret potion blown in his face, and stumbles on the streets whispering don't bury me, I'm not dead, truely creepy. The anticipation builds every second after that because of what the director has shown us what happens to those who have been given the potion, and we fear for Dr. Allen. The climax of this movie is the middle, which isn't a good thing at all, and that's when he is proclaimed dead by the doctors, and is sent to be buried in the graveyard, the same thing we've seen in the beginning of the story, but it hasn't touched a character we care about yet.The first half is boring and useless, it could have been cut down. The dream sequences were stupid and numerous. The middle was great, but quickly ruined by an end that might appear in the cheesiest action flick you have ever seen with idiotic one-liners, voodoo, and people flying across the room without dying.Most people will not like this, film buffs need to avoid, but the average horror fan should see this just for the shocking experience of being buried alive. "},{"Title":"They Don't Bleed And They Don't Burn","Date":"26 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"      An American anthropologist travels to Haiti in search of a magic drug which is used in reducing people to the zombie state.  Big financial backers in the USA want to exploit the commercial potential of this powerful anaesthetic.  Doctor Dennis Alan follows up some interesting leads, and soon finds himself immersed in the sinister world of voodoo...    This Wes Craven horror flick doesn't stand up to scrutiny.  Its central proposition is flawed - if voodoo practitioners merely anaesthetise their victims, then how do these people become psychologically enslaved?    But then the film is riddled with illogicalities.  Why would Mozart, the man with the secret powder, talk to Marielle and the bystanders in English?  How come the procession candles don't burn down overnight while the people sleep?  On what authority do the tontons macoute seize the body of a dead American?  And most tellingly, why would a Haitian, initiated into the secrets of voodoo, betray his religion so casually to a passing foreigner?    These problems are unlikely to trouble you if you swallow the film's fundamental tenets that Alan has a guardian jaguar spirit which brought him to safety when he was lost in the South American jungle, or that Haitian people are regularly buried alive for decades, then dug up as zombies.    The special effects are very good, and an oppressive mood of foreboding is skilfully maintained.  Psychological hallucinations are imaginatively portrayed by cinematographer John Lindley.  The grotto scene and the candlelit procession are particularly attractive.    However, the story is hopelessly far-fetched.  A lone American with no resources smashes a centuries-old black magic cult, and discovers the wonder-drug at the heart of voodoo ritual...  Yeah, right.   "},{"Title":"A not-so-typical zombie movie","Date":"17 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I have always said that zombie movies have an odd effect on me. No matter how cheesy, no matter how cliched, and no matter how much I might have hated them, there has not been any zombie movie out there that hasn't made me cringe. While Romero's Dead Trilogy is certainly the most chilling and the most captivating, other films in the genre have been very good competitors, such as Return of the Living Dead, Zombie, and Night of the Creeps. While The Serpent and the Rainbow seems promising enough to be among such entries in the genre, it fails due to reasons that could have easily been avoided.After setting up the scenes for a great start, it sinks into a series of pointless--and predictable-- scenes. Inspired by a true story, the film begins with a promising start. Bill Pullman plays a specialist traveling in Haiti who is out to discover an odd miracle powder for research. This powder is called the Zombie drug, because, according to the voodoo superstitions, it revives recent dead and makes the poor walking corpse do the voodoo master's bidding. Pullman not only falls in love with a local female doctor, but he also finds himself battling against this voodoo witch doctor and his odd powers in order to survive.The zombies in this are a strange group. They are not walking, unintelligent corpses as in earlier films who devour human flesh, but instead, more like human vegetables who can speak and remember things from their past life. This is because, we soon learn, they are not really dead, but subdued by this strange drug so that they appear to be dead in every way doctors can determine, and then, they are revived as human slaves with no will of their own than the will of their masters. This is not a conventional zombie movie, then....but the idea certainly works.But just as everything sets up to a great start, the film backfires into a series of endless scenes about nothing. Instead of focusing on the horror, veteran director Wes Craven focuses on the actual facts of the true story this is based on, and instead of terrifying, it is long and tedious. It is mostly nothing but talk, talk, talk We want to see more zombies and less pointless conversation....after all, one of the reasons previous zombie films work is because they don't take themselves seriously, as this film does. As a result, Serpent is almost a miss, and it is worth watching only to see Bill Pullman's excellent performance and the few gripping scenes featuring the bizzare zombiefication rituals.However, this film has one more redeeming quality as I have said, I haven't seen a zombie film that hasn't made me cringe, no matter how stupid I thought it was. Although I'm not sure why zombies have always terrified me, this film is certainly no exception. It made me grip with horror, and therefore, I feel it at least semi-succeeded in its purpose.**1/2 out of ***** "},{"Title":"Just OK","Date":"9 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  THE SERPENT AND THE RAINBOW is another one of those all time lows Wes Craven has in his film making career. Look at SHOCKER & DEADLY FRIEND and you'll know what I mean.  A somewhat original idea about Haitian voodoo and zombies, but becomes quite tiresome and boring throughout its running time. If you really like Wes Craven maybe you should check it out. 5/10 "}{"Title":"What a long strange trip it was.","Date":"20 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Saw this with several people. Was recommended. But this movie was really not my thing at all. To really get into a movie like Serpent and the rainbow, I think the subject matter just has to be interesting to people to enjoy this, but even then, I think many will have problems because it is simply to hard to follow and many parts don't make any sense.The movie both meanders along AND moves very quickly(if that makes sense at all), or that is how it seemed to me, not a lot is explained along the way. And though I really TRIED to like it, as it had been recommended to me, there were times it just bored me silly.(many times.) The movie moved way to slow and was quite dull in certain places. Half the time one does not know what's going on and the other half I just wanted to leave the theater for yet another trip to the popcorn area.I doubt I'd have enjoyed this even if it had moved faster but at least it may have been involving for a time. I really didn't enjoy this at all and would not rate it above a 3 or so.Wish I'd liked it a bit more but unfortunately this is the rare movie that my friends' recommended that did absolutely nothing for me. "},{"Title":"Really great movie !","Date":"16 October 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Great movie, why ? because in some horror scenes you really afraid. You can feel what is the claustrophobia, and you can learn what happens after you die from this movie. Also there are lots of voodoo stuff.Film is like a horror adventure game. Also nightmare and dream scenes are very good. This movie is like a surrealistic drawing. Torture, magic, horror  are all in this movie. Acting is also very well, I liked mostly the Titian zombies. Bill Pullman also do his job very well. I really liked this movie. I cannot take my eyes over it at horror scenes. Dialogs for the movie are written with intelligence.Finally the story of the movie isn't just a fiction. It contains realistic things. "},{"Title":"A Clever Expansion of the Horror Genre from a Master of Horror","Date":"5 March 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Haiti has had its fair share of international attention. Last year's earthquake united the world in support of the devastated country. Poverty lingers heavily upon the people and widespread humanitarian groups have tried to challenge the issue. But, unfortunately, Haiti is most notorious for the practice of Voodoo (the correct word is Vodou but I will use the more familiar spelling). Horror director Wes Craven explores that particular subject in his 1988 movie, The Serpent and the Rainbow. Although it contributes misconception to the practice of Voodoo, the film should be applauded for its graphic methods, scare tactics, and approach to anthropology and cultural practice. In 1985, Harvard ethnobotanist Dennis Alan (played by Bill Pullman) is given an assignment by a pharmaceutical company. His objective is to travel Haiti and gather information about a certain drug practiced in Voodoo rituals. The substance is said to induce a being into a deep sleep-like state for hours while all other signs indicate the person has died. Afterwards, the subject is buried underground for a given amount of time, exhumed, and resurrected. The practice has been referred to as zombification, the process of making zombies. Alan accepts the quest and teams up with psychiatrist Marielle Duchamp (played by Cathy Tyson) in Haiti. But the two are caught in the middle of a boiling revolution but that is the least of their worries. As a doubtful yet inquisitive man in an unsettling setting, Bill Pullman succeeds and rises above the usual expectations towards him. I have always felt that he underperforms his characters but remains likable almost all the time. But in The Serpent and the Rainbow, he shines a decent performance and narration while maintaining the sympathy from the viewers. Cathy Tyson carries out her role with firmness and a sprinkle of delicacy. She is an unorthodox damsel-in-distress who steadies a strong demeanor towards her oppressors until the final act. The main antagonist is Peytraud (played by Zakes Mokae). He is the callous captain of the secret police who is beneath contempt and intends to prevent anarchy through any viable methods at his disposal. If he wants you to scream, you better scream. What makes The Serpent and the Rainbow stand out is its study of an unfamiliar society. My mother visited Haiti in 1984 and she can testify how bleak life was under the rule of Baby Doc (she actually got a view of his yacht). As desolate as it may look, Haiti has a mystifying atmosphere filled with a certain kind of blackness. Dr. Alan senses the dark presence as he traverses the barren streets and tracks the ghastly cemeteries. I cannot help but notice that some of the interiors of the buildings look as if the Haitians were celebrating Halloween. The audience is allowed to become acquainted with the Haitian setting, customs, and culture as if they were on a tour. Meanwhile Wes Craven preps the macabre terror to spring when the time is right. Like A Nightmare on Elm Street, Craven contrives vivid, haunting dream sequences to break the boundary between reality and illusion. He crafts the scenes with a fine hand to ensure nobody can distinguish the two. The applied imagery is designed to trigger the most innate fears known to mankind. Drowning is horrifying but what if a person were to be placed in a coffin, only to be filled with blood? While there is a small amount of scare clichés including jump scares, the film provides mind- bending visuals, creepy make-up, and creative camera techniques to further intensify the confusion and torment in the audience. With clear direction and intention, The Serpent and the Rainbow proves that any subject including anthropology is palpable to horror. My Rating 9/10 "},{"Title":"The Serpent and the Rainbow Will Leave You Craven (Craving, get it?) More.","Date":"3 February 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Wes Craven's The Serpent and the Rainbow concerns a man's quest in retrieving a miracle drug containing life saving properties that has been developed exlusively in Haiti. The drug makes it appear as if the victim is dead, and when the body has been mistakingly buried, it rises shortly as some sort of zombie. Naturally, a greedy American company wants to capitalize on this, and all Hell breaks loose.Filmed on location in Haiti, Craven's film no doubt has ample atmosphere and authenticity. It also helps, too, that the Master of Horror's visual sense beautifully illustrates the nightmarish qualities it attempts to achieve. No doubt, on the visual front, The Serpent and the Rainbow is a success.Where it flounders, though, is in suspense and pacing. It doesn't help that the plot is a bit predictable, but what really hurts the film is how long-winded it is and how slowly it crawls to reach its point. Degrading in what can only be described as a typical Craven ending, the film never pays off all it builds up to, resulting in a wholly underwhelming experience.Bill Pullman plays Bill Pullman as he does in virtually every other film he is in, while Cathy Tyson plays the beautiful and intriguing love interest. Zakes Mokae plays the toxic villain well, but ultimately, the characters are lost in a mushy script that leaves no cliché unexplored. While Wes Craven has certainly made worse films (Vampire in Brooklyn, anyone?) this stands as a significant miss because of how much potential it has. Fans will appreciate Craven's signature style bleeding through, and the film successfully plants you in its main location, but the film can't help but crumble under its own weight. "},{"Title":"I Want to Hear You Scream...","Date":"5 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Serpent and the Rainbow is one of the Wes Craven's best pictures. It is also the only movie he directed that was like this. When I say that, I mean it is a movie that doesn't involve a bunch of teenagers getting killed or stalked. This film truly shows that Craven is a great director and it also shows that he can direct something that isn't standard for the genre. This is a very original film that should have a much better DVD release.The storyline stars Bill Pullman playing Dr. Allen whom is an anthropologist. He is sent to Haiti to discover why a man has been seen alive who is suppose to be dead. What he discovers is unsettling and very unwelcome.That is an extremely toned down description of the movie. There are many elements that you will have to discover for yourself, if you haven't seen the film. Bill Pullman pulls out a great performance as Dr. Allen. I noticed in the trivia section it said that the author of the book wanted to have Mel Gibson cast as the lead but I can't see anyone else playing this role other then Pullman. Kakes Mokae gives a great performance as Dargent Peytraud, the villain of the movie, and probably one of the greatest villains to shine on the silver screen. He and Pullman have a particularly disturbing scene that involves a giant nail and poor Bill Pullman's family jewels. When you hear Mokae say I Want to hear you scream you know it's coming up.Of course, what would a movie be without Craven's nightmare sequences. There are many incredibly creepy dream sequences in the movie that might just be the most memorably moments. Dreams of being buried alive and the such.Well, if you haven't seen this film this should be high on your list of films to see. Great intense acting with a genuinely creepy storyline. 9/10 "},{"Title":"A mixed bag, though definitely one of Craven's better films","Date":"30 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A Harvard anthropologist Dennis Allen is sent to Haiti to look for a dead man that's apparently alive and retrieve an unknown powder created by Voodoo priests. The powder is said to bring back humans from the dead, but those who had brought them back control their souls. Though Allen hopes to use the drug for the good of the medicine world and in trying to find this drug he becomes caught up in this voodoo magic and blood rites.The set-up for this film is quite original and an inventive look into the macabre underworld by director Wes Craven (Nightmare on Elm street, The Hills have eyes). It came across as dreamlike and quite a spooky experience where nothing is quite what it seems.It has superb cinematography and location setting in Haiti. Truly inquisitive is the lush rain forest and beach scenery, he captures the poverty of the rundown village and a downright eerie graveyard. While, the impressive music score captures the essence of the film, with it having a tremendously good impact on the chilling atmosphere and the swirling mood.The special effects stood out and the make-up of the zombies was so vivid in detail and unnerving. Also add some nasty moments of violence, with splashes of blood and gore. Though, there is some implied violence also. This is a film that uses shocks more than anything, which it does so quite effectively and it has visually great dream sequences that are uneasy to view and fairly haunting. Those psychological dream sequences are definitely the showpieces of the film.The story which is based on a true-life experience, is a frighting look into the nightmare world of black magic. The voodoo and zombie elements discussed isn't entirely easy to follow, but because of that it gives the ambiguity some sort of mystique. As if your caught up in the commotion and uneasiness that Pullman's character is feeling. The stimulating script and idea's thrown up are engaging enough, but still quite flawed. The story of Haiti might be politically incorrect, I wouldn't know- but you can tell that Craven was going more for entertainment valve than correctness.Like some fellow's users have typed, the ending is a let down and quite dumb-down from the rest of the movie. It just seemed out of place, with a happy ever after ending tact on that disappointed me. Just like his other film ''The People under the stairs''. The ending just came across rushed and quite disjointed from the overall mood of the film.The performances are perfect, Bill Pullman suit's the role as the sceptical Dennis Alan that becomes more entrenched in the deadly world of voodoo. Cathy Tyson plays the local guide Marielle Duchamp. Zakes Mokae as the horrendous police chief/black magician Dargent Peytraud and Paul Winfield as a powerful figure in politics and voodoo Lucien Celine, he also runs a tourist night club and helps out Alan and Marielle.The pace and direction has its fair share of slow and tedious moments, but the material of the film is fairly interesting and visual wise is another key factor that just keeps you glued. It could have been far more darker and more psychological based than it was, but it's nothing more than commercial film that goes for shocks and then action for it's last half an hour that doesn't entirely gel. Though, most of Craven's horror films of the last two decades stick to that standard horror mould.Overall, this film is definitely worth a look for horror fans. "},{"Title":"To be viewed differently","Date":"13 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Ok, so I've been scanning the comments, and it seems that most of you have missed the point.  First, the 'true story' that this film is based on is the story of Wade Davis, who traveled to Haiti much like Bill Pullman in this film, and found the secret formula for making zombies.  Fine.Almost everything in the film that veers from these facts is a fabrication, created by the writers to spice up the story and turn it into more than a PBS documentary.  The reviewer who found the idea that the Haitians would reveal their secrets to a foreigner incredulous is attacking one of the few true events in the film.  A zombie becomes a slave on account of shock and cultural conditioning, this is true. What the screenwriters have done here is take the initial premise, Harvard doctor goes to Haiti and discovers Voodoo secrets, and expand upon it, taking up the metaphysics of Voodoo and turning them into a metaphor for the political climate of the time.  Ruthless dictator enslaves the souls of his people, those who would wish to counter him.  That's what this film is about. Although the ending is relatively cheesey, and I'm not too fond of Bill Pullman, the film does a nice job of presenting itself.If anything, it gets a 7/10 for effort and imagination.  "},{"Title":"A Different sort of horror film","Date":"13 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I originally saw this film many years ago, and remember thinking of it as a sort of  intelligent horror film and being somewhat surreal.I guess those impressions are still accurate. It does indeed provoke more thought than  the average horror film (but then so do most movies), and it does have some truly great  surreal imagery.The fact that it purports to be based on a true story, should go without comment. While  I've never read Wade Davis' book, I'm betting it bears little in common with this movie.What we have here, ultimately is a dated horror film, that is probably not as thought  provoking as it once seemed (the works of Ken Russel and David Cronenberg have since  seen much more widespread exposure, and have plumbed such depths to greater effect)  nor as surrealistic (again others, most notably David Lynch, have far exceeded this), but  nevertheless, sometimes eerily effective.It's most notable elements indeed are not those of horror imagery, nor certainly not the  paper thin plot that manages to stutter along, but in the bits of history - the search for  the truth behind zombies and the repressive regime that was the Duvalier government -  which I kept wishing were more integrated into the overall conflict.Still, it remains along with 'White Zombie', among the best films dealing with the subject  of Voodoo. Definitely worth a look. "},{"Title":"A darn fine thriller","Date":"26 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I just watched The Serpent and the Rainbow for the first time in many years. Wow! What a film. I was pleasantly surprised at the rapid pace of the film, and a great performance by Mr. Pullman as Dr. Alan. This movie is filled with bizarre and truly frightening situations and all is augmented by a terrific musical score. Yes, OK. There is a bit of an oh, come ON feel to the last 15 minutes or so of the film, but it wasn't enough to destroy the work that was so well done up to that point. I will probably end up finding flaws which will end up in the GOOFS section of this film but still and all this is a darn fine thriller worth a couple bucks for a rent or a few more for a purchase. "},{"Title":"Maybe it was based on some OTHER book...","Date":"8 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  We rented the movie on a lark.  It wasn't bad.  It wasn't great, but it wasn't bad.  There were many many many plot holes.Curious, we found the book in our favorite off the wall bookseller's. Highly recommend reading it BEFORE you see the movie.  It makes the movie that much funnier....Oh, and Guys, close your eyes when he goes to the police station.  You won't like it. "}{"Title":"I hated this movie with a passion even more so considering what it could have been.","Date":"24 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Wes Craven really is kind of a hit or miss director. He made The Serpent and the Rainbow in 1988 at an interesting time of his career after having some success with Nightmare on Elm Street but after the disaster of Deadly Friend. The Serpent and the Rainbow has a few interesting ideas but Craven never really develops them very well. This is really a big miss film from Craven.Dennis Alan (Bill Pullman ) a researcher out of Harvard goes to Haiti to tackle the mystery of a zombie legend and also a type of drug that might be connected. There is also a voodoo theme as the drug is used in Haitian voodoo rituals.You really to have to question what Craven was doing with this film. He starts with what seems like an interesting plot and the really lets it sink. The plot really goes everywhere and is very hard to follow. There is also a love story that is very shallow as well as dream scenes that never seem to end. By act 3, you expect that it can't get much worse but you would be wrong. It also has an ending that has you saying What am I even watching? Frankly, this is a movie where in the end, you don't even know what you just watched.Interestingly, this was Bill Pullman's second film ever and before he had his big roles. Actually, he plays his role very well and the character is smart, has a heart and is easy to root for. Pullman makes this movie somewhat bearable along with some rather different zombies.I think this is a case where Craven basically had a couple of random ideas and put them together and called it a film. I hated this movie with a passion even more so considering what it could have been. "},{"Title":"The power of voodoo. Who do? You do.","Date":"22 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Ever since George Romero's horror classic Night of the Living Dead, the word zombie has been synonymous with the image of a shambling reanimated corpse with a hunger for human flesh (or braaainnnsss!); few films have delved into the real phenomenon of the Haitian voodoo zombie, making Wes Craven's The Serpent and The Rainbow an all the more unusual and engrossing film.Set in Haiti during the oppressive regime of Baby Doc Duvalier, the film sees Captain Peytraud (Zakes Mokae) of the Tonton Macoute (the island's secret police) using voodoo practises to control political radicals; through the inhalation of a special powder, his enemies are reduced to a state of living death, only to awaken hours later to find themselves buried alive.When anthropologist Dennis Alan (Bill Pullman) is hired to locate a sample of the powder, which might prove useful as an anaesthetic, he finds himself immersed in a world of bizarre rituals, horrific hallucinations, and very real terror at the hands of Peytraud, who will do anything to protect the secret of his power.Craven clearly has a very real interest in his subject matter and his eye for detail when recording the bizarre rituals and voodoo practises of Haiti give his film an almost documentary feel at times; at the same time, he doesn't miss an opportunity to exercise his more creative muscles, the film boasting several of his impressive trademark nightmare sequences. This combination of the factual and the fantastical is brilliantly handled by the director, giving the whole affair a very real yet extremely unsettling atmosphere. Sadly, the film does succumb to a glut of Hollywood style effects for its final reel, but for the most part, this is an intelligent, daring, unique, and most importantly, scary effort from one of the genre's true masters. "},{"Title":"A stunning trip in the roots of Voodoo","Date":"14 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Wes Craven succeeds here, making the zombie myth come to life. A very entertaining, but also a kind of cultural study of voodoo, the Serpent and the Rainbow is a very serious attempt on the field of horror. Recommended specially for those who think horror movies can't be made realistic yet scary and thought provoking. 8 out of 10. Terrific job thoroughly. "},{"Title":"it was ok","Date":"26 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  When I first heard of this movie I thought wow it sounds really good.I watched it and I was really let down. The only part I really liked was the ending. But one thing about the movie was that it was creppy. I still like the movie. It had some good stuff in it. I wont say what though. You'll have to watch it for yourself. The acting was good. The f/x was cool too. Even though I was sort of disappointed about the movie I do recommend this movie to anyone who likes a good scary movie and likes Wes Craven's work.  "},{"Title":"Very confusing and sadistic","Date":"9 June 2012","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Anthropologist Dennis Alan (Bill Pullman) goes to Haiti to find how supposedly dead people are coming back to life as zombies. A doctor (Cicely Tyson) there tries to help him. He soon finds out he's in over his head and his life is in danger.VERY confusing and unsatisfying horror movie from Wes Craven. For starters it goes all over the place. The movie does not move smoothly--it leaps around. Half the time I didn't have a clue about what was going on--or why! Pullman's character is also extremely dumb. It's made VERY clear that his life is in danger early on and he never does the reasonable thing (i.e. leave) but stays on. Also his character goes through utter hell in this movie. SPOILERS! He's beaten up, tortured, buried alive and (in a truly unnecessary moment) has a spike driven through his scrotum! END SPOILERS! It's not dramatic or scary just sick. There's also far too many dream sequences or hallucinations that lead to nothing but are added just to give the audience a sudden jolt. The only bright spots in this mess were good performances by Pullman and Tyson--but they're great actors who deserve better. I guess Craven was trying something different with this movie (it was inspired by a true story and book) but he doesn't pull it off. A 3 all the way. "},{"Title":"Entertaining and frightening enough.","Date":"18 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  At times genuinely frightening thriller, full of hallucinatory andimaginative visuals, strongly supported by good performances, a fine sense  of place and an original, intriguing, thought-provoking script. It suffers only from a rather weak - and protracted - finale. (**1/2) "},{"Title":"Great tag line, but overall not all that good of a horror movie.","Date":"31 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Bill Pullman is good in this sort of horror movie and it has its interesting moments as Pullman's character tries to track down the various mysterious presented to him. However, other than the dream sequences that are mostly confined to the beginnings of the movie this movie does not offer up that many scares. Well, it does feature a rather good buried alive scenario, but after that the movie's conclusion is rather weak and almost out of place. I did not care for the whole getting your soul back plot point. Still, it is interesting enough to watch once and only once on my part. However, the dream sequences were the best part for me, to many other scenes simply made this movie seem to drag and become overlong. You will get to see a voodoo movie and sort of zombies, but not the type you will find in a George Romero undead flick and you will see a rather dumb lion scene near the end so I say give it a look it may be a movie more in the lines of what you like than I like. "},{"Title":"Trash","Date":"1 September 2002","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I thought this movie was trash. It was gross, confusing, had way too many mixed messages and definitely slanders and exploits Haiti and Haitians. In fact, scanning through all the comments here, I find it surprising nobody says anything about this, as it seems obvious that the entire setting of this movie is paint in very broad strokes. As the for the horror elements, a few of them were scary but the more things happens, the more it was just laughable, like that zombie bride coming to get the scentist and that hand coming out of the soup. Yuck. "},{"Title":"Not for the faint of heart or weak of mind","Date":"19 May 2000","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is a wonderfully creepy movie.  Ignore the comments to the contrary by the unenlightened this is one of WC's and the genre's best.  I challenge you to find another 12 year old flick in this genre more original and as far removed from run of the mill.  The tagline on this baby should not be don't bury me, I'm not dead - agh - that's really sad.  Try Check out the tongue on that chick! and the user comment Just OK - puhleez!  I don't know what planet you invaded FROM, but you're welcome to phone home & fly away at any time.  No folks, friends and gentlefellows of fright this movie should not be so poorly represented..  ignore the commentary, rent the vid and make your own decision.  I think you'll find as I and many others have that this will become and remain a cherished favorite.  In My (rarely) Humble Opinion (IMrHO). "},{"Title":"don't think to see a real Wes horror","Date":"21 March 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Flicks about voodoo aren't really my thing but this one got my attention due the director, Wes Craven. This came in a period were he just finished Twilight Zone and as I said so many times horror wasn't the big thing. It isn't really a typical Wes horror, don't think that you will see A Nightmare On Elm Street. It's about an anthropologist (Bill Pullman) going to Haiti to do some research on a drug used to turn people into zombies. It starts rather slowly and you really must dig the black magic of Haiti to understand it a bit because some effects are rather a bit weird like chairs moving or nails flying through the air. For a Wes flick it's low on red stuff but it do has some fine moments. It really goes deep into the black magic stuff and especially the powder used to make zombies from humans. It do has a decapitation and someone tearing out his own head. But it never is gory. Maybe this flick is a bit underrated due the year it came out and the subject it's all about. It didn't had my full attention but still you want to know what is going to happen. If you can stand the first 25 minutes then you will enjoy the rest too. There's a bit of history about Jean-Claude Duvalier, nicknamed Bébé Doc or Baby Doc involved. Still for some effects worth watching.Gore 2/5 Nudity 0,5/5 Effects 3/5 Story 3/5 Comedy 0/5 "}{"Title":"In for a horror trip to Haiti?","Date":"29 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Dr. Dennis Alan from Harvard University travels to Haiti to find proof about the existence of voodoo and zombies. He befriends a Haitian Doctor, Marielle, and eventually becomes involved into the dark secrets of voodoo and the walking dead. Of course, he soon is in mortal danger.This is one of the very few horror films that try to deal with the subject seriously, rather sticking to facts and whitnesses than displaying gut-munching undead zombie creatures. Interesting work from director Wes Craven and also recommended for those who like their zombie films &#136; la George A. Romero or Lucio Fulci, for a different view on the subject. "},{"Title":"Outdated by now, but still creepy","Date":"21 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Saw it the first time in 1998, and saw it again yesterday (4 years later) and still I think it's quite a good movie. The other comment said it tends to get boring, but I disagree. Ok, maybe the end is kinda weak, but there are some great scenes in it, like most of the dreams f.i. I think they're quite some creepy parts in it. Also, good work on the camera when Dr. Allan gets zombiefied... Don't skip this movie when you wanna rent a special kinda thriller. "},{"Title":"When you get down to it, this is a middling film, which means it's one of Wes Craven's better works!","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  ** out of ****Hmm, I believe Wes Craven may be the Michael Caine of film directors, which basically means that no other acclaimed filmmaker has made as many bad movies as Craven, which leads you to wonder if he actually is a good director at all(Seven of his theatrically released movies have an average IMDB vote below 5 and are quite deserving of it).  From what I can recall, the only movie of his that I truly liked was The People Under the Stairs and it's been awhile since I've seen that one, so it might not be as good as I remember it to be.  I'm still at a loss as to how he has so many fans, and considering the fact that he's still churning out Scream films (getting worse as they move along) only serves to make him look worse (Carpenter, Romero, and Raimi have gotten over their own respective horror series a long time ago; the latter two also realized that each new film in a series works better when you try something new, rather than just regurgitating the previous material as Craven has done).  Thus, it's with some respect that I say that The Serpent and the Rainbow is actually not bad at all.  The movie's got some great imagery, some good shocking scenes, fine performances, and actually solid direction from Craven (mostly when it comes to a visual sense) so why is it I only consider it so-so?  What went wrong?  The story, while intriguing, is surprisingly unengaging and the movie simply feels a little too padded at times.  The movie's generally watchable with a couple of spooky moments, but it's not enough to sustain the entire running time and the movie as a whole feels rather inconsistent.The plot is about a man named Dennis Alan (Bill Pullman), an anthropologist studying a certain powder down in Haiti.  His assignment is to get a sample of this powder, which harnesses the ability to actually a zombify a person, make them appear dead.  Believing this could be useful for medical science, he searches for the powder's origin.  With the help of a beautiful local doctor (Cathy Tyson), Alan tries to find out what's going on behind the zombifications and meanwhile incurs the wrath of a deadly voodoo priest.   When it comes to stylish visuals, Craven does a very good job at the helm.  For every scene, he creates this eerie feeling of something unpleasant lurking around the corner.  He usually pays it off rather weakly here, but I suppose he thinks the set-up is the best part (and who knows, maybe it is).  There are some very good individual moments in the film, such as the dream sequences, which feature the creepy dessicated corpse of a bride who constantly haunts Pullman throughout the movie.Of course, the scenes that seem to have the most startling effect for viewers are probably that torture room sequence and when we actually see one of the characters get buried alive.  There are even other more casual scenes that have this eerie feel to it, such as the sex scene between Pullman and Tyson (okay, maybe that's not casual, but you get the point).  It's a lot creepier than it is erotic, and you almost get the feeling something strange is going to happen any minute.  Angel Heart, this sex scene is not; it's actually more unnerving.  Another good example of a seemingly casual scene is when Pullman is suddenly attacked by a possessed woman at a dinner party; this is a very well-handled scene.The locations are great and it's good to see Craven wisely take advantage of the mysterious Haitian setting.  The performances are all quite good, which makes it a change of pace whenever there's a well-acted horror movie around.  Bill Pullman is his usual charismatic self and Cathy Tyson makes for a good partner, even if she is underused in the last half-hour.Brad Fiedel's musical score is another fine plus.  It's among his best work to date.  Like the film's look it's stylish, atmoshperic, and eerie.  It does a fairly good job of maintaining some interest during the really slow moments.Yet, despite all this, the movie's pacing is often a slow crawl, and it's never always interesting.  Because of the locales, there were even times I felt like I was watching a nature documentary, and while it's a bit nice to see these scenes, it's incredibly distracting and interrupts any gained momentum.  Along with this, I have some problems with the characters, who are not very well-developed and neither are their motivations made clear.I like the fact the movie mixes science into its ideas.  I also like the fact that it puts voodoo into the mixture.  What I don't like is its serious abandoment of credibility in the finale (minor spoiler here), which features a cheesy-looking showdown that pits men who actually...well, throw each other around.  It's embarrassing to watch, really, and almost a little funny.  It doesn't help that one of the characters has a burned face, but looks more like he's wearing oatmeal.I also do not like the voice-over narration, which further gives the movie a distracting documentary feeling when it all works better as pure fiction.  Believe me, the things Pullman say can be easily deciphered or outright stated in a different manner.  I do not like Pullman and Tyson's constant conflicts with the Haitian government, which also distract from the film's main plot, and I most certainly did not like the voodoo priest (Zakes Mokae) as a villian, since he's hardly frightening; the bride corpse is three times scarier.  It's all of these things that put The Serpent and The Rainbow down to middling quality.  It's not particularly very good, but it's a masterpiece when you place it next to the likes of Last House on the Left and Vampire in Brooklyn. "},{"Title":"A thinking person's horror movie","Date":"15 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The Serpent and the Rainbow is one of the most thought provking movies I can recall seeing as a child. The film which is based on fact is about voodoo and some other crazy s***. Wes Craven contiuned to show he had talent with this one. "},{"Title":"Pretty damn creepy!","Date":"27 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Although some may say that The Serpent and the Rainbow is one of Wes Craven's worst movies, I beg to differ.  This movie is damn scary, and what makes it scary is the simple fact that it is a true story.  Enough said. "},{"Title":"Disappointing considering what it could have been, but not bad","Date":"21 June 2005","Score":"6 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" When seeing a Wes Craven film, you can never really be sure of what to expect. You might be in for a great ride, if you're watching the likes of The Last House of the Left or The Hills Have Eyes, but then again you may be in for a big disappointment; as in the case of The People Under the Stairs and the absolutely awful Scream sequels. The man's filmography is a mixed bag, and this film; The Serpent and the Rainbow, despite having an awesome title and good subject material (zombies, voodoo, being buried alive), still ranks as a disappointment. That's not to say that the film is bad, however - not by a long shot. It's just disappointing considering how good it could have been. Some of the Edgar Allen Poe adoptions from the sixties, among other horror films, have shown what an interesting topic being buried alive - a fate far worse than death - can be; but this film seems content to just coast along without ever really delving into it's subject. There's lots of interesting sequences and imagery in the movie, but none of it is done with conviction, which means that the movie is good enough while viewing; but it doesn't leave you with anything when it's over.Bill Pullman has a persona that lends itself well to the horror genre and on the whole, it's a shame that the majority of the work he's done in said genre isn't really up to much. He does do well here, though, but it's a shame his material isn't better. Cathy Tyson, who impressed everyone but me in Neil Jordan's Mona Lisa, appears alongside Pullman and doesn't do badly; but I think her filmography aptly sums up her acting talent on the whole. Wes Craven's directing isn't bad, but it never really impresses and since he didn't write the script either, it's safe to say that any of the success of this film doesn't really have much to do with him. The jungle setting is nice, and makes for a nice change as there aren't too many horror films set there; and the film also impresses in the special effects side, as although the movie doesn't go over the top with great effects, the ones it does have are put to good use and it helps to create and intriguing and foreboding atmosphere. On the whole, this isn't fundamental horror viewing, but if you're into horror films and get a chance to see this - it's worth watching. "},{"Title":"In Haiti there are secrets we keep even from ourselves. OK but a bit muddled.","Date":"15 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Serpent and the Rainbow starts in 'Haiti 1978' where a local named Christophe Duran (Conrad Roberts) is pronounced dead & is buried... Jump to the 'Amazon Basin 1985' where anthropologist Dennis Alan (Bill Pullman) is on a botanical expedition when a tribal Shaman (Evencio Mosquera Slaco) gives him some sort of potion to drink which gives Dennis strange hallucinations, once it's worn off he wants to leave but his helicopter pilot Julio (Jaime Pina Gautier) has been killed. Dennis manages to walk(!) back to civilisation. Now jump to 'Boston' where his friend Earl Schoonbacher (Michael Gough) introduces Dennis to Andrew Cassedy (Paul Guilfoyle) the head of 'Biocorp' a large pharmaceutical company who shows Dennis the death certificate of Christophe dated 1978 & then shows him a picture of Christophe taken recently, he ask's Dennis to go to Haiti & discover the secret of Voodoo rituals that can turn people into zombies. Once there Dennis meets Dr. Marielle Duchamp (Cathy Tyson) who supplied the initial information about Christophe, as Dennis investigates the claims of zombification & gets closer to discovering the truth he attracts the unwanted attention of the head of the Haiti secret police Dargent Peytraud (Zakes Mokae) a man you most definitely don't want to mess with...Directed by Wes Craven I thought The Serpent and the Rainbow (great title for a horror film although I have no idea what it means or refers to) was an OK film but ultimately lacking something. The script by Richard Maxwell & Adam Rodman is based on the novel by Wade Davis & tires hard but didn't quite work for me on a few levels. Firstly if Louis Mozart (Brent Jennings) knew how to create a drug which turned people into zombies why didn't he sell it before Dennis showed up since all he seems interested in is money? Why would a huge pharmaceutical company send one lone man out to Haiti without any help to investigate a drug that could be worth millions & save thousands of lives? Why did Peytraud need to create zombies? To scare the locals? I'd imagine him hammering metal spikes through peoples knobs would be far more effective a scare tactic than re-animating a corpse to just aimlessly walk around, it scares me just thinking about that scene! What's with the opening in the Amazon? I just don't get that bit or it's relevance & who killed his pilot? The novel concerns re-animating the dead with a Voodoo potion & therefore has no central villain so Craven had to make one in the shape of Peytraud who feels like an afterthought & Craven couldn't resist the clichéd climactic fight between the villain & hero, has little motive to do what he does & why didn't he kill Dennis when he had the chance? If he can possess that woman to kill Dennis why couldn't he just possess Dennis & make him commit suicide or something? Having said all that the basic story is interesting, watchable, moves along at a nice pace, is something a bit different & is a decent way to spend 100 odd minutes if you don't think about it too much.Director Craven does a professional job, the Haitian location look great & make a nice change. He tries to say things about Haitian culture, Voodoo & Haiti's corrupt dictatorial & brutal secret police. That torture scene is harsh, does this sort of thing actually happen in Haiti? He directs with style & there is a fantastically creepy & nasty moment when Dennis is buried alive with a huge spider & it crawls over his face as the dirt is shovel on his coffin only illuminated by a cross in the coffin lid. Most of the horror scenes take the form of dreams & hallucinations. There isn't much gore, a decapitated head, a dead pig, a cock fight, someone coughing up some blood, a few rotten zombies & that's about it. The torture scene messes with your head but it's not graphic.With a supposed budget of about $7,000,000 The Serpent and the Rainbow is well made with nice location shooting, good production values & has that Hollywood polish to it. The acting is pretty good although Tyson seems to have less & less to do as the film progresses except just stand in the background, Mokae makes for a good villain.The Serpent and the Rainbow is a decent horror film when all said & done but there were a few problems with the story that stops it from being brilliant. Definitely worth a watch & that torture scene really is harsh if your a bloke. "},{"Title":"The Serpent And The Rainbow (Wes Craven, 1988) **1/2","Date":"22 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I had intended to watch this one after I WALKED WITH A ZOMBIE (1943), given its similar voodoo backdrop; however, I could only manage to follow THE GHOST SHIP (1943) with it - and that's because the latter doesn't have an accompanying Audio Commentary on Warners' DVD edition!It's an intriguing film with some very striking imagery - particularly during the numerous hallucinations which afflict lead Bill Pullman (the most incredible was the snake darting out of a corpse's mouth!) - but which is rather too unpleasant in detail to be easily enjoyed. The cast also highlights Cathy Tyson (star of MONA LISA 1986) as the Haitian doctor who helps - and falls for - Pullman, Paul Winfield as a local mystic, the always welcome Michael Gough (as Pullman's boss back in the U.S. - who ends up witnessing, with the former, a rather effective dinner-table possession by the wife of their mutual employer!), Brent Jennings (as a specialized drug dealer) and, particularly, Zakes Mokae as the truly evil figure of authority who crushes down all opposition with brutal methods (but also resorting to the supernatural if this proves especially persistent!).Still, the zombies here end up being something of a cheat - but, given the film's supposed basis in reality, I guess that's understandable. Then again, there's an effects-laden climax (including an amusing bit in which the Paul Winfield character tears off his own head and throws it at Pullman!) which is not a little far-fetched; the utterly convincing location work does, however, bring to life the dire political situation of Haiti at the time. Unfortunately, footage of cockfighting was censored for the U.K. version - and, in fact, there are no such scenes in the Region 2 DVD I watched! Apparently, Wade Davis (the author of the book on which the film was based) had higher aspirations for his story, as his ideal choice of director was Peter Weir - with Mel Gibson as the star!! This is surely among the best (of the admittedly little I've watched) of Craven's work; however, I'll be making amends with another title I rented - THE PEOPLE UNDER THE STAIRS (1991) - and should be receiving the R1 2-Disc Set of THE HILLS HAVE EYES (1977; purchased as part of a Halloween Horror Sale at Deep Discount DVD) in the coming weeks... "},{"Title":"Love the scenery&#133;and the make-up!","Date":"15 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Bill Pullman plays a Harvard anthropologist who's sent to Haiti in order to investigate the process of `zombification'. Haitian voodoo-priests and sorcerers have developed a method to bring the dead back to live again and have control over their souls. The `civilized' medicine world is interested in this method to use it as some sort of tranquillizers before operating on patients. It doesn't take long before Pullman gets caught in a web of voodoo-spells and curses&#133;.  I'm not a giant fan of director Wes Craven. The Serpent and the Rainbow surely is the most original and ambitious film of his career, but I feel like he lacks a little talent to make a memorable movie out of it. The script is often confusing and difficult to follow while Craven's usual style is simple and only meant to shock and entertain. Nonetheless, this film surpasses the average 80's horror level thanks to its inspired locations and often-gruesome make-up effects. The dark, mysterious Haitian graveyards at night look very spooky and Craven's zombies are quite terrifying. The topics of Voodoo and the living dead form a good plot outline for a compelling horror tale, but I would have preferred another director for this. Bill Pullman is a good lead and he gets excellent feedback from the often-overlooked actor Paul Winfield. While browsing through this site, I learned that Winfield sadly past away very recently on the 7th of March&#133;May he rest in peace and hopefully the voodoo priests will leave his soul at ease.   "}]