[{"Title":"Excellent, superb film - in its genre","Date":"15 March 1999","Score":"23 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I absolutely love this movie.  It certainly was created for gay men, but as a lesbian, I feel a kinship with other gay people, and I believe this is an excellent movie.  The depiction of female impersonators is genuine, and doesn't give the false glamourpuss view that probably causes many outsiders to think all drag queens are just like RuPaul (nothing against her, she's a diva, but not everyone has so much money!).  The portrayal of a relationship involving one gay person and one bisexual person is also beautifully realistic.  Ann Bancroft's performance as the Ma is stunning.  I believe this movie would also appeal to open-minded heterosexuals who may not have too much involvement with our culture, as it depicts a grittier side of life than the commonly-seen rich gay boy lifestyle.  (Movie viewers with an eye toward the cinematography of films will also enjoy the artistry presented here.) "},{"Title":"Powerful, Touching, Emotional, A Must See","Date":"10 March 1999","Score":"24 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Harvey Fierstein, Anne Bancroft, Matthew Broderick and Brian Kerwin combine in a bitter-sweet comedy-drama set in the 1970's, concluding in 1980. The Trilogy is a collection of 3 specific pieces blended together telling the saga of Arnold Beckoff (Fierstein). The story revolves around love, relationships and family - something everyone can relate to. It was a movie before its time when it premiered in 1988. It is straight-forward and to the point. It will make you laugh and cry and understand the true meaning of love and respect. Harvey Fierstein & Anne Bancroft (Arnold's Mother) are outstanding in their roles!  A must see for anyone trying to understand the complexity of love, with themselves, significant others and their family.  A well-done adaption to the screen from theatre. Add this video to your collection!  I love you...enough. "},{"Title":"Preaching to the Converted, but How Sweet it Is","Date":"20 September 1998","Score":"23 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  TST is like Harvey Fierstein himself  you love it or you loathe it; I love it.  Preachy and heavy-handed as Torch is at times, it's also a brilliant, hilarious, and truly heartfelt look at how gay men love each other and their families.  Arnold Beckoff, like Harvey, apologizes to no one for who and what he his, and his pride is infectious.  And Matthew Broderick, as Arnold's model lover, has never been more appealing. "},{"Title":"I knew there was a reason I bought this title...","Date":"17 March 2001","Score":"25 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I watched this movie (about 9 years ago -- in secret no less, while my parents were away) as a budding young gay man.  I didn't quite catch much of the humor then, but something has compelled me to pick the title off the shelf once more.  This is a truly outstanding movie; the characters are wonderful -- they will make you shed a tear or two or otherwise double over in laughter.  I won't bore you with the plot synopsis or *my* take on it, just see it.  It's truly one terrific film.Sidebar It just hit me this time around that I am the reincarnation of Arnold Beckoff...and I'm not even Jewish!  Oi!  =) "},{"Title":"Wonderfully deep","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"17 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is very deep and superbly acted.  It requires a viewer with a heart, but once you got that working you will surely fall into this touching drama.  What is most appealing about this film is its realism and the fact that scenes of heartfelt drama are followed by light hearted humour, leading one easily through this well designed  "},{"Title":"*THE* quintessential gay film","Date":"29 January 1999","Score":"15 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is, undoubtedly, *the* quintessential gay film.If you even claim to know gay people you should see this film. I used to help run a youth group for under 25s dealing with their sexuality and we screened this film four times in two years.I have seen this film more times than almost any other film and it still never fails to move me. Take your Kleenex, this'll make you cry! o)WATCH IT -- IT'S EXCELLENT!  "},{"Title":"Harvey Fierstein's brilliant depiction of gay life in the late seventies","Date":"20 March 2000","Score":"13 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A touching portrayal of the difficulties involved in family relationships among gays. Noteworthy performances by Fierstein, Broderick and Bancroft. Lotsa laughs and tears. An underground film that deserves more attention. Daring and disturbing, this film examines the trying reality of being rejected by family, friends and co-workers for no other reason than homosexuality. "},{"Title":"A great movie from a wonderful play","Date":"3 November 2000","Score":"14 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Torch Song Trilogy is so called because its acts were originally presented one-by-one, months apart, at the off-Broadway La Mama Theater.  It is done with a sparse set and few props, letting the incredibly funny, amazingly touching script fuel the play.The movie version is done much more realistically, and it works! Things that are merely discussed in the play are shown to viewers. The cast is wonderfully realistic (Brian Kerwin is a bit stiff, but it works for the character of Ed.) and the script is just as good as the stage play.  So many books and plays are adapted into something that is barely recognizable, but Fierstein makes his own script into something even more special.The story benefits from the larger scope allowed by the movie.We get to SEE the drag club, the bars, Arnold's (bunny-motif) apartment, Ed's country house and other locations merely hinted at in the play.  The scenes that take place during and after the visit to the country house are somewhat confusing on stage, performed in a huge bed, but are beautifully edited in the movie.  Best of all is Arnold's best friend, Murray, only talked about in the stage production.  But in the movie, he's brought to magnificent life by Ken Page, filling the screen with his usual warmth and wit.Harvey Fierstein has said that he hopes TST is like an Indian dress, made beautiful by all the little mirrors that decorate it.  And truly, it is seeing and hearing *ourselves* that makes this script sparkle.  You don't have to be a female impersonator to understand love and loss and laughter. This is NOT just a movie for gay men.  "},{"Title":"Best gay film ever made","Date":"21 December 2004","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Watching this many years after I originally saw the film, one thing I notice is how so many of Firstein's one liners have become common statements. This wasn't cliché Firstein himself wrote many of the comments that now are commonly held as gospel for queer people everywhere. My favourite scene is the last one, the beautifully scripted showdown between Firstein's Arnold, and Ann Bancroft's Ma. Bancroft is so well cast as Ma - the tiredness, the lack of understanding - such a human picture. Thats what makes this picture so special - all characters are human. Even Allan, far from being perfect, is not quite perfect.My other favourite scene in this film is the lovely seduction of Arnold by Ed to the tunes of Rod Stewart. In fact every time I hear the song Maggie I think of this scene with Arnold's nervousness and bashful coyness. And I saw in the DVD edition that the street where Broderick's Alan is beaten to death was also one where the unprovoked murder of gay people is a reality - this makes the last part of the ambulance scene where Arnold is barely able to walk after seeing Alan's bloodied body, almost real.I think this is the best gay file ever made. It is certainly dated, with the corporate imposed restrictions on the showing of gayness, but the story is so beautifully crafted. You realise how pathetic commercial fests aimed at straight people like Queer Eye for the Straight Guy is after seeing this the message Harvey Firstein wrote in 1983 is still relevant today. "},{"Title":"Excellent adaptation of the plays","Date":"17 February 2005","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The movie exhibits the same careful story telling as the play, which should come as no surprise, considering that Harvey Fierstein wrote the screenplay. It is an uncompromisingly honest - and occasionally brutal - portrait of a New York drag queen. And it is told as only Harvey Fierstein can tell it.Our first introduction to Arnold Beckoff (Benji Schulman in this scene) is his mother finding him in her closet at age six, wearing her clothes and make-up. This sets the tone for their relationship throughout the movie, as Arnold (Harvey Fierstein) and his mother (Anne Bancroft) have a wonderfully portrayed love-hate relationship throughout the film. The movie follows a grown-up Arnold through the major relationships in his life Ed (Brian Kerwin), a closeted school teacher who leaves Arnold to marry a woman; Alan (Matthew Broderick, graduating from the role of David in the stage play), a model who loves Arnold as much as Arnold loves him, but who is murdered by bat-wielding thugs; David (Eddie Castrodad), the son Arnold adopts following Alan's death; and ultimately Arnold's mother, with whom he attempts to have an honest relationship despite her openly disapproval of him. Things come to a head with his mother during a visit to the cemetery where she cruelly berates Arnold for praying over Alan's grave, telling him that he has no right to compare his playing around with a little boy, to her thirty-five year marriage. Arnold's response to her ultimately becomes the catalyst through which they work out their differences.Fierstein's desire for integrity in his story is apparent throughout the movie. The script neither shies away from, nor pretties up difficult issues. The characters are fully developed, and each acts from an internal logic that is readily understandable to the viewer, whether or not we agree with their choices. The humor doesn't take away from the seriousness of the themes covered, but rather serves as a contrast to highlight them.The acting is exemplary. Fierstein is brilliant as Arnold, but then, he had plenty of practice. Anne Bancroft gives an edgy performance as a mother who wants to love her son, but has trouble accepting him for what he is. In spite of her unforgivable cruelty to her son in the graveyard, you do forgive her when she tells Arnold, You shut me out of your life and then blamed me for not being there! She then goes on to share her own wisdom on loss with him, healing the breach for once and all. Matthew Broderick gives a wonderful performance in a part with little screen time, but huge impact. His portrayal of Alan's love for Arnold is real, and as satisfying a romance as one could want to see on the big screen. Brian Kerwin plays Ed's confusion to perfection.This movie was among the first to offer up gay characters who are honest and unashamed about their sexuality. That alone would make it a must see, but this movie is also highly entertaining, sparkling with humor, wit, and unforgettable drag scenes. A movie that should be watched every so often to remind us that, no matter what clothes you wear, all of us are the same underneath. "}{"Title":"No Regrets Or Apologies From Arnold Beckoff","Date":"19 March 2009","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I was fortunate enough to see one of the 1222 performances of Torch Song Trilogy when it was on Broadway, a show written and starring Harvey Fierstein who with this success becomes a Brooklyn Jewish version of Noel Coward. Sad to say Torch Song Trilogy was tragically dated when it got to the screen because the AIDS epidemic had not occurred when Fierstein wrote this bittersweet tale of a gay life, and a man who refuses to conform to anyone else's ideas including his all powerful Jewish mother. And we know how formidable those folks can be.Fierstein is Arnold Beckoff who knew from early childhood he was a gay kid and took life as it came. In fact he became a drag entertainer of note and seems to be doing quite well at it, making a living, much to the consternation of his mother Anne Bancroft. I saw Estelle Getty do this on Broadway and I wouldn't want to split hairs on the differences between the two actresses. Like so many of her generation, Bancroft just thinks being gay is a phase that her son will grow out of. Of course by his mid thirties you'd think she would have a clue. As on Broadway the scenes between Mrs. Beckoff and her son have the real meat of the play.As you might have guessed Torch Song Trilogy had its beginnings in the gay cabaret scene and through the persistence of Harvey Fierstein it got to Broadway. On stage the various scenes which are more segmented than in the film version are punctuated by a cabaret singers doing various torch song ballads to put a coda on what the audience had just seen. Here the torch songs are relegated to background music, the best kind of background music to be sure. Harvey himself however does perform in his drag character.The one true love of his life is Brian Kerwin who can't quite accept himself as gay. He's comfortable being 'bisexual', but as Fierstein so accurately points out, he'd like to meet just one bisexual who is open with his boyfriends, but keeps his women a big old secret.Kerwin is always an interesting player to watch. He got his first notice as the hayseed deputy on the Sheriff Lobo series and he's spent the rest of his career making sure he was NEVER cast in that kind of part again. As the troubled love of Harvey's life, Kerwin certainly proves he's more than a hayseed. Because Kerwin won't be true to himself, Harvey looks for love elsewhere. Harvey's not capable of closeted behavior, the closet would be death for him.Matthew Broderick plays Alan the young male model who Harvey falls for and he's as winning here as he is in Ferris Bueller's Day Off. In fact he's a gay Ferris Bueller who probably did spend time trying to get into adult gay clubs and knew all the places where they'd wink and let him in. His tragic end at the hands of a gang of homophobic street thugs is something I saw all too much of in my working life at Crime Victims Board. Torch Song Trilogy transfers quite well from the stage to the screen and with Harvey Fierstein helping with the transfer, we'd expect nothing less. He kept the film true to the vision of gay male life that he saw and lived. I still remember he and I were both witnesses at the gay rights hearings in New York City back when Torch Song Trilogy had just finished its Broadway run. His words there were among the most inspiring. So this review is dedicated to the author and star of Torch Song Trilogy who has never slackened in his dedication for Gay/Lesbian/Bisexual/Transgender Rights and gives of himself and his talents to his people. From your fellow Brooklynite Harvey, with love. "},{"Title":"A film to watch time and time again","Date":"25 November 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I discovered the play Torch Song Trilogy on stage in Stockholm 1986. I immediately fell in love with it and saw it five times (even though it was 5 1/2 hours long). When I realized that they've made a film out of it I was delighted. The sad (and exciting) thing about stage productions is that once they're not playing anymore, you can never see them again. But in this case this film gave me the chance to revisit the wonderful world of Arnold!I found it on VHS maybe 12 years ago and I have no idea how many times I've watched it. All I can say is that my copy is all but unwatchable by now. Once in a while I get the urge to visit old friends and I just have to see the film again. To say it in a few words I love it I love it I love it! Harvey Fierstein is fantastic and unique! Anne Bancroft is a mother that sends chills along your spine - but you can't help loving her just the way Arnold does. Don't miss this film! "},{"Title":"Past, present, future","Date":"6 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Watching Torch song trilogy on DVD was such an incredible experience. I had seen it as a teenager (being now 34). It had helped me get through my homosexuality. Showing ways and means of understanding life within a minority. Years after, I had found the original score which i have adored since then. To talk about the movie itself, the first half an hour was a bit old (apart from the second scene which is still so moving from the very start), but as soon as you get the hang of it, you can only let yourself be dragged by the amazing talent of the actors. The montage is perfect and so is everything in this eternal jewel. Watch it once and you'll want to watch it forever and ever. "},{"Title":"True to Life","Date":"26 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The movie really hit home for most of the population. It shows the struggles and inequality that we have to deal with and ultimatley where back when this movie was made how we were viewed by society. The movie showed pefectly how the love of two people regardless of who they were was something that is to be treated with dignity and repect. "},{"Title":"A Movie About Finding Love","Date":"14 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Looking for love, finding love, losing love, wondering what love is, finding it again but in a different way.  That's what this movie is about.Torch Song Trilogy is an excellent movie.  It's a combination of 3 plays Harvey Fierstein wrote in the 1970s.  I was fortunate to see the world premiere of 2 of them in San Francisco at Theatre Rhinoceros.  The combination into a single movie makes for a very powerful movie.I'm told that Matthew Broderick agreed to be Harvey Fierstein's lover in this movie (he even kisses Harvey in the movie) in gratitude for Harvey's giving him a break on the Broadway stage when Torch Song was first performed as a play.  (In the original play, Matthew Broderick plays the son.)It was a very courageous thing for Matthew Broderick, at the height of his career, to play a gay character and especially to kiss another guy, knowing that he would be dropped from all the teen heart-throb magazines and would lose a ton of movie roles.Between Harvey and Matthew, this is a film well worth seeing. "},{"Title":"The Biggest Crime","Date":"14 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The biggest crime about this film is that it has not been released on DVD. It is one of the best films ever!  Anne Bancroft gives the performance of a lifetime!  It really bothers me that Movies like Sleepaway Camp III get put on DVD and important films like Torch Song Trilogy are not. Something is wrong with the people at New Line Cinema! "},{"Title":"Deeply moving, very funny","Date":"1 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This has to be my favourite film of all time.  I first saw it 12 years ago and have watched it at least once every year since then - and I'm not the sort to watch films more than once normally.The fact that I'm gay may make the film especially poignant for me, but it surely would appeal to a wider audience.The script and acting are excellent, particularly Anne Bancroft. "},{"Title":"A film with one of the most decent, funny and open of hearts.","Date":"6 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Harvey Fierstein was one of the most humane and real voices amongst thefigure-heads on the documentary, The Celluloid Closet. This is thefilm based on his play and based on his life. It is an endearing andengaging comedy-drama with one of the most decent hearts of any filmmade about the experience of being gay. It deals honestly and openlywith the life of Arnold (played by Fierstein), his family, his loversand his career as a female impersonater or drag queen. Neither termadequately sums up Arnold as he and his inner muse, Virginia Ham, aremuch more than simply stereotypes. Not that there's no humour, this is alaugh-out-loud funny film. Its set in the early seventies and ends inthe early eighties. The journey takes us from extraordinary, unexpectedjoys through devastating tragedies into the everyday world of coping andliving life. Its a film pre-AIDS, which attempts to give us a vision oflife before this epidemic. Its a beautiful film with a committed andexcellent cast. Its political in the way more films should be, bydealing with everyday life and the ways in which we can live and beourselves and help  "},{"Title":"Funny, touching, heartwarming a film for the whole family!","Date":"23 February 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Yep, that's right.  This is a film that moms and dads need to sit down and watch with their kids.  Not only is it one of the few early films about the gay community in which the lead character doesn't die in the end, it is also one of the few films which is about someone trying build a life of love and acceptance despite the odds.  One of the most touching scenes comes at the end of the movie when Arnold finally has it out with his overbearing mother.  He gives it to her and good, and in the end finds that he has all of the love that he needs and some pretty good memories as well.  It is a film that affirms life, love and being proud of who you are, no matter what others think of you.  Fierstien and Bancroft give powerful performances, and Matthew Broderick is adorable as Alan.  Perhaps one day this film will be appreciated for the classic  "},{"Title":"THAT'S THE BEST FILM I HAVE EVER WATCHED IN MY LIFE","Date":"15 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  When I first watched Torch Song Trilogy I was living in my birthplace Burgos (Spain). I was 19 years old. My life changed completely because it was my first film about gay people.When I was a teenager I had some problems being gay. I did not accept myself but since I watched Torch Song Trilogy I feel pride in myself every day.I love every minute from the film but there is a part very special to me, when Arnold explained his mother why his boyfriend was murdered.You will love it. Please if you have any chance, watch it. You will not regret it. "}{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"25 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was probably the only straight dude in the whole theater the day I went to go see this movie.  Harvey F. does a great job adapting his play for screen. Pretty much anyone who's had troubles finding that special someone should be able to relate to this warm, witty, edgy movie.  They show this flick on the TV channel Bravo a lot and they butcher it mercilessly.  Be sure you see it for the first time uncut, trust me, it loses a lot in the acceptable for TV translation that the networks air.   "},{"Title":"Re  Excellent","Date":"28 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Great to see a story of coming out in the gay world.  I think the story line was excellent and that it was a great accomplishment.  I would like to see a film that followed up on they're live's.  It would be interesting to find out what happened to all the characters.  "},{"Title":"A great film","Date":"10 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  When I went to see this film way back in 1988 I was going through the motions of coming out.  This film made me smile, laugh and cry and has become one of my all time favourite. I loved the way that Harvey portrays the time bringing in the humour that is sometimes lacking in other gay films. The characterizations are strong especially with Ann Bancroft, who I feel gave her best performance.  I do feel that Harvey should have continued and made at least another. Maybe the time is now right for him to do so who knows.  If you like positive gay films then this is definitely for you. 10/10.  "},{"Title":"Beautiful!","Date":"19 February 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  To me, this is the only movie with a homosexual theme that really means something. Other movies with the same elements tend to be too dramatic or just too sad. For example, in Philadelphia, the relationship between the two main characters is just not real. That makes it a nice film for heterosexuals to watch (and they tell you that over and over again), but a joke to those who know how it should be!Torch Song Trilogy is really a great movie. True and realistic, about the love between men.  "},{"Title":"Every gay man needs this in his video collection!","Date":"11 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" One of the best gay-themed films of all time. Definitely in the top five!This movie takes you on a roller coaster ride of feelings as it touches every emotion possible...so be prepared to laugh hysterically sometimes, on your feet cheering at others, and you'll be reaching for the Kleenex occasionally, too. But one thing's certain, you will be smiling at the end and will watch it over and over.Brilliantly written and portrayed by the stars. The kiss Matthew Broderick shares with Brian Kerwin in the barn loft was so well done even Johnny Carson dared ask him on the Tonight Show if he was coming out?Bottom line is You don't fully qualify for a pink card unless you've seen this one! ;) "},{"Title":"Touching, funny, sad and human","Date":"27 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" A notable film on several levels. First, it was way ahead of America in being a relatively mainstream film that treated gay men as people of depth, value, humor and worth making a film about. (Although there is sad irony in the fact this huge hit play took so long to make it to the screen that AIDS had already totally altered the landscape by the time of its release. That's something the film only notes in the closing credits, and gives it a bit of a 'rose colored glasses' hue). But beyond any politics or social significance this is also a very well acted, funny and moving look at one man, Arnold, (played by the unique and charismatic Harvey Firestein, who wrote the play and screenplay) as he looks for love &#x96; both romantic and familial in a sometimes very cold world. If Firestein's performance can occasionally feel theatrical, it's also entirely appropriate for the starting-to-age drag queen performer he plays. What's wonderful is how Firestein always keeps the humanity under Arnold's occasional flamboyance very alive, as does Anne Bancroft as his 'difficult' mother. Later in her career Bancroft could tend towards theatricality on screen as well, but she tones it down just enough to feel real here, and anyway, lets face it, next to a drag queen, who is more innately dramatic than a Jewish mother? (I grew up with one, trust me). Matthew Broderick and Brian Kerwin also do very good work in support, Broderick as a sexy but understated young man totally at ease with his sexuality, and Kerwin as a confused bi- sexual trying to work out his. While never rising to the level of a great film (the direction is very straightforward and bland, there's almost a TV movie look to it, it never completely surpasses it's theatrical origins), it's certainly a good, touching, human, and important one &#x96; although to a generation growing up with the reality of gay marriage and deeper integration of gay people into society, some of the historical importance may be lost. But not the essential, timeless embrace of kindness, love, respect and understanding "},{"Title":"Love's Not for Sale","Date":"17 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Here's a movie I used to crawl up in bed (or easy chair) to like a good book repeatedly when I was young. I loved Torch Song Trilogy then and probably 20 years since I've seen it last, it holds up beautifully today. But, there is one thing that baffles me.Why on Earth was Anne Bancroft passed over for the 1988 Oscar Awards? She was brilliant here and that's not to say the others, like the absolutely hilarious Harvey Fierstein or very good Matthew Broderick, weren't deserving&#x85;but she literally stole every scene and ate up her role, in a good way.Sure, she was like my own mother, in regards to her stance and some of her words &#x96; just not the enormously vocal and flamboyant flair, and she was wrong in her bigotry, but she was excellent in her disapproving Jewish mother role.Not maybe &#x96; this is why I loved this movie as a young adult and literally watched it once a month or two for a couple of years I was just coming out when I first got my hands on this and I could relate and root for and cheer and weep and ride right along with Fierstein's creation Arnold Beckoff. He was a drag queen, I was not, but that was the one difference. He had a bottomless heart, insecure enough to allow others to control his life, spoke with a straight edged deadpan wit, looked for love over lust and kept his head up inside even when he continuously got knocked down. I felt &#x96; and still do, I was him.This movie's beautiful from beginning to end. The drama parts, the longing, the loves, that is. The comedy, lines and reactions are as equally entertaining. The two blended so well and moved us alongside Arnold's life and tribulations wonderfully.Torch Song Trilogy tells the tale of performer (well, drag queen) Arnold, living alone, afraid of his mother, approved by his brother and seeking his way in NYC by trying to be his own person when he's rejected in a time frame (the 1970s) when gays were just that.First he meets Ed, who's confused, somewhat straight but Arnold falls head of heels over. Then when that ends, he meets Alan who is the epitome of true love and an all around great guy. Then, Arnold finally meets his mother, metaphorically speaking. I believe that is the trilogy of the title. Oh, and Arnold adopts a son in there, too, and that might be his third love of his life&#x85;Honestly, I never tried to find true or deeper meaning in this film than what it meant to me just as I was coming out. Now, in 2013, I'm long past that. I still feel his plight, still laugh at the jokes and absolute uproarious banter and smart lines.I'm not sure if this movie could be for a wide audience, but I wish it would. For the open-minded people, for the just coming out, for the Jewish people struggling with anything&#x85;this is a splendid movie to cherish. "},{"Title":"The story of three loves, all bittersweet, yet all very real.","Date":"29 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Harvey Fierstein is Arnold Beckoff, a somewhat quiet drag performer who comes alive when he paints his face and performs a torch song in his early '70's New York cabaret show. Fierstein only longs for a husband and child, and when he meets the bi-sexual Ed (Brian Kerwin), it all seems possible. But Ed is confused, goes off to marry an ex-girlfriend, and Arnold finally finds happiness with the handsome Alan (Matthew Broderick), a model whom Arnold at first can't believe would give him the time of day. Finally, there's Arnold's mom (Anne Bancroft), a hard-nosed stereotypical Jewish mother who refuses to accept Arnold's homosexuality, especially when he adopts a gay teenager (Eddie Castrodad) whom she initially suspects is a mugger.Along the way, there is lots of comedy, some true-to-life tragedy (involving a very violent gay bashing), and finally, a confrontation between mother and son that makes Arnold want to find his own lamppost, a la Fanny Brice, and sing another torch song to reveal his own inner torment. This makes for a very enjoyable film that many gays and lesbians can identify with in their desire to find a partner and gain acceptance from a parent. Broadway actor Ken Page (Guys and Dolls, Ain't Misbehavin'), Axel Vera and drag legend Charles Pierce appear as Arnold's co-stars in the drag revue, all featuring funny drag names. There's also a bit of sexual action which takes Arnold inside the back room of a gay bar where obvious fornicating is taking place, another variation of the torch song which reveals how sometimes gay men use sex to deal with their tragedies. (At least I won't have to make them breakfast, Arnold snidely tells someone he earlier cursed at before making his way into the back room.) Throughout the entire film, you really feel the weight of Arnold's world, his very untypical hero very much worth rooting for as he deals with the loss of lovers (through break-up and death), the anger of a parent, and finally, being frustrated himself as a parent. Bancroft is extremely intense in her handful of scenes as the frustrated mother, tired of her son throwing his homosexuality in her face, and even more angry when he shows what she considers disrespect at the family grave site. She's not the type of mother you want to see showing up unannounced, yet there's a sense that, like Neil Simon's grandmother character in Lost in Yonkers, there's a ton of regret that her emotions can't handle and has been replaced by an over-load of bitterness that cannot be diminished. As directed by Paul Bogart (best known for TV's All in the Family), Torch Song Trilogy is one of those small emotional dramas that will touch your heart and leave you thinking long after the movie is over. "},{"Title":"They don't make 'em like this anymore....","Date":"19 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Harvey Fierstein started performing as a drag artist in Manhattan clubs from the age of 15; even before that age he knew he was just a bit different. He became widely known on the New York club circuit and was more often than not to be found playing drag roles in off off Broadway shows. Following a bad break-up Harvey set about writing a play detailing the difficult and painful experience, this became the play 'The International Stud' and was presented in New York during 1976. The play introduced the character of Arnold Beckoff to the world, writing a further two semi-autobiographical plays about Arnold's life. Eventually Harvey conjoined and amalgamated these three plays into just one, 'Torch Song Trilogy' which, had its stage debut off off Broadway in 1981, where it ran for almost 1230 performances.Torch Song Trilogy was adapted from stage for cinema and came out in 1998, directed by Paul Bogart and not surprisingly starring Harvey as Arnold Beckoff. Also included in the cast were Brian Kerwin, sexy stunner Matthew Broderick, screen legend Anne Bancroft and infamous American female impersonator Charles Pierce. The play version ran for over four hours, something not possible in film and thus many cuts, exclusions and edits had to be employed to bring it down to a studio demanded running time of two hours. Without wishing to ignore the onset of AIDS whilst also not wishing to alter the entire fabric of the story the time line of the movie was shifted back several years, started in 1971. It is a deeply affecting film, emotional and funny to the extreme and yet it works marvellously well, which I am sure is thanks mainly to the authentic way Harvey tells it as Arnold. There are such wonderful moments, high drama, deep sadness and almost unbridled joy, that watching Torch Song Trilogy could be considered of riding on a roller coaster of emotions. However, that should be seen as and is indeed a good thing; it allows you scope to feel things that perhaps you had not even noticed in yourself, or others. It gives you the power to see the good and bad in the characters of others, in all our Technicolor differences.Read more and find out where this film made it in the Top 50 Most Influential Gay Movies of All Time book, search on Amazon for Top 50 Most Influential Gay Movies of All Time, or visit - http//www.amazon.co.uk/dp/B007FU7HPO ￼ "},{"Title":"it works, thanks to Harvey","Date":"8 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Award winning writer actor Harvey Fierstein portrays a shy and loveless cabaret artist who comes to terms with his bisexual lover, with the man of his dreams, and finally (in a heartbreaking confrontation sure to leave a lump in even the most stoic of throats) with his homophobic, harpy mother. The strengths of the film are those of any adapted stage play, but this isn't just another theater piece arbitrarily transferred to the screen. The original three acts have been married into one sustained narrative, with the cosmetic benefits of skillful editing and camera-work to help smooth the rougher transitions. Of course it's Fierstein himself who holds the film together, showing a wonderful, subtle blend of confidence and insecurity, with eloquent body language and expressive facial tics reminiscent of Charlie Chaplin, and with a voice best described as unique. "}{"Title":"Emotionally engaging","Date":"3 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This film is about the emotionally turbulent life of a drag queen entertainer, Arnold Beckoff, in the 70's and 80's.The main character is a likable person, and yet his life and his life circumstances are dramatically difficult. However, these events are not over-dramatised, in fact they are so real that could happen to anyone around you. This authentic feel is not common in films.Torch Song Trilogy shows that anyone and everyone wants love and respect. This basic human need translates to something that evokes emotions and sympathy in the viewers. Maybe that's why Torch Song Trilogy is emotionally engaging. "},{"Title":"Highly recommended movie","Date":"9 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I first saw this film as a young(er) gay man and enjoyed it immensely! It has camp humour, failing relationships, serious comment on mother/son relationships and the gorgeous Matthew Broderick. What more could you ask for in a film? As a post-aids story of a bitchy and very funny Jewish drag queen this hits home it's social comment in a vibrant and brash manner. In particular the scene with Arnold and his mother at the cemetery packs an emotional punch. Anne Bancroft is superb as the dry and ever critical mother. I'd recommend this film to anyone (regardless of sexual orientation) looking for laughter, pathos, larger than life characters and tragedy all mixed together in a wonderful, chaotic and sometimes touching movie. "},{"Title":"A wonderful film","Date":"5 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This film is a wonderful statement for gays and lesbians. Anne Bancroft is absolutely phenomenal as the loving, but judgmental mother. Harvey Fierstein is the witty and funny son who lives his life, come what may. The whole story is emotional and heart-warming, although, at times, it can be exasperating as Arnold (Fierstein)deals with discrimination and misunderstanding because of his orientation. You'll truly love this story. Matthew Broderick plays a role which is different from what I have seen before. His character, though short-lived, plays a crucial role in how Arnold deals with life. The other characters are outstanding, as they portray the ebb and flow of Arnold's interactions with others. I highly recommend this film. "},{"Title":"a wonderful tragicomedy","Date":"30 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a wonderful adaption of Harvey Fierstein's Tony Award-winning play about the life and loves of the drag queen Arnold, played by the magnificent Fierstein himself. Despite of  all the tragedy (for instance the violent death of Arnolds gay lover Alan), this movie is full of warm and uplifting humor. At the end, the movie presents a honorable portrayal of a fully functional patchwork family Arnold and his bisexual friend and former lover Ed, who take care of the adopted son David (Eddie Castrodad).The actors (Fierstein, Matthew Broderick, Brian Kerwin and the great Anne Bancroft as Arnolds harsh mother) do a very good job. It's a solid 9 out of 10 gay film. "},{"Title":"See this even if you didn't think you would like it......All I need is love and respect...","Date":"2 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Everything else I have done for myself..., Arnold Beckoff (Fierstein) tells his mother. This film is outstanding, and was before its time.What is interesting is the film touches many ranges of emotion, difficulties in marriage, relationships, death, communication (or lack thereof) Anne Bancroft is wonderful as Arnold's mother, who loves him, but doesn't approve of his life, at first.The very moving scene occurs in the cemetery, while Bancroft is mourning her husband of 35 years while Arnold is mourning his significant other (Matthew Broderick) who was killed during a heinous act of violence. The extent to which Bancroft was unaware of her own son's experience upsets her, and she abruptly leaves the cemetery. There are no easy answers. Arnold may be adopting a son, and has fashioned a life for himself. His mother finally realizes this, and leaves his apartment without saying goodbye, realizing she is grateful he has found happiness, and that that is all that really matters. 10/10. "},{"Title":"Harvey Fierstein Was Skinny","Date":"12 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Worth seeing for 3 reasons a skinny Harvey Fierstein, the great Anne Bancroft, and some fun drag numbers. A comedy/drama in three acts, the film skips along with lots of punchlines and good acting. Never saw or read the Tony Award winning play but I suspect a lot was changed for the film version. Most of the drag numbers are truncated which is a shame because they are well done. The drama, when it comes in the last act, is heartbreaking. A mixed bag to say the least, but Fierstein is wonderful as Arnold (he wrote and starred in the play), a drag queen who fiercely marches to his own drummer in New York of the 1970s and 80s. With his gravelly voice he makes a for a strange drag queen but his act is fun, and his drag pals (Charles Pierce, Ken Page) are also quite good. Bancroft is a marvel as the mother tough, loving, unforgiving.Brian Kerwin as Ed and Matthew Broderick as Alan are OK. Eddie Castrodad is good as David. Karen Young is a washout. Rae Allen is funny as the dress shop clerk.So set against the changing queer scene of New York, Fierstein moves from entertainer to club owner, passes through a series of relationships, adopts a kid, and keeps fighting with his mother. Fierstein is good in his Love for Sale and I Puke numbers, and Pierce is great in his famous impersonation of Bette Davis. Bancroft makes the most of her co-starring part (despite top billing) and proves again why she is one of the best.Young's character is annoying and Broderick seems to be acting all the time and is unconvincing as the babe in the woods. Still worth a look.... oh and love that Ella Fitzgerald song at the end! "},{"Title":"a wonderful tragicomedy","Date":"30 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a wonderful adaption of Harvey Fierstein's Tony Award-winning play about the life and loves of the drag queen Arnold, played by the magnificent Fierstein himself. Dispite of  all the tragedy (for instance the violent death of Arnolds gay lover Alan), this movie is full of warm and uplifting humor. At the end, the movie presents a honorable portrayal of a fully functional patchwork family Arnold and his bisexual friend and former lover Ed, who take care of the adopted son David (Eddie Castrodad).The actors (Fierstein, Matthew Broderick, Brian Kerwin and the great Anne Bancroft as Arnolds harsh morher) do a very good job. It's a solid 9 out of 10 gay film. "},{"Title":"Get this movie on DVD!","Date":"18 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one of New Line's BEST movies!  (along with Hairspray)  I think the time has come for a DVD release!  I waited, and waited for a laser Disc that was never released!  NOW, it is time for a DVD release!  Especially with the popularity of Anne Bancroft and Matthew Broderick!  The Producers is a smash on Broadway!  The timing is perfect to dig out all of Matthew Broderick's old films for release on DVD!!! "},{"Title":"Not enough can be said about Anne Bancroft","Date":"17 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Anne Bancroft is by far my favorite actress. She has, time and time again, proven herself to be an actress of the utmost quality. If you pick this movie up for no other reason to see her wonderful (and unfortunately small)performance, you will be greatly rewarded. Let us also not forget her brilliance in The Graduate. "},{"Title":"The Movie","Date":"18 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is by a gay man for gay men, and I don't know that I would like it all that much if I weren't a gay man. Having giving that emptor, this is my favorite movie of all time. It portrays all the difficulties and all the possibilities of being gay in the U.S. It is sentimental, but it manages not to wallow in its sentimentality. The tragedies of the main character, Arnold Beckoff (played by writer Harvey Fierstein), are not there just to make us cry; they are there because they are a reality for all too many gay people. It's not-PC for me to write this, but it is also wonderful that the movie takes place pre-AIDS so that the specter of that horrible disease isn't hanging over it, as it is so overwhelmingly in so many other gay films. It is equally nice to see a gay movie that doesn't star some young, smooth muscle queen (unless Matthew Broderick qualifies for that category, but I really don't think so) who just can't choose among all his potential love interests. This is completely personal, of course, but I have identified more with the characters and story in this film than in any other, and that is why I love it so much. And Torch Song Trilogy not only reflects me, but has given me hope as well. There are not very many films about which that can be said. Thank you, Harvey Fierstein. "}{"Title":"Memorable Screen Version of Landmark Stage Show","Date":"28 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" You don't have to be gay to love this surprising and unpretentious little movie, which should appeal to the hidden sense of outsider in most viewers. The story of an overweight, overly emotional, gravel-voiced and very unglamorous drag queen who seeks true love in a society that prizes appearance over values, TORCH SONG TRILOGY is a hilarious and often poignantly touching film with a break-out performance by Harvey Fierstein, who adapts his Tony-award winning stage script and performance for the screen with considerable aplomb.In addition to Fierstein's brilliantly honest script and self-depreciating performance, the film also offers knock-out performances by Anne Bancroft as Fierstein's Jewish-Mother-From-Hell and Matthew Broderick as his much younger and somewhat unlikely lover; although not in the same league with these three, supporting players Brian Kerwin strikes the right note as Fierstein's tepidly bisexual ex-lover and Karen Young is quite good as Kerwin's understandably neurotic wife. Although the film script does depart from the stage script, it remains faithful in spirit, and the film as a whole is reasonably--although not outstandingly--served by director Paul Bogart.The film abounds with quotable lines (I'm the pretty one) that will keep you laughing, but although it concludes on a hope for the future note TORCH SONG TRILOGY is not all grins and giggles by a long shot the dramatic underpinnings are deadly serious, and at least one or two scenes will leave most viewers as shocked, angered, and heart-broken as the characters it so vividly displays. While the film isn't BOYS IN THE BAND, I think it is the only gay-themed film to date that actually approaches the artistic and emotional impact of BOYS IN THE BAND; more over, most viewers will probably find it more accessible, and many will be surprised to by a realization of much TORCH has influenced cinema's portrayal of gay characters from the 1980s right up to the present. It deserves considerably more praise and attention than it has received. Strongly recommended.Gary F. Taylor, aka GFT, Amazon Reviewer "},{"Title":"An Intelligent Comedy-Drama for the Politically Correct...","Date":"22 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" EThe film version of Harvey Fierstein's own play TORCH SONG TRILOGY is an entertaining comedy which, though stretches credibility, remains a watchable motion picture for those who are comfortable watching films dealing with gays and gay issues. The movie is the story of a drag queen named Arnold and how he deals with life offstage through relationships with men and with his overbearing mother (the fabulous Anne Bancroft). As much as I admire Fierstein as a writer and performer, he seems to be suffering that Woody Allen syndrome where he has a rather distorted view of his own sexual attractiveness. Not to be cruel, but I found it hard to swallow that guys who looked like Brian Kerwin and Matthew Broderick would be attracted to a guy who looked like Harvey Fierstein, but if you can accept that, the film is imminently watchable with strong performances from Kerwin, Broderick, Bancroft, and Eddie Castrodad as David, a gay teen that Arnold adopts. Broderick played David in the original production of the play, but in the movie he plays Harvey's lover. An entertaining film with a unique story, a couple of disturbing messages, and some very good performances. "},{"Title":"There's little here to explain why the play was such a landmark...","Date":"10 June 2006","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Ineffective, miscast, and curiously awkward comedy-drama about a gay drag queen's search for true love. Harvey Fierstein adapted his stage triumph for the screen and has the leading role, but Fierstein (who has proved to be a great character actor in showy supporting roles) isn't quite able to carry off a lead, at least not on film. On-screen almost constantly, his sandpaper voice breaking up in mock-happiness or despair, he's too needy, too unsure of himself, and he takes visual and verbal short-cuts to emotions without taking the audience's sense of rhythm into consideration (he's always two steps ahead, beating us to the laughs and the pathos). As for his script, the dialogue has the unmistakable ring of late-night-movie clichés, and director Paul Bogart's comic timing is gummy and rehearsed. Anne Bancroft, a great actress, is miscast once again as Harvey's mother (she seldom found a role that suited her, particularly after The Graduate). Tidy, lackluster scenario is plastic and unconvincing, as are Matthew Broderick and Brian Kerwin as Fierstein's lovers. It's a harmless sitcom...and what a shame that is. ** from **** "},{"Title":"You Want to Be a Part of My Life, I'm Not Editing Out the Parts You Don't Like!","Date":"1 April 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I was born, raised, and lived in New York City until I was forty, and I saw a lot of Broadway shows, but it has always been one of my great regrets that I never saw Harvey Fierstein's monumental play TORCH SONG TRILOGY, which he both wrote and starred in. So when I saw that a film version had been made, and wonder of wonders it starred Fierstein, I rushed out to see it. And I was not disappointed.In the interim I had read the play. On the stage, TST was an experimental piece with minimal sets, lots of overlapping dialogue (something that works well on the stage but is hard to do on film), and a running time of nearly four hours. So when I saw that the film's running time was just two hours, I prepared myself for a hack job. But Fierstein himself adapted his own play to the screen; I should have known better. The end result is, you might say, a compressed version of the play Fierstein made a good many judicious cuts in the dialogue, leaving only the choicest bits, and the finished product shines like a well-cut diamond.TST tells the story of ten years in the life of Arnold Beckoff (Fierstein), a female impersonator in New York City with a romantic nature; surrounded by men looking for sex, Arnold is looking for love, and it can be cold out there in the big city.Yet he does find love, and more than once. The first time in the person of a *bisexual* schoolteacher named Ed Reese (winningly played by Brian Kerwin), who ultimately can't make up his mind which bed he wants to sleep in. Ed isn't a bad guy, but he is terrified of being gay and tries desperately to make a life with his girlfriend Laurel (Karen Young in a brilliant, funny-sad performance), in the end succeeding only in hurting both Laurel and Arnold, who drops him.Arnold's next love interest literally falls into his lap. Onstage at the club, Arnold is heckled by a bunch of young men who are very drunk, and one of them, upon being confronted, responds by passing out. Arnold takes him home to sleep it off. The young man, by name Alan Simon, barely out of his teens, is brilliantly played here by the indecently beautiful Matthew Broderick. Looking down at the sleeping boy, Arnold says, If you have an IQ of over 30, then there is no God. When Alan awakens Arnold serves him breakfast, gives him directions to the subway, and locks himself in the bathroom until the kid leaves. But what he does not know is that Alan has developed a huge crush on Arnold, and he pursues him quite openly until Arnold's defenses crumble.Arnold's love life goes on with more than its share of triumphs and tragedies. Running on a parallel track is his relationship with his mother (Anne Bancroft, sensational as always), on the surface your typical New York Jewish Mother who hovers over her kids and has a gift for laying on the guilt. But there is more to her than that. Arnold loves her and is frustrated by her in equal measure; she has never accepted him for who he is and constantly makes references to the mythical *wife* he will *someday* have.Arnold's journey of love and loss and reconciliation climaxes with a final confrontation with his mother in which he finally lays down the law There's nothing I need from anyone except for love and respect and anyone who can't give me those two things has no place in my life!Condensing a four hour play into a two hour movie seems an impossible task, but Fierstein and Company pull it off brilliantly, and the end product is a warm and winning film, often funny and sometimes tragic, but always real. And the best part is that Hollywood did not insist on putting a name star in the lead. The part was written by Fierstein for Fierstein because on some level Arnold IS Harvey, and it's perfect for his rubbery, funny face which reflects every emotion he feels, and while he starts out considering himself somewhat less than attractive, by the end of the film, he has gained considerable dignity and is almost handsome.A joy to watch from start to finish. "},{"Title":"Excellent film adaptation of the Tony Award winning play","Date":"25 November 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Movie follows the life and times of gay drag queen Arnold Berkoff (Harvey Feinstein) from 1971-1980. It goes into his dealings with bisexual Ed (Brian Kerwin), Ed's girlfriend Laurel (Karen Young), cute young model Alan (Matthew Broderick), his mother (Anne Bancroft) and an adopted gay son David (Eddie Castrodad).The original play was about 4 hours long so naturally a lot was left out of this adaptation. Still, the fact that this got made at all back in 1988 is amazing. This was years before Will & Grace or Queer As Folk. It came and went quickly but it should be rediscovered. The script is sharp and (for the most part) the acting is excellent. It deals realistically with a gay man trying to deal with family, love, men and relationships in the 1970s--but I think any gay man from any era could find plenty to identify with here. Fierstein is excellent in his Tony Award winning role. His voice is a little hard to take at first but you get used to it. Kerwin seems a bit too earnest as Ed but he's still pretty good. Broderick seems nervous too but he pulls off the role of Alan (although seeing him falling all over Fierstein IS pushing credibility). As a point of interest Broderick played David in the original stage version and said it helped his career quite a bit. Young is very good in her small role as Laurel and so is Ken Page in his small role as Murray. Bancroft is WAY over the top as Arnold's mother (but it fits the role) and Castrodad does what he can with his severely edited role as David. However his first meeting with Bancroft is hilarious. Also there's some beautiful direction here--a shot from up above NY after Arnold meets Ed always takes my breath away. Funny, smart, sweet, touching and sad--a very good movie. The two hours just fly by. WELL worth seeing. A 9. "},{"Title":"How can you NOT love Arnold Beckhoff?","Date":"1 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Sixteen years ago,while an undergraduate in college,I decided to take an acting class for the proverbial,(bleeps)and grins,since my actual major was something else. They had us put on various selections from a limitless range of work,and they usually had us in groups,no big than four(the class was only about thirteen people). Everyone,however,was supposed to do a selected monologue. Previously reluctant to portray a gay man,I was turned on to this show primarily because Matthew Broderick had done it BOTH on stage and screen(as well as the fact that William Hurt won an Oscar playing a flamboyantly gay man and at the time I was hip to the fact that likable everyman Tom Hanks' next big role would be playing a gay man dying of AIDS,actors I also both greatly admired)and figured if Matt Broderick was up to the challenge so was I. For a class. Seen by exactly thirteen other people,my teacher included.So to do my homework for the show,besides reading,rehearsing and memorizing Harvey Fierstein's play(brilliant,by the way),I rented this movie,at the time already five years old and comfortably in the cheap renter bin of wherever I'd gotten it. To say I was impressed,enchanted,touched or even thoroughly entertained would be,while all accurate,seem to fail to grasp the feelings I got from this.Culled from experiences from his years as a popular Cabaret lounge performer during the early to mid-seventies,Harvey Fierstein's play was adapted for screen by the author and,in a move that might've surprised some,the playwright was again cast as the main character,Arnold Beckhoff,a brash,showy,sharp wit and bold stage presence for his adoring fans,privately a much more tentative,sensitive and angst-ridden gay man looking for love in a culture that seems to be less interested in coupling or mating(he'd love to settle down and start a family)than they are in back-room sex and secrecy. He finds love--in differing degrees--from two different menbi-sexual schoolteacher Ed(Brian Kerwin,who actually makes the most out of what could be considered a bland,easily unsympathetic role)and full-on gay model Alan(Matthew Broderick,somewhat muted and in a hair style that will seem like AGES ago). The movie breaks down almost exactly like the play,in three vignettes tracing the stages of Arnold's painful yet often humorous tribulations towards finding that love and trying to reconcile with the love that is mutually difficult to connecthis mother(Anne Bancroft,not afraid to be unlikable,obstinate and even a little bit stereotypical).Director Paul Bogart must have some theater background,or else he was so impressed by the play that he is careful to keep this story very tight on the characters,only straying occasionally to set up the narration. Even though I'd come to believe this film as a wondrous object of viewing(and far less hyper-sentimentalized than,say Philadelphia),I hadn't seen it again and had almost forgotten about it until recently,when I ran across it in the library stacks. Seeing it again reaffirmed what I'd felt before and felt like reacquainting with an old friend,mostly fleshed in the main character,who--and this may be overstatement but I gotta say it--truly IS the embodiment and spirit of this show,and a lovely one at that.By the way,I think I graded well for doing the monologue(it was,incidentally,the opening monologue,done by Harvey in drag).I don't now honestly rightly recall. "},{"Title":"NOT just a film for gays","Date":"28 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" There are so many touching scenes in this movie, both funny and tearful. It's wildly unfair to characterize it as a gay film as though gays are the only people who'll love this film and want to own a copy.It never fails to make me cry in the first 5 minutes. How many films do that for you? ...And it has the good sense to balance that crying with laughter moments later.The bunny slippers... oh, God, the bunny slippers in the school...! Trust me, you'll laugh till your breath doesn't know whether to come in or go out.It was a little distracting to have Matthew Broderick in one of the lead roles, because he was a star when the film came out. I kept seeing Matthew Broderick the star, not his character (through no fault of his acting). Maybe if the hairstyle and makeup had been radically out of character for him....? Meh. Historically, though, I understand the necessity his first big break was in another role in the Broadway play, and this was payback.The script is almost as clever as a Douglas Adams book or Neil Simon play, yet deals with far stronger emotional topics family love, romantic love, light friendship, loss, dignity, respect, and self-loathing. It's deeply, deeply involving without being heavy-handed, and comedic without being insulting to the audience.Even the smaller roles are perfectly cast and well written Alan's large black friend, Anne Bankroft as the mother, Ed the lukewarm conflicted lover, and Ed's wife were particularly memorable. Likewise, even the small elements of set dressing and stage direction are endearing.People who like Crossing Delancey and Sense and Sensibility will love this film, and watch it at least once a year. It's got an industry slot on my often watched films shelf. "},{"Title":"Wow, Powerful","Date":"28 July 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I remember watching this movie in my early years of coming out (but not after my mother found out and had her hissy fit). This movie I think is all our lives, from coming out to coming of age to find peace in our own skin. It tapes into everything, partners, mothers and the yern to be ourselves. Ann Bancroft in this role surpassed any other I have seen her in (even The Assisn), the scene in at the gravesite will bring you to tears and laughter as we all have been there. Trying to justify our live to someone who we love and suppose to love us (I am tearing up writing this). Harvey also does a great job. We all got lost in the gay scene, trying to find who we were. First you think, well I am gay so this must be what I do. Soon later you realize what Harvey is saying. Your not a gay, your someone who just happens to be gay. To finish up, the end scene when they come back to the house after the gravesite, I remember thinking, has my mother seen this movie, she was saying things that my mother said to me, I AM THE MOTHER, there comes a time we all deserve respect from everyone including our parents and if they can't they have no place in our lives.Thank you Leroy Box "},{"Title":"A thoughtful filming of a landmark play","Date":"29 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" When the three plays that make up this film were first combined and opened on Broadway, it was well received and had a long run. Why the movie didn't do better, I will never understand. The story of a man who is looking for love in a world that doesn't understand him is universal, it doesn't matter if he is gay or straight. Arnold Beckoff is a female illusionist in a successful club in New York. In the opening, as we watch him assume his stage persona (Virginia Hamm, we hear him expound on his views of relationships as a gay man who can be self assured and still not like himself much. We watch a typical performance with admiration for the work involved. After the performance we see Arnold and his friend Murray headed out for a nightcap and see Arnold's insecurities up close. While Murray appears to have a more hedonistic approach to the gay bar scene, Aronld clearly appears out of his element. As he bumps into Ed, we see a classic film meet-cute. They are both awkward and shy, but clearly attracted to one another. As the relation ship develops, we see that Arnold has almost a need to be in love, while Ed feels he needs to be in love-with a woman. Ed believes that he has to project an image, not just for his family and friends, but for himself. That is the one thing we learn that Arnold has no problem with, he wants people to know he's gay, and that is something he accepts in himself, whether or not his family does. We see a family dinner with his brother and parents, and that scene broke my heart. When his father offers him money until he gets back on his feet, I was uncomfortable and didn't understand why until a minute later when Arnold and his brother are out on the patio having a smoke, and Arnold reveals he makes more money than his father, and I realized just how uncomfortable his parents were with his life and the choices he has made, his mother especially. Soon Arnold does find love with Alan, a young model who came to one of Arnold's shows. Alan, like Arnold, is comfortable with who he is, and he and Arnold become a couple. Ed comes back briefly into their lives at this point, as he and his wife invite them to visit the rural home that Ed has rebuilt. This central part of the film is taken from the second play in the Trilogy-Fugue in a Nursery. This was the part that I felt the film did a disservice to by opening up. In the play, this takes place with the four characters in the same bed, with a wonderful lighting effect that highlights the actors as they interact with each other. The film does not ruin it by any means, but you do not get the urgency that the play brings out and the quick cuts become jarring, in my opinion. This section brings tension to both couples, but Arnold and Alan overcome it, and look forward to adopting a child, and moving to a new apartment. However, the night they move in, Alan makes a choice that while heroic, changes the course of Arnold's life. The change is what we see in the final part of the film. We learn that there have been changes with Ed as well. The section of the film becomes ultimately a healing. How family relationships change, how romantic relations change and mature, and how the first generation (Arnold's mother) comes to understand the third (David, Arnold's adopted son) as well as deriving a better understand of her son and the life he has made for himself. This is ultimately an uplifting and emotional film, with dream performances. I urge everyone to see it, but I think it may hold the most meaning to those people who have a friend or family member who is gay, but just doesn't understand. Watch this film and get some answers. "},{"Title":"Everyone Should Own A Copy","Date":"9 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Excellent casting. This story is beautifully written, the acting is powerful and there's so much heartfelt emotion and intelligence found here. Truly a bittersweet story of love, life, loss, self-respect and family. Anybody 'coming out' should see this. Anyone already out will adore this. Someone who doesn't know much about gays can learn something from this. The dead-pan humor will have you rolling, as will the campy tunes. The feeling of the characters and the storyline is so strong that it's hard to have dry eyes during some of the scenes. A movie like this one really touches home for many people. One of my own favorites of all time, it makes quite an impact, and I recommend everyone to get a copy. "}{"Title":"A Jewel!","Date":"11 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I can't believe it took me this long to see this gem. What a beautifully made, heart-wrenching, gently humorous, brave and meaningful film. Harvey Fierstein takes the audience right to his heart -- and that's a wonderful place to go. His opening monologue is riveting -- masterfully written and performed with such natural grace that I felt he was speaking directly to me. The theme amazes me in its relevance to the present day debates over gay marriage -- and it was written pre-1988. All the actors shine, but Harvey, Matthew Broderick and Anne Bancroft stand out as true masters. Anne Bancroft's performance is unrelenting and touching at the same time. Torch Song Trilogy made me laugh; it made me cry; it made me angry, and it made me question what we North Americans stand for. What more can you ask from a film? "},{"Title":"The play was magnificent","Date":"6 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw the play Torch Song Trilogy off- and on- Broadway three, maybe four times (its been awhile).  David was played by Matthew Broderick and Estelle Getty played Ma.  As much as I love Anne Bancroft, seeing Harvery and Estelle duking it out was a joy to behold - with him towering over her by what seemed to be three feet.  I liked the movie, too...but not 'enough'.  "},{"Title":"My word...","Date":"27 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" It comes as a shock to any grown man to cry at a film.There, I've said it. I cried, and quite openly - when I saw this at a local cinema, and later when I got given a video tape (they used to be THE thing before DVD's)...Sad thing is that the woman who gave the vid to me had spoken to me in the queue in store...I had expressed my love for the film, she confessed that she was dying.Two months later, she popped the vid into my work.I had no contact with her, which made the film even more poignant. I wish I know what has gone on with her life...I have it on DVD now, hell I may even watch it tomorrow - and yes, I will cry, and laugh too, in equal measure.Harvey Fierstein and Ann Bancroft - why would you not watch this? F "},{"Title":"Pointed Comedy Drama","Date":"28 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Torch Song Trilogy contains enough fine footage to make an excellent film.  With careful trimming (down from 120 to say 90 minutes) this would be tight comedy-drama, with pertinence and verve.  It is still a film which works on a number of levels, and bears repeated viewings.The cast is greatly talented Harvey Fierstein's Arnold is a unique screen presence; Matthew Broderick's Alan is youthful and appealing; Brian Kerwin's Ed is thorougly convincing; and Anne Bancroft's Ma is clearly a blatant scene-stealer.  Where the film lags is in Fierstein's scripting and Paul Bogart's directing (and supervising the editing). Given a sharp editor, this could be condensed to provide a tighter presentation with real tempo. As it is, there are just too many sags and lags to keep it from sparkling.  Nevertheless, Torch Song Trilogy offers a look at its unusual subject material in a way which is absorbing, amusing, and touching.  "},{"Title":"I am not and never will be gay. Interesting film.","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  One of the few films in the 1980's to tackle the issue of homosexuality in cinema. This film was slightly controversial in it's release in theatres. I am not gay nor will i ever be. Yet, playrights and producers and directors have a right to make films like this under our system of government and freedom. I'll be honest this was difficult at times to watch but the film was not the worst one ever made. It was like a pasion play for the gay community and made them out to be people and not comedy stereotypes like in other films. Even in this era of tolerance sometimes it is hard to get films like these released, yet some still make it. The film in initial release was a modest success and spawned a stageplay and was based on one. Both play and movie critically acclaimed. HARVEY FIRESTEIN is a brilliant actor having been seen in such films as MRS DOUBTFIRE. His screenplay garned him much critical acclaim. "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"5 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" i have seen this movie 8 times & love it more, the acting is fabulous. i recommend it 100%. Harvey Fienstein is a great actor and does a fabulous job in all his movies. and Mathew Broderick is so cute, I think he really enjoyed making this movie.i recommend this movie and broke-back mountain. you really need to see both of these movies, because they tell a story, and the story is that this is America.if you want to see good movies contact me because i know what i'm talking about.i hope everyone sees them and does a good comment on them. "}]