[{"Title":"Stunning depiction of a gross miscarriage of justice","Date":"17 August 2001","Score":"60 out of 67 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is an extraordinary documentary in which film maker Errol Morris shows how an innocent man was convicted of murdering a policeman while the real murderer was let off scot free by the incompetent criminal justice system of Dallas, Texas. The amazing thing is that Morris demonstrates this gross miscarriage of justice in an utterly convincing manner simply by interviewing the participants. True, he reenacts the crime scene and flashes headlines from the newspaper stories to guide us, but it is simply the spoken words of the real murderer, especially in the cold-blooded, explosive audio tape that ends the film, that demonstrate not only his guilt but his psychopathic personality. And it is the spoken words of the defense attorneys, the rather substantial Edith James and the withdrawing Dennis White, and the wrongfully convicted Randall Adams that demonstrate the corrupt and incompetent methods used by the Dallas Country justice system to bring about this false conviction. Particularly chilling were the words of Judge Don Metcalfe, waxing teary-eyed, as he recalls listening to the prosecutor's summation about how society is made safe by that thin blue line of cops who give their lives to protect us from criminals. The chilling part is that while he is indulging his emotions he is allowing the cop killer to go free and helping to convict an innocent man. Almost as chilling in its revelation of just how perverted and corrupt the system has become, was the report of how a paid psychologist, as a means of justifying the death penalty, interviewed innocent Randall Adams for fifteen minutes and found him to be a danger to society, a blood-thirsty killer who would kill again.This film will get your dander up. How the cops were so blind as to not see that 16-year-old David Harris was a dangerous, remorseless psychopath from the very beginning is beyond belief. He even took a delight in bragging about his crime. As Morris suggests, it was their desire to revenge the cop killing with the death penalty that blinded them to the obvious. They would rather fry an innocent man than convict the real murderer, who because of his age was not subject to the death penalty under Texas law. When an innocent man is wrongly convicted of a murder three things happen that are disastrous One, an innocent man is in jail or even executed. Two, the real guilty party is free to kill again. And, three, the justice system is perverted. This last consequence is perhaps the worst. When people see their police, their courts, their judges condemning the innocent and letting the guilty walk free, they lose faith in the system and they begin to identify with those outside the system. They no longer trust the cops or the courts. The people become estranged from the system and the system becomes estranged from the people. This is the beginning of the breakdown of society. The Dallas cops and prosecutors and the stupid judge (David Metcalfe), who should have seen through the travesty, are to be blamed for the fact that David Harris, after he testified for the prosecution and was set free, did indeed kill again, as well as commit a number of other crimes of violence.The beautiful thing about this film is, over and above the brilliance of its artistic construction, is that its message was so clear and so powerful that it led to the freeing of the innocent Randall Adams. Although the psychopathic David Harris, to my knowledge, was never tried for the crime he committed, he is in prison for other crimes and, it is hoped, will be there for the rest of his life. Errol Morris and the other people who made this fine film can pride in these facts and in knowing that they did a job that the Dallas criminal justice system was unable to do.(Note Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote! Get it at Amazon!) "},{"Title":"One of the Greatest Docs Ever Made","Date":"6 November 2005","Score":"33 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Drama","Review":" The last few years have been a golden age for documentaries. For better or worse, Michael Moore and his undeniable ability for manipulating the cinematic medium have brought this endangered genre into theaters and living rooms across the country. Most of today's casual moviegoers are relatively new to the non-fiction feature. In the case of director Errol Morris' The Thin Blue Line (1988), one film not only managed to free an innocent man from a lifetime in prison, but it also elicited a confession from the guilty party. After collecting dust on video shelves for over fifteen years, this groundbreaking documentary has finally arrived on DVD.Unless you're a devout cinephile or a video store clerk, you have probably never heard much about Errol Morris. As a member of the former category, I've been a fan of his since first renting The Thin Blue Line more than a decade ago. As I popped in that dusty VHS cassette and sat back, I relished what many critics and documentary purists had been hotly debating Morris was taking the genre to exciting new places, whether people liked it or not.As with all successful movies, a good doc needs a good story. In 1976, Dallas County police officer Robert Wood and his partner were patrolling their district late one night. The two pulled a blue car over to the side of the road, most likely to warn the driver of a busted taillight. Moments later Officer Wood was lying on the ground, fatally wounded by a series of gunshots. His partner quickly ran to his aid, but was unable to accurately retain and recall certain information about the killer's vehicle. Was it a Vega or a Comet? Did the driver have bushy hair or a fur-lined collar? These and many other questions emerged during the rushed investigation to bring the mysterious cop-killer to justice. The film itself opens more than ten years after the murder took place. Randall Adams, an oddly charismatic good ol' boy sits before the camera, revealing what happened that unfortunate evening in late 1976. He admits to having shared a ride with a young kid named David Harris. The two apparently attended a drive-in double feature, where they both drank beer and smoked marijuana. Shortly thereafter, Adams claims to have been dropped off at his motel for the evening. Meanwhile, Morris shows us the aforementioned David Harris, now in his mid-20s, talking cryptically about that night's events. This real-life Rashomon confronts viewers with several versions of the truth. It's unclear whether Morris instinctively knew the truth was still out there when he decided to pursue this project, but his previous experience as a private investigator seems to have paid off as we witness his off- camera interrogation of these two men.Adams, responsible or not, was determined guilty by the courts and sentenced to death. Despite having a police record as long as his shadow, David Harris became the primary witness against Adams in the case. His testimony alone might not have hung Adams, but at the last minute a trio of eyewitnesses to the crime emerged to corroborate his story. In the world of Errol Morris, people are a truly strange lot, and his greatest technique is to simply let his subjects talk and talk until their inherent weirdness becomes painfully evident. Such is the case with the three last-minute witnesses in the Adams case. The more we hear them speak, the greater that uneasy feeling in our stomach and chest becomes. We are bearing witness to a catastrophic miscarriage of justice.Morris employs a bottomless bag of tricks in this landmark film. While much of the film does rely on the presence of talking heads, he adds other elements to the mix, such as old movie footage, a haunting score by renowned composer Philip Glass, and the granddaddy of documentary no-no's dramatic re-enactments. The latter tends to be the most challenged aspect of The Thin Blue Line, but Morris uses it fairly and wisely. He tells this twisted tale in ways few people could. A shot of a swaying timepiece or a concession stand popcorn machine suddenly amount to much more than what we're simply seeing on the screen. All of these pieces are being put together, little by little, in the hopes that by the end we will see the bigger picture.When this movie was released in 1988, it was marketed as a non-fiction film, because the word documentary was thought to scare off ticket-buyers. The studio's attempts to pass it off as a murder mystery failed, but the movie made a minor splash once it hit video. It picked up plenty of awards from festivals and critics groups, but the Oscars didn't even bother nominating it. In fact, the Academy didn't so much as nod in Morris' direction until early 2004, when they nominated The Fog of War, his powerful, relevant look at former U.S. Secretary of Defense, Robert McNamara. That film and Morris' two previous masterpieces, Mr. Death and Fast, Cheap & Out of Control have been available on DVD for some time. His first three films, Gates of Heaven, Vernon, Florida, and The Thin Blue Line, were recently made available either individually or in a 3-disc box set. All six of these films are unique, intriguing portals into Mr. Morris' strange universe, which is not so distant from our own. If it's dramatic situations, reality TV, or simply a great movie that you want, look no further than The Thin Blue Line. As one of the greatest documentaries of our time, it is all these things and so much more.Rating A "},{"Title":"An astonishing look at the criminal justice system.","Date":"27 January 1999","Score":"30 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Along with 1996's Paradise Lost, The Thin Blue Line should be mandatory viewing for those who believe that the criminal justice system eventually convicts only the guilty.  It is a stark and shocking look at one man behind bars and the truckloads of evidence that point toward his innocence.  Documentarian Errol Morris indirectly argues that, at the very least, this evidence should have presented a reasonable doubt to the jury, and near the end of the movie, the audience has little choice but to accept his unbelievable findings.  And the film ends with a single scene of just a tape recorder and voices that should be recognized as one of the most powerful endings to a movie, ever.  A documentary masterpiece.  "},{"Title":"If there was ever a hell on earth...","Date":"30 December 2007","Score":"28 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Drama","Review":" I grew up in a society that strongly believes in the death penalty - a religion injunction based on the Islamic code of justice. I remember being told a story (don't know if its true) of how the US President visited Saudi Arabia and on the last day of his visit he was treated to some public be-headings. When he questioned the morality of it, his host informed him that the handful of criminals punished represented the entirety of the criminal population for the past one year. The moral being that harsh punishments prevent crimes and caring too much about the aggressor leads to high crime rates. I personally lost faith in the prison system many years ago after reading about the Milgram and Stanford Prison Experiment findings. A harrowing Australian movie, Ghosts of the Civil Dead made me detest the prison system even more. In recent years Abu Ghraib and Guantanamo have left a bad taste in the mouth. So, is the answer really the death penalty and other physical measures that can't be reversed? After seeing The Thin Blue Line I just don't know. This film has really affected me.An innocent hitch-hiker, and from what I saw in the documentary a decent man, is caught at the wrong time in the wrong place - a former sundown town called Vidor, Dallas County. He is implicated in the murder of a cop and is obviously innocent of the crime. The entire legal system of Vidor is bent to prosecute him. The reason the real killer is a 16-year old and there's no benefit in finding him guilty because he can't be given the death penalty. Randall Adams, in his 20's, can and must be punished because he's a stranger to these small-minded bigots and someone must pay! Shocking that people can think that way. It makes The Ox-Bow Incident and issues it raised 70 years ago valid even today. This was no more than a judicial lynching.Fortunately, in this case Randall Adams' case was reopened and he was acquitted and released, in large measure due to this documentary and the scandal it caused. The story is exceedingly well told and the end with the tape recorded last interview with David Harris is chilling. I can't say that after watching this I still have a clear opinion of what punishment should fit a crime, but it has certainly made me question the validity of the mentality present in so many Muslim countries. Who is to say there can be no similar travesty of justice there? "},{"Title":"Innovative Plus","Date":"7 August 2004","Score":"22 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Drama","Review":" I can imagine a lot of people sort of nodding off at the idea of a documentary. High schools show too many, on subjects like the life cycle of the loggerhead turtle. I see people snoozing at the thought of yet another educational non-fiction film.Well, I guess there was a period when they carried a bit more chic than in recent years. Flaherty made some money. And Mondo Cane, of course, if that was a documentary.But the whole field seems to have been revolutionized lately by Ken Burns and Errol Morris, the former with The Civil War series on PBS and the latter with this film. Morris had made an earlier movie, mostly about an animal cemetery, but the subject seems to have had limited popular appeal.The Thin Blue Line however is about the shooting death of a police officer and the subsequent conviction, imprisonment, and death sentence of an innocent man.The movie really IS innovative. There is no narration, for one thing. For another, the talking heads we see aren't labeled at the bottom of the screen -- Chester Smith, Accountant at Robbin, Cheatham, and Frisk Law Firm. Instead, Morris shows us close ups of newspaper clippings and other printed materials which just happen to mention the name of the person we are about to be introduced to. It's a small thing, true, but I can't recall the device's ever having been used before. It's unobtrusive and effective. (That's the sort of thing I mean when I call this film innovative.) The events are restaged and presented again and again from different points of view, the whole being carefully constructed, like a jigsaw puzzle, but a jigsaw puzzle for children, easy to comprehend. And it's easy to see why Morris latched on to this topic. Not only is it interesting per se, an investigation into the justice system in Texas, in which almost all the authority figures seem intent on extinguishing forfeited lives, but the actual performers we see on screen are remarkably at ease in the presence of the camera. They smile conspiratorially, practically winking at the camera. They look dramatically towards heaven and say things like, It's crazy. But all in a pleasant Texas drawl. Nobody gets excited. Nobody breaks down and sobs. (There's innovation for you!) Nobody get angry and shouts at the camera. It's all very smooth.But although the performances are good, they are still performances. No one seems to admit having made a mistake. Everyone enters his house justified. Randall Adams, the innocent guy who was railroaded into the slams because he was 28 years old and could therefore be given the death penalty, has been in jail long enough to know what he's about when he presents his case. He has a practiced, wounded appearance and manner, although he describes his experiences as if they happened to somebody else. You pick up things in jail, along with the tattoos. David Harris, the actual perp, smiles and shrugs disarmingly, and he keeps saying I guess and whatever. As cool as an ice cube in Sweetwater. He is, in fact, a textbook-perfect example of what used to be called a psychopath. He's pleasant looking, charming, and utterly without any conscience.In some ways the most interesting character is the spaced-out blonde who claims to have eyewitnessed the killing and identifies Adams as the murderer in court. She's the most interesting because her motives are the most obscure. Everyone else's goals are clear. Adams wants to save his neck. The prosecutor wants another conviction. But this babe is really something.She's constructed an old TV detective program with herself as the central figure.Two additional points. One is that the psychiatrist known as Doctor Death spent only 15 minutes with Adams in prison before testifying that Adams was an incurable murderer. I'm laughing as I write this. Anyway, Dr. Death gave Adams two tests. The first, which Adams describes as a lot of circles and squiggly lines, is the Bender Gestalt Test which was originally designed to measure brain damage. In the second part of the examination, Adams is asked to explain the meaning of a couple of adages. A rolling stone gathers no moss, for example. It used to be thought that schizophrenics were given to concrete thinking and that they had trouble reasoning abstractly enough to interpret these old sayings. It's not used anymore. One thing always bothered me about it anyway. One of the items is A new broom sweeps clean, and I could never figure out EXACTLY what that was supposed to mean.The second point is that Adams was given a new trial and released after this film was shown. In other words, Errol Morris saved Randall Adam's life, which would otherwise have been spent in prison. So what does Adams do after he's out of prison? He sues Errol Morris for having taken advantage of him! In TV interviews explaining his suit, Adams uses exactly the same bewildered expressions and gestures of helplessness that he does in this film. At least those eleven years weren't a complete waste of time because he obviously learned something, or whatever. "},{"Title":"A simple and matter-of-fact condemnation of a miscarriage of justice","Date":"15 October 2008","Score":"13 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Drama","Review":" Randall Adams was a drifter who was picked up by runaway teenager David Harris when he ran out of petrol. The two men hang out for a while, drank some beer, went to the movies, smoked some weed. At this point Adams says he went his own way to his motel with his brother, watched TV and went to sleep. Alternatively, Harris says the two men stayed together were stopped by the police when Adams took out a gun and opened fire on a police officer before driving off. This film follows the court case which charged Adams for the murder of a police officer, with the underage Harris (who was ineligible for the death penalty) as one of the main witnesses against him.I do enjoy a Perry Mason film because, after a solid hour of red herrings and question-marks, it always come down to the big reveal with Mason demanding isn't it true? ISN'T IT? as everyone gasps, the guilty confesses on the stand and justice is done. Sadly this is not a documentary but a basic TVM series and what the Thin Blue Line does so effectively is to get passed all our ideas of how justice works from films and presents a near-unquestionable miscarriage of justice. At no point does the guilty person get totally exposed (although the suggestion is very clearly there as to who it was) but instead Morris goes after the idea of reasonable doubt (which, if there is any, then the charged should not have been convicted). Starting at the very start of the fateful evening, Morris uses interviews and some reconstructions to tell the story of what happened from various points of view &#150; initially with a focus very much on the events as the courts saw it.From here he then uses these same contributions to inject a huge amount of doubt into the vast majority of the case for the prosecution. If you want to find it, there are things in here that could be taken as anti-death penalty but for me the film is pro-justice as opposed to anti-anything as it is essentially reinforcing the importance of reasonable doubt. By virtue of doing this, everyone involved looks bad and Morris wisely doesn't need to pick on anybody in particular directly. It is fascinating as a film but I can understand the occasional claim of it being dull &#150; I cannot agree with it but I can understand because, in a world where excess is the norm (style, action, violence, opinion) anything that is actually restrained and even handed could be taken as dull.This modern moaning aside though, The Thin Blue Line is a well made film that simply and matter-of-factly condemns the justice system as it applied to Randall Adams. One of Morris' best films and worth seeking out. "},{"Title":"Rough justice","Date":"12 August 2008","Score":"10 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Drama","Review":" I first saw this film not longer after its initial release some 20 years ago and images and scenes from it have stayed with me ever since, so that it was with considerable anticipation that I re-watched it again recently. Down the years I can still recall Randall Adams drawling in his unforgettable voice The kid scares me, the ever-revolving red light on the cop-car and most of all Philip Glass' wonderful, hypnotic music. The depiction of the fateful night of the cold-blooded murder of the policeman is shown from, almost literally, every possible angle, conveyed in a highly stylised way with almost every speculated remembrance of the doubtful list of every dubious (and are they ever dubious!) witness played out on the screen, the effect, in so doing, to completely explode their fantasist recollections, as was no doubt the director's aim. The reconstructions are set alongside filmed interviews of most of the main protagonists (with the main exception of the second cop in the car who witnessed the killing). As you watch these, the centrepiece clearly becomes the contrasting testimony of the almost-certain murderer David Harris with the wronged Randall Adams, the first coming across from the start as duplicitous and uncaring, the latter as bemused but reasoning. I was particularly taken with the eruditeness of Adams, who suppresses his inner rage with admirable restraint as he points the viewer time and again back to the evidence. As an indictment of the American criminal justice system, it hits home hard; it appears that investigation standards head for the hills especially when the law has a cop-killer to nail. Thankfully the miscarriage of justice was eventually resolved although it makes you grateful for the coincidence which led director Morris to change the subject course of his original project to instead highlight Adams' case culminating in his release soon after the film was first shown. The film however is more than a crusading documentary and there is much for students and admirers of the film-makers art to enjoy. Unforgettable, really, almost haunting, and proof if needed that truth really is stranger than fiction. "},{"Title":"Into The Thin Blue Line Of Fire","Date":"25 February 2007","Score":"13 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Drama","Review":" And thus, Dallas County, Texas, in 1977, successfully prosecuted Randall Dale Adams, a lowly hitchhiker, for a crime Adams did not commit.Adams was convicted and sentenced to death for the 1976 murder of a Dallas cop. The Thin Blue Line, by Errol Morris, is a documentary that recounts this infamous case, by way of interviews and reenactments. It's the story of a terrible injustice, one that almost cost an innocent man his life.What is so frightening is the fervor of Dallas officials to inflict the death penalty on someone ... anyone ... They weren't about to let the cop murder go unpunished. Adams was the most convenient target. Eventually, the truth would come out. But Adams would spend twelve years in prison, some of those years on death row. After his release, Adams never received any monetary compensation, or even an apology, from the State Of Texas, for that injustice. Interestingly, more than one Dallas County official associated with the Adams case was also associated with the aftermath of the JFK assassination, thirteen years earlier.Morris' documentary would have been easier to follow had it had subtitles, to indicate the name of the person being interviewed. Also, some of the film's material consisted of irrelevant flashback footage and repetitive reenactments. Further, the narrative presentation was at times confusing. Nevertheless, the main issue here is the powerful true-life story.If you can get around the technical weaknesses of this film, The Thin Blue Line is a gripping documentary about a real life case of American injustice, in a city that is notorious for its history of botched criminal investigations. "},{"Title":"Subject matter vs. presentation","Date":"7 September 2004","Score":"15 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Having seen two other Errol Morris documentaries, I expected that there would be a Philip Glass soundtrack, some flashy camera work, and perhaps some reenactments during 'The Thin Blue Line'. I have long struggled with my opinions on Morris' work, mainly because I am more of a purist when it comes to documentaries. I want to see footage, photographs, interviews, etc. that are going to back up a strong story, not a lot of camera angles, stark white backgrounds, and a post-modernist score.'The Thin Blue Line' had the latter presentation, so I immediately was slightly turned off &#150; until the subject of the film was presented. The location is Dallas, and it is the 1970's. Late one night, a squad car pulls over a car that does not have its lights on, but as soon as the policeman reaches the driver's side door, he is shot several times and murdered. The car pulls away before the policeman's partner is able to ascertain the license plate number or even the exact make and model of the vehicle. What follows is a veritable witch hunt for the killer (or killers) that ends with one man in jail who is professing his innocence, and another man, a career criminal who gets away veritably scot-free. Through various interviews with the players involved; detectives, alleged eye-witnesses, the accused themselves, Morris seeks to find out the truth in a case that comes down to a 'he-said/he-said' situation. 'The Thin Blue Line' is expert film-making in the investigative sense. Morris does his job in presenting as many facts as possible. The case finally came to a head a couple of years after the film was finished, but it is documented as being instrumental in the reexamination of the facts. I still don't necessarily care for Morris' style, but it cannot be argued that 'The Thin Blue Line' is an excellent documentary, and that he definitely has an eye for picking very compelling subjects. --Shelly  "},{"Title":"Great documentary experience","Date":"21 August 2002","Score":"14 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Regarding the issue of manipulation, lets face it people, all documentaries are manipulative - every documentary filmmaker is attempting to make a point, whether or not they care to admit it.  It is the documentaries that give the impression of being objective that are, in fact, the most manipulative.  In the case of The Thin Blue Line the purpose of the documentary is clear, and the viewer is not tricked into believing that they are watching something objective.  Instead, it is quite upfront about its purpose, and therefore is a much more honest piece of work.  People should never accept anything they see in a documentary as fact, it's important to understand that documentaries are simply an attempt to present the director's perspective of a real-life situation.  It is the great documentaries that present their perspective in a convincing manner, and do so without boring the viewer to sleep.  Here The Thin Blue Line succeeds very well it is powerful, it is engaging, and it's extremely convincing.  Does that mean that everyone should be convinced?  Lets hope not.  However, it certainly should give everyone something to think about.The only real problem with the film is its over-use of re-enactments where they are not really that necessary.  For example, there is an image of a clock, representing the futility of time, which is too long for its own good.  The milkshake scene was also (intentionally)annoying.  However, this is a minor problem, and not one that should bother most people.  Overall great film, and highly recommended. "}{"Title":"Justice Denied","Date":"28 January 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Drama","Review":" Errol Morris' The Thin Blue Line documents the 1976 murder of Dallas police officer Robert Wood. David Harris, a young drifter, was initially arrested for the crime, but later testified that another man, Randall Adams, was actually responsible for the murder. Adams claimed to know nothing about the murder. Local authorities believed Harris, however, and Adams was eventually charged and given the death sentence. As the film begins, Adams has been in jail for 11 years, and Harris is serving time for an unrelated crime.Using dramatic reconstructions and many eye-witness testimonies, Morris' documentary dives headlong into the case. It's a Rashomon styled parade of conflicting testimonies and overlapping subjective viewpoints, the truth of the murder murky and shapeless, until things begin to focus. When the crime begins to coalesce, a pitiful picture begins to take shape rampant police corruption led to Adams being falsely convicted, Harris emerges as a juvenile psychopath, police incompetence is exposed, scapegoats are exonerated, corroborating evidence and testimonies are undermined, the moral character of lawyers, psychiatrists, law enforcement officers and expert witnesses is called into question, and even the testimonies of regular civilians are seen to be wholly biased, easily swayed by personal desires for money and fame. The film's point trust no one, test the gods, and keep probing until you find the truth.The Thin Blue Line was well received when it released in the late 1980s, but it would be a number of years before its influence on the documentary genre would become apparent. Morris' dramatic reconstructions of the crime &#x96; filmed in nightmarish, noirish hues and resemblant of a David Lynch film - talking heads, and overall aesthetic/approach would give rise to an entire documentary industry, influencing countless TV crime docs, court TV stations and investigative programmes. Adding weight to Morris' visuals is a mounting, powerful score by Philip Glass, which pulls portentously down on the picture like a hang man's noose.Still, for a film purporting to search for the truth, The Thin Blue Line is at times a thin work. Suspicious holes in Adams' memory are skirted over, and though the film places human faces on those ignored men and women who live on the fringes of society, either economically or psychologically, too little effort is put into delving into the lives of these characters. Subsequent writing on Harris (who has since been executed), for example, has demonstrated that he too was a victim, alcoholic and suicidal at the mere age of 11, and condemned to live with a violently abusive family. Also missing from the film is any trace of homosexuality, any trace of the psycho-sexual confusion these two men were experiencing and any understanding how their marginalization may have affected their sexuality. Indeed, psychopaths (both sexes tend to find psychopaths notoriously charming and sexy) are disproportionately bisexual, and many journalists and writers have since claimed that a bisexual or sexually confused Harris rejected Adams' sexual advances on the night of the murder, and that Adams is himself homosexual. But such avenues aren't explored in the film, nor are there any hints that Adams' sexuality played a role in the police convicting him (Texas was, and still is, renowned for its Gay Persecution Laws).Still, The Thin Blue Line is primarily interested in police corruption, and along these lines it works well. Morris makes it clear that the police failed to follow up on certain evidence merely because such evidence conflicted with the outcome they wanted to achieve. In other words, the police, like all human beings, engage in rationalizations, and tend to work backwards from their preconceived notions or expectations. Today, experts estimate that about ten thousand people in the US are wrongfully convicted of serious crimes each year (which is roughly between 5 and 14 percent of all convictions). Sixty four percent of the people exonerated of serious crimes had been misidentified (usually erroneous cross-racial identifications), fifteen percent had false confessions forced out of them, and 44 percent were subject to prosecution witnesses committing perjury. For a similar, and arguably better documentary covering this same topic, see Murder on a Sunday Morning.8/10 &#x96; Though an influential and haunting documentary, time and countless imitators have rendered The Thin Blue Line somewhat slow and repetitive. Worth one viewing. "},{"Title":"A film that can really, really make you angry","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Thin Blue line shows how wrong our legal system is here in the US. Trials are run not as a celebration of justice but as a purveyor of revenge. Prosecuting attorneys are not men who believe in doing what's right, but what will most successfully add to their reputation. A psychologist testifies against over 99% of those criminals he interviews so that they will get the death penalty. The police choose to believe a juvenile delinquent's testimony against a man who has never done anything majorly illegal in his life just because they cannot send a 16 year old to the chair, and they cannot fail to execute someone over the death of a police officer. Every single police officer and witness who had anything to do with the trial was discreditable, yet no discrediting evidence was ever allowed in the court. You may have guessed that this all takes place in Texas.Even with the power it carries, The Thin Blue Line has some structural problems. I wish that we had been given some more information on Randall Adams (although maybe there just wasn't too much to say). And I wish that we would have been able to hear the thin blue line closing argument of the prosecuting attorney, a speech that made the judge's eyes water. If you like this film, search out Paradise Lost The Child Murders of Robin Hood Hills, a documentary obviously inspired by this. That one is a little more convincing and powerful than The Thin Blue Line (although this one apparently helped to get Adams off the hook; of course, with the amount of evidence that the film amassed, it is difficult to let the man rot without one more chance). "},{"Title":"A boring attempt at a great story","Date":"15 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Drama","Review":" I'm not going to knock the incredible injustice. The story itself is not boring it's just the way they told which was dull, it just put me to sleep. They also repeatedly showed reenactments of the crime. I keep thinking something different is going to happen from the last time they showed it but no. I don't get why they had to keep showing the same thing over and over. Even those telling the story kept repeating what they'd already said. I am sure this could have been made into a 30 minute documentary if everything wasn't repeated. I really struggled to stay awake watching this. I am very surprised it's got such a high rating. The only positive I can say is it will probably make a good movie. "},{"Title":"True lies","Date":"11 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Drama","Review":" This well-prepared and compelling documentary has one or two moments of brilliance that lift it above the average. The first is the reconstruction of the crime at the centre of the story. A nightmarish, abstracted scene that David Lynch might have created, this drama plays over and over again, never going beyond the perimeter of the camera's widest angle. It not only traps the event in a space but also in time. The second is the editorial care with which the director frames serial offender David Harris - only in the final shot of this man speaking do we see him reach up to scratch his face, revealing his handcuffs.The story itself is a blatant miscarriage of justice (postscripts record Adams' acquittal). The most compelling thing is to watch those involved speak about the event. The belligerent and defensive self-righteousness of bigoted Dallas officers and a self-important judge bloat the screen; the calm equanimity of defence lawyers, detective Sam Kittrell and even Adams himself are as powerful an advocate as the evidence itself. There is very little music but what there is is the stripped down, undulating underscoring of Philip Glass. It's occasionally difficult to make out exactly what's being said given the mix and the nature of the vernacular and accents but that's a minor point for a major document. 7/10 "},{"Title":"shocking!","Date":"27 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Drama","Review":" I went into this movie not knowing what to expect, and boy was I surprised! This documentary tells the story of the murder of an innocent police officer from the different points of view of the people involved with the case. The whole movie has a very creepy feel to it, and I actually felt nervous throughout the whole movie, as if I was watching a horror film! The whole case is extremely interesting, and all the twists and turns of it kept me on the edge of my seat. I found myself trying to pick apart the case myself. The only problem I had with the movie, which is minor, is that it was told in a kind of fashion that had each time period (trial and accident) kind of mixed into each other, which is a creative way of telling the story, but I honestly don't like it in most movies because it can get very confusing. However, this doesn't really get too confusing and is still pretty easy to follow. With an ending I was not really left me speechless, I say this is a must see for anyone who is into trials or murders, likes documentaries, or is just looking for a good mystery type film (even though it is a documentary). It is one of the best documentaries I have actually seen, and so I give it 9/10 stars. "},{"Title":"a documentary that changed the rules","Date":"7 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Drama","Review":" Erroll Morris' groundbreaking documentary is an unlikely hybrid of investigative journalism and creative art, revisiting a Texas murder case compromised by legal errors and human ignorance. The film assembles a compelling presentation of facts, evidence, clues and speculation surrounding the arrest and conviction of (possibly) an innocent man, accused of murdering a Dallas cop. But watching it can sometimes be a frustrating experience, because all the available information points, convincingly, to another suspect, ex-con David Harris the same witness whose testimony sent Randall Adams to death row.The film happened almost by accident Morris became sidetracked while researching another project and began to investigate, on film, the case of Adams and Harris, two strangers whose paths crossed in Dallas one night in November of 1976. What the documentary maker discovered from his own methodical accumulation of clues, rumors, and offhand testimony was an overwhelming case against the young drifter David Harris, who clearly fingered Adams for his own crime. Morris was aided by a convincing and articulate defense presented by Adams himself, whose calm recitation of facts is often more hypnotic than the ominous Philip Glass music score.Morris reconstructs the case using old film footage, odd graphic digressions, dramatic reenactments, and interviews with almost everyone involved, including the likely true killer, who tacitly admits his guilt in the final scene. The film is more artfully arranged than most documentaries, and yet is so honest in its pursuit of the truth that it proved instrumental in correcting a miscarriage of justice (after it opened, the case against Harris was reopened, and eventually overturned).The director himself remains (as usual) all but invisible throughout the film, except for his trademark deadpan irreverence (the word blue in the title is colored red, and so forth). A tragic miscarriage of justice would seem an inappropriate source of laughs, but the streak of dark humor underlines the sometimes absurd workings of an imperfect legal system. "},{"Title":"What's the Truth?","Date":"13 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Drama","Review":" Apart from the fact that this investigative crime documentary freed a wrongly sentenced man from prison, which is astonishing in itself, the pic is very solidly crafted, indeed. Morris gets the viewer deeply immersed into the obscurely working wheels of justice.But the story itself is so strong, one almost oversees some formal flaws along the road. The almost constant soundtrack, as good as it is, gets rather annoying. The restaged scenes with actors look slightly amateurish. And the focus on the case itself prevents more general, profound thoughts on all the issues at hand to surface.Still, it's a well-made doc anyway.7 out of 10 unreliable witnesses "},{"Title":"The unexpected (and untold) tale of redemption","Date":"31 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Drama","Review":" There was a point in this film when I started to despair at the parade of the dregs of humanity on display in the film, and by this I don't mean the ones involved in the murder. They are the incompetent cop, the inept detectives who are oblivious to truth or bare facts staring at them, the lying witnesses, the crooked psychiatrist who gave dishonest testimony and a self-deceiving and perverted judiciary uninterested in truth and hell-bent on executing people.But something happened which redeemed the whole sordid affair, and it came from an unexpected source, the apparently psychotic young man David Harris who seemed to kill with no remorse. He declared Randall Adams innocent at the end, and implied his own guilt. He later testified (not in the film) in court that he did killed the cop and set Randalll Adams free. The judiciary is extremely reluctant in admitting their own mistakes - watch another documentary Paradise Lost The Child Murders at Robin Hood Hills, read about its aftermath and see how blatant the judiciary can be in ignoring its obvious mistakes. Without David Harris admission Randall Adams may very well still have stayed in prison. David Harris appeared in this film to be a young man who was traumatised, through no fault of his own, by the death of his brother and the subsequent punishment by rejection by his father. It perhaps does explain his apparent callous response to death, and says something about the damage that can be done to children by their parents by what they did. Understanding this, or the confession by David Harris of his own crimes, doesn't mitigated against the murders committed by David Harris. But he did a good thing at the end, a redeeming act in a world sinking in a morass of corruption and lies.Someone more cynical might say that he was already in death row for another murder, admitting this murder is of no great consequence, and it may just be an attempt to appear a better man than he actually is, or that it is actually the cleverness of Errol Morris that coaxed and elicited Harris's confession. Perhaps, perhaps not. From the film he appeared to me to be intelligent and surprisingly appealing, far less calculating and readier to admit his guilt once confronted with the truth than others in the film. Compare him to the people who directly or indirectly condemned innocent people to death (or in other words, committing murder through the judicial process) - for example, the Dr Death, who to his death refused to admit any wrong-doing, and his funeral was attended by many of the prosecutors who found his testimony useful in sending people, innocent or otherwise, to their death. These people are happy to execute innocent people, but refuse to admit they are wrong when confronted with the evidence. They are perhaps beyond redemption, and these are the people we place our trusted on to do the right thing and make the society a safer place. I have no moral or ethical objection to death penalty, but this film must make anyone wonder if the right people are in charge of making decision of life and death, or that given people on show here, if it is ever possible for find these right people. David Harris was executed in 30 June 2004. "},{"Title":"This saved a man from life imprisonment","Date":"17 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film caused a man who was formerly on death row and whose sentence was commuted to life imprisonment to be pardoned by the Governor of Texas. It's a documentary of just how badly justice can miscarry.Relentlessly drawing you to a conclusion with circumstantial evidence, by systematically discrediting questionable witnesses and by showing there was a means and a desire to prosecute the wrong man and why - you are gradually led to believe the unthinkable - that the DA purposely convicted the wrong man with the aid of corrupt police officers and a sympathetic judge to satisfy the need for revenge for a murdered police officer.This film proves that it's indeed possible for a completely innocent man to end up on death row in this country simply because it's politically expedient.  This is a film that will give you a good reason to question the death penalty because it demonstrates that it could have just as easily been you that was convicted of a crime you didn't commit.Errol Morris uncovers evidence systematically and visually demonstrates all the possibilities to you the viewer who are substituted as the juror. Some may find this movie ponderous and slow but the impact it had on me by the final evidence presented will live with me forever.  This movie is an absolute gem, and it's too bad it's becoming forgotten because it's one of the most important films to have ever been made.  I was lucky enough to be shown this film during an English class in college, everybody should be so lucky. "},{"Title":"Truth?","Date":"29 November 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Drama","Review":" A stunning documentary by Errol Morris which was absurdly written off as pseudo-journalism, and overly-subjective, by the critics at the time. Morris makes no pretense of being objective, with his topic; in fact, the actual topic of the film is subjectivity. A man is convicted for murder in Texas on extremely thin evidence but the opaque wheels of justice simply crank him into death row without a second thought. Morris worked as an investigative journalist in uncovering the man's innocence, made the film, and eventually got his conviction overturned because of its persuasiveness. Scenes of the crime are reconstructed and dramatized by Morris to fill in the point of view of the interviewee (not to demonstrate the truth), and the film gradually and compellingly puts together the missing fragments of the case, and turns truth on its backside. This is a brilliant documentary, and I'm not employing hyperbole when I say it is the In Cold Blood of the cinematic form. "}{"Title":"food for thought","Date":"27 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Drama","Review":" I rated the movie as excellent, but this is irrelevant, given that it actually helped to free an innocent man wrongfully imprisoned.The movie sheds some light in what the 'wheels of justice' are like. At least in 1976 Dallas. To me there are two main aspects to what happened. There must have been an initial motive to go after Randall Adams instead of David Harris, and then, once he was made the main suspect, there had to be some explanation to why he is convicted, despite almost everything pointing in the other direction.Adams was 28, whereas lil' David was 16. The movie pointed out that this would've been enough, since only Adams was eligible for death. In addition, and perhaps more important, David was from Vidor, Texas, whereas Adams was from out of state.There is something else that, even though is never talked about, must have been in people's minds.I first thought it hard to understand why a 28 year old would spend an evening with a 16 year old. Moreover, after it was clear that David had guns and even had shot some rounds in the air, Adams still goes with him to a drive-in movie, which included a soft-core feature (albeit a heterosexual one). They also talk about the possibility of David spending the night in the same hotel, which does not materialize because Adams' brother did not like 'those things'. Even after this is made clear, David still hangs around a bit, and Adams, leaning on the car, says he can help out, and offers to try to get him a job. Some viewers believed Adams was in the car during the shooting (because the story about the rounds shot in the air?). No witness claims to have seen two people in the car. David, however, says he slid in his seat when the officer came to the car. This would put him in a rather awkward position, if you follow my thoughts. It's hard to gauge how important this was, but I'd take a wild guess that Dallas is not exactly a gay-friendly city.As for how this eventually only got worse, a few things caught my attention. The prosecutor's perfect record was not to be stained by this case; the first female officer on duty was not to have such a bad start, despite her obvious incompetence; and finally the life of a (texan) 16 year old boy was not to be ruined, as put by one of the police officers, even though he was the obvious suspect. Unfortunately, as Adams himself hints at, these have nothing to do with who was actually likely to have committed the crime.At some point in the movie, an officer makes the remark that never had it taken so long for a cop-killing to be resolved. One can only wonder how many similar stories didn't make it to the big screen.As a closing remark, I found Adams' interpretation of 'a rolling stone gathers no moss' a bit weird. As for all those on the prosecution's sideDum excusare credis, accusas "},{"Title":"Excellent documentary, problematic presentation","Date":"20 November 2000","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Drama","Review":"  You can read all the positive comments about this documentary from other users. Yet, I have one major disagreement, although it's been a long time since I watched it. It seems to me that the director has done no real effort of presenting his excellent material in the way that it deserves to be presented. For example, there are almost no subtitles and you have trouble remembering who's talking  about what in each scene. Other than that, it should be remembered and noticed that this documentary was crucial in the release of the wrongfully imprisoned  and convicted man it portrays. "},{"Title":"Very interesting","Date":"12 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Drama","Review":" Considering the acclaim for this, perhaps I expected something a little more unconventional. The film, is certainly a fabulous mood piece. The director is not afraid to have different recreations based on different peoples' memories, and he certainly revels in trying to come up with the ambiguities in all of the films. The film does start off ambiguous by the start, but somewhere along the way the scales tip in one side and you're then firmly planted on one of the two sides, and all of this is of course intentional, and there is enough speculation to make you confident in your belief but still not actual evidence, which does leave the whole thing open by the end. "},{"Title":"The Music ... Dear God! The Music!","Date":"8 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Drama","Review":" Before anything else, I must say that the Philip Glass score sets the tone for this masterpiece. Once you hear the opening track you will get chills--especially for those who love the true-crime genre. Glass must have known exactly what a crime documentary needed in order to take it to the next level. I don't know of any great movies in our modern era of film-making that do not have great soundtracks. I just knew this was going to be something special when I heard the opening score. Isolating the movie to just the story itself would lead me to giving it only 8 out of 10 stars--and the soundtrack makes it a solid 10 stars.Now to the film itself. This is what paved the way for groundbreaking documentaries such as Paradise Lost and The Jinx. It moves you to want to get off your couch and start making changes to our over- miscarried and crooked American justice system. It makes you downright frustrated that innocent people can and will be used as scapegoats for prosecutors to gain higher conviction ratings.A great quote from the movie, ... it takes a great prosecutor to convict an innocent man.... It's sad, but it holds so much truth to what we witness today, even more so in the year 2015, as opposed to when this movie was made about 30 years ago.I now add this to my collection of epic true-crime movies/series(in no particular order) Zodiac Capote Paradise Lost The Jinx The Thin Blue Line "},{"Title":"Errol Morris documentary","Date":"25 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Drama","Review":" In 1976, Dallas police officer Robert W Wood was killed during a traffic stop. His partner was one of the first female police officers in Dallas. The car was stolen and she had problems recalling the event. Randall Dale Adams was eventually convicted for the crime. David Ray Harris had bragged about the killing but later claimed that it was Randall who killed the cop. David had picked up Randall hitchhiking and spend the day together. While Randall claimed to be with his brother, David claimed that he was with Randall who shot the cop.This is a breakthrough Errol Morris documentary. The case itself is interesting and the fact that it actually helped overturn the case is impressive. There is a hypnotic beauty to the reenactments along with the Philip Glass music. The movie does take a little while to lay down the incident. I think a more straight forward recitation of the main facts of the case with narration at the beginning would be better. This is a ground breaking documentary. "},{"Title":"The Thin Blue Line","Date":"23 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Thin Blue Line had both a fictional and non-fictional feel to it. Most documentaries, today, seem to follow on this same path. Well, at least the good ones do. What gave the film such a non-fictional feel to it were the on camera interviews and the actually shots of the characters written statements; the confession, the newspaper clippings, and court information. It was that hard evidence that grabbed the viewer and threw him in to the documentary. Also, I enjoyed how the characters were placed in front of the camera to help show they were conducting an interview. Even though no questions were asked to them, the audience could still get the feeling that they were being prosecuted right then and there. There were also elements to the story that gave it more of a Hollywood feel. This would be the reenactment of the shooting and other parts of the night. It was the overall style of how it was filmed that gave it this tone. They transitioning of different car brands, two different vehicles seemed to dissolve in to each other and the zooming in on the license plate and rear lights. Also, the over-dramatic slow motion close up of the milk shake seemed very Hollywood. I have not viewed many documentaries outside of the ones from class, the ones I have seen are mostly sports related. I am not very familiar with the troubled conviction of old school documents. To me, The Thin Blue Line seemed to fit with the other documents that I have seen. However, I did find The Thin Blue Line to be very manipulative and deceiving. The whole time they are constantly trying to trick you about who the actual killer is. They did a great job confusing the audience in many ways; the actual story, who to cheer for, and are these cops corrupt. "},{"Title":"Misjustice, prejudice in a documentary that is marred by time","Date":"6 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Drama","Review":" This film is marked by time, especially where things are dramatised by actors and some suggestive effects, e.g. a malt flying through the air. Despite that, the much more interesting stuff is caught from the interview objects, especially the Houston police at the beginning. I mean, first and foremost, the antifeministic approach from the white, middle-aged police who really wanted to nail the female police who failed to shoot her colleague's killers as they left.Still, the prosecutor and the judge is the real enigma; how the original verdict went the way they went is incredible but, as anybody who is into the legal system and its prejudices will tell you, some times a judge and prosecution just want to condemn a person and won't stop at anything to do so.Other interviews are quite something as well, especially one with the couple who semi-witnessed (or did they?) the shooting.Well worth a check, this one, despite being marred by time. "},{"Title":"Flawless Victory","Date":"20 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Drama","Review":" A film that successfully argued that a man (Randall Dale Adams) was wrongly convicted for murder by a corrupt justice system in Dallas County, Texas.Morris was originally going to film a documentary about prosecution psychiatrist, Dr. James Grigson, known as Doctor Death, who testified in more than 100 trials that resulted in death sentences. In almost every instance, Dr. Grigson would, after examining a defendant, testify that he had found the individual in question to be an incurable sociopath, who it was one hundred per cent certain would kill again.This lead Morris to find an example, Adams, where this incurable sociopath status was in doubt. But we also still have that critique of Grigson -- we see what he said about Adams, a man with no history of criminal acts or violence, after only fifteen minutes with him.This change in focus lead to a better film, most likely (though Erroll Morris has an incredible track record for good documentaries). We now get to see a wider picture of eyewitness testimony, the prejudice of the area (which includes a thriving KKK) and more.Adams' case was reviewed and he was released from prison approximately a year after the film's release. Now that is the sign of a powerful film, and what makes documentaries so great. "},{"Title":"Worrying","Date":"6 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Drama","Review":" I am in UK and - to some degree - this film was spoilt for me by the diction of many of the cast - how much better this would have been with added subtitles. The overall thrust of the film however is worrying. In another case (and sadly i cannot now trace the reference) a US Judge said - on appeal - innocence is not enough to overturn a jury verdict.As someone else said there was a desire to convict at almost any price and kill someone for the death of a policeman. This was possibly the attitude in UK in the 1950s and 1960s when miscarriages occurred with the knowledge (if not full understanding) of the police.I believe that in US the DA is an elected official and this may have a lot to do with the failures it takes an excellent prosecutor to convict an innocent man.Hopefully in UK and US these days things are better. I do not hold my breath though "},{"Title":"Indicted! Texas justice is suspect!","Date":"5 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is a timeless classic in every sense. How long have there been innocent people accused and punished for crimes at the hands of shallow people for shallow purposes? What an excellent review and indictment of the legal system of Texas, of which I am a resident, and the legal system in general.A dude gets into a car with a psychopath and his life is changed forever. The story is well known by now-if not by this documentary, then by countless others.I would believe that the person responsible for this expose is intimately familiar with the concept of false accusations. The horror illustrated herein is magnified by the factor that the state of Texas (or any other state) is willing to buy into any cheap lie or sideshow which lends convenience to the apparatus responsible for obtaining a conviction, whatever the cost.As one who has been falsely accused, I was riveted. If I only had the talent and resources of this author. "}{"Title":"Ever heard of the proverbial scapegoat?","Date":"22 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Drama","Review":" A car thief. A juvenile. Someone hitching a ride. Police on patrol, a routine check. A dead officer, brutally shot - instant murder, on sight. There's bragging about a killing. And a memory gap. A search for a killer. Five witnesses. An unanimous verdict. No doubts whatsoever. A death sentence. Finally an execution. - These at least are some facts of the case involving Randall Adams and David Harris, who met by chance at a Thanksgiving weekend on their way to Dallas. Components to form a larger picture, a picture that documentary filmmaker Errol Morris chose to redraw when he stumbled upon the case and grew more and more puzzled with its alarmingly unchallenged outcome before court. How does it all fit together, as the stories of the suspects obviously don't match? A private investigator himself at the time, Morris poses the right questions to everyone involved - Adams himself, Harris, the guy he hitched a ride from, the police, various detectives, witnesses, the attorneys. He also illustrates their versions on how the killing happened with contradicting re-enactments, usually a clear no-go for documentaries. Morris didn't know better what was expected of him at the time, but presenting the material cinematically - with close-ups, slow-motion and a haunting score by Phillip Glass - leaves a huge impact. However, except from his editing process, Morris lets the impressions stand as they are before the viewer without commenting himself. The result is intense and involving, spine-tingling, gripping and grizzly, and the last images will leave you shell-shocked and speechless. Criminals always lie, you know. Innocents usually tell the truth. Police should have an inkling in this regard.The riveting story of Randall Adams and David Harris doesn't end with the film. However, your trust in the Texan judiciary system might have reached its limits once you've seen Errol Morris' filmed investigation in the case. Now what about that thin blue line? Between good and evil, citizens and perpetrators? Where is it? Who draws it? Who blurs it? Are the interests of such people the same as yours, the citizen's? It all comes down to the question Do you feel safe and protected by the law? Think again. "},{"Title":"Injustice and the system that condoned it.","Date":"31 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is so powerful and well done! An unbelievable but true story.One of the best documentaries I've ever seen because it makes you both wonder and worry about how the justice system works. How many innocents are caught in the system and how difficult it must be when the authorities refuse to question their own judgment for fear of looking bad.Masterfully edited to hold your attention from start to finish with gripping interviews. Morris knows how to pace things just right. He doesn't belabor points that don't need it but doesn't rush through his interviews.Thank you Errol Morris for opening my eyes and feelings for the (probably many) innocents caught and still not freed. This is what a documentary should be. "},{"Title":"great sound track, avoids clichs","Date":"13 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Drama","Review":" Morris avoids the documentary clichs no narration, no questions heard. The re-creation which bothers many is limited to the undisputed facts, and Morris uses it to keep the horrific crime firmly front and center even while examining the subsequent perversion of justice.Morris presents no evil dragons. Even while he shows men making serious errors, he shows them as men (mostly public servants) trying hard to do the right thing. It's a classic case of good people doing something bad, and Morris says this better than any thick philosophy book.The wonderful soundtrack by Philip Glass is more than just the icing on the cake. It helps to tie together the mood of the entire movie. "},{"Title":"If only he'd given David a place to stay that night...","Date":"13 December 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Drama","Review":" Watching a film about justice and all it's human flaws is not like a typical cinema experience. I get so overcome with anger and sadness from tales of how a person who didn't commit a crime and ends up in prison for it that these are tough pills to swallow. But ones that make you better for the knowledge that comes from taking in their ordeals.Randall Adams was in Texas in late 1976 and David Harris grew up in Vidor, a town in the Eastern part of the state. They met up and both lives were permanently altered. Officer Robert Wood was fatally gunned down in November of that year and his murder then became the longest to solve police force homicide in Dallas history. Somebody had to pay.Adams, a man whose biggest crime was probably smoking a little pot now and then, found himself on trial for the death. Harris was a minor and couldn't be executed even if he was tried and found guilty. Adams was convicted and spent over a decade incarcerated until this film told the world his (and Harris') story. The case eventually reached the US Supreme Court and they returned an 8-1 verdict in Adams' favour (the only dissenter being William Renquist).After being exonerated years later, Adams wrote the great book Adams vs Texas, highly recommended to anyone who wants a more detailed account from Randall's perspective. Harris was executed by lethal injection for another murder in the state that has more capital punishment stats than any other (over 400 in the last 30 years).The death penalty is something most people, if only a small majority, believe in. Except for extreme examples (Tim McVeigh, Richard Ramirez, Ted Bundy and their ilk), maybe life with no chance of parole is a more sensible alternative. Sometimes, the person whose life is one Governor signature away from ending might be innocent, as in this case. "},{"Title":"Truth and consequences about the murder of a cop...","Date":"12 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Drama","Review":" I'd heard about this doco for a long time, but had never made the time to see it, until just a week ago.It's well crafted. It's an interesting narrative presented in two ways first, there are many full frontal interviews with protagonists, lawyers, friends, witnesses etc all facing and talking directly to the camera; this provides the 'truthiness' that you expect to see and hear in documentaries. Second, and interleaved with those interviews, there are numerous re-enactments of the actual murder (using actors), but from different perspectives, reminding this viewer of two things eyewitnesses cannot be trusted absolutely, and the fictional story Rashomon (1950), from Akira Kurosawa, which presented the same story from three different points of view.This pure doco mixed with re-enactment works well to illustrate visually what somebody had just finished saying, thus allowing the viewer to integrate the story fully, or as fully as can be done, within.Gradually, the viewer is lead to a conclusion the wrong man was imprisoned for the murder. And the murderer, in turn, carried on for a number of years with a life of crime until justice caught up with him. The innocent man (if he is in truth innocent), Randall Adams, is presumably still in prison for that crime.Morris makes a good case that Adams is innocent. The evidence seems convincing but there is no categorical admission from Harris, just very suggestive allusion. And that could still be all lies.You be the judge... "},{"Title":"Gripping, stunning film making","Date":"23 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I remember seeing this when it was first released and walking out thanking god I was a free man and not caught in the wheels of justice.  How could an innocent man be sitting in jail while I walked to my car to head home to sleep?  Maybe some of that power and emotion is diluted now, or maybe it's even stronger since this film resulted in the release of Randal Adams, but as a documentary is should be required viewing for all film students and social studies classes.One more footnote - shame on the Academy Awards for not even nominating this for best documentary. "},{"Title":"Quite simply one of the finest American films ever","Date":"19 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I don't heap the above praise lightly, but Errol Morris's Thin Blue Line deserves every grain of it. If you have yet to see this film because you think that you have an aversion to documentaries then you best reconsider, because this spellbinding feature is filmmaking at its best. Eschewing traditional techniques, Morris creates a mesmerizing mystery that unravels like a tightly-wound watch spring. The story unfolds with interviews, vivid recreations, chilling music, and the results are hypnotic.Unfortunately this film is out of print on VHS and Laserdisc, and is not yet available on DVD. Finding copies to rent might be difficult, but if you have yet to see this modern masterpiece then do yourself a favor and make the extra effort to get your hands on a copy. "},{"Title":"Grows and grows on you","Date":"23 September 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Drama","Review":"  We watch a lot of American Justice and their ilk in this house. Every episode Bill Kurtis or whoever leads us through the case to his expected result. Then we saw this on IFC one evening. The Lack of narration, the compelling music, the repetitive recreations of the scene and most of all, the faces and voices Adams' 'plain Jane' attorney, her colleague who handled Adams' appeal, the small town cop, the judge comparing his grade in state versus Federal Supreme Court...all of these people speaking out to us, building or tearing down a case that grows in our minds, especially when the real killer begins to talk. A powerful experience not to be missed.  "},{"Title":"A clear indication for just how corrupt the law really is","Date":"9 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Errol Morris does a magnificent  job in what I believe is his best  documentary. Wonderfully shot  and conceptualized, this is more  like the greatest Unsolved Mysteries  episode ever. Even though the film  was virtually all interviews, it really  brings out the quirks and the trivial  natural of eyewitness reports. Its  also a moment frozen in time, a  time when racism still shaped the  judicial system and the good old  boy system extended further than  politics. The score by Phillip Glass  was also amazing. There are so  many little indicators of the individual's  personalities within the film,  sometimes it appears comical or  scary. Quite an achievement for  a film which is so confined and  claustrophobic. "},{"Title":"The stylish anti-verite documentary.","Date":"24 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Errol Morris has constructed a film here that defies all traditional aesthetics once held dear to documentaries. Morris is a filmmaker who is said to have despised all verite and as a result has abandoned all characteristics attributed to that style. Specifically, there is no feel of spontaneity or immediacy in his films, absolutely no hand-held shots, and no presenting of extra information. You can tell there is not a shooting ratio of 150-2001 as with say a typical Frederick (High School) Wiseman film. It is precisely this rejection which makes The Thin Blue Line so compelling.The Thin Blue Line is a documentary about the wrongful arrest and subsequent conviction of a man whom hitched a ride with the wrong man at the wrong time. His story is told through a series of interviews, including one from the jailed man himself, inter-cut throughout various reenactments of the disputed crime. Morris presents us with a very dark film filled with high contrast lighting and cool blues which give all the subjects a pale look. It is, however, with the reenactments that this documentary stands out. Morris's use of slow-motion photography, close ups, and editing focuses your attention on specific aspects of the crime scene as well as the aesthetic value of these traditionally narrative tools.This film's most impressive aspect is the haunting score by Phillip Glass, which immediately encapsulates you from the first second we are introduced to Dallas, Texas. The score tends to play out during reenactments and through crucial aspects of the interviews which narrow our attention to the message of the film. This score can put you into a kind of trance which makes you completely open to manipulation.It is this manipulation however which reminds you of the limitations of the narrative documentary. We are absolutely told what to think about the people (police and witnesses) whom do not support the claims of the jailed man. Morris intended to make a film about the wrongful conviction of this man and any of the interviewees who got in the way of that were either trivialized or their stories were manipulated as to only present arguments of the innocence of this man. But who cares, of course we are being manipulated by the narrative structure, it is still damned compelling.  "}{"Title":"Quite interesting, very compelling","Date":"21 October 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Drama","Review":"  One of the scariest films I have ever seen. Under the right set of circumstances, this could happen to you. This film goes a long way toward explaining why the governor of Illinois commuted over 100 death sentences to life in prison. Aside from that, it's a good documentary, with great editing and an awesome Philip Glass soundtrack. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly powerful documentary","Date":"26 January 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Beautiful.  Stark.  Thoughtful.  Painful.  Compelling.  I have a sort of Draconian view of capital punishment (a life for a life doesn't bother me). However, I read about this situation in, I think, The New Yorker, and this film really makes the dilemma real. "},{"Title":"The Documentary that Freed A Man on Death Row","Date":"15 February 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Drama","Review":" Errol Morris is a brilliant writer/director. His documentary style is unique and feels almost clinical. He is a master at sorting through factual information and reconstructing events for the viewer.Randall Adams was caught up in the aggressive, eager-to-kill-anyone justice system in Texas. No American state has killed as many people as Texas. In The Thin Blue Line we witness an out-of-control system which puts people to death so aggressively you wonder how many innocent people who have been murdered by prosecutors in Texas. Since the release of Randall Adams, others have been shown to have been innocent, but Mr. Adams' case shed light on the system which prefers to murder its mistakes rather than admit fault.Not every convict has the advantage of a brilliant filmmaker who takes up his case. Here, the flaws of the case were so glaring and obvious that the state was embarrassed. This is a great documentary. It is influential viewing, and it changed the fate of a poor convict who had was nearly put to death on several occasions.When Mr. Morris puts the case together, we see that the state wanted to kill an innocent man, and they would have succeeded if Errol Morris had not investigated the facts. "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"21 June 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Drama","Review":" The film has often been likened to Akira Kurosawa's fictive film- also about a murder, Rashomon. The problem with that analogy is that, in the Kurosawa film, one has no basis by which to know which of the several versions of the killing are correct. In The Thin Blue Line- both from the many tellings and the way Morris presents them, it's obvious that Adams is innocent and Harris is guilty. The only Rashomon like thing is the fact that re-enacted tellings of the shooting all vary, from the two principals, to the cops' claims, to those made by the assorted witnesses who, in actuality, saw nothing. The fact that the many re-enactments are at odds with Morris's clear view that Adams was innocent is a minor failing of the film, and shows Morris was still trying to live up to the dictum that a documentary has to be (or try to be) objective in its presentation of its facts. But, in a case where the evidence is so incontrovertibly one-sided, is such an effort worth it, dramatically or aesthetically? I think not, and films like Barbara Kopple's Harlan County, USA are proof of my claim. The title of the film comes from the old notion that a thin line of cops (hence the blue) is all that saves civilization from its own worst instincts. The judge who sentenced Adams, when recounting the summation of the DA, tells how he almost teared up at hearing the use of the term. The film, however, turns the title on its side and shows how that same line can be used as a tool for injustice, suppression of evidence, and the oppression of innocents. And it is this perversion of 'justice' that can hasten society's fall far more than the mere absence of that thin blue line.The Thin Blue Line is both a landmark and important film, but those claims are not equivalent to calling it a great film. Arguments can be made, in which case a claim for near greatness may be apt, but not greatness. Compared to the documentaries of Morris's friend and mentor, Werner Herzog, The Thin Blue Line still has a far greater affinity to the sort of straightforward documentaries to be found on PBS shows like Frontline. However, the fact that it did great things- freed an innocent man and held up the so-called justice system to the greater scrutiny it deserves (be it for capital crimes or those as trivial as phony traffic tickets issued to meet monthly quotas)- is indisputable, and that makes it an important film. From a cinematic perspective, the best thing this still rather linear film did was bridge Morris's path from his early quirky documentaries to his later, greater films, like The Fog Of War, which is more clearly in the Herzogian mode. And, for that trajectory, alone, the world of cinema should be grateful. "},{"Title":"moves, responds and makes an audience think about the nature of lying and truth","Date":"8 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Drama","Review":" I'm reminded of something that Pauline Kael wrote about the film Goodfellas, how it it was something like 'journalism with the brio of drama', while watching The Thin Blue Line. Because if there's one documentary I can think of where the documentarian does not really take any kind of stance on either side, but at the same time shows the material in a way to really get the audience interested in the material aside from the usual aesthetics on hand for the filmmaker, it's this one. Director Errol Morris, who also directed the film the Fog of War, before made this film about a murder case set in the dingy, suspicious, and dastardly sections of small-town Texas. It's kind of like a docu-noir in a way, with a little of the Coens' Blood Simple seeping into the atmosphere, and the air of something rotten in Denmark going all over the Adams/Harris murder case. It has the storytelling bravado of Rashomon, only done in the right way as opposed to the countless other retreads of that film. Here Morris gets all the different points of view, but only this time the storytelling really does have to amount to something, and it does. If nothing else it's a low-key masterpiece in the art of storytelling.The low-down; Adams is picked up by Harris one morning (err, afternoon depending on the story), they hang out, party a little, see some cheerleader flicks at a drive-in (which re-created for the film are very funny), and then the stories diverge where the murder of a police officer is claimed as being Harris by one story (or rather, not knowing what happened), and Adams being the driver of the car/shooter in another. Morris assembles interviews with the two of them- and if going by a subjective view-point (and, to a point even, by an objective view-point of records and even personality- one can see where personality, history and just the attitudes and directness with the camera and interviewer show who's side of the story SHOULD have been taken into account or not. He also assembles interviews with witnesses, the female cop on duty that night, the lawyers, and this all makes up really one of three parts to Morris's aesthetic.The second part is close-up clips of newspaper clippings and certain shots of buildings, which is recognizable if one has already seen Fog of War. The third though, which is what adds further substance- and of course style- to the first part are the re-enactments, chiefly of the murder scene. It may be significant to point out that Morris was for a short time a private detective. These scenes, and I would guess too how the interviews are put together and edited, show Morris as someone both after the truth of the recollections, but also how perceptions end up changing the story, which adds to the bravura re-enactments where we see the shooting of the cop from several angles. Little stories though too, like the Dillinger story from the woman, further illustrate something deeper in the material that Morris might have not been searching out. What is is about human beings that some can be very understanding, sympathetic, helpful, or just cold-factual, and others to border on sadistic and just nuts? Two of the latter examples could go to the DA who had no intention of wanting to know guilt or innocence on Adams's part, just that he should die, and also the doctor (doctor death) who went on for two and a half hours comparing Adams to Hitler.I'm not sure, and I don't think it would be close to a point, that Morris is after something about the death penalty. Morris is after the facts, and as such he got them together so well that Adams got exonerated after the release of the picture. But there's also that sense of heightening life, and these character's lives, even through the seemingly too straight-forward shots of the interviewees. Like a private dick- and maybe this was something that added to the personality of the picture for Morris- he doesn't really want b.s., and it shows when someone at the least seems like they're not telling the truth, like the woman who was so much into private detective shows that she probably got too big for her britches, so to speak, when she pointed Adams out. In the end all of this is detailing of a murder case, a profiling of two men amidst people who wanted to help, eternally condemn, or were on the sidelines not knowing what was up or down with Adams and Harris. And the two of them make for interesting cases as well, as Harris's early life gets some insight. And after a while, even if one might have a firm grasp on what is or what should be the truth, what stands out more is the unique way the stories are put together, and the very act of perspective and reflection and how that in and of itself becomes inherently dramatic.It's one of the best documentaries, or rather 'non-fiction' films, I have ever seen. "},{"Title":"Lovely","Date":"23 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Drama","Review":" The seedy, almost tacky quality, is great. The dark reenactments, the intentionally staged appearance of them turns them into symbols, makes them conceptual without killing all of the feeling in them. The way the interviews are shot too, so matter-of-factly, so basically. It is literally, a matter-of-fact presentation, and getting just the facts makes us feel like detectives searching through the shadows for clues, shining light here and there, gathering the pieces and arranging them, intuiting&#151;we get the facts, but we get them in that world, that kind of world where tense music backdrops the smoky images of the crime scene, the separate scenarios. And then there is the astounding fact that this movie not only examines real-life events which constitute a real-life story, but also that the movie itself becomes an event, an event which represents the most important constituent of that real-life story because it provides the ending. "},{"Title":"My brief review of the film","Date":"30 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Drama","Review":" An intense and involving documentary, it provides some fascinating ideas about the justice system and the real life story itself is intriguing. The editing job here is very good, having to combine a mix of photos, re-enactments and interviews, although a lack of useful footage causes there to be a number of shots, such as the fronts of buildings and different clocks, used even though they add little to the film. It also has a drawn out style and dryness to it - there is somewhat of a lack of energy. The film nevertheless manages to carry itself rather well. It plays with one's emotions, especially towards the end, and that is what it was intended to do. Philip Glass provides some great music as usual, even if Morris tends to use it a bit too often. It is not quite a perfect documentary, but it is well made - and well made enough that it managed to get the convicted man off the hook in the end - although he later took legal action against Morris for rights to his life! "},{"Title":"Not to be missed","Date":"13 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Drama","Review":" If you can only see one movie in your life, this is the one it should be. The Thin Blue Line will give you a new perspective on reality, truth and subjectivity. Although widely acclaimed, this movie never got anywhere near the kudos it deserved; even the music is wonderful. The icing on the cake is that the best part of the movie occurs years after it opened - but I dare not say more about that. Things start off in a rather confusing, even irritating, manner, but one quickly adjusts to the technique, which is vaguely similar to, but less extreme than, that used in the more recent film Memento. Thus there's a lot of repetition but none of that was bothersome to me once the story was well underway, and eventually you just don't notice it. I was riveted to the screen right until the end. "},{"Title":"The Pioneer of Stylish and Surreal Documentaries","Date":"19 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Thin Blue Line was my first taste of an Errol Morris picture. I saw this in my Film as Literature class. At first I didn't want to see this movie at all. I though it would be like every other documentary where it has the narrator speaking, while there is old footage being ran, and pictures of the crime or whatever is being shown. Oh boy how wrong I was. From the first second you hear the music running and you see the captions An Errol Morris Film, you immediately get the sense that you are in for something good. How right I was in this aspect.Never before have I ever seen such a stylist documentary. The film runs to the repetitive but moody music of Philip Glass. Along with the reenactments, the movie has an extremely surreal experience to it. Unlike 99% of documentaries, Errol Morris eludes to have narration, instead he lets the people say what's one their minds. In my opinion this is more effective because you get to hear the truth and not assumptions by the narrator trying to impose excessive remarks. I mentioned reenactments, let me explain how they work in Errol Morris movies. According to what the people on camera might be saying, Errol Morris tries to recreate those situations. This adds a very strange feel to the documentary experience. Even though you know these reenactments never occurred as they are shown, it helps you understand what the people are talking about. Furthermore it adds to the whole logic of seeing a movie, it makes it more artistic and more film-like. Another interesting feature Errol Morris uses is footage from movies, or cartoons. I have never seen these elements in a documentary. I was astonished by what I saw in this documentary. At every single second of the film, it keeps your attention intact. Careful if you blink, other wise you will miss something great. I liked this film so much I ended up renting every single documentary directed by Errol Morris.On a final note regarding Errol Morris, every single thing he does is good. I'm just happy to have the privilege to be living at this time to witness such great films from him.  "},{"Title":"Fantastic film making","Date":"8 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I watch this film over and over for its beautiful visual style, perfect musical score by Philip Glass, and its unbelievable emotional power. Errol Morris is without doubt my favorite film maker in any genre- Check out his other films, you will not be disappointed. "}{"Title":"Reasonable doubt","Date":"22 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I've seen this wonderful semi-documentary about four times.  From the hypnotic Philip Glass score to the stylized reenactment of the crime to the taped possible murder confession, The Thin Blue Line is gripping throughout.  How often can one say that about a documentary?  One thing, though  each time I've seen the movie I've been slightly more convinced that Adams was there when his acquaintance (the driver of the car he was in) shot the Dallas police officer.  In other words, it isn't necessarily true that the police investigators got it entirely wrong.  What counts, of course, in our legal system is whether Adams got a fair trial, and the movie shows that it's almost certain he did not.  Highly recommended! "},{"Title":"One of the all-time great documentaries","Date":"26 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I hadn't heard of this film until it was shown by the UK specialist Film4 channel, so its impact was all the more stunning. Erroll Morris's deceptively simple combination of interviews and short reconstructions is amazingly effective. The sound-track by Philip Glass is a perfect complement. And the repetitive devices -clock, screeching car tyres - add to the mounting horror as the real corruption of the Texas judicial system is relentlessly revealed. The film is the total riposte to all those who support the death penalty. It demonstrates that it certainly is possible for a perfectly ordinary and innocent man, with no criminal record, to be fixed up with a death sentence. And the revelations about the inadequacies of the American justice system are all the more worrying now that hundreds of non-Americans are caught up in an even more Byzantine version of it in Guantanamo Bay. This is one of the greatest documentaries ever made. "},{"Title":"Wretched film - on a par with Manos, Hands of Fate.","Date":"29 May 2011","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Drama","Review":" I'm at a loss for words as to how dreadful and dreary this film is. This movie had the same pain level for me as Manos, Hands of Fate. I think the only explanation for its good reviews is that people have been led to believe that it's an artsy film and that if they don't appreciate it, then they're stupid and uncultured. Well, I can tell you that I appreciate an artfully done film and this is not one of them. It insults the intelligence of the viewer with overly long corny close-ups of mundane items such as police lights, a clock, and a milkshake on the ground. It's like being force-fed in slow motion. It moves at a geriatric pace, the music is insipid, and the crime-reenactment acting is straight out of the the junior-high play. Many times I wondered if the crew of this film were on serious drugs. I had to watch this for a class assignment and to get through it, I had to watch it in installments - it was that painful to endure. The entire case could have been summed up, the miscarriage of justice exhibited in a much more sophisticated, succinct manner. Instead it was just one long drawn-out painful experience. A hoakier, more godawful production I've yet to see. Do yourself a favor and read the book. It's better and much more interesting than this dung heap of a film. "},{"Title":"The Thin Blue Line","Date":"24 March 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Drama","Review":" Not to be confused with the British sitcom starring Rowan Atkinson and created by Ben Elton, this is a documentary feature film that featured in the book 1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die, I knew the title would be something to do with police or the law, and I was more intrigued with what I read about it. From director Errol Morris, this film documents and reconstructs the night of November 29th 1976, when during a traffic stop in Dallas police officer Robert W. Wood was murdered, the Dallas Police Department could only make an arrest after a sixteen year old Vidor, Texas resident gave information that he had told friends he was responsible for the crime. Young David Ray Harris did lead the police to the car driven from the scene of the crime and the 22 Short calibre revolver identified as the murder weapon, and the murderer was identified as twenty eight year old Ohio resident and hitchhiker Randall Dale Adams, who was living in a Dallas motel with his brother at the time. With the series of interviews from all involved in the investigation and re-enactments of the night in question, including witnesses, detectives and from Adams and Harris, and two attorneys make the case that more evidence points towards juvenile Harris then Adams who claims to be innocent and could face death under Texas law. The title of the film comes from a prosecutor comment that the police are the thin blue line separating society from anarchy, also something to do with a poem by Rudyard Kipling and the colour of police uniform and their formation. Before watching this film I read that this film, made twelve years since the crime was committed, received a much more meaningful accolade than winning an Oscar or any other awards, following the release of the film the investigation was reignited and the case taken back to court, and the sentence for Adams was reversed. It is great to hear that a film could be so informative and force a retrial and the law to rethink their decision and verdict on a crime, Adams was indeed proved an innocent man and wrongly accused while Harris was executed with lethal injection in 2004 (for another unrelated crime). This is an engaging enough real life story about a murder and the routines of law enforcement and the legal system, the editing of going from interviews to re-enactments is well put together, and with some provocative stuff you do get a sense of unease sometimes, a terrific documentary. Very good! "},{"Title":"Wow...now this is an exceptional documentary","Date":"14 January 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Drama","Review":" This film is about the unjust prosecution of a an for the murder of a cop in Dallas in the 1970s. While the evidence against the man was tenuous, at best, the prosecutors had a much more logical case against a young punk--who was also THE witness against the defendant! So, the only solid evidence was provided by a man who was clearly guilty--of course the guy would lie and blame someone else! Yet, oddly, there was such a rush to get a conviction--and a death penalty conviction--that an innocent man was imprisoned.I have enjoyed several of Errol Morris' other documentary films (such as MR. DEATH and FAST, CHEAP & OUT OF CONTROL) though I must also admit that a few of his films left me very cold (especially VERNON Florida). THE THIN BLUE LINE is his greatest film in many ways. First, because unlike many documentaries, this one provoked action. People saw this film where Morris was trying to make positive social change...and WHAM, it happened! This is something almost all other documentaries cannot hope to achieve. Because of this film, a wrongly convicted man was released from prison. Second, like MR. DEATH, this film was a major improvement over many of his earlier films because it kept a very tight focus. The subject matter was clear and the film was a logical presentation of the facts. Third, the combination of music, interviews and recreations really worked together well--showing immense skill on his part. It just doesn't get any better than this.Amazingly, although this wonderfully made film saved an innocent man, this guy later sued Morris!! How and why--you'll have to read through the IMDb trivia to find out more. The results of that suit, by the way, are not mentioned, but I'd sure like to know what became of that. "},{"Title":"Doubts even here","Date":"29 April 2001","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A constantly repeated reconstruction of a fatal shooting compounded with a hypnotic score by Philip Glass bludgeons the viewer into the role of judge and/or jury. We are presented with snippets of evidence from witnesses and officers and the two suspects; one of whom is guilty, the other simply unfortunate.We are forming our own verdict throughout; by the time that the image of the tape recorder appears onscreen we feel totally manipulated and slightly unsure. That climax hits us like a bullet in the stomach.7/10  "},{"Title":"Terrific Documentary","Date":"10 August 2012","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Thin Blue Line (1988) **** (out of 4) This excellent documentary from Errol Morris features more drama than any crime movie that Hollywood could make up in their minds. This film traces the story of a murdered police officer and the arrest of Randall Dale Adams who was convicted of the crime even though most of the evidence pointed to David Harris. Through some questionable witnesses Adams was sentenced to a life term but Morris interviews him and Harris as well as the witnesses as he tries to tell what really happened. THE THIN BLUE LINE is about as perfect as a documentary can get and a lot of credit must go to Morris for the style he brought to the story. Not only do we get interviews for the majority of those involved, the director also adds some re-enactments and I really loved how he used newspaper listings to back up certain parts of the story. Just one example of this is that the men went to see a drive-in movie and Morris shows up the advertisement from the paper showing that the movies were playing. The real drama comes from the fact that everything seems to say that Adams is innocent and the only reason he was brought to trial was because people were lying. Just hearing from the witnesses as they talk about the lies they're telling is something so tense that you really couldn't get the same level of suspense from a made up movie. Knowing that real lives were involved in the story just makes it all the more personal and all the more dramatic. THE THIN BLUE LINE is perfectly crafted and there's no question that the story being told grabs you right from the start and never lets you go. "},{"Title":"Interesting movie, even more interesting people...","Date":"11 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Drama","Review":"  At first, I caught The Thin Blue Line in the middle of the movie. Not knowing what the movie was about I thought they were hired actors playing roles, like in Deliverance. I didn't think people like that really existed in real life. Finally saw the whole thing, I guess I was wrong. I was rather young when the movie came out so I don't remember the buzz about it. Anyway, poor Randall Adams. You wanna like the guy but other people keep referring to him as lacking charm, so eventually, you see what they mean.Are the people of Dallas really that stupid to be duped by a 16 year old kid? Apparently, they are. When the film reveals who the real killer actually is you begin to realize the detectives and the judge are idiots. Poor Emily Miller. I'm sure she regrets signing the release forms. I don't think it was Morris' intention to make her look like a horse's behind, it just happened. But throughout the movie you start to forget the evils of David Harris. He's likable, kinda' sweet, surprisingly very young looking, makes Adams look like a nerd. Anyway, his story is rather amusing until you get to the audio tape at the end where you realize he is a true psychopathic personality, almost painting himself as the victim, completely unaware of his own evil in the killings. It's flabbergasting. You think to yourself, Oh my god, is he really blaming Adams?  "},{"Title":"Errol Morris is an Amerian Treasure","Date":"16 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is almost too good. I am amazed at Morris' ability tocapture the perfect interview moments and piece little statementstogether in a way that pushes the story along.  And what a story. One character refers to Dallas County as Hellon Earth, and it's apparent that Mr. Adams drove into hell lookingfor a job and came face to face with the devil in all his disguises.  To anyone who has ever thought that documentaries were boringand hard to follow, I reccomend this film. There is more of a storyhere than in Gone With the Wind.  PS. The ending is so good it will give you nightmares. "},{"Title":"The difference a film could make.","Date":"1 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Drama","Review":"      Its been a couple of years since I've seen this one.      I remember it was about a man who was wrongly convicted of a     murder and was on death row in Texas.  According to the re-      enactments, there was no way that the guy could've done it.      The witness (the only one I think) was driving in the dark,      several feet away, as he saw the suspect enacting the crime.      There's no way he could've made any positive identification.     This review is short because there's nothing, NOTHING, anyone can      say that can beat the review of the Texas judicial system  It     reopened the case!  It reviewed all the miscarriages the film     brought up.  Then the innocent man was set free.  Wow!  Not      even Andrew Sarris can beat that! "}]