[{"Title":"A Classic of the Era","Date":"18 June 2005","Score":"30 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I actually saw this film in the theaters (one of a handful of people in the world, I believe). Most people weren't prepared for John Hughes to break into more grown-up fare after his successful films about teens (Ferris Bueller, Pretty in Pink, etc.), and this film's failure (along with the failure of Planes, Trains, and Automobiles) forced Hughes into making commercially successful but artistically bankrupt crap like Home Alone.Although I was in college when the film came out, I instantly fell in love with the story of this fictionalized version of Hughes own early married life. Kevin Bacon did some of his best work in this film, and Elizabeth McGovern is simply radiant as the she of the title. Alec Balwdin is thin and disgusting as the best friend who has an unrequited lust for his pal's wife.Filled with surreal moments (which are par for the course today, in shows like Scrubs) where Bacon's character imagines his response (or the response of others) to various situations, several stand out. The wonderful suburban lawnmower scene, the moment when he imagines his in-laws giving sex advice (Get your butt a little higher, Jake!), etc.As a young father, I have felt everything Jake felt as they ventured into parenthood. Fear, wonder, and a weird sense of losing your wife's body to something you don't quite understand. And as funny as the film is, it is also quite poignant at moments and full of heart.The use of classic late 80's bands (a Hughes specialty) is excellent and quite extensive. Gene Loves Jezebel, Love and Rockets, XTX, Bryan Ferry, Everything But the Girl, and Kate Bush (whose song is used most effectively to tug at heart strings) are all used to highlight, comment on, and bring the story to life.Highly recommended and easily Hughes' most heartfelt film. "},{"Title":"Charismatic Stars and Imaginative Ideas meld effortlessly...","Date":"30 November 2005","Score":"16 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" SHE'S HAVING A BABY was an imaginative and charming 1988 comedy that follows a young couple from courtship through parenthood via some amusing vignettes and clever fantasy sequences that effectively break the fourth wall and constantly remind us that we are watching a movie, but this idea is set up from the beginning through the narration and internal fantasies of lead character Jefferson Jake Briggs (Kevin Bacon, in his most appealing post-FOOTLOOSE role). Becon's chemistry with the lovely Elizbath McGovern (whatever happened to her?) is undeniable and early into the film you really find yourself rooting for this couple. Alec Baldwin had one of his best early roles here as Jake's slightly slimy college buddy. There a lot of very funny and imaginative scenes in the film, which are mostly a product of Jake's mind, which I found kind of novel for a John Hughes film...love the production number with the lawn mowers and Jake's in-laws coaching him on what to do during sex, not to mention's Jake's internal re-writing of his wedding vows. Both Holland Taylor and the late Cathryn Damon score as Jake and Christy's moms and William Windom is amusing as Christy's dad, who cuts Jake no slack whatsoever. I think I liked this movie better than the average viewer...maybe because I really like Kevin Bacon and he's practically in every scene, but I think even for non-Bacon fans, there are smiles, chuckles, and warm fuzzy feelings to be found by taking in the story of Jake and Kristy Briggs. "},{"Title":"An absolute gem of a film.","Date":"30 July 2002","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I would go on record to say that John Hughes' She's Having A Baby is by far the best film he's ever done -- and this from the man responsible for those giddy teen comedies from the '80's (i.e. BREAKFAST CLUB, SIXTEEN CANDLES, FERRIS BUELLER'S DAY OFF).It's ironic that his best work would be about grownups, or in this case, growing up. Jake and Kristi (played superbly by Kevin Bacon and Elizabeth McGovern), are indeed, your average married couple going through the same problems most married people do, and most kids their age would be sidestepping. But Hughes adds more dimension and more insight, and in spite of the laughs (which there are, by the way) and even some silly sequences,he still wrings out an air of truth.Sadly, this film flopped at the B.O. in it's initial release back in 1988, but then why carp about performance. SHAB is a quiet gem of a film to be appreciated by the few that appreciate good filmmaking.Grade A-   "},{"Title":"The Hughes series continues...","Date":"10 February 2004","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  So, I guess if I were at gunpoint, I would choose this as being my second favorite film in the Hughes lineup.  He has made so many good movies, it's hard to pick just one as your favorite, but this is definitely a close second to The Breakfast Club.  Kevin Bacon plays a writer just out of college trying to support his newly wedded wife, while at the same time working for some sort of ad agency, and trying to write his first book.  Throughout the movie, it's him narrarating his life from the start of his wedding until the end of the movie...His wife, however, decides that she's ready for a baby.  He on the other hand, does not really get as excited about the idea as she does. The entire movie is set up from his point of view, and he sees the world through his eyes, and a lot of 'what ifs' start to boggle his mind.  His confusion and dry humor make it a great classic, and a great watch for anyone. A fun piece of movie trivia...in the movie 'Trains, Planes, and Automobiles' Steve Martin's wife in the movie, lays awake late one night watching a movie on T.V.  If you listen closely to what they're saying, it's a scene from 'She's Having a Baby'.  The scene when Kevin Bacon and his on screen wife are having a fight. A fun little movie fact for you.I hope you'll see it if you haven't.  And if you already did, you're smart.  And if you saw it and didn't like it, well, then....there we are.I give this movie, a 10 out of 10.  A great movie, to be seen by all!And that's the end of my review. "},{"Title":"Fun and enjoyable. Bacon is a blast here.","Date":"30 May 2000","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It's difficult not to like this John Hughes movie which explores the relationship between Jefferson Briggs (Bacon) and Kristy (McGovern) from their wedding day till their baby's birth. The movie centers around how Bacon matures to become a responsible family man. The movie is portrayed through the eyes of new graduate Briggs and the audience moves along with his fears, plight and fortunes. Although not entirely original, there are moments throughout that you will empathize and laugh along with, mainly because we all went through this before. This is one of Hughes' definitive films from the 1980s and the music accompanying the movie is great, from Gene Loves Jezebel to Everything But The Girl and Kate Bush. Bacon is hilarious and McGovern gives an understated but effective performance as the wife determined to have a baby. Alec Baldwin is brilliant as Davis McDonald, the devilish best friend of Bacon who tries to dissuade him out of marriage. There are genuinely funny moments that pepper this movie throughout and makes it really delightful. There are the high-brow critics who slag this movie off. Don't be influenced by their views. This is an endearing and enjoyable movie. "},{"Title":"He's Having An Early Mid-Life Crisis","Date":"14 July 2007","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" ...Would be a more fitting title for this movie. And I really liked the movie. It just wasn't about a baby, and it wasn't about his wife. She's a secondary character, if that. It's all about Kevin Bacon's character who is a ad-man who wants to be a professional writer, but his wife, and the beautiful home in the suburbs and all its dreary perfection, is bringing him down. As are his in-laws, his player best buddy (Alec Baldwin in his thin days), and a dream-girl who seemingly wants to seduce him. This film is really about the struggle and the temptation of a guy who has everything, but doesn't know if he wants it. There are some incredible, creative scenes. One showing how his office literally closing in on him; another showing a picture of his father-in-law smiling as he's looking at it; then he says something to the picture (as if speaking to it) and the picture has changed to where the father-in-law has a shocked expression. There's one homage to Psycho where the wife throws the pill down the drain; you get a shot of the water going down the drain which then slowly dissolves to her eye. And there's a musical sequence with suburbanites mowing their lawns whilst dancing and singing that is hilarious when taken in its context; but if you were to see this sequence out of context, you'd think it's gonna be a horrible film. Anyhow, this movie is all about the husband. They show the wife having the baby at the very end, and things get complicated and that's when he realizes how much he loves her... brooding in the waiting room like the character from Hemingway's A Farewell to Arms. But you really don't feel that he ever really loved her in the first place. That's the only fault I can give this film. The rest of it is creative and totally entertaining. "},{"Title":"Married life from a man's perspective.","Date":"12 May 2004","Score":"11 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  She's Having a Baby is very much like Kevin Bacon's later film, 'He Said, She Said,' in which moments of a story are articulated from the perspective of each gender. But while 'He Said, She Said,' provided humorous views of love and life from both the shovinist male and the over-confident female, 'She's Having a Baby' provides only the perspective of one person a very nervous and doubting husband. It is interesting to me, at least, as there are few movies which dedicate the entire experience of married life solely to the male perspective, and I suppose that John Hughes, the film's writer and director, is telling the story from his own personal experiences, fears, expectations, and other approaches to his life as a husband and father.I have always like John Hughes work, and despite some of the sexism and cliches that the story deals with, it is an entertaining film about newlyweds unsure about whether getting married was a good idea, but discovering in the end, that despite the obstacles ahead of them, they actually find that married life (and soon, parenthood), can actually quite a wonderful thing. Jake Briggs (Bacon) marries his high school sweetheart, Kristi (McGovern), his love at first sight. The movie introduces us to Jake who is preparing himself (and simultaneoulsy doubting himself) to walk down the isle and declare himself a married man. But for Jake, somehow saying I do, was the point of no return, and his relationship to Kristi (and his perception of her) drastically changes once they officially carry on together as a married couple. Jake finds disatisfaction with his work as an advertising agent (aspiring instead to be a writer, but always being told that it just wasn't going to happen), with the drone life in the suburbs (a typical John Hughes theme), and even gets tempted with indescretions as he meets a woman at a bar who tests his faithfulness to Kristi. For Jake, it seems like the single life had a lot more to offer in both independce as well as his love for Kristi, even to the point that he tries to convince his bachelor friend, Davis (played by that hubba, hubba actor, Alec Baldwin), that he need not be unmarried to enjoy himself. In fact, things start to change for Jake, as he starts to grow accustomed to marriage and finds that the situation isn't as bad as he imagined. When his wife Kristi becomes pregnant and there are complications during the pregnancy, Jake is forced to consider whether he would give it all up. And in that time, he realizes, that he actually doesn't hate it at all. That there are things there that he can adjust (by way of work, we see later that he does take it upon himself to do some writing), and with his relationship to his wife, and hell, even the in-laws. It's hard to say, but folks who are married and who have gone through that 'moment of truth' at some point in their relationship (if at all), must know how that feels. And from the look on Jake's face, it must feel pretty good to realize how lucky a person can be to share that with somebody else.There are some problems with the characters, such as Kristi always been made out as this bossy, detached spouse of Jake's. One viewer wrote that she was often depicted as selfish, and while I agree that it is an unfair assessment of Kristi (who could not have been this way all the time--you have to watch the movie to see), it was also meant to be portrayed from the husbands point of viewed. Therefore, we get the subjective view of the husband, and not the objective view of what we may consider Kristi to be (because nearly the whole movie is told from Jefferson's viewpoint). The story is also stereotypical in some of it's assertions about marriage and work and the like. But I think that the movie still offers some good humor, and is certainly one for John Hughe's fans to see, before he gave up writing and directing teen movies--the 80s films prior to She's Having a Baby, and went on to make children and family films--mostly all of his films made after 1989. And fans of Kevin Bacon are sure to enjoy the movie as well. It's not fantastic, and I'll admit, I never got through watching it the first time. But I gave it a few years and tried again, and though it isn't a great movie, it is one that I would recommend trying out. "},{"Title":"Saved by the ending","Date":"8 January 2008","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Let's face it. it's not the most original premise of a young guy marrying young who goes through an early life crises. Yet the film reaches a sweetness that never turns into sickly. Whilst I think the screenplay could've been tighter and the script is not nearly up to the usual John Hughes banter; the picture is adequate due to the oh so natural performances of Kevin Bacon and the neglected Alec Baldwin. But it is not these two that saves this picture. What saves this picture is the final montage to the backing of Kate Bush's This Woman's Work which intertwined with Bacon's brilliant expression of emotion makes your heart skip a beat. I have never been in love nor had a baby but that scene hit me like a tonne of bricks and the film becomes watchable if only for that. "},{"Title":"Underrated John Hughes comedy; fine chemistry between Bacon & McGovern","Date":"22 April 2003","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  SHE'S HAVING A BABY (1988) *** Kevin Bacon, Elizabeth Mc Govern, Alec Baldwin, William Windom, Cathryn Damon, John Ashton, Edie McClurg, Dennis Dugan.  Frequently accurate domestic comedy about newlyweds Bacon and McGovern who finally decide to procreate amidst the usual barriers including family and money.  Smart script and direction by John Hughes with a sharp turn of events by the film's climax with an effectively dramatic birth sequence; I got misty eyed for Bacon and the plight of his newborn accentuated by the song This Woman's Work by Kate Bush.  Wait for the credits with some celebrities coming up with names for the baby. "},{"Title":"romantic comedy","Date":"15 March 2006","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I love this movie. One of my all time favorites! This movie is realistic and very moving. It portrays a married couple that goes through a lot of changes and moments through a married life together. And in the mean time its a romantic comedy with a touch of drama that everybody can relate to in one way or another in their married life and starting a family. The movie is cute, funny, and very touching. I would recommend it to anyone! There is hardly any harsh language or nudity in it. All the actors and actresses that played in this movie were very good. If you like this movie I would recommend Nine Months, The Family Man, My Big Fat Greek Wedding. "}{"Title":"Weird little charmer of a movie","Date":"31 May 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" On the upside, I love this movie (enough that I just watched it for about the 7th time), firstly and mostly, because of Elizabeth McGovern's very charming portrayal of very charming Kristy Briggs. Secondly, because of the cute and sweet relationship between Kristy and Jake. Thirdly because of the chuckles I get from watching the credits at the end of the movie -- which I believe is the first and only time I've actually chuckled from watching movie credits! On the downside, there are some really odd elements to the direction that I really don't enjoy at all, but rather suffer through and barely tolerate. I just think Jake's fantasies and/or hallucinations could've been directed better. And I cannot stand Alec Baldwin's character (Jake's best friend), or his girlfriend's either. UGH! But all in all, this movie entertains me, brings crocodile tears to my eyes in several places, makes me smile in many others, and makes me root like crazy for Kristy's & Jake's relationship to make it! "},{"Title":"A Great Piece From the John Hughes Catalog","Date":"21 July 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Such a great movie! I was arguing with myself for the longest time, avoiding this one, thinking it may not contain elements of what I commonly associate John Hughes movies to be....a certain formula if you will. I was not displeased in the least with this movie. It had all the emotional elements a movie should have and what a great directorial project. I always enjoyed Hughes and his certain direction points and trademarks. I thought he did a great job. Kevin Bacon and Elizabeth McGovern shine true as a newly wed couple, struggling in the beginning years and also experiencing different effects of their marriage. In some places, I found myself completely relating and laughing out loud. The ending held me on pins and needles and with that conclusion, I felt this movie had everything it should offer. Much Recommended and you can't say you've experienced a great John Hughes movie, until you see this one. "},{"Title":"Underrated Hughes Film Which Needs Another Chance","Date":"12 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The title says it all She's Having a Baby. But there's more to the story than the title says.As the film opens, we meet Jake Briggs (Kevin Bacon, who also narrates)on the verge of marrying Kristen (Elizabeth McGovern),with his best man/friend Davis (Alec Baldwin)at his side. Jake and Kristen are childhood sweethearts, but Jake is a bit frightened and confused as to the steps he's about to take. He knows that once he steps into the house of marriage, he has to grow up.Once married, Jake (Who wants to be a writer)takes a job that he feels will crush him and has to deal with the constant butting in of his father-in-law Russ (William Windom). Kristen is being as supportive as she can (And just a tad bit whiny), but Jake is becoming more and more frightened of his role as husband. His friend Davis raises doubts about being married, his mind fantasizes about events in his life (Like the neighborhood doing a musical number with lawnmowers)and about a mystery girl that he met in his dreams, who actually does exist.Things then start to turn when his wife tells him that she stopped taking the pill some time ago (Causing him to fantasize about being creamed into a wall at full speed). But it's at the moment when she tells him that she's pregnant that he really grows up. As he sits in the waiting room in tears (there are complications during delivery),reflecting on the good times between them (And Kate Bush's This Woman's Work playing in the background), we finally see Jake become an adultwanting his wife and child to be o.k. and seeing the emotions within him.A box office failure when it was first released, She's Having A Baby should be given another chance. Bacon and McGovern's performances work well together. Even Alec Baldwin (In his incredibly sexy days)does a good job as the incredibly selfish friend who tells Jake to go have fun while making passes at his wife.Give it a look. "},{"Title":"Woods expensive, words are cheap......","Date":"17 February 2015","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Jake and Kristy Briggs are newlyweds, but as they are still young, they are perhaps a bit unprepared for the full reality of marriage and all that it expects of them. Things certainly aren't helped by Jake's friend Davis, who always seems to turn up just in time to put a spanner in the works.And then there's the predictability of the title, just as things were becoming mundane for the couple.John Hughes has hardly ever took a step wrong, and for some, he defined the teen movie in the eighties forever. But my gosh, this is a pig of a film.Once again, screenwriters in Hollywood think that everyone is wealthy, or at least has at least wealthy parents, and here it's blatantly in your face, and the films biggest flaw? There is not one likable character in the entire film.Bacon is just a selfish little man who would rather chase his dream than become a family man, and when he finally succumbs to the latter, he resents his wife for the. Majority of the film. Baldwin pops up every now and again with an insufferable girlfriend to show Bacon what life would be like if he wasn't married.McGovern doesn't fare any better though. I don't know why, but it seems that the writers have just made her a one dimensional maundering waste of space, so with whom are we supposed to give our empathy too? As always with films like this, there is a moment in the film where McGovern is at risk, so we have a moment with Bacon crying and reminiscing about the good times. And what good times are they? Decorating and getting locked out in the rain. Oh the joys of love.Whether its a marriage warning to teens, or Hughes exposing to the masses just how abhorrent yuppies were, it sure is one thing.Cinematic contraception. "},{"Title":"She's having an overstuffed baby . . .","Date":"3 November 2014","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" 'She's Having a Baby' is an interesting exercise in the oldest most simple kind of story hendered by stupid gimmicky side-plots that pull it down like dead weight.At the center is a pure, honest, likable couple played by Kevin Bacon and Elizabeth McGovern. There aren't two more winning personalities in the movies. Bacon has a strong presence and a good personality. The Invaluable Elizabeth McGovern has one of the most honest faces that I have seen in a movie. When she says she loves him, she has a certain way of holding herself that leaves absolutely no doubts in my mind.The movie tracks the progression of their first years of marriage from the wedding to their first child. We meet them on their wedding day where Bacon (like the groom in almost every movie) is a sweating, nervous wreck fearful that he is giving up his freedom.They move into a condo that is more mortgage then home. Bacon gets a low-level job with an ad agency and after a few years the rest of the family hints that it might be time to have a baby. So, the rest of the movie shows their efforts at conception.This is all well and good and if the movie had stayed with the simple plot detail that I just described, this would have been a better movie. The problem is that it keeps throwing in a lot of distracting, unnecessary plot baggage. For example, after the two move to the suburbs, they are surrounded by the usual gallery of suburbanites including the men who are more interested in their lawn mowers then their wives and wives discuss their husband as if they were children. This all culminates in a stupid Busby Berkly-type dance sequence involving lawnmowers.Clichéd characters abound in this film including McGovern's parents who absolutely hate their daughter's new husband and bad mouth him at every turn. Another cliché Bacon's best friend played by Alec Baldwin keeps hitting on McGovern while Bacon keeps having fantasies about the same beautiful woman and begins to have longings for his bachelor freedom.On top of all of that, there are silly fantasy moments as when Bacon finds out that McGovern is pregnant and envisions himself being hurled screaming toward a brick wall. Or the moment when they get married and the minister reads off a laundry list of duties that Bacon is to perform in order to make her happy. Or the typical panic-stricken tailspin that Bacon goes into when McGovern goes into labor.This is a case of less is more. I liked the quiet moments in this movie which are wedged in between the gimmicks. The small romantic moment between the couple are very sweet and touching. Because these two actors are masters of emotional depth I had no trouble believing that their were honestly and passionately in love.The movie ends with one of the most emotional scenes I can remember. A complication arises when McGovern goes into labor and Bacon sits in the waiting room. The scene is done so beautifully that I longed for what the rest of the film could have been if it weren't trying so hard to be cute. 'She's Having a Baby' could have been an effective movie had the director had the nerve to trim the fat. "},{"Title":"I Appreciate the Subject Matter","Date":"15 February 2014","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" If you got married and had at least one kid, you'll appreciate this movie a lot.Negatives1. There's nothing to brag about in the acting, though Kevin Bacon and Elizabeth McGovern do a nice job. 2. The script is just okay, and holds back what could have been a much better film.Positives1. There are so few movies that focus on marriage, getting married, having a baby, living with your kids, or even a gut-wrenching divorce. I appreciate when a filmmaker takes on these subjects, which touch a lot of the population, but rarely are addressed in film. They are powerful subjects to which many, many people relate. However, the lion's share of films deal with meeting somebody and getting together--at most going to a proposal--but they don't deal with anything that follows that. This movie covers what follows, and anyone who has been through it can relate to the various issues through which you go in a normal relationship like this. 2. The labor and delivery segment of the film was pretty well done, and I enjoyed it a lot.RecommendationWatch this movie, since there are so few movies that deal with the subject matter.The movie Marley and Me (Owen Wilson & Jennifer Aniston) actually deals with all these things much better, with better acting and a better script. I know, that's a dog movie, but it's really not &#x96; it's really a movie about getting married, beginning careers, living as a married couple, and having kids. Other good movies in this category are The War of the Roses (Michael Douglas & Kathleen Turner), Price Check (Eric Mabius & Parker Posey), Regarding Henry (Harrison Ford & Annette Benning), and The Story of Us (Bruce Willis & Michelle Pfeiffer). "},{"Title":"A truly delightful experience","Date":"11 January 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Seeing this movie again after several years, really showed me what a lovely uncomplicated experience it was. Kevin Bacon and Elizabeth McGovern were perfect choices for the roles of new Husband and Wife, not helped at all by the treacherous Alec Baldwin. The story was interesting all the way through to the very end, and we had fun, pathos and love all wrapped into 90 minutes or so, but I felt Kevin Bacon carried the film, and showed even in those early days of his career the great potential that eventually became real in his Mystic River performance, as well as others like The River Wild, etc. I cannot understand why it did not do much better at the Box Office. "},{"Title":"Nice and  charming film if somewhat lacking","Date":"8 June 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I like John Hughes a lot, so naturally I wanted to see She's Having a Baby. She's Having a Baby is not Hughes' best movie by a long shot, and is not a masterpiece but it is a watchable and charming movie. It is too short, unevenly paced having the odd dull stretch in the middle, has some weak spots in the script and the story is rather predictable. However, it is nicely filmed, has a beguiling soundtrack, it does have its funny and charming sequences, the direction is assured, the ending did get to me and I thought it was beautifully done, and the performances from Kevin Bacon, Kirsty Briggs, Alec Baldwin and the rest of the cast are natural and not too forced. Overall, a nice if lacking film. 6/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Light fluffy 80's nostalgia with great soundtrack","Date":"20 March 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" John Hughes films had some of the best soundtracks ever, or more correctly gave rise to the best albums based on soundtracks. The Pretty in Pink album is one of the greatest compilations of 80's music made in the 80's. It was edgy stuff back then and still sounds remarkably current today.The music in She's having a baby is almost as good. Kate Bush's This Woman's Work is one of those rare songs that was so beautiful and haunting that I can flash back to exactly where I heard it first. It is so universal and timeless that a muscular 6 foot 5, 250 pound Afro-American man could sing it on American Idol 23 years later and bring tears to the judges eyes. The movie is worth seeing just for the final scene, where this song plays while Kevin Bacon is anxiously waiting for word about his wife and baby.The rest of it is very playful and fluffy and especially for those of us that lived through those times, quite enjoyable. Younger viewers might get an appreciation for how innocent and naive people were back then. Especially fun was seeing Alec Baldwin in his pretty boy grease-ball stage. And unlike Pretty in Pink, the music in the soundtrack actually forms a large part of the story - and did I tell you how good that soundtrack is? "},{"Title":"Beautiful, yet unfortunately misunderstood.","Date":"2 March 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I feel like the point of the film, the morals learned and the entire narrative structure is lost on most.The film is the REtelling of a man (Kevin Bacon) and his immaturity to his marriage and refusal to grow up. The weird dream sequences show this visually and since it's being told to us, these represent exactly what he felt at the time. We never see his happy moments that are only revealed in the finale because at the time, he didn't notice them so we are denied them to be put in his shoes. It can be confusing the first time you watch it may feel kind of disjointed but it makes sense in the end.Because the film was created this way, the montage in the final moments is heart wrenching as we see Bacon go trough his transformation and realization.This was Hughes' attempt to break out of his brat pack films into serious drama and while I wouldn't say it's award worthy, it's easily one of his best films and most certainly his most underrated. "}{"Title":"Sweet, sometimes sad, often charming","Date":"12 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  If you haven't seen this lovely little film yet, and you are due to be a young family man, I recommend it. Watch it with you significant other, and dare to try and not shed a tear, both laughing and really crying. If you're an 80's music fan, there's simply another great reason to love this film. Plus, Hughes uses fantasy outakes in a way few people had done prior to Ally Macbeal. It renders what could have been a generally typical, boring chick-flic a decently entertaining picture. "},{"Title":"Hughes a little too flippant","Date":"26 August 2008","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is definitely not John Hughes' genre. In his attempt to tackle this weighty subject, he has created a flippant, misfired show about life-time commitments. Hughes just can't stay serious about serious. There is not enough humour in here to make this a successful comedy, and the poignancy at crucial points is missing (so much potential in this area). Too many scenes shoot wide of the mark.Kevin Bacon and Elizabeth McGovern are both likable and they make a cute couple, but the former has gone on to stronger roles and the latter; whatever did happen to Elizabeth McGovern?Chicago is of course the setting, and Hughes employs the usual pop soundtrack (from former Police guitarist Stewart Copeland).PS Stay tuned for the end credits when a crowd of Hughes' friends drop by.Monday, January 26, 1998 - Video "},{"Title":"Top bananas","Date":"4 August 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Another one of John Hughes classics.I maybe in my 40's but this has to be one of my favourite films. It manages to hit every emotional note from being amusing to being a little sad. I think I'd even still love this film when I'm in my 90's and sat in an old peoples home. Top draw and top bananas.They certainly don't make like them like they used to. I'm now padding out the rest of the text as I have to meet the 10 line minimum. So please excuse the following text as I'm going to waffle on and on and on................. and on and on and on and on and on. Maybe I need to go on a little more, but just a little more to keep people happy. "},{"Title":"Not bad","Date":"26 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Not a great film, but enjoyable, nevertheless. Most of my points go for the scene near the end, with Kate Bush's hauntingly beautiful This womans work, which always brings a tear to my eye. I loved the song before I realized it was in this film, which was my main reason for seeing the film in the first place. "},{"Title":"My favorite movie","Date":"20 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I love this movie so much. It's sad that it doesn't get the recognition it deserves. The relationship between the two characters is so well- written. The ending is dramatic and touching. Kevin Bacon gives, in my opinion, his best performance ever in the movie's final scenes. Not to mention this movie produced one of the most beautiful songs ever written, This Woman's Work by Kate Bush. All in all a great movie. "},{"Title":"CLASSIC","Date":"1 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  As a huge fan of John Hughes, I enjoyed his work in this particular movie. With great actors like Kevin Beacon and Elizabeth McGovern starring in the film, it was sure to be, at least, excellent acting.  The film does have a few weak spots, but over all, the near 2 hours spent watching this movie is well worth it!  This is a movie you can watch over and again and still somewhat enjoy!  However, this is my opinion...I could be wrong -)   ~DJ STË7ENS "},{"Title":"Wonderfully Entertaining","Date":"20 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is now one of my all time favorites.  The relationship between Jefferson and Kristin Briggs is very sweet.  The ending of the movie is one of the best that I have ever seen.  I laughed and I cried.  The music is also great. "},{"Title":"Hilarious!","Date":"26 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one of my favorite movies that just about every married person and parent can identify with.  I love the narration by Bacon.  I rated this movie a '10'.  Don't take it too seriously.  Great work.   It is really fun to watch.  Very funny.  Very true.  Very sweet.  Good drama.  Fun for the family.  Not vile. "},{"Title":"Good movie but too short","Date":"2 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Good movie, particularly if your just married or are planning to get married. It suffers from lack of character development however, typical of a lot of these writer-director made movies; not enough feedback in the writing process. It would have been a much better movie if it was a 1/2 hour longer. There are some inconsistencies, also. Jake is a writer and you would expect that a writer would be a deeper thinker than his character, Jake only comes to a reconciliation of himself after events happen to him, rather than before. The movie would have been much better if Kristies character had been more developed. Adding some scenes between her and a close girlfriend to develop her character better would be the way to do that. She comes across in the movie as somewhat of a bitch, since none of her motivations for doing anything are explained - what attracted her to Jake wasn't even explained in the movie, which is pretty strange considering they are newlyweds. "},{"Title":"My favorite","Date":"29 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I can't really tell you why this is my favorite movie, but I've always loved it. I saw it about ten years ago and ended up having to own it I loved it so much. Of course, I've seen it at least twenty times since. It's just a great film. Funny, heartwarming, a few tears. A classic 80's movie. You really feel like Jake and Kristy are a real couple. A perfect movie for newlyweds or anyone about to venture into parenthood. John Hughes brilliantly displays the emotions and fears of a young man facing his fear of growing up, becoming a husband, a father, an adult. One of the many films that prove Kevin Bacon truly is a star. I highly recommend this film. "}{"Title":"Entertaining movie about family and life","Date":"6 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  She's having a Baby touches upon lots of issues faced by young Americans slipping into settled, suburban, family life.Bacon plays Jake, the aspiring writer who is forced to take a mundane job to help pay the bills.  He grapples with nagging in-laws, family needs, his own personal and career needs, old friends.This movie is great in capturing many of the emotions of a newly-wed husband.  I personally enjoy movies that use an imagination-out-of-control style.  Some of these scenes revealing Jake's fears and desires are hilarious.Bacon does a fine job himself, playing a sort of goofy husband learning the ropes of suburban America.  Alec Baldwin plays Jake's sleazy bestfriend, a constant reminder of the wildman, swinger life Jake used to have in college and high school, in sharp contrast with the square lifestyle he leads now.The movie fails, however, to adequately characterize Kristi, Jake wife, played by Elizabeth McGovern.  **spoiler**Towards the end of the movie, Kristi's life is endangered by a childbirth gone wrong.  The audience is supposed to share in Jake's anguish as he paces the hospital waiting room.  But prior to this point, the movie hasn't really developed Kristi enough for there to be any connection between her and the audience.  In fact, I'm not sure if the role was written this way or it was just McGovern's acting style, but Kristi frequently comes off as cold and selfish.  Throughout most of the movie, she has this nasty scowl on her face and she often seems unsympathetic or insensitive to Jake.**end spoiler**Overall, She's having a Baby is an enjoyable, funny movie, and I think many viewers will be able to relate to it. "},{"Title":"So sad!","Date":"1 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a wonderful movie. It is a mixture between Comedy and drama. There were many times when I wanted to cry. This movie is John Hughes at his best since The Breakfast Club. The 80's seemed to be a great decade for movies by John Hughes Like She's having a baby, Breakfast club, Ferris Bueller's day off and Sixteen Candles. The only thing I found strange of this movie is the fact that there were no talks of babies untill about 45 minutes into the film. All in All WELL DONE! "},{"Title":"Surprisingly dull and tedious for a John Hughes film, and it somehow gave me a bleak feeling","Date":"9 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" After watching Curly Sue just a few days ago, She's Having a Baby was the only film directed by the late John Hughes which I had not yet seen. This is another one written, directed, and produced by Hughes. I still haven't seen every film he ever wrote/produced, but have now seen all eight of the ones a directed in his career. Most of them I've found to be at least pretty good, some of them more than that, and when I finally watched Curly Sue, I found that it usually fails in its attempts to be funny, but does have some fairly gripping drama. Like that film, I wasn't expecting this one to be that great, since it's another one of Hughes' less popular efforts. However, I certainly was expecting it to be better than it turned out to be! Jake and Kristy Briggs are two young newlyweds, and after they get married, they move to New Mexico, where Jake studies to get a Masters Degree at graduate school, but he really doesn't like this, so he gives up before he reaches his goal. After this, the two of them move back to Chicago, where Jake manages to get a job as an advertising copywriter, after failing to fool his employers with his thoroughly dishonest resume, but still impressing them with it. While working at this job, he also aspires to become a writer. Kristy finds employment as a research analyst. With their combined income, Jake and Kristy are able to afford a sizeable house in the suburbs of Chicago. Unfortunately, their marriage is turning out to be a dysfunctional one. A lot gets in their way, including trouble with Jake and his father-in-law, Russ Bainbridge, and also a visit from Jake's old friend, Davis McDonald, who comes with an unloving sexual partner! As time goes by, Jake and Kristy eventually face problems of a different sort.Pretty much all aspects of this movie I didn't care for, including the bland characters and the performances from the cast members who play them. Alec Baldwin as Davis McDonald might be the worst, but nobody really stands out. Kevin Bacon is no exception as Jake Briggs, and this character's narration isn't very impressive. Since this is supposed to be a comedy, I guess the main problem is the lack of laughs. I did laugh a little at times, the job interview for instance, but the humour definitely more often fails than succeeds, and nothing is hilarious here. I especially didn't care for the part where Jake is laughed at by everyone in the waiting room. As well as laughs, John Hughes was known to have poignancy in his films, and there definitely are moments in this one that are supposed by be poignant, but they failed to grab me. It's not a very well written story, and watching this miserable marriage at different points through the years did not show me any reason why it should keep going. Eventually, I found that the film was getting a little frustrating to sit through, as it was pretty tedious.John Hughes wrote and produced more than he directed in his film career, but of the eight movies he wrote AND directed (most of which he produced as well), many viewers might say that Curly Sue is the weakest. However, after watching She's Having a Baby, I disagree. His 1991 film may be inferior to most of the other films in his directing credits, but I would say it is at least superior to this 1988 effort, even if that's not the most popular opinion. Also, of all the films Hughes directed, this was the second one in which the protagonists were not high school students, the first of those being Planes, Trains & Automobiles, starring John Candy and Steve Martin. That film is both hilarious and heartwarming, with outstanding characters and cast performances, but this one doesn't have any of those qualities. It basically seemed like the opposite of its predecessor to me in more than one way, as it is overall bland, bleak, unfunny, and listless, without any very notable characters/performances. With the way it made me feel, I cannot question why this movie doesn't get as much recognition as a number of other pictures which Hughes made in the same decade as this one. "},{"Title":"so real...","Date":"22 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is a real way to show what every man and woman goes thru in every step of their life... Very much caricatural... "},{"Title":"Illogical and cliche","Date":"21 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Warning, spoilers ahead (even if I doubt that anybody hasn't seen this yet)The movie starts off rather well, but about halfway through it falls apart and becomes a corny, sugary sweet, predictable and unrealistic 'harmony romance' mess. I mean, it's very obvious that there are serious problems in the main characters' marriage, but these problems are never solved but just forgotten.Basically, as soon as she decides to have a baby behind his back (without even asking) all of their problems magically disappear without a trace or an explanation. Given what had happened up until that moment it would have been far more logical if the marriage fell apart rather than becoming the trite and cliche' 'having a baby will change everything' ending.The two main characters' families and neighbours are also extremely one-dimensional, and don't seem to serve really any purpose if not to irritate the viewer, and they also mysteriously disappear from the movie as soon as the 'harmony moments' start.I am sorry to be ripping this movie, but given the start I would have expected something more. 4/10 for me. "},{"Title":"Paranoia","Date":"28 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Am I the only person that thinks that the wife in this movie is a complete control freak.  She decides to go off the pill (without telling her husband); talks about their infertility to her mother (without telling him); and doesn't like his friends (what wife does).On second thought, anyone watching this movie should be told the following disclaimer - If this is your wife, get a good lawyer and get the heck out of your marriage.Now I feel better. "},{"Title":"These are the days of our lives...","Date":"27 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film in a strange way hits me as very realistic. It tells a completely normal story of completely normal people living a rather uneventful life.On the other hand we have Cody (Kevin Bacon) having those weird (and hilarious) visions all the time... visions of a dark future, of humiliating experiences, of the things to come. I like this movie a whole lot because it gives me an idea of the things to (hopefully) come in my life as well...   "},{"Title":"pass on this 'baby'","Date":"31 August 2001","Score":"5 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Back in 1988 it must've seemed like Armegeddon was near as...John Hughes was actually gonna write a semi-serious movie!  Now, a year earlier he had veered into non-teen territory with Planes, Trains, and Automobiles.  But had kept the laughs constant enough that it really wasn't a film about adults.  But after a five-year whirlwind run of success, which featured seven of the more memorable films of the decade, he was able to get greenlighted his pseudo-life story.  Die hard fans of him like myself will easily spot how this mirrored his hug(h)e rise.  An aimless newlywed (Bacon) goes through the usual pains of accepting adult responsibilities, becomes an ad-man, really wants to be a writer, and somehow makes the dream work.  All the while cliches abound around him; a father-in-law who hates him; neighbors who yap endlessly about their lawnmowers; and a wife who is pressuring him to be a father.  A better title might've been He's Having a Cow, as the film is more about Bacon than anything else.  As someone else mentioned, the baby portion of the film doesn't happen till nearly the end, and after it's born, here come the end credits.  Hughes scores here and there with this, but mostly it's jumbled, all too traveled ground we've seen in other movies.  Plus his flights of fancy, where he incorporates incredibly out of place daydream segments that just confuse.  The big lawnmower sequence had me perplexed; was this Bacon getting an idea for an advertisement, or him hopped up on something?  Someone else also brought up that McGovern's character is hardly familiarized with the audience, and when she is, can be overbearing or loud and angry.  And you could tell Hughes was going for an ethereal moment of drama in the end as he has Bacon soaked in white light with creepy music playing, as he waits for his wife's delivery.  But it doesn't come off because we hardly care for these characters who have meandered through a dopey adventure until that point.  Even the familiar celebrity faces during the end credits are disappointing, as none of them take it seriously and offer up one idiotic name after another (Aykroyd's alien monikers are especially stupid and painfully unfunny).  For better expectant baby fare, check out Hughes' graduate Molly Ringwald in For Keeps, a much better (and very Hughes-ish) film on the subject. "},{"Title":"Hughes says goodbye to teen films.","Date":"24 May 2001","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  In a not totally successful attempt to be taken seriously, and move into 'adult' films, Mr. Hughes gives us this film about a young married couple. True, it's got every cliche in the book in it, silly fantasy stuff and all that, but more importantly- it's got Elizabeth McGovern.Clearly the best actress to have ever appeared in a John Hughes film, she lends a weight to it that elevates the sometimes silly material. Kevin Bacon (and his hair) is pretty good as her husband, but McGovern steals the movie with her quiet true moments of honesty. The 'teen film' fun that worked so well in other Hughes films falls flat here- like a favorite uncle whose jokes made you laugh when you were 9, but keeps telling them when you are 15 and you wish he'd find some new material. But I keep going back to McGoverns performance, because it's truly moving. Mr. Hughes most interesting films to me have real actors in them (Some Kind of Wonderful, Breakfast Club) and when his material bumps up against a true talent, some wonderful things can happen. If only he'd trust that it doesn't have to be tarted up with the silly fantasy stuff.  "}]