[{"Title":"The Best is the Best","Date":"14 March 2002","Score":"27 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sport","Review":"  I'm not sure why I liked this movie so much.  The plot is just another Rocky derivative and the dialogue rather pedestrian.  However, it does have James Earl Jones which is always a plus.  Despite the cliché story I still actually cried at the end.  I was moved.  I felt for these characters, their struggle and their triumph.  This movie is a good guilty pleasure.  It shouldn't be as enjoyable as it is.  Here's to the emotional power of cheese. "},{"Title":"A Really Good Martial Arts Movie","Date":"16 February 2006","Score":"14 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sport","Review":" Alex Grady (Eric Roberts) the widowed father of his five-year-old son is chosen to represent the United States of America in a karate tournament against team Korea, where the odds of winning are slim at best. Coached by James Earl Jones and Sally Kirkland the team prepare to meet an unstoppable group of true martial arts experts, and along their journey they have to deal with their personal conflicts and tragedies, before they become a team.OK the story and script are cheesy, and some of the acting is a little weak, but the sentiment and melodrama is not all misplaced and the martial arts sequences are fantastic, particularly from Eric Roberts and Christopher Penn, who are not trained martial artists.A must see for martial arts fans, and a good film for everyone.7/10 "},{"Title":"Great movie.....","Date":"10 August 2004","Score":"15 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sport","Review":" First let me address everyone who knocked this movie, this movie wasn't made to earn Oscars and a host of other accolades, it is what it is. If this sounds vague to you, I'll tell you what it is. It's a great martial arts movie made in the era of Bloodsport, Kickboxer, King of Kickboxers, and such other similar films. For what it is, its a phenomenal movie. Great fight scenes, especially when Phillip Rhee is fighting as well as the Korean team, (the rest of the American team sucked, filled with bad actors like Eric Roberts.. who gives a sh!t about eric roberts, but I digress). Sure it was cheesy but what did you expect, an Oscar award winning movie, no, you go to see this for the mindless fun it gives you, just like Rocky IV that everyone mentioned in the comments, sure story wise Rocky IV wasn't the best, but I love the fights, the training, all of that... Its a fun movie.This is my all time favorite martial arts movie, along with anything from Sho Kosugi, and Van Damme's Bloodsport and Kickboxer (his other movies sucked the big one). It has great fighting scenes, decent yet predictable story, you like the characters, etc. etc. The sequels however were retarded, how an Olympian Tae Kwon Doe becomes involved in all these crazy adventures in 2,3, and 4 I don't know. I've only seen 2 out of the sequels and refuse to watch 3 and 4. Two was enough.***UPDATE I have finally found it on DVD... got it from Best Buy for $15.*** "},{"Title":"Indeed","Date":"11 May 1999","Score":"20 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sport","Review":"  Yeah, I mean there will be critics out there who will say, it isn't the greatest acting or dialogue, but the martial arts and the final scene are excellent. Especially from actors such as Eric Roberts and Chris Penn who have had no formal martial arts training. The film is a master piece of martial art cinema, and yes I strongly say it is better than Titanic. "},{"Title":"Truly the Best of the Best","Date":"13 October 2001","Score":"10 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sport","Review":"  This film shows all the hall-marks of a classic Martial Art flick where, Alex Grady, a down on his luck karate competitor is chosen to be a part of the US National Karate Team. For three months, Alex with four other would be champions must train hard under the watchful eye of Coach Couzo (James Earl Jones). They must be at their peak if they are to beat the masterful team from Korea.This film has it all, from spectacularly choreographed martial arts to the emotions of human life. The fight scenes at the end our breath taking with the two brothers, Simon and Phillip Rhee, showing the true essence of traditional Tae Kwon Do.James Earl Jones and Chris Penn add a nice touch of humour throughout the film and the way director, Bob Radler, inter-weaves the stories of the fighters is wonderfully done.With the unusual twist at the end this film has to be one of the best martial arts films of all time. Apart from some shady acting at times and an 'over the top' fight with Alex at the end, this film is what every martial art fan dreams about.A definate must even if your not a martial art fan. "},{"Title":"A reasonable representation of martial arts as a sport","Date":"3 February 2005","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sport","Review":" Best of the best is one of those rare movie; a credible and fairly realistic representation of martial arts as a sport. Yes, it is a cheese fest but it's a good one. The characters are likable, the action scenes are brilliantly done and although the story isn't as engaging as it could have been it does work.The story shows the selection and training of the US and the Korean national karate teams who we know from the start of the movie will face each other in a televised sporting event. All the character development is with the Americans though and this film is essentially about them. While the training and character building are good, and do make you care to some extent about the Americans, the entire movie is really all about the final fights. They are technically brilliant and very well shot. The second to last fight will send tingles down your spine, and the final fight - well, my wife hates this sort of movie but even she was in tears at the end.I liked this movie a lot. It's in my collection and my advice to anyone who enjoys a good fight film is to give this a chance. "},{"Title":"This movie does a great job!","Date":"29 September 2001","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sport","Review":"  This movie does a great job of combining martial arts action and is emotional. I have seen all 4 of the series but I have to say that this one and Best of the Best 2 are my favorites. The third one has a lot of great fight scenes but doesn't have quite the kick without Eric Roberts. All the fight scenes weather compitition or a bar fight are wonderfully done. Eric Roberts fighting is really good but Phillip Rhee fighting is just wonderful to watch. His movements are very clean, fluid and powerful.There are very strong emotional parts as well that are very well portrayed. I am a huge martial arts fan and have been for many years. So if you want a movie that has good acting. great fight scenes and has a tear jerking emotional feel to it, this is a great movie. "},{"Title":"The greatest ever","Date":"30 November 2005","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sport","Review":" I've seen lots of comment on this movie but this is my all time favorite. The first time I saw the movie I was 7 years old I'm 23 now and last week I saw him for the 58the time. I admit, the screenplay becomes old fashion after all those years but it's the greatest taekwondo-movie ever made!!! Everybody talks about the karate movie, OK, it's the US karate-team but the main fights are taekwondo-style, with a little bit of hapkido in it. Especially the true taekwondo battle between the rhee brothers at the end, I'm a taekwondo-member myself and what they 'fake' is very difficult, ever harder than a real fight. And too all the people here who think this movie is't worth rating high, try those kicks yourselves, trust me,it's hard, even without opponent! Best of the best rules!!! "},{"Title":"One of the best American martial arts movies of all time","Date":"24 November 2000","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sport","Review":"  I bought this film 10 years ago and have pretty much worn out the tape now. There's not alot of films I watch this much but this one really is good. If you appreciate the martial arts you will love this film - OK it over does things on the cheese front - but this just adds to the enjoyment of the movie (provided you have a sense of humour that is). Rocky for the martial arts generation.  "},{"Title":"Good martial arts flick","Date":"17 December 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sport","Review":" The 80's had some good martial arts movies, and some bad ones (really bad ones), this movie is a good one. While yes it does suffer some of the typical things in a martial arts flick, one lines, bad jokes, and some great fight scenes. The US tournament, the bar fight, and the match against the Koreans were all preformed very well.I'm a martial artist myself, who goes to tournaments, and trains as well. The training scenes are done very well, and James Earl Jones who I must saw is a wonderful actor does a good job as the coach. The coach at first is a old school type coach (Tough training and very strict), who seem to have a softer side, when he learns that the team members need Tommy and Alex to win.Overall a good movie, that any body can enjoy and or relate to if they have had a coach who was tough. "}{"Title":"A great martial arts movie.","Date":"14 September 2001","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sport","Review":"  This is the first movie in a series of 4,and I must say that this is the best of them.The movie is about us national karate team who goes to the world championship to compete. The movie show how all the different personalities on the U.S team help each other and train to fight their greatest opponents,Korea.And they get to learn the saying 'A Team is Not a Team if You Don't Give a Damn About Each Other' Koreas team is amazing and show some great fighting techniques.You must not think of this as a Karate Kid movie or anything like that,because this is a movie about serious people who compete in one of the hardest tournaments in the world. The fighting scenes in this movie is great filmed and choreographed. In the leading role you will fin Eric Roberts as one of the fighters on the U.S team.This is one of the greatest fighting movies in the 80s and maybe the 90s.So if you like action and karate movies,then this is a must.  "},{"Title":"Excellent martial art movie - typical 80s testosterone","Date":"14 October 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sport","Review":" Yes! This film is so cool I don't know where to start! Story Eric Roberts is a martial artist. He joins the American kung fu (or karate or something) team to face Korea. Himself and his teammates have to train hard to overcome their past demons or their pride and become the best of the best. Only regret is that only Philip Rhee (Tommy Lee in the film) on the American team, is the only martial artist. It would have been great if all the actors were real martial artists, but anyway, it's fun to see Chris Penn smashing people's heads in. This film is a typical 80s production sunsets, simple plot, hair metal, cool violence etc. It also contains a few extraordinary fight sequences, really pure martial arts. Loved it! "},{"Title":"The most underrated martial arts film ever and also one of the best","Date":"30 July 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sport","Review":" Best of the best is probably the most underrated martial arts film ever but is also one of the best ever made..the characters prepare for a tournament against the unstoppable Korean taekwondo team, but they also prepare to overcome themselves to succeed ,they must learn that a team is not team if they don't care about each other...Eric Roberts and Philip Rhee are the stars of the film, they have their bigger fights on their inside during the movie...the final battle between the Rhee brothers is one of the best fights on cinema history and James Earl Jones make a perfect job as the trainer who needs to inspire his students to overcome themselves and have a chance to win to the Korean team...I'm a big fan of the film,every time I see it I get excited...A must seen film "},{"Title":"Best of the Best!","Date":"31 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sport","Review":"  One of the best Karate films ever! I really mean that! It has action, drama and suspense all in the same mood! It has the best ending in a movie ever! In my opinion! Eric Roberts stars as a father just trying to make the team and he does! The acting really is top notch! Eric is the standout, but James Earl Jones is a great actor and you can't forget him! He is just awesome! So buy, rent, or just watch this great movie! It's really that good! Out of 4 stars I give it a 4+ "},{"Title":"Great Martial Arts Film, With Awesome Performances And A Fantastic Emotional Ending!.","Date":"21 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sport","Review":" This is a great Martial arts film,with awesome performances, and a fantastic emotional ending!. It's very well made, and all the fight scenes were great, plus Eric Roberts is really excellent in the film. The film is filled with many emotional moments, and the character development was simply excellent, plus i still can't get over that ending. This wasn't very popular among critics, however i found it to be a great film, and i was really surprised by how good it was, plus the opening was great. You really start to root for the main characters, plus the people that said Eric Roberts overacted, are so wrong!. *Spoilers* the scene, where Robert's son goes into a coma is very emotional, and all the characters were great, plus Eric Roberts and Phillip Rhee had very good chemistry together!.This is a great Martial arts film, with awesome performances and a fantastic emotional ending,i highly recommend this one!. The Direction is very good. Robert Radler does a very good job here, with great camera work, good shots during the fight scenes, and keeping the film at a very fast pace!. The Acting is great. Eric Roberts is fantastic here, he is extremely likable, very convincing, was excellent in the acting department, had very good chemistry with Phillip Rhee, and just did a fantastic job overall!. Phillip Rhee is great here as Robert's friend, he was very good in his emotional scenes, and really did a good job i really liked him. James Earl Jones is great as the coach, he was intense and very likable, this guy rocks. Sally Kirkland is very good here, she was beautiful and gave a solid show. Chris Penn was actually likable here and i really dug his character i am usually not a fan of his but i liked him here. John Dye is good here, and did his job well. Louise Fletcher is wasted here. David Agresta is okay here and nothing more. John P. Ryan is also wasted. Edan Gross is good as the son and was quite likable. Rest of the cast are fine. Overall i highly recommend this one!. ***1/2 out of 5 "},{"Title":"Second best American martial arts movie ever?","Date":"17 December 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sport","Review":" And by answering that, what I really mean is that Best of the Best probably is the second best martial arts movie ever made in the United States, behind The Karate Kid (1984). Director Robert Radler's film consists of a martial arts tournament, being held in Seoul, South Korea, between the American Karate team and the Koreans.The plot for Best of the Best consists of the assembly of the team, the selection of the fighters, their training by a dedicated coach (James Earl Jones), personal conflicts and triumphs, and the eventual showdown in Seoul with the Korean martial artists.Just one thing though It's not Karate they're training in; it's Tae Kwon Do, which is Korean! Much more, why would Korean fighters be training in an Okinawan art? What's going on here? (Tae Kwon Do is constantly referred to as Karate throughout Best of the Best and its sequels.)The best of these Korean Tae Kwon Do artists is Dae Han (Simon Rhee), a one-eyed Karate machine who accidentally killed the older brother of American martial artist Tommy Lee (Phillip Rhee) during a match, and he carries that guilt on his shoulders of having to watch his brother die. Coach Couzo (Jones), his assistant Don (Tom Everett), and their trainer (Sally Kirkland) have the duty of assembling Lee and four others to fight in Seoul Single-dad Alex Grady (Eric Roberts), Travis Brickley (Christopher Penn), Virgil Keller (John Dye), and Sonny Grasso (David Agresta). Their training regiment is long and difficult, with scenes inter-cut with that of the Korean fighters showing off their skills, jump-kicks and board breaks and all, leaving us wondering if our boys are really ready for Tae Kwon Do in its purest form.It should come as no surprise to drama hounds that they don't like each other and come from all walks of life. They have their personal squabbles too, like Alex's son is hurt in an accident and he himself struggles with an old sports injury, Travis's racist remarks only burden Tommy even further and alienate the men even more, and it's obvious that Couzo is hiding some skeletons in his closet as well. But once they learn to come together and act as a team, they'll manage all right (that's Best of the Best's message).Considering that Best of the Best has not gotten much attention, it is surprisingly well-made, well-written (with a story by Phillip Rhee himself and Paul Levine, who also worked on the script), and watchable. You do make a genuine connection with the characters (some are more developed than others), and you even feel for the Korean team at some points. The Koreans aren't some evil force out to conquer the world, but still aren't to be taken lightly because they're every bit as dedicated to winning as the Americans are. The script is uneven and the direction fades at different times, but these only seem to be minor obstructions from enjoying the picture.What it boils down to, ultimately, is a brutal full-contact tournament between the 10 members of both teams; the Koreans are fighting for national pride, while we're simply fighting for the right to be called the best of the best. We take a beating, all right, but there is something genuinely heartwarming about the ending, that will be left up to the viewer to see. What is most unexpected about this ending and events leading up to it, is that during an era rife with xenophobia and American jingoism, Radler's film sweeps all that stuff aside in favor of a somewhat balanced portrait of the other side. Bravo.8/10 "},{"Title":"What an excellent movie.","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sport","Review":"  This movie is so good, I don't know where to start. Not only is this one of the best action movies ever made, it's one of the best movies ever made PERIOD. The fact that this movie has an average rating of 5.5 is crap. This movie is worth alot more than that, that's for sure. If you love the 80s and you love good fighting movies like I do, then definitely check this one out. There aren't very many movies that I like, and this is definitely one of them.Don't dismiss this movie because it had some bad sequels. If you're going to judge this movie because you've seen overnight throw-togethers like Best of the Best 2, or Best of the Best 4, then you're really missing out...because Best of the Best is absolutely nothing like the sequels. Best of the Best 3 was alright, but that one too is nothing at all like the first one.This isn't some piece of crap that was thrown together overnight like 90% of all action films are. This movie is truly a quality film. The makers of this film really put their effort and time into making sure this was a quality film...everything including the excellent fight scenes, the training scenes, the great music, and the emotional moments as well. There is actually an important message about life in this movie. You know, once I think about it, I really can't think of one bad thing to say about this movie. I loved this movie ever since I was a kid and I still rent it sometimes. "},{"Title":"One of the best","Date":"27 December 2000","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sport","Review":"  This is one of the best films I have seen ever.  Sure the acting is a bit cheesy, full of one liners and bad jokes, but something about this movie got me stuck to the screen every time I watch it.  I am actually quite glad that they casted actors rather than serious martial artist experts (apart from the Rhee's and the Korean Team) to play the various roles in the film.This is a good movie for both general film lovers and Martial Art film fans, the end fights are very impressive. Personally, I did not enjoy the sequels that came after this so I say stick to the best. Best of the Best I.  "},{"Title":"One of a kind smash, and the creator remains obscure...","Date":"6 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sport","Review":" One of those films that comes out of nowhere and connects with everyone. There are a zillion fight films, a zillion martial arts films and if I am not mistaken even the UFC has lately taken to putting its brand on the occasional movie (Ugh). But nothing before or since BEST was quite like it, and therein lies a lot of the charm. Its a sports movie, its a team movie, its a success movie, its a personality movie, its a revenge movie, its a martial arts movie. Pick one, pick all. It not only worked, it worked well. The talent was extraordinary. Eric Roberts, a talented actor whose body of work in the B-movie sector has unfairly branded him. James Earl Jones? Are you kidding me? There are people who would happily watch commercials if they knew in advance JEJ was in them. The actor from left field, however, a face no one recognized, was Phillip Rhee. Lots of irony here. Irony because he was the writer and the inspiration for the project. Irony because he was also the only real martial artist on the set -- and it showed. He was poetry in motion and the other players had to work to act like they knew what they were doing. Films either work or they don't. This one worked. The sequels, and there were many, did not. Even the one where Rhee - in frustration -- did a Best of the Best sequel starring only himself (budget issues, Phillip?) did not come close to the appeal of the original. Gets better with successive views. "},{"Title":"Great Martial Arts Drama!","Date":"30 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sport","Review":" Eric Roberts, Phillip Rhee, James Earl Jones and Chris Penn star in this 1989 drama. Five U.S. martial artists, Alex (Roberts), Tommy (Rhee), Travis (Penn), Virgil (John Dye) and Sonny (David Agresta) are chosen to compete in a karate tournament against South Korea. They are coached by Frank (Jones) and begin getting to know each other as well as studying their opponents. Tommy is up against a man who killed his brother in a tournament years before and tries to get past it. Travis and the others are off to a rocky start, but begin caring about each other and they learn that's what a team is all about. I've always liked and recommend this great martial arts drama. "}{"Title":"The best of the Best of the Best movies.","Date":"24 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sport","Review":" In 1989, all is not well in the world. Korea has amassed a 4 man army of unstoppable brick breakers who are highly experienced in the art of honorable ass-kicking. The US of A has no choice but to assemble their own fantastic foursome of charming uber athletes. There's Sonny - you only need know three things about Sonny. He's Italian, he does martial arts and he has a fondness for breast milk ...yes, breast milk. He says so himself. There's Virgil who is so enlightened that he meditates and wears tie-dye shirts. But don't be fooled by his centered demeanor, Virgil does have a weakness. He finds nothing more persuasive than inner and outer labia. There's Travis the Cowboy, whose skill in karate is matched only by his winning personality and charming sexuality. He also has a tendency to be racist. There's Tommy, an Asian karate teacher who faces the toughest opponent in the one-eyed Dae Han, a master of competitive murder who killed Tommy's brother in another tournament. Finally, there's Alex. Don't be fooled by the bookish name, Alex is a powerhouse muleteer, whose only weakness is family tragedies and a bad shoulder. Best of the Best could best be described as a combination of The Karate Kid, Rocky IV, and Top Gun. The tension is palpable as the Americans realize what they are up against. After all, the Koreans practice for competition by trying to chop down trees with their hands. When they finally meet in Korea, they are in for the fight of their lives; a fight that no well-intentioned bar brawl can prepare them for. But there is no need for concern. They've got none other than James Earl Jones as their coach. This guy could knock a man down with his voice. Unfortunately, we don't get to see a demonstration of this and that might be the film's only flaw. Best of the Best is a winning combination of masculinity, martial arts finesse, American patriotism and manly emotion without a hint of homo-erotic undertone. Enjoy! "},{"Title":"Good movie.....almost great","Date":"7 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sport","Review":" Alright, I've seen over 3 dozen martial arts movies in my life time and this one is a good one, but I'm sorry to say...the acting doesn't deliver.The plot to the movie is VERY good on paper. The world's Tae Kwan Do championship is coming up and a team of 5 different Americans is chosen to face the reigning champions from South Korea. The Americans led by Coach Couzo (James Earl Jones) has to face themselves before facing their opponents, in more ways than one.We get your 80's character cliché of The best fighter but with troubled past (Philip Ree), your guy who looks like a geek but could snap your neck in two (John Dye) your resident a-hole (Chris Penn), your supporter guy just to fill out the roster (David Argresta) and your leader who happens to be the star of the movie (Eric Roberts). We also got your female trainer who happens to care more about the fighters than their training (Sally Kirkland).Like I said, the on paper storyline development is phenomenal and James Earl Jones does a hell of a job in his role. Unfortunately other than Chris Penn, the rest of the cast leaves a lot to be desired. Sometimes Eric Roberts was a little too melodramatic in his role of Alex Grady and just looking at David Argresta in his role of Sonny made me laugh every time he appeared on screen.Now, as the movie progresses we learn that Tommy Lee (Philip Ree) happens to be pulling his punches because its discovered the leader of the Koreans Dae Han (Philip's real life brother Simon) had killed Tommy's brother years ago. Tommy doesn't want to hurt anyone but he's forced to literally knock out Virgil (Dye) to prove he can beat anyone. We also learn that Alex has a son who's injured in a car accident, and James Earl Jones comes off as a complete jerk to get Alex's mind off it. However in the end, James shows mercy and drives home the fact he is the best actor of the cast and his scenes later in the movie only prove it.Now for the plot holes....and there are a few. Apart from the shoddy acting, there's a scene where the 5 fighters are forced to run 20 laps around an outdoor track, which is 5 miles. We're supposed to believe Chris Penn....the fat guy from Reservoir Dogs and To Wong Foo....can run 5 miles without dropping dead? Also he supposedly does 165 sit-ups in a row, HA! Don't get me wrong, Chris Penn in his prime could play the antagonist as well as anyone but they really stretched the character's limits by having him cast. The next part is the bar fight where Team USA cleans house of the rednecks in the bar, how they didn't get arrested is what I'm trying to figure out.The ending is a little cheesy but it actually set up a we're all winners touching moment that even I thought was good. I won't give away too much but I'll get to the point and say the martial arts were good, James Earl Jones was good, the storyline itself was good, the ending was touching....but the acting was mostly ridiculous.My favorite highlight is actually something you'd miss it if you blinked. Wade (Sally) is getting Team USA to stretch and Travis (Penn) simply lays down, puts a towel over his eyes and goes to sleep while everyone else stretches and struggles.Overall its a very watchable movie with great fight scenes and Chris Penn and James Earl Jones delivering the goods. The rest of the cast...ugh.6 out of 10 "},{"Title":"The most realistic martial arts movie ever","Date":"9 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sport","Review":" First, let's get something straight. I've seen (and will continue seeing) countless movies of all genres (I'm a fan of Woody Allen, Oliver Stone, William Freidkin, John Frankenheimer, Ridley Scott, Milcho Mancevski, John Woo...) and lately cannot even make myself finish watching over-budgeted, lame, boring, horribly scripted Hollywood crap targeted at people with an attention span of a chicken.Nevertheless, among the usually inartistic and less-intelligent categories such as martial arts or romantic comedies one can find a real gem. The cast is right on the spot; James Earl Jones, Sally Kirkland, Eric Robert and Chris Penn, even though not crème-de-la-crème actors, are well known and deserve credit for acting along major A-list actors during their careers (Eric Roberts was in the Dark Knight and pretty good to be honest). Now let's get to brass tacks a. it has a realistic, unburdened and clear plot; b. the 2 lead characters are well developed; c. the dialogue is superb, all characters seem human with fears, dreams and commitment we can relate to; d. the fights, even-though a bit unrealistic - the fighters seem intentionally slow at times waiting to receive the punches, are not over-choreographed, are entertaining and believable (injuries, tiredness, etc. are adequately expressed); e. typical American pump-up one-liners are kept at a minimum and only during the last showdown; f. the ending is truly fitting and unexpected. So, looking only for movies that have down to earth, realistic dialogue and believable development of events, irrespective of their weirdness, heroism or even everyday life simplicity, I truly recommend this one to all eclectic movie aficionados.Oh, the soundtrack is nice and pass on the sequels (they are not worth it).P.S. Please check also the romantic comedy Two Weeks Notice with Hugh Grant and Sandra Bullock for a surprising touch of great realism and dialogue. "},{"Title":"One of my childhood favorites.","Date":"10 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sport","Review":"  This movie is much like every movie that made a lasting memory for me as a kid.  I remember seeing this many many times on HBO (oh how I loved the early-90's feature presentation intro, but thats another story) and every time I watched it I was completely enthralled.  Now that I'm in my early 20s I can definitely see why so many people dislike this movie. If I had just seen this movie for the first time last weekend or something, I'd hate it beyond recognition. But, since it is one of those films from my childhood, I still cant get enough of it!  Long Live Best of the Best!  I seriously can't wait for this to hit DVD. ... POP IT TOMMY!! POP IT!!!! "},{"Title":"one of the best martial arts film made. Great ending.","Date":"27 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sport","Review":"  Just a short comment on the movie.if you are a martial art buff, i would recommend you to see this movie. It is a great movie and end scene is sensational . Not all that well known compared to other action flicks. But really worth seeing . I give it a rating of 9.5/10.0 "},{"Title":"This film is truly the best of the best!","Date":"27 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sport","Review":"  I have seen many films in my time, covering many different genres and I haven't seen a film which seems to have so much thought put in to it which many people will not know about as they regard it as a terrible martial arts film. Well this is a martial arts film but it also has a great story and it can and should be enjoyed by everyone. "},{"Title":"This movie has it all, from triumph to tears.","Date":"1 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sport","Review":"  I rarely watch a movie twice, and never read a book more than once.  I have seen this movie four times, and was moved every time.  I would never watch again or recommend Titanic. Best of the Best, was just that, THE BEST. "},{"Title":"Fix Delivered","Date":"29 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sport","Review":" Well, nothing more than the average sport flick that Hollywood is proud to present us for ages. The difference here is the excellence of the cast, which counts with legends such as James Earl Jones, Sally Kirkland and Louise Fletcher as bonuses, along with a, if not great, at least nice set of second team actors like Eric Roberts and the late Chris Penn. The tournament scenes are well-choreographed and filmed, without the fast pace modern films have and allows the audience a few cheers with the matches/battles. Another cool thing to see is the Korean training, compared to the couch potato Americans. It is hilarious to watch, also, the first time Sally Kirkland's character enters the training room. Earl Jones/Couzo's face is priceless. The secret to enjoy martial arts movies is easy put aside the cliché subplots and enjoy the ride, fellas. "},{"Title":"The Best of The Best","Date":"12 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sport","Review":" One of the best movies I've ever seen. While this movie is getting a bit old, it remains the same I am still as impressed every time I watch it.The acting is very good, the story is one that will make you think a lot. I certainly don't see things as I did before I watched Best of The Best. To anyone who watched or will watch this movie, there is a little something to learn from it.If you like martial arts, action and have a strong sense of values then this movie is for you.This is what I call More than a Movie. "},{"Title":"One of the best!!!","Date":"9 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sport","Review":" This is one of the best movies ever!!!!! I have seen more movies then I can count, therefore I feel I am qualified to have an honored opinion. Although a B movie it has great qualities. The family values, honor among friends and teammates, not to mention the opposition, makes it have a great quality. As for the actors they also did a wonderful job being so early in most of their careers, it was my first Eric Roberts movie I have been a devoted fan ever since. James Earl Jones although infuriated me in some scenes, was as awesome as ever. I highly recommend this movie maybe not for die hard martial arts fans, but for those who like a great story and some action. "}{"Title":"Wicked Film","Date":"11 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sport","Review":" The comments i've read on this film are completely unjust obviously not a martial artist bronsonskull72. This film is by far the best martial arts film out even to this day. it is true martial arts at its best with brilliant fight scenes and accurate detail to the REAL martial arts world none of this flying around on wires crap. Phillip Rhee, Simon Rhee, and Eric Roberts are fantastic in this film with Chris Penn doing an excellent job for some funny moments. All in all a great real life martial arts film which is definitely worth a look. its just a shame the other best of the best's went down hill 2 was OK but i haven't brought my self to watch the other 2 "},{"Title":"one of the better martial arts movies","Date":"9 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sport","Review":"  one of the reasons this film works has to do with the non-glorification of violence, which most martial art movies are famous for. this film actually has a story and can be enjoyed by every member of the family. the premise of the film is based on a has-been tournament fighter (eric roberts), getting a chance to leave the hum-drum of suburban life and do something that he once loved and was really good at. he is joined by another (philip rhee), who gets a chance display his talents and confront his fear alongside a few other characters who make up team USA. there are some funny parts, some cheesy parts, and moral to go with the story. what more could you ask for?  "},{"Title":"This Takes Me Back","Date":"29 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sport","Review":" I found Best of the Best to very good with a lot of hidden messages inside it. There are five men in the national American karate team who have been picked to take on China in a tournament but the story really focuses on two of the team members which Tommy and Alex. Alex is a burned out fighter who makes a comeback and has dealt with tragedy in his past with the loss of his wife and trying to be a good single parent to his son Walter. Then we have Tommy who is battling his own demons with the thought of fighting the man who killed his own brother in a similar tournament many years back when Tommy was just a boy. This is where the plot unfolds and continues till they meet at the tournament. This movie always reminds me of Rocky but with Karate not Boxing because the film is watching them train and talking through there problems till they get into the ring. You may laugh at this but wait till the end of the film when Tommy comes face to face with his brother's killer Dai Hon and then we'll see who is brave enough to hold back the tears because I think it is some of the best B movie acting I have ever seen. Unfortunately this did no favours for the future of it's actors apart from Chris Penn maybe from Reservoir Dogs but the coach played by no other than James Earl Jones who makes his best performance in years that stands out in my mind.There are a lot of patriotic scenes that will roles back your eyes in emotion when the two countries come together at the end to unite even after all the bickering they endure to one another throughout the film. They don't make B Movies like they did back in the late 80's and early nineties anymore and this was one of the rare gems which was one of them and should be remembered for at least that.A well thought out film which has a lot to give and a lot to remember.Best karate film since The Karate Kid and no one is yet to take it's crown "},{"Title":"This movie kicks Butt","Date":"4 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sport","Review":"  This movie has some of the best fight actions scenes in any movie I have ever seen.  This movie shows that that being a true black belt / martial artist means having integrity and honor.  I can't wait for this movie to go onto DVD.  If you want to see a great martial arts movie this movie maybe the best choice for you.. "},{"Title":"WOW!!!!","Date":"29 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sport","Review":"  I think this film would be to have it as the highpoint of 80's cinema. the guys in this can FIGHT!!!! its better than the karate kid, it has a nicer story, a real story, is like a drama with good acting, which makes it better. Eric Idle, he should have won an oscar (and maybe he would if he did'nt lose it to another). The soundtrack is awesome, it has guitar. SEE IT NOW!!!!! "},{"Title":"Truly the best!","Date":"27 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sport","Review":"  Best of the Best is not just a great martial arts film.  It is also a story that is a testament to the power of friendship and hard work.  This is much more than a film about a bunch of tough guys trying to kill each other.There is a much deeper meaning to this film.  It features characters from all walks of life.  The lower-middle class factory worker, a karate instructor, the egotistical cowboy, the Italian from the slums of Detroit, and the Buddhist in training all come together to work towards a common goal.  In only three months, these men must develop themselves as fighters and as teammates. They must overcome their differences if they want to succeed.The enemy in this film is the powerful Korean National Karate Team, a virtually invincible opponent.  The team from the states must overcome adversity that takes many different forms in this film.  Each fighter has an internal conflict that he must overcome.  The coaching staff even has its problems.James Earl Jones, Eric Roberts, and Sally Kirkland lead this great cast that turns in a tremendous performance.  Being a movie about its characters each actor had to really get into his or her role.  The film illustrates how each character grows as a person and as a member of a team.As a martial arts fan I really enjoyed this film.  As a true fan of film in general I feel that this was a great movie that told a dramatic story with characters that the audience could identify with.A team is not a team, if you don't give a damn about each other. "},{"Title":"good all around movie","Date":"21 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sport","Review":"  Best of the Best is about a karate team from the U.S that goes to compete in a karate tournamentl. I thought the martial arts scenes were good and thought James Earl Jones did a nice job as the coach of the team.  Followed by at least 2 sequels, not sure if there was a 4th, this was the best of all of them. "},{"Title":"One of the best action movies ever -- VASTLY Underrated","Date":"18 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sport","Review":"  I'm a big movie buff, and Best of the Best is vastly underrated.  If you've read a review and the review trashed it, don't panic.  Maltin hates it, but I'm very picky and can't stand cheapo B action movies.  This one isn't just a notch above... it's one of the best action flicks ever made. "},{"Title":"Best of the What???","Date":"9 February 2001","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sport","Review":"  First off, I could not figure out how a movie about being the Best of the Best, could have a sequel? I mean are not they already the Best? Why do they have to show that they are the Best again?Anyway, this movie does one thing in that the movie does not really tell you who the Best are. (a sequel is in fact possible and I guess Phillip Rhee  should be thankful since his only acting, writing, or directing work in the past decade has been the Best of The Best franchise)Instead, this movie gets into the personal histories of really only 2 of the fighters. These fighters of course follow usual plot lines and eventually lead an under-maned and out-gunned team.The movie is definitely lacking in some respects. It does not deliver as a full fighting movie, nor is it believable as a pure drama type (root for the underdog movie).Basically, it jumps around and we only get bits and pieces of an interesting movie. (ie, it jumps from training to the bar to the coach to videos of the competition to history of the combatants to the kid to getting kicked off of the team to being back on the team, etc...). It seems that the makers wanted to put so much into the movie that they forgot that it needed to be a complete movie to begin with.Still I do like James Earl Jones, although some of his character's motivation (ie. the past teams) seems far fetched.Watched on video in 2001. Rating of 3 "},{"Title":"Needs more fighting","Date":"29 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sport","Review":" Everyone knows that training montages are pivotal to an action movie, right? But what happens when a film forgets the 'montage' part and just gives us the training? That's what happens in Best of the Best, which barely leaves the film enough time to do the actual fighting at the end.The films opens with James Earl Jones of all people doing trials to cobble together a team of five Tae Kwon Do champs to go head to head with some Korean guys. He finally picks Eric Roberts (who has a 'five' year old son to look after), bumhole Chris Penn, Tommy (who has beef with the one eyed Korean champ), a Buddhist called Orville and an Italian-American guy who you know will be first up to have his arse kicked.After bonding with each other during a bar fight, our lads set off for some training under the watch of hard arse James Earl Jones, who shouts a lot at everyone. No one likes Chris Penn either, and to add to the drama Tommy's having flashbacks to his brother being killed and Eric's kid ends up in a coma! This lot need to neck some Beta Blockers and get to that tournament fast! Couch Earl Jones won't even let Eric have some emergency leave to go see his five year old teenage kid and therefore Eric quits the team and goes to see his son and no doubt buy more timotei for that hairdo of his, while Tommy quits as well. It's all drama, no kick boxing. C'mon! Get it together.Finally, and I mean with about ten minutes of the film to go, we finally get our kick boxing tournament. I'm all up for grown men round-housing each other in the face but this film is too well acted and too well made to be stupid enough for me to enjoy fully. Both Julia Roberts and Jones James Earl are fine actors, but couldn't they have taken a leaf out of a Gary Daniels or Godfrey Ho film and thrown in some side story involving drug runners or at least an exploding car or too? I paid thirty pence for all four of the Best of the Best films, so I can't complain much. I'm halfway through watching the second one and it's much better. "}{"Title":"Today, you have the chance to be the greatest martial artists in the world","Date":"16 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sport","Review":" I've started to write this review several times but aborted the attempts when I found myself unable to convey the quality of this movie. Mind you, I'm not necessarily talking about its theatrical value, but as its quality as a genuine martial arts movie, opposed to just an action movie with kicks. It's not the only film to attain this distinction, but the fact that it manages to do so on an adult level with a mixed cast of both acclaimed and (at the time) forthcoming stars qualifies it as the grown-up version of THE KARATE KID. If this means little or nothing to you, I advise you stop reading this review, but if you believe that the fighting arts can positively affect your life and that a good movie can be made of this concept, read on.The story A team of professional martial artists must master themselves under the tutelage of a tough coach (James Earl Jones) en-route to representing the United States in the national championships and an all-or-nothing battle against the formidable Korean national team.I won't deny that the movie strays into B-grade territory every now and again. Though the rest of its fights take place on the mat in a professional capacity, the film affords itself one bar brawl, similar to something you'd see in a Van Damme movie (albeit with six Jean-Claudes instead of one). The script seriously neglects at least one of the main supporting characters (David Sonny Agresta), and the inclusion of one main character (Sally Kirkland of Anna as James Earl Jones' co-trainer) is unnecessary. With that said, the movie features surprisingly strong acting for any kind of martial arts film. The cast list includes no less than three Oscar-nominees in pivotal roles (Jones, Sally Kirkland, and Eric Roberts), and while they're not giving the performances of a lifetime, they and the others are way beyond adequate. Jones' booming voice and Eric Roberts' emotional mini-speeches readily stand out as things that would have been difficult to pull off with a lesser cast and script and immediately set it apart from wannabe films that focused more on fighting.The fighting is worth more than half a glance, however. As the freshman outing of fight choreographer and quasi-villain Simon Rhee, the series of matches are a celebration of traditional tae kwon do, emphasizing realistic forms. The fighters are mostly real-life practitioners and collectively good, but I find myself appreciating the husky and uncharacteristically-cast Chris Penn almost more than the rest, as he goes to show that you do not have to be physically toned to excel at throwing kicks. There are a couple training scenes about, with the fights polarized to the first and fourth quarters of the film, and yet the martial arts are the subliminal driving point of the story. Each of the major characters has clasped onto a single aspect of them for Phillip Tommy Rhee, it's personal desire and sacrifice; for John Virgil Dye, it's the spiritual aspect; for Chris Travis Penn it's the building of confidence; and so on. Throughout the movie, the characters grasp additional aspects, therein becoming better people regardless of whether they win or lose their end matches. Some of the situations these concepts are demonstrated in can be hammy, but the emotional truth is untainted. The movie sets an upstanding example.Director Robert Radler would dedicate a good number of future martial arts flicks, but none with the emotional and dramatic worth of this, his magnum opus. I can honestly say that I can't think of a serious karate film buff who ought to be without this little gem - it's that good, even after two decades of future films to compare it to. "},{"Title":"A Mixture of Fight Movies That Should Not Be Taken Seriously.","Date":"25 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sport","Review":" There's a reason why Best of the Best is not at the level of Bloodsport, The Karate Kid, and Rocky. There's a reason why Best of the Best is not as well known as Bloodsport, The Karate Kid, and Rocky. The answer Best of the Best is an all-too cheesy copycat of of all three movies. Of course the movies have all drawn inspiration from one another, but Best of the Best is much inferior. But, having studied the martial arts and knowing different movies' intentions, I liked Best of the Best more than most people. Most people hated it, but not me! Mixed martial arts legend, Chuck Liddell called this his favourite fight movie growing up. It wasn't that good. Best of the Best is the prime example of a guilty pleasure. That's why I'm giving it 10/10.One thing I will give this movie credit for is it is about taekwondo. Most martial arts movies are either about karate or kung-fu, and lately, mixed martial arts. Many martial arts blend in well with each other, but I must give this credit where credit is due. It is about five taekwondo experts from all across America--Alex Grady, Tommy Lee, Travis Brickley, Virgil Keller, and Sonny Grasso (Roberts, Rhee, Penn, Dye, Agresta)-- who are chosen to compete against a team of unbeatable Koreans in a full contact fight. Each man must learn to work as a team and deal with their pushy coach (Jones) as well as their own personal demons. Sounds familiar? The main fighters it focuses on are Eric Roberts' and Phillip Rhee's characters, Alex Grady and Tommy Lee, whose subplots are actually pretty good. Grady is a widower who must provide for his young son, and Lee witnessed his soon-to-be opponent (played by Rhee's real life brother, Simon) murder his brother in competition and he swears revenge. Both subplots are good and provide the substance and seriousness that the movie needed. When Lee's subplot gets looked into more, it actually is heartrending and provides great sympathy for the characters. Best of the Best features training sequences, fights, and various situations that mirror the movies I mentioned earlier. Also, I mentioned that this was much cheesier. During the final fight scenes at the end, the Americans (good guys) are clad in black and the Koreans (bad guys) are clad in white. From a guy with fight knowledge, i can assure you that the fight sequences are very well done, but the fighters themselves are comical. Sonny Grasso is your stereotypical Italian, Virgil Keller is a hippy, Travis Brickley is a rude cowboy, and Alex Grady has beautiful hair. The Koreans don't have any distinctive features, but are still funny in how they try to look and act vicious. Tommy's opponent wears an eyepatch and looks like Snake Plisskin from Escape From New York and LA. Tommy is the only fully serious one. The fights are great and there's great emotion stirred up. It leads to a somewhat cheesy, but thoroughly wonderful ending. "},{"Title":"Good martial arts drama....","Date":"3 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sport","Review":" It is very rare and exceptional to have martial arts drama on big screen, or fighting drama films, well we had Rocky series, but this movie is not about boxing, it's about Karate and Taekwondo. The movie follows five best US contestants in full contact world karate/taekwondo championship against Korea. Trained by one of the best coaches in the US, the two leading characters are facing their own demons through training, now that was for the sense of drama&#x85; The film holds pretty interesting acting cast, starting with James Earl Jones, who plays coach Frank Couzo. Don't know how Jones ended up in martial arts film, but, I think he loved the character. Well, later he filmed another martial arts action film Excessive Force (1993), so he is fine by it, and he did his acting well as always. Now, we get to our two leading men&#x85; Eric Roberts, who plays a veteran fighter Alex Grady who returns after a long time absence, due to injury, to fight again on big competition. Roberts was solid in his performance, he always had that tough guy/martial arts image on his face, but he was funny on some occasions. Standing next to him as another leading man&#x85; Phillip Rhee who plays Tommy Lee, a real life martial artist and expert in Taekwondo and Hapkido. Tommy Lee participates in the tournament only because of revenge of his brother, who died by the hand of Dae Han, the leading captain of Korean taekwondo team. Rhee is not that quite good in acting, but I think he tried hard in some important scenes, but his martial arts scenes were great. Now, we get to our supporting cast&#x85; Chris Penn&#x85; well, Chris was a great actor, really intense in his performances, and I was pretty confused by his appearance here, because I saw him before in Reservoir Dogs and The Funeral. But, maybe he took the role because of his martial arts skills and&#x85; he was good as the tough, troublemaker, bully member of five best fighters. And than we have Sally Kirkland (wow, she was something back then), as a second trainer, that appears from nowhere to show a true spirit of Koreans and their taekwondo. And we also have such great actors as Louise Fletcher, a great actress&#x85; but her career was washed up, even back then and John P. Ryan as a manager of US team. Now, in the Korean fighting team we have two well-known fighters as Simon Rhee (brother of Phillip Rhee), who plays Dae Han, a very skilled Taekwondo master in real life, but not a great actor, and we have James Lew, who was known as a supporting opponent to many martial arts stars during 90s.OK, now&#x85; fighting scenes were good, the atmosphere during the fight was good, most of other things were solid&#x85; And, we have that usual effect of Korean team&#x85; they were presented as a real villains here. You know, because the US team is a leading team in the film&#x85; and of course, the Koreans look really evil here, they are really stone cold, crazy and scary, but that was to increase the drama&#x85; And we have that usual cliché of fighters who are fighting with themselves before they enter the tournament, you know, the good old, you'll never win until you defeat your demons. Overall, it's a solid movie and I recommend it. "},{"Title":"Phillip Rhee is under utilized","Date":"19 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sport","Review":" This series gets better as it progresses, but in this seminal episode, the formula is very derivative and lacks originality.US team goes to Korea to engage the Koreans in a tournament. The strange thing is, the tournament only contains the US and the Korean team. There's an A hole coach (James Earl Jones) that has a chip on his shoulder, and a fighter (Rhee) that lost his brother in the previous tournament, and is a grudge match to avenge the guy who killed his brother.There's no fresh element in the story until way at the end. So the movie is bit of a bore. They should have shown Rhee as an individual contestant who's a sensei at at his Tae Kwon Do school. Someone who has outstanding humanity, and fighting skills. Focus of the story would have been lot clear that way, and Phillip Rhee's unbelievable martial arts skill would have been highlighted more.This is middle of the road martial arts movie that didn't cash in fully on the star's potential. "},{"Title":"Best of the Best of the Eighties","Date":"5 May 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sport","Review":" To be honest, I wasn't expecting much when i started to watch this. Having seen other such films from this era and genre I didn't have high expectations. However, after the first few minutes even, you feel yourself starting to connect with the characters and occasionally throughout you have a strange compulsion to throw your fist into the air. All that aside, just like this era and genre dictate, you've got the ever popular montage training scenes as well as the rudimentary bar fight with disgruntled locals flying throughout. Going back to fists being thrown into the air, by the end of the film you almost feel like your fighting and training with the team and you want nothing more than to see them win. All in all, i thoroughly enjoyed this film and would recommend it to anyone. Top notch. "},{"Title":"an entertaining  action/martial arts movie","Date":"24 September 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sport","Review":" am martial arts movies go,this one is pretty good.the acting is very good,compared to many movies of the genre.this type of story has been done before,but it really works here.the fight scenes are pretty good.the movie moves along at a fast clip. most of the main characters are likable.they all have different quirks as well,making for a good mix.and they all grow before the end of the movie.the movie also has the message of teamwork,friendship,and honour,but it isn't preachy and doesn't hit you over the head.i think it is certainly an entertaining 97 minutes.i don't think it's the best martial arts movie,but it's certainly closer to the top than the bottom.i recommend it. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Low budget Martial Arts","Date":"1 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sport","Review":" Basically this film is one of the better low budget martial arts films to come our way in the late 80's and early 90's. The plot is for all to see within the first 20 mins or so, it doesn't really get anymore complicated than that other than 1 vital bit of info that is kept from us until 20-30 mins to go. Oh, and also the film doesn't end like most and was quite refreshing to see to be honest.....(I won't spoil it for you, you have to watch it to find out). Yes it's cheap but it is also chearful in a got nothing else to do or watch one evening kinda way. The VOICE of Darth Vader - James Earl Jones is in a starring role as well as Oscar winner Eric Roberts (Julia's older brother) in a weird role for him, guess money must have been tight back then.....Go see it......worth a watch. "},{"Title":"best is truly the best of the best of all the others out there","Date":"22 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sport","Review":" Derek Roberts. truly the most underrated actor of our generation. now that i have stated what many of you already know...onto the film this is the movie that truly has it all , tears , laughter , pain and tragedy . john pearl johns was never more believable than in his role as grizzled Vietnam veteran coach bullseye and Chris glen was also amazing as the retarded , fat guy come good . right from the start, this film tackles a controversial subject as Bruce lee has defected onto the American side, and proves himself a force to be tackled with. the films climatic showdown where the entire American team gang up on the last remaining Chinaman in Moscow has to be seen to be believed and all Can say is that this has to be the greatest Martial arts films of all time. as an experienced karate man i can say hand on heart that all the action scenes are as realistic as you are every likely to see on film. it of course can never truly capture the feel of fighting for your life as i have experienced many times, the tension of knowing one wrong move could be your last, the blood, the sweat and utter discipline that is demanded or the strange mixture of fury and sorrow as you see the life of another fade from this world but it comes quite close. all in all, a masterpiece "},{"Title":"Even Rocky had a montage!...","Date":"25 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sport","Review":" There were two main stories in the film. One is a very touching story about a retired martial artist with a bad shoulder. He lost his wife, and now has a 5 year old son and lives with his mom. He gets invited to try out for the US National Karate Team, and he decides to do it.The other is a heartfelt story about a young martial artist who just wants to make himself, as well as his family proud.This is a very touching, and VERY emotional film. Storytelling was very bad, and the amounts of heartfelt montages were just too much for me to handle. Even so, the acting was very good, the character development was done well, and the fighting scenes were GREAT! One of the best American-made martial arts movies I've seen. Go ahead and give this one a chance. You might be surprised. "},{"Title":"long-standing favorite","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sport","Review":"  I've read all of the comments for this movie and an overwhelming number are incredibly positive, and I'm going to add one more.  I first saw this movie when it came out when was 10, and I thought it was awesome.  I am usually not a big fan of action movies, but this one does it for me every time. One of the only movies that has ever made me cry... the occasional bad dialogue aside, I give it a 9. "}{"Title":"The title says it all.","Date":"19 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sport","Review":"  Best of the Best is probably one of the greatest martial arts films to grace the screen.  While it is cheesy at times, it captures a variety of emotions that reflect the psyche of a martial artist.  I watch this movie before I go to every karate tournament and it always pumps me up.  HIGHLY RECCOMMENDED! "},{"Title":"A cult","Date":"17 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sport","Review":" I don't know about USA but here in Bulgaria this movie was a cult 15 years ago. I mean it. It was not released legally here so we had to watch this and many other martial arts movies illegal on a VHS tape with a terrible video quality and many times dubbed in six or seven languages. It was pretty terrible but we saw many movies that way.But I did not see this movie on a VHS tape. I saw it on the TV about ten years ago. It was really terribly dubbed but I thought it was great. The fights were very good and the story was good enough to make an 11 years old boy happy.I saw it again a few weeks ago. I really enjoyed it but this time I didn't think it was that great. The fights were really good but the story was not that good. The acting was not good. Some people here say that it was good to hire actors instead of martial artists to play the roles but they are pretty wrong. Eric Roberts is an actor. But he has black belt in karate and that is why they hired him. Chris Penn had a black belt too. Not to mention Philip Rhee. But the characters were one-dimensional and not as developed as they had to be. The only really good actor here was James Earl Jones but his character was wrong somehow. I mean wrong. He was the trainer of the US karate team but he was FAT and completely out of shape. And he was not a martial artist. How could he train martial arts masters? He didn't show any martial arts experience or knowledge in the entire movie. Also the movie didn't need the character of Sally Kirkland. Really. May be she was supposed to represent the spirit of the martial arts or something like that but I think they put her in the movie just because there has to be a female character. But the big problem of the movie was... I don't know. I will call it americanism. It is obvious that the movie was made to make the Americans feel they are the greatest nation of the world. When you see a Korean guy yelling USA! USA! you will get what I mean. We could even see the Americans in the bar watching a martial arts tournament. That is not normal and you know it. They watch football or basketball or even boxing. But not karate. And what we saw was not a world karate championship. The only competition that actually happened was between the American and the Korean team. Why was this called world championship? But despite all I said this is a very good martial arts movie. It was much better than Bloodsport or Karate Kid. At least it looks much more real. "},{"Title":"it really is the best of the best","Date":"8 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sport","Review":" this film truly is the best, not a thing wrong with it, Pillip Rhee has to be the best producer and writer of all times. phillip really shows off as tommy lee in this movie with his fantastic tae kwon do fighting-style, eric roberts does a great job, and so does sally kirkland and james-earl jones. the others rocked as well, especially in the bar-scene, I loved that. The Best of The Best deserves more than 3 sequels, Phillip Rhee should have kept this masterpiece going instead of ending it because now we see less of him and we know phillip adores his fans, I wish he would do something that could make him get more involved with his fans so that they can see him more often, I'm sure he doesn't want to be forgotten about by them, I'm sure they won't but who would want to risk it? anyway, the movie is great and so are the actors and the sequels, love it, wish I could see more of rhee than what I'm seeing right now, which is nothing, I give this a 10 out of 10 stars because it deserves that and much much more. "},{"Title":"Decent  movie boosted by nostalgia","Date":"24 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sport","Review":" When I first saw this movie in 1989, I was 15 years old and not very savvy about the movies. I remember this film having great fight scenes and a compelling, better than average story and solid acting. The passage of time has conspired to prove me wrong.Best of the Best is not a bad movie by any means, just not as good as I remember it to be. Phillip Rhee is the only actor on the American team who can fight without the benefit of editing and stunt doubles. The rest of the cast just throw some sloppy looking basic punches and kicks, when combined with quick cuts and sound effects, gives the appearance of them actually fighting. I'm growing tired of other user comments disparaging Hong Kong martial arts films. The best action scenes in the best HK films make the fighters in this movie (with the exception of Rhee and the Korean fighters) look like geriatrics fighting underwater.This movie's plot device of competitors dying in a Tae Kwon Do match is also ludicrous. In international competition, TKD fighters wear heavy chest padding as well as headgear. They have about as much chance of dying as getting hit by lightning during the match. I could see the possibility of someone dying from a professional boxing match (which has happened hundreds of times, unfortunately) or an MMA (mixed martial arts) event, but not a TKD tournament.Basically, this movie seems to have been conceived as a love letter from Phillip Rhee to Tae Kwon Do out of a sense of ethnic pride in which he trumps up the effectiveness of TKD. Ask any serious MMA fighter, and you'll learn the TKD is of dubious value in a real fight. "},{"Title":"regarding the posting on the main page","Date":"19 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sport","Review":" i just wanted to point out something, not to be rude or anything but the movie mainly took place in the USA and the tournament took place in Korea not China. The fighting style wasn't karate but Tae kwon do. Just wanted to share that bit of info for you *smiles* i don't want to offend anyone but i had to point that out. i adore the movie because my mother would sit with me and point things out in the movie that she went through when she was in Korea. you see i am Korean and it has some meaning to me because of the hints and such of the heritage. right now i am researching the drum dance that is at the beginning of the competition. if anyone has any information regarding that particular drum dance i would greatly appreciate it. "},{"Title":"They just couldn't avoid the clichés of the genre. (spoilers)","Date":"26 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sport","Review":"  'The Best of the Best,' though an American martial arts production, is just as corny (minus some decent fighting sequences especially in the finale) as the Asian productions (and there are plenty to choose from). This movie combines the drama and martial arts genres to develop a product chock full of conventions and cliché. The basic story is that of the newly formed U.S. Martial Arts team, which is preparing to compete against the highly disciplined (could you imagine doing this for your whole life?) Korean team. James Earl Jones, whose character doesn't seem quite developed, plays the coach of the team, Coach Cuzo, a guy who often wants his fighters to excels, but sometimes enjoys a bit of innocent rule breaking. Eric Roberts is Alex Grady, the oldest fighter on the team, who joins the team to I suppose prove something to his young son, Walter. Not much is stated about his intentions to join the team in regards to the relationship with his son (unlike other films, there is a close father and son bond), but he does claim that the opportunity is the only thing he's got. Walter embodies your dramatic elements and devices in the movie and does so to such a degree that Eric Roberts comes off as a rather pathetic fellow. Joyous and proud, I suppose were the intentions, but really, it's hard to take him seriously towards the end. They just packed the dialogue with too much moralistic gushiness and inspirational blah...blah. Your martial genre is symbolized by one of the team's best fighters, Tommy Lee (Phillip Rhee), who is paired against Korea's best fighter that Tommy knows all too well, because like all martial arts movies, Dae Han (played by Simon Rhee, Phillip Rhee's real-life brother) had killed Tommy's brother in a fight when Tommy was much younger. Tommy is both scared that Dae Han, an extremely powerful fighter, would kill him in a match, but also that Tommy's emotions might get out of hand and that he could kill Dae Han in a fight. This martial arts genre cliché, develops half-way through the movie, when the Korean team is finally introduced. Prior to that, we just see juxtasposing scenes of the Americans and Koreans training in their own way. It's hard to believe that the Americans were able to muster any strength against the Koreans, given their training discipline versus the slacker Americans. But then again, this movie, included with the genre, also manifests that American pride and goal-setting structure so common to movies like these. So, even if it is corny and predictable, we still anticipate it.Despite these genre conventions however, and the flaws therein, the movie does offer up a significant amount of fast-action fighting sequences, both in and out of the contest. To watch Chris Penn, who plays the arrogant cowboy type (from Miami of all places), swing kick a cigarette out of guys mouth is pretty cool in the scenes just before the bar brawl. And the final competition between Dae Han and Tommy Lee are guaranteed for a little jaw dropping awe. I suppose, if you're going to watch a martial arts movie, the fight sequences should dominate more than anything else, even stupid stories. I mean, hell, if the stories were what mattered, half of the martial arts movies out there (especially from the 70s) wouldn't be around because they are all based on one repeated story to avenge the death of a master/father/brother/uncle, etc.  "},{"Title":"Makes Rocky 4 look like a cheese and wine party","Date":"9 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sport","Review":"  This film had everything tears, violence and drama. James Earl Jones is perfectly cast as Coach Frank Couzo who leads his team of martial arts experts to Seoul Korea for the karate championship. The fight scenes are fantastic with fantastic moves and plenty of energy. Before they can become champions they must work as a team and overcome their differences with each other, then and only then can they become the Best Of The Best. Also stars Eric Roberts, Simon Rhee, James Lew, Tom Everett and Phillip Rhee. "},{"Title":"Not great, but frankly, I don't care.","Date":"26 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sport","Review":"  This is a film that would probably best be enjoyed by those of you who are martial arts fans that like Rocky IV for its training sequences and shameless audience manipulation, and can make an exception for its severe deficiencies in acting, script, directorial effort, and any attempt at originality.Luckily for me, I'm one of those people. "},{"Title":"Philip Rhee rulez!","Date":"13 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sport","Review":"  Best of the best was a great movie. I loved this movie because the fighting tournament wasn't a illegal one but an official one. This movie is a kind of Rocky movie. But this movie is much better. Phillip Rhee is one of the best asian actors I know. He is great with tae kwan do, he is a good actor and he is asian (white folks like van Damme are not great with martial arts because there are not asian )) The movie has a good story, great acting, great fights. If you like realistic fighting movies I recommend this movie. (I am sorry, I am not great with english) Rating 9/10 "},{"Title":"Mulleted musclemen and a derivative script","Date":"14 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sport","Review":" BEST OF THE BEST is an attempt to do for martial arts what ROCKY did for boxing. That is, it attempts to be a feel-good, character-based movie about endurance, loyalty and patriotism, wrapping it up into a crowd-pleasing package with some great tournament battles along the way.It doesn't work.I found myself bored by this uninvolving film, one that's dated in the worst way of the '80s. The fashions are ludicrous, the hairstyles ridiculous, the characters overblown and boorish. Take, for instance, Eric Roberts's supposed hero, a vain, posturing and mulleted muscleman who looks like an extra from MASTERS OF THE UNIVERSE. His appearance alone encapsulates everything that's wrong with this movie.Other characters fare no better. Phillip Rhee is underused and his character only springs to life during an unexpectedly poignant twist at the climax. James Earl Jones gets a few good speeches, but that's it. Chris Penn plays a loudmouthed jerk, and the others are bland and interchangeable.The film meanders through one cliché to the next, with family drama interspersed with some rather dull bar-room brawls and the like. The tournament at the end strives for grandeur and excitement, but instead I was itching for it to be over so I could go to bed. ROCKY this ain't. "}{"Title":"Martial arts drama.","Date":"29 July 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sport","Review":" Best of the Best starts as washed-up Oregon martial artist Alex Grady (Eric Roberts) is invited to try out for one of five places on the US national Karate team that is due to fight team Korea in an invitational Taekwondo tournament in Korea itself. Alex jumps at the chance to try out for the team & is one of the five lucky ones who are picked to represent the US along with Tommy Lee (co-writer & co-producer Phillip Rhee), Travis Brickly (Christopher Penn), Virgil Keller (John Dye) & Sonny Grasso (David Agresta). Under a tough training regime run by Coach Frank Couzo (James Earl Jones) & guidance from sports psychologist Catherine Wade (Sally Kirkland) the five martial artist's home their bodies & minds to become the best of the best but will even that be good enough since team Korea are considered near unbeatable...Directed by Robert Radler this rather tame martial arts film seems to have developed a bit of a cult following over the years & has spawned no less than three sequels (although in name only to be fair), personally I didn't think that much of it & a half decent cast is wasted on broad sentiment, questionable metaphors & bad dialogue. The basic concept of Best of the Best is the same as Rocky really, the underdog in the fighting arena (be it boxing or martial arts) comes through in the end despite personal issues & fearsome, seemingly unbeatable opponents. Also, much like Rocky it has to be said, Best of the Best features several musical training montages that are horribly dated thanks to the lame 'Best of the Best' theme tune & the training methods. The character's are stock clichés, the fighter who wants a second chance to prove himself, the big fat strong one with a bad attitude & one who is scared to fight as his brother was killed in the arena ten years ago & thus seeks redemption & a chance to overcome & control his fear. Of course no martial arts film would be complete without a tough, but likable & fair coach & Best of the Best is no different, did you really think it would be? The film also tries to have a stab at a few moral messages like team spirit, if you try your best you will always be a winner & the pinnacle of Best of the Best's deep meaningful plot is a scene in which two young brothers are at a petrol station & the younger one drops his ice cream onto the ground & starts crying so his bigger brother lets him have his ice cream, with depth & meaning like that why was Best of the Best never nominated for best picture at the Oscar's?At over an hour & a half Best of the Best is kind of boring, it's well over an hour before team US even get to Korea & apart from a bar fight all the combat takes place during the last twenty minutes in very controlled tame bouts. I mean it's even rated PG so don't expect any gruelling fight scenes, a few kicks & punches & that's it & no-one dies either. In fact best of the Best features one of the slushiest endings I have ever seen in a martial arts film where the object of the character's is to beat the living hell out of one another, at the end of Best of the Best both the US & Korean teams hug & make-up & become friends. What? We don't want hugging & friendship we want to see people's teeth knocked out & bones broken.There's a few surprising names in the cast not least James Earl Jones who probably just needed the money & wanted a free holiday to South Korea. John P. Ryan has nothing more than a cameo & his character is totally forgotten by the end as are the themes of corporate sponsorship that his character raises while Oscar winning actress Louise Flethcher has a small role too. Eric Roberts has a very bad late 80's mullet hair do while Christopher Penn is as thin as I can ever remember seeing him in this. Phillip Rhee & his opponent Dae Han Park played by Simon Rhee are in fact brother's in real life.Best of the Best is a musical montage fans dream, there's about six of the things but everyone else is going to be disappointed. There's far too much pointless training filler & the broad morals raised are paper thin, a good cast wasted really. Followed by Best of the Best 2 (1993), Best of the Best 3 No Turning Back (1995) & Best of the Best Without Warning (1998). "},{"Title":"An overlooked classic.","Date":"26 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sport","Review":" Am I alone in thinking this film is a great comedy?I never caught it in the 80's and only saw it very recently, but it had me in stitches!! All the Rocky cliché's are in there, from the underdog theme to the punishing and adrdous training methods to the tough ass trainer, the magnificent Darth Vader himself, James Earl Jones (Frank Couzo).The dialogue has to be heard to be believed (Check out the quotes).......If you want to see if someone has a real sense of humour show the this film and see if they smile.Check Eric Roberts' wild over-acting and emoting.......This is the only thing I know........I am good at......Check Fatso Chris Penn's pathetically edited fighting style.Check the driving hard rock soundtrack.Check James Earl Jones bellowing U-S-AAAAA!! whilst victoriously pumping his first aloft Just Check this film out! "},{"Title":"Not karate..","Date":"23 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sport","Review":"  This film is about taekwondo, not karate.Taekwondo, which is a national martial art of Korea, is one of the proudest cultural heritages for the Korean people. Taekwondo has been developed into a modern sport as a result of painstaking researches and experiences by the Taekwondo practicioners through their incessant upgrading of technical and spiritual refinement. At the same time, it has been firmly established as a real national martial art enabling the people to defend the nation.Karate is from japan. Please don't be confused.. "},{"Title":"Best of the schmaltz...","Date":"14 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sport","Review":" Eric Roberts stars as Alex Grady a karate expert (Roberts as a karate expert?) who is a member of the U.S karate team who compete to fight the Korean karate team. James Earl Jones and Sally Kirkland are there to whip these guys into shape. First off the guys in this film with the exception of Phillip Rhee and maybe Chris Penn do not look like martial artists, indeed the guy who plays the Buddhist is laughably unconvincing. However this Rocky rip-off always has had it's fans and even though critcs hated it, it's developed a cult following. It's an okay movie, even if it's sentimentality and predictable script make it very silly. A by the numbers effort sure but it's still better than it's even worse sequels.* * out of 4-(Fair) "},{"Title":"A great Karate Kid/Rocky knockoff!","Date":"28 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sport","Review":" 5 members of a U.S. Karate team head over to Korea to compete in a tournament, the main event of the evening has a young fighter named TOMMY LEE (PHILLIP RHEE) going up against the fighter who killed his brother a few years prior, which disrupts his training a lot, while ALEX (ERIC ROBERTS) struggles to decide if he should forget defending his country's home team against Korea's team to tend to his 5 year old son who had an accident that caused him to wind up in a coma. Heart felt drama/action film is really no different than other films of it's type, once again we have to deal with the grizzled coach who really has a heart of gold, the team who's members don't get along until the end of the film & of course the showdown at the films climax. But it's worth a look for it's interesting characters, sometimes funny situations the guys find themselves in (Loved the bar fight) & the violent but uplifting ending & the soundtrack is great too, fun for action fans who like a story to go along with all the bone crunching action. Followed by three sequels starting with BEST OF THE BEST 2 which ERIC ROBERTS said that he made to make up for this one! ***1/2 (stars) "},{"Title":"Best of the Best","Date":"7 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sport","Review":"  Entertaining film about kickboxers and their journey to the Olympics. Jones is the coach who bellows, A team is not a team if you don't give a damn about one another. Followed by sequels.  "},{"Title":"Lowest of the low","Date":"22 November 1999","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sport","Review":"  I suppose on one level this film did succeed. As entertainment for those whose IQ is roughly on a par with their shoe size it probably worked. To be frank The Best of the Best is a truly awful film. Poorly scripted, poorly acted and ridden with cliches that only Hollywood is capable of, it serves only as yet another reminder of how not to make a film. "},{"Title":"Typical direct-to-video-movie of the 80's...","Date":"18 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sport","Review":" Horrible acting, a well-known plot, great one-liners like If You don't get it now, You'll never get it or I'll kill You, Rocky-like-music - and good entertaining make this movie typical for direct-to-video-stuff of the 80's, which also is shown by the German title Karate tiger 4...It's the story about five martial-arts-fighters of the USA, who prepare for a competition against a Korean team... Except of Tommy Lee, the Asian guy in the US-Team (who, of course, also has to revenge his brother's death in a former fight), it's quite funny to believe, that these American guys, a skinny buddhist with glasses, a long-haired Italian, a cowboy with bad behaviour and well-known Eric Roberts (Julia's brother..), really shall be the best of the best fighters in the world. B-Star Eric Roberts is sympathetic, charismatic and long-haired in this movie, but definitively not an martial-arts-fighter... and one asks oneself permanently what drove him to act in this - financial problems or the need for a real male role...? 5/10 "},{"Title":"Worst Of The Best","Date":"27 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sport","Review":" This is a Rocky/Karate Kid clone, complete with a Survivor, Eye of the Tiger like song on the soundtrack. The acting is fair to less than average. It includes every comeback cliché in the book typical conflicts among team members(resolved with no development); an insensitive, tough coach; a fighter, whose brother was killed by one of the opposing fighters, etc. We've seen it all many times, even more so in the 90's. How Sally Kirkland, fresh from her Anna role, found herself in this movie is beyond me. James Earl Jones is wasted also. The official fight sequences, although entertaining, are less than spectacular; because, oddly enough, real fighting is never as compelling as staged fighting. The highlight for me was the bar fight, not the competition, with the exception of the last grudge match. The movie tugs at the heartstrings at the end, but it's too little too late. * of 4 stars. "},{"Title":"* OUT OF FIVE","Date":"9 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sport","Review":"  Eric Roberts stars as Alex Grady a martial artist who joins the U.S karate team to prepare to do battle with the Korean karate team in this  mind numbingly awful movie. Best Of The Best is so bad that it can't even get decent performances from such great actors as Eric Roberts,James Earl Jones,Louise Fletcher and John P.Ryan. Poor story, poor action, poor acting ETC = A poor movie "}{"Title":"Laughable, awful, and just plain silly","Date":"2 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sport","Review":"  If you think ROCKY IV is one of the best films ever made, then BEST OF THE BEST will probably be right up there with it. I really couldn't believe how terrible it was. I was expecting a hokey martial arts film, but ooh....what a stinker. I guess Roberts, Penn, Kirkland and James Earl Jones owed the Rhee brothers some favors because I don't think they'd normally choose something so blatantly amateurish. Five of America's top martial artist compete against the Korean team in an international tournament. The motivations and personalities of the characters are stolen straight from Screenplay 101, the acting is hammy or abysmal,and hell, the jingoism doesn't even jingle. Some of the fights are okay but you've seen better. I do recommend the ridiculous music video of the title song at the end of the tape. Unbelievable. Avoid.      "},{"Title":"Worst of the Worst...","Date":"21 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sport","Review":"  This was one god awful film. It was predictable and cheesy. This is  not an action movie, it was just really boring and one of Eric Roberts worst performances. How did it even get a sequel, let alone a third and forth installment? That's one thing that really surprises me....I was shocked and suprrised! A very pathetic film. "}]