[{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"16 August 2006","Score":"12 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Don Ameche plays a wonderful portrayal of an Italian Shoe repair man thrown into a world of mobsters. Somehow this has very little effect on his spirit or mood, and at the same time driving his caretaker(Joe Mantegna)absolutely insane. By the end of it's whirlwind tour you realize that the old man is very wise in taking it all in stride.It's especially good if you are a fan of Mafia movies like The Godfather and such because it shows a lot of really typical mob types to keep you interested.This movie is a very laid back comedy that would entertain people from many different walks of life. I just told someone the other day that it's the best movie I know of that no one has heard of. If you get a chance see it! "},{"Title":"Mamet's playwriting skills lift up the film","Date":"11 August 2005","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Mamet is intrinsically the classical playwright. Things may change in life but the classical playwright begins the story with a shoe shine setting up his corner in the cobbler's shop and ends the story with a shoe shine. Even the mid-point of the film, when the 3 day dream is about to end, there is the short lecture on how to shine shoes.Though all the actors provide commendable performances, the flow of the story is absorbing. There is a layer of human values and honesty that permeates the world of murders and mafia thugs. Mamet is able to use such contradictions to great effect--threats stated with considerable politeness, women who are apparently in charge (the woman overseeing the arrangements for the meal at the house, the mafia wife/moll in blue) and yet play no significant role, teasing the viewer as it were, use of hats and newspapers to cover faces that seem ridiculous as the story unfolds..The epilogue makes you wonder if things do change. Change for one may not be change for another. Change for one may come in economic terms, for another in friendship.Early Mamet's work seems to neglect women characters. I wonder why this is so evident. "},{"Title":"Great Entertainment","Date":"11 January 2001","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I loved this picture. Mantegna and Ameche are so opposite and I really can't share the view of other people that Ameche is performing a Being There. Ameche is much smarter, he realizes from the start something is wrong. First he declines the offer but he knows perfectly well these people will shoot him (remember the scene with the smoking lady). Then, the movie starts, and he's in charge, and he keeps in charge, he accepts a luncheon with a Don in LA., he finds money to get back to Chicago, he uses his coin to call the Las Vegas mob.Nice, entertaining, two and a half stars. I laughed quite a bit. Must be my Italian roots. "},{"Title":"Fun stuff from Mamet, Mantegna, and Ameche.","Date":"1 April 2001","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Things Changes is a light-hearted look at what happens to an old Italian shoe shiner (Ameche) who's a naive  patsy for the mob when a mafia flunky (Mantegna) takes them two of them to Tahoe for a last blast. This Mamet film has a lot of pluses not the least of which is Mantegna and Ameche together in one of Ameche's last films. The story is a cute comedy with a kind of sentimental feel to it. The kind of movie that's hard not to like. "},{"Title":"After reading the other comments","Date":"17 November 2006","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Obviously, by my rating, you know I love this film. It is a desert island disc.I read the other reviews and have some comments. These are not criticisms of others criticisms or accolades, just my own thoughts after having seen the movie so many times.Having never been in the mafia myself (and I suspect that none of the other people rating this movie have been either), I find this work consistent with our cinematic understanding of the mafia. First of all, if the mafia does ask you for a favor which it thinks is fair sounding and you decline, depending upon the favor asked, security may demand that you be silenced (killed). Secondly, our cinematic understanding of the mafia also says that very few people, even in the mafia, truly know who, as it is put in the movie 'the man behind the man behind the man' might be. So, when the hotel staff and low level mafia flunkies (hooray for the blond WHM!) at the other end of the country, who are expecting to meet people they don't know, accept DA as someone very important, this is realistic. And with such a classic mafia stereotype as JM's character as front man, DA as shoe shine turned mafioso really sells. After all, DA is Italian and distinguished looking... as well as very old school. As for DA's new mafia friend, it is quite clear in the movie that the luck and skill of DA's character actually traversed some very high barriers to survive and flourish in the situation.While the premise of the circumstance of the ending may be predictable (I don't want to give it away), the actual final actions and outcome are definitely not expected.As for comparison to Mamet's other works, stage and screen, perhaps this isn't his best. But in terms of appeal, it reaches many more people than most of his work... and in such a pleasing way without being daft. Entertainment and emotional appeal are not vices, even for Mamet.And just because a movie makes you smile and laugh, that doesn't make it a comedy... merely comedic. This is a dark drama, a human study, and features friendship and betrayal. Perhaps the comedic and light-hearted aspects are merely the glue that holds this piece so well together. The glue may be on the surface, but that doesn't mean it doesn't function here. Frankly, I absolutely love House of Games, but a little more comedic treatment might have even improved that masterpiece. One can like Mamet and like smiling as well. "},{"Title":"Nowhere to go","Date":"5 July 2005","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is a quiet, enjoyable film with Mantegna playing Mantegna, the nervy, edgy man who thinks he is smarter than everyone else but needs to go back to school for a few more lessons. He is saved by Ameche, a little man who plays a fool to get by in a dangerous world, never letting anyone know if it is an act or real. He lets the cat out of the bag in the bath house scene, when he opens his mouth and out comes this magnificent version of Return to me but in Italian.The film has one problem once the pair arrive in Tahoe, Mantegna passing the gentle shoe shine man off as a Capo. It's quite funny to watch everyone bow and scrape in those scenes from the arrival at the airport until they settle into their suite, but after that Mamet has a problem. Where do he go from here? The ending is predictable, but any other would have chased patrons out of the theater in anger. "},{"Title":"Things Do Change","Date":"20 November 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" A comedy by David Mamet - it seems like a contradiction in terms... This sparkling film bristles with life. There is absolutely nothing in common with other dialog-oriented films by writer-directors that quickly become talkathons. This film presents its message from the beginning and its pace doesn't let up until the end. It's funny all right - not explosive, rolling-on-the-floor humor but humor of a much gentler kind - and everything is wonderfully written and realized. If I had to use a word to describe it, balletic comes to mind. The timing and the movements are in perfect synchronization. What a delightful surprise!Curtis Stotlar "},{"Title":"Fantastic picture, David Mamet does Being There","Date":"9 December 2000","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  In Things Change David Mamet applies his direct, unique directorial style to the classic Being There.  Each is similar thematically, and each leave the viewer with a sense of wonder and affection (for either the film or the characters), however Mamet is not quite as effective as Hal Ashby in that respect.  Mamet uses his friends in many of the roles as in many of his movies, and they all fit perfectly.  The cast is as strong as the writing and direction, which you know Mamet has filled with surprises.  This is a movie that is entertaining and rewarding, a combination seen all too infrequently in modern films. "},{"Title":"Fun and well-acted vehicle!","Date":"14 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Maybe I'm a sucker being a Don Ameche fan, but, I completely enjoyed the flick. It was light, great entertainment. There was no message or hidden meanings, nothing that is going to be compared to Citizen Kane or The Godfather. It's fun seeing William H. Macy in an early role. It's fun seeing Joe Mantegna in a role he perfectly fits into. I had a smile on my face at the end of the movie. That is a winner in my book.No big twists in the movie, it pretty much turns out as you expect it to. But, if you don't have a great liking, if not a love, for Don Ameche's character by the end of the movie, then you probably hate Frank Capra movies, also. "},{"Title":"...or do they?","Date":"7 January 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" In David Mamet's taciturn comedy of errors a simple Sicilian shoe-shiner is hired to take the prison rap for a mob hit man, in return for anything he desires after his release (all he wants is a boat). But the plan goes quietly haywire when his minder decides to treat him to a final weekend fling at Lake Tahoe, where the old man is mistaken for a mafia don from Chicago. Any other director might have played it for easy laughs, but even in such a whimsical mood Mamet is still a very careful, very deliberate filmmaker, and he approaches each scene with the same attention to nuance emphasized in every line of his trademark dialogue. It's a comedy of smiles more than belly laughs, summed up best by Shoe-shiner Don Ameche's childlike air of bewilderment and naïve trust in everyone around him (shades of Chance the gardener in Jerzy Kosinski's 'Being There'). Nothing seems to trouble him, because he knows a secret most people take for granted the more things change, the more they stay the same. "}{"Title":"A Very Good Film","Date":"21 February 2004","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Things Change is one of my favorite David Mamet films. If you don't know who David Mamet is by now you are a lost cause when it comes to film. For those of you that don't know, he is one of the best director/screenwriters of his Generation and I would put his body of work against any of the great directors and maybe make the case that he is the best. I like most of his work and I loved this film. Things Change is a story driven by great characters and great circumstance. The acting, directing, writing, cinimatography are superb. Don Ameche in one of his last roles on film is awesome as Gino the shoemaker and Joe Mantegna is perfectly cast as Jerry the flamboyant low level mobster on the outs with his boss. Some great performances here, this is a definite can't miss for any guy that likes mob pictures. Check it out, 10 to 1 says you love it. "},{"Title":"Regrettable","Date":"16 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Things Change is the weakest of acclaimed playwright/screenwriter David Mamet's film directing efforts.  It tells the story of an immigrant shoe-polisher (Don Amiche) who agrees to be framed for murder by the Chicago Mafia in exchange for fulfillment of his dreams once he's freed from prison. But before his arraignment he gets a three-day madcap weekend adventure at a mob-controlled Lake Tahoe casino, courtesy of an on-the-outs flunky played by Joe Mantegna.  The two have a difficult relationship but form a friendship which is finally tested by film's end.  It's nice to see Mantegna and other Mamet regulars (including Ricky Jay and William H. Macy) in a movie that's essentially a comedy, but they and their dialogue seem really awkward in such a silly film.  Amiche fares better, and at times is the only saving grace for the film, which lacks the paranoia and psychological wrestling found in most of Mamet's films, yet is still too hard-edged and leisurely paced to get many laughs as a comedy.  The late Shel Silverstein was a collaborator with Mamet on the script, which contains clever ideas but is weakly executed.  The music by Alaric Jans is unremarkable; not nearly as good as the jazz-noir he contributed to House of Games or his orchestral themes for the Winslow Boy.  In short, the film is an interesting comparison piece for other Mamet films, but falls well short of the high standard the others are able to maintain. "},{"Title":"A wonderful, paradoxical film about authenticity","Date":"26 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Most of us come from families who came from the old country with practically nothing. Naturally, our grandparents worked from dawn to dusk to survive in the new land and make a better life for the kids. It was the generations that followed that caught the American disease of wanting to become a somebody as a substitute for the integrity of the Old World that was left behind. The paradox of this film, the paradox of achieving the American Dream, of building this great nation is that after all the generations of struggle for position, money, and importance, we wake up and realize that it's all empty, that simple integrity and friendship are all that mean anything, that our fore-fathers had that in the beginning.It has been said that in order to save one's life one must loose it.... "},{"Title":"Why no goofs listed  for this film?","Date":"26 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" There are several goofs in this film, but none are listed in the IMDb page for this film.Most glaring is the set of scenes that involve the escape from Lake Tahoe in the hot-wired car. At the gas station, when it is obvious to the gas station owner that the two men have no money, the owner reaches in a grabs the keys, to prevent them from escaping. Where did the keys come from? They hot-wired the car, remember?Another goof is one that is pervasive in most films from this era. The quarter in the phone sound-effect noise of the change being dropped into the phone. Fortress phones (single-slot models) never were equipped with bells to signal insertion of the money. And why did he need to use his magic quarter to make a collect call? "}]