[{"Title":"One of the most incredible pieces of film making I've ever had the pleasure of seeing","Date":"5 July 2002","Score":"109 out of 120 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Shinya Tsukamoto's Tetsuo has been one of my favourite ultra underground Japanese films for some time now. I've watched it many times, and the film is always as effective, stunning and outstanding as it was when I first saw it. Now I viewed it again last night, and I am totally shocked and speechless, when it comes to this masterpiece of Shinya Tsukamoto, the genius multi talent behind films like Tokyo Fist (just don't try to watch if you think Raging Bull is too much), Gemini and Bullet Ballet. If I had to choose one film among all the films that really blew me away like this, I'd probably choose Tetsuo.The plot and premise is simple. A metal fetishist (played by the director himself) inserts pieces of metal into his own body with often bloody results, understandably. He becomes run down by a car after which the fetishist starts to have very severe changes in his body and starts to mutate into human/metal monster and the man who ran him down starts to have similar changes in his body, too.. What follows is 60 minutes of total surreal mayhem, nightmarish imagery and use of perhaps all the imaginable cinematic techniques in editing, photography and music. You have been warned!It is hard to describe with words the power of this film, which has often been referred as a combination of Lynch, Cronenberg and of course Anime and Sci-fi. The photography is stunning to say the least as director's 16mm camera twists, turns, runs, falls, climbs, zooms and does all the possible ways the director could invent to create this kind of atmosphere. The film consists of (very) fast edits, flashbacks, nightmare sequences and images and fast forward photography that spiced with incredible soundtrack is something never before seen. The soundtrack is made with different sounds of metal hitting together, scratching against something and most notable, there is also synthesizer use to create very ominous and threatening atmosphere that never stops, and the music is again one of the most important elements of this film.The effects are totally outstanding as the director made them by himself. The film is black and white and that is of course great choice to nightmare film like this. Tsukamoto also wrote, directed, photographed, art directed and edited this film among special effects, and the most help he got came probably from Kei Fujiwara, who plays the girl friend in the movie, and she also directed her own similar film, Organ, in the middle of the 90's. It is incredible how Tsukamoto managed to do all this by himself and the help of some others, but due to his talent, it all becomes possible. This film is very low budget, but it is the kind of punch to senses that only very few big budget films have managed to give. If I had to choose one big budgeted film that has almost equally stunning atmosphere and power, I'd mention Darren Aronofsky's Requiem for a Dream, which is another masterpiece from this young director/writer. Still Requiem and Tetsuo are very different films, but their power is almost - if not entirely - equal.The theme of the film is obviously the fear of technology and how far it will be developed. The film ends pretty pessimistically and it underlines the fears and threats that are in the air and were in Tsukamoto's mind, too. The images of huge metal machines and motors at the beginning of the movie, are very ominous and the machines seem to be alive and are very nightmarish overall, even though they should be DEAD machines because metal doesn't live, at least yet. This reminded me of work of David Lynch and his Eraserhead and Lost Highway, which both create something very ominous, dangerous and very scary with these similar techniques of close ups of water spilling, engines working and smoke coming closer. Just remember the images of radiator and coffee-pot in Eraserhead and mystery man and smoke (among many others) in Lost Highway. The feeling in Tetsuo is exactly similar, even though the things themselves are not scary or threatening, because they should be only dead pieces of metal and plastic, products in other words.Shinya Tsukamoto made also sequel to Tetsuo, but it is in color and never as stunning as this brilliant original, but still worth checking out for lovers of this kind of cinema. Shinya Tsukamoto is among Takeshi Kitano, Takashi Ishii and Takashi Miike the most interesting, personal, creatively lunatic and overall stunning artists to come from Japan today, and by watching their films, all the nonsense entertainment coming too often from Hollywood nowadays is easy to forget and just concentrate on these miracles in the field of cinema. Cinema is magic and Tetsuo is one example to show that for the lovers of independent films, since this is not going to reveal to mainstream audience due to its difficult imagery, violent scenes of nightmarish terror and overall personality that demands a lot from the viewer. This is far too difficult and intelligent cinema for mainstream audience, and thus would never come out from some big studio that wants only money and commercially potential films.Tetsuo is a 10/10 masterpiece and one of my personal favourites. I've tried to describe this film as clearly as possible, and without using too many praising adjectives, and since this movie's power is somewhat hard to describe with words, I recommend that all the lovers of Japanese cinema and the ones who think they're interested in Tetsuo check this out and see and experience the magic for themselves. "},{"Title":"How'd they get my nightmare on film?","Date":"23 September 2002","Score":"35 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Wow.  Unreal.  You know what it feels like to bite down on aluminum foil or hearing chalk scratch on a blackboard through Bose speakers over and over again?  This resembles what a viewing experience you'll have watching Tetsuo.Trippy, bizarre, surreal.  The sequence of events are just mind boggling that it's a bit trying to take it all in at once.  The black and white definitely shows a very gritty, bleak environment and there's great use of dark color tones and shadow.  Add some manic performances, great camera angles, and a very raw hardcore soundtrack which just intensifies the insanity even more.  Definitely have to give it to the design crew because their attention to detail adds to the overall weirdness.  There's even a love story in it too!Very cool flick. "},{"Title":"Weirder then Lynch and Cronenberg together!","Date":"15 June 2005","Score":"39 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Title Tetsuo The Iron Man (1989) Director Shinya Tsukamoto Cast Tomorowo Taguchi, Kei Fujiwara, Nobu Kanaoka, Shinya Sukamoto ReviewJust when you think you've seen it all....a movie like this comes around and totally kicks you in the butt! This movie was amazing! It needs more exposure! More people should check it out! OK, OK, let me get down to the review...but once more go rent this now! Story is about this regular every day ordinary guy who hits a pedestrian with his car. Only thing is that the pedestrian is a guy who is somehow becoming an...Iron Man. You see the guy they hit is a metal fetishist and for some reason that isn't explained he wants to become one with rusty pieces of metal. After the accident the man starts having nightmares about he and his girlfriend turning into robotic, metallic things. When he wakes up he realizes that it could also be happening to him in real life.Man was this movie a visual feast! It was shot entirely in black and white, but believe me, it takes nothing away from the film. If anything it makes it all the more visually interesting.The movie reads in many ways like a nightmare on film. At least that was the first impression I got while I was watching it. In this sense it is strictly a horror movie. Some of the images are truly terrifying in a surreal dream like sort of way.The movies themes remind me a heck of a lot of David Cronenbergs films. You know how Cronenberg deals with films about sex and violence (Shivers, Crash, The Brood) and how they are somehow interconnected with each other? Well those themes are also touched upon in this movie in one of its most memorable scenes which I will not spoil...but will certainly surprise you. Even the part of the movie that deals with the car accident reminded me a bit of Cronenbergs Crash, mainly because the couple decides to make out after the car accident.Not only that this movie also reminds me of a David Lynch movie...because yes, at times it will seem incomprehensible. It took me two viewings to fully understand it, but I got it pretty well the second time around. The story itself is not all that confusing...but the way it was edited and shot make it a little hard to grasp what is really happening. Its all very kinetic, very fast, always moving. The story moves along at a frenetic pace not giving you any chance to breath. Many people compare this film to Lynchs Erasehead, and some even go as far to say that this film is even stranger and weirder than Eraserhead. I myself haven't had the chance to check out Eraserhead...but I know what type of films Lynch is capable of doing and if they say that Tetsuo The Iron Man is weirder then Eraserhead...well you know your in for something truly bizarre then.The gore in it is memorable with some really cringe inducing scenes...specially those where the man is transforming into the robot metal thing and he is having sex with his girlfriend.The special make up effects are great. Lots of cables and metal things coming out of every conceivable body part. Yes, even there. Tetsuo, the Iron Man looks like a huge hunk of metal coming to life with wires and cables and metallic objects. There's no real visual effects or CGI, the effects are more practical and on camera. Lots of fast forwarding, lots of quick cuts, lots of stop motion animation, lots of every quirky camera movements. It all helps to give the movie that incredibly frenetic look that it has.Overall this is a great Japanese horror film that shouldn't be missed by anyone! Its kind of like a mix between Lynch and Cronenberg and maybe even a little bit of George Romero in there! There was this scene with a girl turning into what felt like a zombie robot...that just reminded me of Night of the Living Dead. Its amazingly interesting in a visual sense and you will feel like if you ever had a dream about your body being over taken by rusty metals and wires...this is what it would definitely look like. Not to be missed.Rating 5 out of 5 "},{"Title":"amazingly unconventional","Date":"7 June 2005","Score":"30 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Japan is a crazy country. Their workaholism is affecting western culture all the time. Coming to Tokyo first time, one can get lost not only in translation, hehe, but mostly in all these technological gadgets that leave you with only three questions what the hell is this for?, what the hell is that for?, and how the hell does it work?. On one side, coming to Japan, one might see something very rare today amazing technology next to tradition, remains of culture hundreds and thousands years old. But on the other, Japanese does seem to have a lot of fear about all that technology. Won't that materialistic, technological approach kill emotional and spiritual aspects of human existence? There has been made a lot of movies asking that question, projecting hypothetical versions of future based on what Japan looks like today. See Ghost in the Shell for example. Yeah, alright, but what does Tetsuo have to do with all that crap? Everything. This Tsukamoto piece of art is a manifestation of great great fear of cold and soulless technology. Main character is a guy who has rather serious problem one day he notices that metal parts are slowly beginning to reveal themselves from under his skin. Why, and what does it mean? Where will it lead to? You'll see. What I can say is that you don't need to live in Japan to enjoy this movie. The atmosphere is amazingly unconventional, and can be compared only to other industrial/anti-industrial masterpieces of Japanese cinema. The movie is black and white only all the time. Camera work is incredible, it builds intense paranoid atmosphere. If you've seen other Shinya's movies, you know what you can expect. The way the story is told, with all these cut-and-paste elements... oh God D If you've already seen some totally psyched-out movies like this one, you might get a laugh sometimes, otherwise I guarantee you'll be strongly shocked, because as I said before you probably haven't seen anything like this before, so watch your back, you have been warned ;) Budget used to make this movie may be equal to something like two cokes and a hamburger, but, as we can see, some don't waste even that small amount of money. There are movies made with a little help of millions of dollars which are not even worth a cent. On the other side, there are gems like this, where you can't notice signs of low-budget, because it doesn't harm this movie even in one moment. I can't think of one thing I'd change in this movie. Highly recommended, this one is a blast! PS. If you're willing to get some other Tsukamoto movies, avoid Hiruko the Goblin. "},{"Title":"Manga-influenced man vs. machine  Japanese scifi film with a razor-sharp visual style","Date":"30 November 2005","Score":"22 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" It's so visually striking that you could never fully describe Tetsuo in words. But here are a few that apply Japanese, hyperactive, perverse, industrial, surreal, Faustian bargain, contrasty, black-and-white, Kafkaesque, scifi, stop-motion, manga-influenced, revenge, technology, alienation, supervillains.Shinya Tsukamoto is an actor (he's the antagonistic Metals Fetishist here as well as Jijii in Ichi the Killer) as well as a ground-breaking writer/director/cinematographer. Tetsuo's influence can be seen clearly in directors as diverse as Darren Aronofsky, Takashi Miike, and even David Cronenberg.There is definitely a plot, but due to the non-linear editing and sparsity of dialogue you'll need to pay close attention on a first viewing or else you'll be overwhelmed by the engrossing visual style (which might be a good thing). It's filmed in contrasty black-and-white. Each frame is cramped and chaotic, much of the time it's filled with wires, pipes, chain-link fences, and all the other incidental debris of life in the late 20th century... which suddenly seems significant and even menacing.Towards the fifty-minute mark (it's 67 min. total) the willful excess starts to feel a little too excessive, perhaps the manga influence is a bit too strong. But Tetsuo finishes strong, with an end that's at once unexpected and inevitable. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"the love/hate brigade strikes again","Date":"4 January 2007","Score":"18 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is another one of those films where you have the sheer brilliance 10/10 battling against the worst film of all time 1/10 people. I'm not partial to either, I wanted to see this film after watching a preview that was so intense it made my brain hurt. So I absolutely had to pick it up at the video store.Tetsuo, more than anything, is absolutely surreal. The cinematography and camera work is way ahead of its time, and I have never seen anything quite like it. The stop motion and use of metal twine and scrap is stunning and also menacing, especially with the heavy industrial-electronic soundtrack thumping throughout most of the film. I imagine that some scenes must have taken ages to go through frame by frame and create the visual image of cyberpunk terror that is conveyed in this film.Besides these things I can't credit the film for much else. Some say it's impossible to follow, but the story is quite simple. A metal fetishist that has been inserting pieces of metal into his body is hit by a car, and begins to transform and haunt the person responsible. Then he begins to transform, and his world quickly spirals down as he becomes the metal obsessed monster that his crash victim was already into. However, there are lots of parts of this film that don't contribute to the overall image of the film, and a few scenes that could have been replaced with something entirely different and were a little slow and unnecessary. While hilarious, there is a scene involving the man and his woman (as credited) that, while serving a purpose, became more of a sick joke than a part of the film.As the movie continues on you get more and more lost as to what is going on when cuts become more frequent and the film becomes extremely frantic and fast paced. I viewed it a second time to see if I missed anything, but I felt the same after a second view. Tetsuo is good for its expiremental editing and cinematography, and has its place in cyberpunk filmography. But if you're looking for a film with solid scriptwriting and direction, you're not going to be happy.Sheer genius? On some aspects, yes. Worst movie ever? You have to be kidding me. There isn't much talking in this film, and the worst films ever have way too much talking in them. Sometimes it's nice to have the actors shut up and, maybe, scream in terror at a piece of metal sticking out of their face instead. "},{"Title":"Rust in peace... Brilliant but shocking for most people","Date":"28 December 2005","Score":"20 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie can be explored in many ways the relationship between human life and technology is the first which comes to mind. Then maybe this fits into a larger theme of industrialization. Still, there are several ways of interpreting each scene and at times I had the feeling that they try to show - or to produce a metaphor for - human emotions, such as cheating, sorrow, the will not to die alone. And we can rust the whole world and scatter it into the dust of universe You will certainly make what you want of this movie. You may understand that technology is evil, that industrialization takes our souls away, or that even in our worst moments we crave for closeness and we don't want to be alone. This is a special movie - so beware - it is not accessible to most people. There's a chance that you won't be able to think for yourself and that you'll expect some quick & nice Hollywood conclusions which you're not going to get - in which case, this movie will be a waste of your time. "},{"Title":"True Surreal Cinema","Date":"22 August 2004","Score":"19 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I heard about this movie reading a comic book magazine in elementary school. It piqued my interest and I searched for it on video for rental for several months before finding it. Also included on the video was a short film entitled Drum struck which didn't interest me at all. The real meat was Tetsuo.The plot of this film revolves around a businessman (who apparently like to have sex with his girlfriend in public places and film it) who is involved in a hit and run auto accident with a metal fetishist. Soon the man appears to be hallucinating about people sprouting metal appendages until it begins to happen to him. Chunks of scrap metal grow like cancerous tumors. Soon, they're not random scraps but working appliances such as drills. If this isn't bad enough he soon finds out the man he hit (played by the director of the film) is in fact alive and rather peeved.Absolutely insane violence permeates the film which retains its punch through the black and white film.The review I read about this film compared it to Eraserhead (A film I still have not seen) which I believe says a lot about Eraserhead. To compare it to a film I've seen I'd say it reminds me of Un Chien Andalou with about three more lines of dialog and a lot more gore and violence.I also recommend the sequel Tetsuo II Body Hammer. It's similar but bigger. Color, dialog, etc.10/10  "},{"Title":"An insane cyberpunk masterpiece!!!","Date":"28 July 2005","Score":"18 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Tetsuo the Iron Man is utter chaos. Shinya Tsukamoto has created a strange world of metal fetishists and human decay. To make it all the more insane, it's filmed at the pace of a speed adrenaline rush. An office worker slowly transforms into a mutated metal creature after cutting himself shaving. Wires, drills, cables and steel burst from his face and body. And who can forget the giant metal drill penis? The office worker faces off with a villain who has a metal fetish. The villain enjoys sticking metal objects in himself. The film turns into a battle to the finish between the two men. Tetsuo has to be one of the strangest films ever made. Stranger than both Eraserhead and Begotten. It's fast pace style can be later seen in films like PI. Thank God, this film is in black and white; it's extremely graphic! "},{"Title":"F***ed up but fun and cool","Date":"7 December 2002","Score":"23 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Tetsuo or Ironman is a very interesting movie that explores the themes of metal and flesh and how they interact......I think. The story is sketchy at best, it's more of a visual assault on the senses. Tetsuo is some regular looking Japanese business man type dude who has a girlfriend. One day while shaving he notices a shard of metal protruding from his face. Metallic pieces of metal start spreading all over his face and then leave, and then return again until eventually his body becomes more metal than man. There is some kind of subplot of how he came to get this strange desease. Tetsuo and his girlfriend hit some guy (who just before cut open his leg and jammed an iron bar into the slit) with their car. They take his body out into the forest to hide it -i think- and then have sex in front of the corpse for a thrill. The guy isn't dead though and somehow he gives tetsuo the desease -i think-. He comes back to haunt tetsuo as tetsuo turns into a human scrapyard and then attacks him physically in a very strange dual of metalic body morphing near the end of the film.A lot of the movie is stop motion animation mixed with live action actors. It is comparable to Eraserhead in that way but i liked this a lot more than eraserhead. While Eraserhead is really slow and monotunus, Iron man moves at a breakneck pace to an awesome industrial music soundtrack. The industrial music is perfect for this film because the film is based on dirty grimy and rusty industrial metal garbage and even the environments are all streamlined industrial parks and monotonous suburbs.The thing i like about this movie is although it is artsy it's the kind of art that's fun to look at. You don't have to be some rich art fag pretending to like weird s*** to prove that your some kind of an intellectual to like it. I was really entertained by this movie! Unlike the other reviewer I don't think this movie is purposely all f***ed up for the sake of being artistic. I think the director wanted to make a visual statement about the relationship technology has with our physical lives. More interested in telling a cool sci fi story with fantastic visuals than with coherent dialogue that makes you ponder the universe. I also didn't get the feeling that this movie took itself too seriously. It's actually quite funny at times and that's why i had fun watching it.If you don't like movies that give you no hope in understanding every aspect of the plot don't watch this, but if you like WEIRD sci fi stuff that's unlike anything you've seen before than watch this! "}{"Title":"The reason they invented cinema was to create Tetsuo The Iron Man","Date":"9 July 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Tetsuo The Iron Man was shot with practically no budget, with a lot of dedication, with a lot of hard work and with a lot of talent. Tetsuo The Iron Man is the brainchild of Japanese film director Shinya Tsukamoto and it is a brilliant piece of industrial cinema. 60 or so minutes of mind blowing, psychedelic images, moving at 200 miles an hour, it is violent and it is disturbing and it is like nothing you've ever seen before.There is a man obsessed with metal to the point that he insert various metallic parts on his body. There is another man, an average guy, a salaryman, he has a girlfriend and a small apartment. He's a nobody who's about to become a somebody or rather a something, when he hits the metal fetishist while driving along with his girlfriend. The two dump the body in a nearby forest, then they have sex just a few meters away from the man they thought they killed. The fetishist survives of course, and plots his revenge. Soon after the salaryman begins to notice strange changes to his body. Metal starts to grow all over his body slowly consuming his flesh while at the same time fending of the metal fetishist, who uses mechanical parasites to take control of people to attack our slowly-turning-into-a-man-of-iron protagonist. This, of course, all leads to a one-on-one confrontation between the two and a bizarre but extremely satisfying ending.Tetsuo is really the essence of Tsukamoto's cinema. It's a demonstration of his trademark style, that he uses, in various degrees, in his latter films. Shot entirely in black and white with most of the time using hand-held camera Tsukamoto keeps you up close and personal with all the carnage going on screen. It's hyper kinetic punch-you-in-the-teeth narrative, doesn't rely on dialogue but on action to tell the story. Visual metaphors play an extremely strong part in understanding the underlying message of the film. The themes of - man becoming machine, man becoming more and more dependent to machines, is beautifully explained through the disturbing special effects, stop motion animation (really, really awesome), make up, through characters or simply through the Japanese industrial landscape. The presence of the sexual element in the film is crucial as it sets the tone for the final confrontation where it becomes obvious that this really isn't about revenge or anything of the sort, it's about this strange relationship between two men/machines. Call it a love story if you would.The soundtrack composed by Chu Ishikawa is a perfect match for Tetsuo. Raw, violent and destructive industrial music comes together with a raw, violent and destructive industrial movie, to the point you can't really separate the two. You can't listen to the OST without Tetsuo and you can't watch Tetsuo without OST.Final verdict. This isn't something you watch while drinking beer or eating popcorn or whatever. It's not exactly what you call a comfortable movie and definitely not for the squeamish. Nevertheless as clichéd as it sounds, it is like nothing you've ever seen and in my opinion it is a cinematic masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Revolutionary video piece","Date":"14 June 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The fact that this movie exists is enough... the fact that it was made in the 80s propels it to levels beyond imagination. This film is out there even by today's standards (especially by today's standards?), and to think that a film of this nature manages to keep a cult following over the years is definitely optimism in the face of ever-growing cinematic malaise.Tetsuo is about a man who sprouts metal bits, slowly turning into a giant scrapheap over the course of the movie. The metal bits are something of a manifestation of his guilt involving a car accident, another character, his doppelganger-like nemesis, the victim of the accident. Or the metal is a comment on our increased cyborg relationship with technology over time. Or it's simply a horrifying abject art. Or more, as this movie can be taken in numerous ways.One of the things that's most appealing about it is its hyper-kinetic movement and photography. The frame is so full of junk (literally) and it goes by so fast that the eye never has time to rest... something like watching television, another symbol and thematic element this movie touches upon. The whole thing is so very simple in technique, but it's more complex to watch and keep up with.--PolarisDiB "},{"Title":"Interesting film - just don't watch it if you've got a headache","Date":"26 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Well - sometime back in the early '90s I saw that a minor local theater was showing something called Tetsuo - The Bodyhammer. It claimed to be comic book-like, and being a comic collector, I went to see it. It was really weird, with not much of a clear narrative. It was about a guy who could shoot rusty iron from his hands. Or something. It's a long time since I saw it. Anyway, it turns out it was the sequel to the earlier Tetsuo - The Iron Man, which is apparently a huge cult classic and a milestone in surrealist cinema.Last night, I watched The Iron Man with some friends. I'm generally not into horror, nor horrific surrealism, and sure enough, I did not enjoy watching this movie. I was grateful that it was only an hour long. However, I do pride myself on being an appreciator of art movies, and although I thought this movie was mostly just a piece of artsy self-indulgence, I have to say it is interesting and difficult to come up with a good interpretation.Several possible interpretations struck me as I watched it, and the other user comments here also mention some of them. Was it a movie about trans-humanism; about how our carnal vessels are nothing but trouble and we should replace them with superior, adaptable, changing metal bodies? Or, was it about fear of invasive technology which alienates and dehumanizes us, leaving us without compassion and conscience? A modern Kafkaesque Metamorphosis? Or, was it a tale of a traumatic homosexual awakening, which in fact many elements of the movie suggest? And, what about the ending? Were the characters good or evil by the end? Was the movie hostile to technology or positive towards it? Opinions are divided, possibilities are endless. The only thing definite that I and my friends could come up with was that the movie chronicles some kind of transition. A deeply stressful, traumatic and accidentally triggered transition which includes all sorts of aspects of human life. But a transition which concludes in a new state of happiness. Perhaps the movie is simply a general description of the human condition, and our passage from one set of circumstances to another - perhaps the change from natural man to technological man.It is to the movie's credit that there are so many possible interpretations, but I do wonder how much of it is true art, and how much of it is simply the director's fascination with weird effects. Still, it is certainly an art movie, and cannot be dismissed as trivial. It wasn't very enjoyable to me - noisy, ugly, repulsive, confusing. I understand that these are the tools with which the movie makes its point, but this is just not my idea of effective entertainment, artistic or otherwise.7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Think The Fly with a dishwasher and you're somewhere close","Date":"21 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The plot in Tetsuo, of what can be deciphered, revolves around a metal fetishist being run over by a Joe Average salary man and his girlfriend. With a hit and run reaction, they try to get rid of the body. Irritatingly for the salary man, the metal fetishist starts to grow inside him and begins to take him over, noticeable when the salary man begins to sprout metal shards, pipes and bolts from everywhere on his body.Tetsuo is not a film that can be described in words. With a running time of just over an hour, it is a very visual experience. The themes of bodily invasion explored best by the likes of David Cronenberg and John Carpenter are pushed to their wild, extreme and ridiculous limits here. The early stages, as the salary man begins to peel away skin from all over his body to reveal strange new appendages makes Jeff Goldblum vomiting over his food look tame, which is no easy task. The one scene that climaxes in the salary man asking his girlfriend the somewhat hysterical line 'do you want to taste my sewage pipe' has to be one of the most bizarre I've ever seen. To be honest, after he has made his full transformation into The Iron Man he looks like he was assembled on Blue Peter, but the skill of the director means this common problem for low budget films is a minor one here.With an high levels of gore, frenetic camera-work and dizzying chase sequences, it goes without saying that Tetsuo is not something for the light hearted. However, a single viewing creates a lasting impression, and for creativity this film is an unforgettable experience. "},{"Title":"67 minutes that might change your outlook on film","Date":"25 February 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Now I'm not gonna say that this is my favorite movie of all time, for two main reasons. One, I've only seen it twice, and two, I can never be absolutely sure that I've actually seen it once it's over. It's more like a series of feverish, metallic images injected directly into your brain with a large bore needle. And I don't mean that in a bad way. Not at all. The first time I watched it, it completely floored me, even though I wasn't able to discern the faintest whiff of a plot. However, after spending some time on the internet, reading plot summaries provided by wirehead horror fanatics and anime buffs, it became crystal clear the second time. To try to summarize it here would only make me sound like a lunatic and it would give no real idea of what goes on in the course of this movie. The rapid-fire editing, the moody black and white cinematography, the spectacular gross-out effects... sure they've all been done before, but rarely have they been so effectively compressed into such an out of control mass of film. These images are completely unlike anything that would ever get a release in America. If you want the ultimate change of pace, Tetsuo is your man. One more problem I should mention I usually think I have a high pretension threshold, but even I had to chuckle at some scenes. If it were more grounded and had a more immediately discernible plot, it'd be right up there with Pi on my list of paranoid brain twisters. But then again, if it were these things, it would not be Tetsuo. See it for what it is, a pure adrenaline rush of film that today's blockbuster roller coaster rides can't hope to achieve. "},{"Title":"Tetsuo...how do I love thee?","Date":"28 January 2006","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Tetsuo is one of my favorite movies. With a riveting soundtrack (pardon the pun), incredible diy style effects, subtle metaphors and staggering self-awareness, Tetsuo remains a film that stands alone as a one of a kind that has earned its place in subculture history for years to come. Revoting, sexy, absurd, humorous, driving and cryptic, Tetsuo is a film that may leave you scratching your head, but you'll be doing it with a smile on your face and an urge to gather up your art supplies, throw on some Skinny Puppy and have yourself a canvas mutilation session. I give this film 10/10 because I can find no wrong with it. It's not for everyone, but for some it fits like a virulent cybernetic viral arm cast in velvet. "},{"Title":"Modern, Metallic Ghost story","Date":"8 November 2002","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Tetsuo is, perhaps, the most brilliant film I have ever had the pleasure of witnessing. I feel that most viewers are not mature enough/experienced with extreme cinema to look beneath the superficial story, of which there is very little, to appreciate the wealth of subtext lurking beneath the most mind-blowing and exhilarating hour and seven minutes ever committed to film.At once, it is an allegory of technology in the modern age (and the dehumanizing effect it has on its unwitting victims), a commentary on the psycho-sexual fetishization of industrialization, a critique of vengeance and violence, a celebration of nihilism and the potential beauty of destruction, a deranged superhero fantasy, a metaphor for failed dreams, an indictment of sexual repression (including homosexuality) and, at its core, a modern day ghost story, in which a hit and run driver (of sorts; he does carelessly dump the metal fetishist's body in the woods) is haunted by his metal-obsessed, ambiguously homosexual, marathon runner victim, a crazed nihilist who has acquired the ability to manipulate metal with his mind after a piece of steel (from the car) became lodged in his brain during the accident. In this modern age, the fear of the afterlife and the spirit has been replaced with that of technology gone haywire, the fear of weapons falling into in the wrong hands and of a human creation rising up to overcome, overpower and, ultimately, destroy the humans responsible for it. The events of the film, when taken to be no more than the actual images depicted, are too disturbing, complex and, ultimately, too alien, for the average, unthinking audience member to make heads or tails of, and thus are insulted as pointless, offensive and weird, as if these highly subjective concepts denote something inherent in the movie. If you are one who can handle complex films with fairly simple story lines told in a completely non-linear fashion (what we actual artists/filmmakers call USING THE ART FORM!), then, please, do yourself a favor and buy this film immediately! You will gain something new from it each time you view it (I have seen it over thirty times and am still learning!). If you, however, are unable to read (and read into) images (the currency with which the medium of film traffics), and are unable to handle weird things without being spoonfed clear cut heros and villains, then rent/buy Titanic and leave complex films to the thinkers and artists and revel in your own ignorance, but do not put down Shinya Tsukamoto, a man who has won my undying respect with ONE film.      "},{"Title":"Insane Japanese Cyber-Punk...","Date":"12 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I hadn't seen TETSUO in close to 15 years and have had a copy laying around for a while, so I decided to revist this one. As completely insane and at the same time ground-breaking and bizarre as I recall - TETSUO is truly an original.The plot isn't exactly linear in terms of a traditional narrative, but concerns a car accident victim and the couple who hit him, and some bizarre transformations/mutations of man and machine. To say much more really won't do the film justice...I will say that I'm not real well-versed in the Japanese cyber-punk film movement, but I'd venture to say that TETSUO was the originator of the genre. There have been a handful of somewhat similar films since, but this is the one that started it all. I will also admit that I'm not a huge fan of most surreal, art-house type films (which TETSUO definitely is to some degree) but I can appreciate the ingenuity and originality of this piece. Imagine if David Lynch was Japanese and did a film while on a 6-day meth bender, and you may get a slight idea how this one plays out. Some truly innovative set/costume/sound-design, editing, camera-work - basically everything about the film is extremely well done. The only reason I don't rate it higher is because this style of hyper-erratic art-film just isn't really my thing, and I also felt it lost a little steam towards the end. There are some very cool splattery, creepy, bizarro moments (the cock-drill is priceless...) - and I can guarantee that it'll prove too much for more mainstream viewers. But if you'd like to see a truly unique vision on film - TETSUO is definitely a must...8/10 "},{"Title":"An underground masterpiece","Date":"3 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This weird film is about a man who has some weird fetish for sticking metal objects into his body (!). However, one day the fetishist is accidentally killed by a salary man (Tomorowo Taguchi) who was driving a car, the salary man hides the body by dumping it into a ravine. However, the fetishist gets his revenge by coming back to life and make the man suffer by slowly turning some of his body into scrap metal, making him become part-human and part-metal. It's a lot more weird than it sounds but it's highly recommended (mostly to fans of David Lynch and David Cronenberg). It's filled with great stop-motion and makeup effects, has a cool soundtrack and has a plot that's totally bizarre yet very original. There is no doubt that this movie is one of the best underground films of all time. "},{"Title":"A monochrome fever of nuts and bolts, cuts and bruises","Date":"8 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Tetsuo The Iron Man is a suspension bridge over a river of disbelief. However, what do you expect from a movie often referred to as belonging in the 'Japanese Cyber-Punk' genre? By the time I got round to watching this film, I had already researched it fairly extensively. The result of this was that the super fast movement which I expected (rather like the denouement of 'Requiem For A Dream' or the trailer for 'Amores Perros') was, mainly in the first half, not present. However this is not to say this film is slow as in fact it forms an onslaught of visual and aural conflict. If you are reading this and have only just come across this movie, I suggest you watch as soon as possible. If you watched Lynch's 'Eraserhead' with a sense of open-mindedness, you are in the position to formulate an opinion about this film.What's connects 'Eraserhead' and this film is the disturbingly stark use of black and white and the industrial theme. One of the greatest merits of the Tetsuo was the pounding industrial soundtrack which installs itself as a war of attrition with the viewer. The sounds give the sense of primitive ritualisation which in turn further accentuates the baseness of the subject matter.Another feature I enjoyed much was the use of stop-animation. Visually this provides a great sense of variety. The breaking down of fluidity mirrors the progressive breaking down of human flesh as it succumbs to metal, machinery and the sense of technology. Many of the stop-animation metamorphosis sequences reminded me of Peter Gabriel's music video for 'Sledgehammer' but gone seriously, seriously wrong.The mutated guises that the characters adopt (for the most part, unwillingly) are a bizarre amalgam of the mercenaries from the 'Mad Max' films, Transformers (robots in disguise), Magneto from X-Men, and a slaughter at a smelting plant. At several points it is nigh on impossible to distinguish where the shrapnel-like eruptions of skin end and the twisted metal fixings begin.I recommend you watch this film loud, on a big screen and slightly under the influence. In some parts I found it fairly average. However it is definitely worth the experience for those familiar with obscurity. Hey, not many films can claim to have got their props purely from a scrap yard. "}{"Title":"Cheap, dirty, gorgeous","Date":"2 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Shinya Tsukamoto puts lashings of ultraviolence and cheap, dirty visual awesomeness on the screen for your enjoyment in Tetsuo. The thing that really struck me was how low-budget yet effective this whacked-out mini-masterpiece is.After a car accident leaves a metal fetishist(he sticks re-bar in his leg and runs metal across his teeth, among other things) for dead, the man who drove the car that hit him starts transforming into a weird machine monster (and so does his old lady--also present at the metal fetishist's accident). The two mutating lovers have a good ol' time attempting to have sex and drill-raping each other. Long story short, the girlfriend melts into a pile of crap and the metal fetishist is reborn from her mess to take on the guy who left him for dead in a cyberpunk/metal monster showdown.All of this film is visually very impressive and the sound design, likewise, is appropriate for the cyber-body horror with which Tsukamoto rapidly bludgeons you. I have to recommend this film to all who haven't seen it, especially fans of Japanese horror cinema and weird cult films. 8.5/10. "},{"Title":"fantastic and original piece of film","Date":"26 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is, to me, a groundbreaking movie in cinematography, stop motion, and in cases in movie music. The previous comments fill you in on the story and whatnot, so to the reader who is wondering if he/she should give this flick a shot - get it; but stay open and try not to set any expectations to an unreachable level in lighting or acting for example. I personally love this movie, but friends think it is too strange for them. What you like should be more important than a friend or stranger's opinion. If you have read up on this film and want to experience Tetsuo, I say go for it - just know what you are getting into. "},{"Title":"Different to say the least.","Date":"21 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A good friend of mine is really into Japanese culture, he loves to collect DVD's and Manga and such. Anyway, he knows that I am a person who appreciates a powerful film and thus he told me all about the great range of Japanese action and horror films out there. Anyway after wetting my appetite with the fantastic 'Battle Royale' I decided to try something different. I had been hearing about Tetsuo for some time, so I checked it out on IMDb and the following day I bought it, took it home and watched it. Tetsuo has an amazing power over the human mind, one of silmentaneous repulsion and attraction. All through the film you feel like you want to turn off, but you are just hypnotised by what is happening on screen. The whole experience of the film may only last just over an hour but it feels a lot longer, plus the short running time helps the film to stay fresh. However, you may need to watch this film twice to understand it, as only at the end does everything fit together and therefore you can only understand whats happened before with this. Gore fans will be pleased, I know I was. Tetsuo is one of those films that has to be seen to be believed. A top class effort and a film that will stay with me for live (possibly due to the warping it left in my mind.) "},{"Title":"Sickness & art","Date":"11 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Don't be afraid of spoilers on this one (it wouldn't be possible).Tetsuo is a fascinating journey sick as well as funny, fast and furious, but - so I do think - hard to stand, as well. I don't know if I get all this, because I'm quite aware that there is a lot of Japanese culture in this flick from Godzilla to Manga and back to old Japan in the time of Samurai (filmed in a music-clip way). I read this as criticism on the cold, industrialized world of dehumanized humans. The sexuality is shown as a pure act of aggression (somwhat typical for Japanese movies as well) to spread the cold metal and let it run free.The most disturbing thing is the gory violence, which is explicit, but artful, cause it is so well filmed (in black-and-white) and edited with incredible speed and skill.Last but not least this sure is an extraordinary work of metal sculpturing!So my vote is 7 (if you like to see a Cronenbergesk movie-trip without a story). "},{"Title":"One of the weirdest cyberpunk films ever made","Date":"8 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Shinya Tsukamoto delivers one of the trippiest--and maybe one of the best--cyberpunk films this side of Akira and Blade Runner. The story centers around a Japanese salaryman who finds himself in the midst of a horrible transformation in which his body begins to meld with all things metal. After accidentally killing his girlfriend (in a gruesome, sexually-charged way), the salaryman must confront his own mutation, along with the insane metal fetishist who caused it. Let me say that Tetsuo is not for all tastes, not even for those of you who liked the aforementioned Akira (actually, the movie's name is based on one of the protagonists from the film) and Blade Runner. It's hyperkinetic and pretty violent at times (especially with the S&M undertones). Those who liked Tetsuo will naturally want to move onto its sequel, Tetsuo II Body Hammer. A third Tetsuo film is now rumored to be in pre-production. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable industrial audio visual style and twisted plot makes for an interesting must see movie.","Date":"20 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Weird. I really like the audio visual style. Shot in B&W it is a fast paced movie with lots of close ups, stop frame animation of the characters physical transformations, and sped up sequences. The producers have been very skillful in their camera-work, editing, and effects to get the most from what must be a low budget movie. There are many different shots of the scenes. Every shot takes you deeper into the experience. The sound track is very industrial and the sound effects and music really bring the movie to life. The plot focuses on the activities of central character who is the Iron Man. He has a bizarre metal fetish. This leads to his physical and emotional transformation into the Iron Man. A rather gruesome transformation. The movie also Contains scenes of twisted eroticism that i personally found to be amusing and made me laugh out loud. The performances of the main characters are really powerful and convey the emotional + physical experiences thoroughly well. Definitely a must see movie. "},{"Title":"metal frosting","Date":"8 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A very wicked movie from all angles. Great production value for such a low budget film. Creepy, fun, sexy, and totally cool. A great story of jealousy, power, love, and sexual desire are hidden under all the extremely cool superficialities. I had wanted to see this movie for a long time but could never find it. Today I finally found it at the greatest video store in the world. So I rented it not knowing what I was about to watch. From the back of the box I expected something like Eraserhead, but oh no this was far different from that. Tetsuo is something different from everything in the world. I didn't know anything besides three year old kids had this much energy. well anyways, the movie took off like a rock & roller from the very first frame and had me by the balls until the last. Tetsuo totally disregards grace and style, and in it's place is raw visceral imagery. Biomechanic, cyber-punk, industrial fans shall all be rewarded by the viewing of this film. "},{"Title":"Black and White Rust - 9 (excellent)","Date":"14 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I have yet to actually meet anyone in Japan named Tetsuo, but I would like to. The only two Tetsuo's I remember from my cinematic childhood are both pretty gloomy. One is the fleshy bubble-burst-hangover Tetsuo who battles Akira in the renowned anime movie that sparked my serious interest in Japanese culture. The other is the main character of TETSUO (1988) who takes the repressed bubble economy psychosis of Japanese salary-men to legendary extremes. This movie is not for the weak of heart, nor is it the least bit bright or happy in any way. TETSUO is a dirty, rusty movie that will leave your insides scarred for life.To begin with, when I watched this videotape several years ago, a short film Drum Beat was featured before the movie. It was rather good, but I can't remember any of the details. I'm assuming that the director of that film had gone on to make more good stuff. I don't know.However I do know that the director of TETSUO went on to direct a sequel four years later, Tetsuo II Body Hammer, which was a frustrating disappointment. First of all, the sequel is shot in color, which instantly places it closer to a cheap R-rated Power Rangers than anything I'd pay money to see. Second of all, the sequel is too long and makes too many desperate attempts to link itself to the first installment. If you liked the first TETSUO, chances are you'll be largely disappointed by the second.That said, I really don't know what to say about the original TETSUO. It has a feverish tech-no score, maximized use of low-budget corrugated pipes and household wires, and an ominous creepiness akin to that traditional Japanese reptile-lady with the long neck. With that imagery set in place, the concept behind the movie pushes the gut-barrier to new lows. The main character loses his soul and mind and uncontrollably changes into a mechanical monster. TETSUO is artistically convincing, in contrast to some of the contrived robot stuff out there, and holds your attention long enough to start sparking and gyrating like a mechanized pizza in a cheap microwave-on-wheels. And speaking of microwavable pizza, this movie isn't too long either.Please watch this movie if you have a chance, because one, it's unlike anything I've ever seen before or since, and two, because corporate Japan hasn't really changed at all since this sick movie was brought wheezing and spurting into this world.Do you want to take over the world together?Sure, why the hell not.JY "},{"Title":"One of those pieces of art that re-defines weird.","Date":"27 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I actually loved this movie, but I had to watch it twice to understand every detail of it.   About detail, this movie is jam packed with it.  Every scene is dripping with atmosphere and you can just feel that your in the room / running down the hall / set up in a small room that is blistering hot... sure the effects are not Hollywood quality, sure the cast can be counted on your left hand, and sure the plot is hard to follow at first but all these things are helpful, not hurtful to the over all picture.   One thing I like about these kinds of movies is that it makes you think... hard.  A good memory and a bit of a skewed scene of reality will definitely help here folks.  A ppreciation for art and an elaborate imagination (and also a background of watching non-main stream movies) will just make you love this masterpiece more.   Now for you people who have never watched a B or non-main stream movie, this particular movie probably would be a bit too much of a shell shock, but then again if your willing to venture off the beaten path this movie would enlighten you on how different people view the world, and hopefully help you into other realms of film/art and maybe even help you try new stuff out... but then again you may hate this movie.  Either way I can whole-heartedly can recommend this film to just about anyone.  Also Drum Struck is a short film at the end of the vhs, and is different and quite funny. "},{"Title":"WHOA!","Date":"11 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I can honestly say that this is the strangest movie I have ever seen.  It is not bad, just really weird.  There doesn't seem to be any other way to describe it well.  It's also very easy to get lost in it.  Crazy camera action.  Crazy things.  Crazy people.  WEIRD! "}{"Title":"Awesome soundtrack and good film","Date":"4 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Tetsuo is considered like a masterpiece of cyberpunk in cinema history. The first thing i remarked was the soundtrack, it's an awesome one and fit perfectly with the movie. The movie is very disturbing because the protagonists are transformed by different metals, some tubing break out by the throat and when someone die there is a kind of mash around the body. There is a sex scene really disturbing where the man have sex with a transformed-by-metal girl but we understand at the end of this scene it's only a nightmare.Tetsuo is a good experimental movie, to see if you like cyberpunk style and disturbing movies. "},{"Title":"Cyber Punk Fever Dream","Date":"21 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I first encountered this truly bizarre film a few years ago in a revival at an art cinema on a college campus for it's weekend late show. Man, did this film ever f**k with my head (in a good way,of course). The plot concerns two elementsa metal fetish,who fancies cutting his flesh open & jamming raw metal in the openings,and a business man who is slowly transforming into a mutated metal man. This extremely bizarre Japanese cyber punk film was shot in black & white, to convey a claustrophobic feeling. The soundtrack varies from industrial noise to some kind of hybrid early Rock & Roll/cocktail lounge boogie. It will be of interest to lovers of avant garde/experimental/surreal films,noise music fanatics,followers of the Goth movement,followers of the S&M/B&D/fetish scene,and other lovers of the truly strange. The film making style reminded me a lot of early David Lynch,or maybe even Richard Kern (a New York underground film maker from the 1980's,who has a loyal following within the post punk movement--check out some of his work---DVD's of some of his films do exist). No MPAA rating here, but definitely NOT for the kiddies (there are some very graphic adult situations here,gang). "},{"Title":"Tsukamoto's vivid, visceral cyber-punk cult-classic. Still the ultimate trip.","Date":"8 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Tetsuo The Iron Man (1988) was the first acknowledged film from Japanese auteur Shinya Tsukamoto following years of short-form, amateur experimentation, on a combination of home video and Super 8. Like his two preceding short films, A Phantom of Regular Size (1986) and The Adventures of Electric Rod Boy (1987), Tetsuo The Iron Man is a striking piece of hyper-kinetic visual film-making; documenting the tortuous decent into hell for a Japanese businessman, who, after a serious accident, finds that his body has inexplicably begun mutating into a mass of metal, wire and steal.Tsukamoto's principal preoccupations as a filmmaker are often focused on the themes of alienation, claustrophobia, technology (all tied to the depiction of Tokyo as a punishing maze of dehumanising dread), and most importantly, the human body. Throughout his work, Tsukamoto has looked at the self-inflicted destruction of the body, via films such as Tetsuo The Iron Man, and its bigger-budgeted follow up Tetsuo II Body Hammer (1992), as well as his ultra-violent boxing film Tokyo Fist (1995); through to the more traditional notions of natural decay, death and internal destruction with films like A Snake of June (2002), Bullet Ballet (1998) and Vital (2004). All of these characteristics are presented here, with the film showing us how easily tragedy can strike (and indeed, go un-noticed) in a built up metropolitan city, and how striving to become the ultimate human being can often involve a melding of man with machine (the natural with the synthetic).The great thing about Tsukamoto's work is that it can often be enjoyed on a number of levels; so, with Tetsuo The Iron Man, we have something that could be viewed as an abstract science-fiction film with elements of cyber-punk derived body horror; or instead, we could look at some of the deeper, more metaphorical interpretations pertaining to the ideas of guilt, fear, murder, death, sex, lust, paranoia and perhaps even notions more unsavoury than that! The accident that is hinted at throughout the film is vague and offers only the slightest hint as to what Tetsuo is really about; giving us one potential interpretation in a film that seems absolute bursting with wild ideas and vivid flights of fantasy. All we have to really hold onto is the broad notion of a character spiralling into a pit of despair; consumed by guilt and losing his mind and the trust of his wife/girlfriend in light of this tragic chain of events! Now, I'm not pretending I know all the answers here, but I do like to theorise. Someone else might view the film and take from it an entirely different interpretation, but could still find it entirely enjoyable and entertaining regardless. The fact remains that despite the layers of personal interpretation the one thing that will always stand out - regardless of whether or not you even liked the film in the first place - is the unbridled imagination and visual flair that Tsukamoto brings to the project as it's writer, director, editor, art director, cinematographer, designer, special effects technician and supporting actor.I suppose the best way to describe Tetsuo The Iron Man is like a hyper-kinetic mishmash of Lynch's meta-film masterpiece Eraserhead (1976) and Cronenberg's dark melodrama Videodrome (1982), with an obvious stylistic debt owed to the works of Japanese punk filmmaker Sogo Ishii; who covered similar territory with his industrial-influenced, highly visual early films such as Panic High School (1978), Crazy Thunder Road (1980) and Burst City (1982). All of this, combined with Tsukamoto's background in performance art, illustration and fondness for traditional Japanese monster movies enthuses Tetsuo with a freewheeling disregard for narrative, character and logic; as our hero (played here by cult actor and musician Tomorowo Taguchi, who should be familiar to fans of Tsukamoto's work, and that of his contemporary Takashi Miike) sprouts wires from his finger tips and a pneumatic drill where there was no drill before! Some viewers have also likened the film to a live action anime, with Tetsuo having certain similarities with Katsuhiro Ōtomo's Akira (1982-1986); in which another character named Tetsuo undergoes a painful transformation from a fresh faced teen, into a horribly deformed cyber-punk killing machine.Like many films of this nature, Tetsuo The Iron Man won't be to all tastes, and will probably be better appreciated by viewers who approach it, not as a conventional film, but as a wild, audio/visual trip. Let the images wash over you while you pick apart the sociological subtext at your own leisure; all the while marvelling at the amazing achievement that Tsukamoto managed to pull off with an incredibly limited budget and an unbelievably small crew. For me, Tetsuo is perhaps not quite as rewarding as some of Tsukamoto's other works, chiefly Tokyo Fist, Gemini (1999) and A Snake of June, but regardless, remains a fascinating and unforgettable summation of his early style and various cinematic preoccupations, whilst simultaneously offering a unique viewing experience for those of you who are genuinely interested in through-provoking, visually arresting, art-house shock cinema. "},{"Title":"Techno-Lust At Long Last","Date":"12 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Amazing special effects, driven incredibly fast. It combined film b-film anime-style gore, with experimental fragmented imagery, there was almost no narrative and very little dialog, for those of you who haven't seen it its basically about a man whose body starts springing shards of metal and wire, his body mutating in homicidal convolutions till he meets another man who is mutating similarly and the two of them brutally fight, and eventually become one in sexual/parasitical way, and decided to destroy the world together. I really liked it, because I had never really seen anything like it, it was definitely its own animal. This is a hyper kinetic video-game like thrill ride that sears it's machine right into your spine and doesn't let go till long after. The story is minimal, and those looking for a well developed sensitive story of human development will be lost by a film whose primary modus operandi is dehumanization(not unlike Cronenberg's Crash), and accelerated to light speed. The rate of the film, the near overnight transformation reflects the rapid changes in an information society, where technology and the objects of technology take on different, psychological and sexual dimensions. This is reflected down to the monochrome black and white world which the characters inhabit.This change is as violent and grotesque as it is breakneck, and shares as much in common with the visual avant garde assaults of Kenneth Anger, as it does hyper-violent anime. With certain films it is as important how we watch as it is what we watch, with the right perspective.Tetsuo Iron Man, is an odd and fascinating artifact of modern Japanese cinematic pop, and essential viewing with anyone interested in seeing what else film can do. "},{"Title":"Screaming and bleeding","Date":"13 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I saw this in a Philly theater in 1992. Blew me and everybody else away. I went to a bar with several of my fellow moviegoers, who had been complete strangers before that night, and shared a jug of sangria in a Spanish restaurant while talking about it.In 1999, I repeated the above scenario in Tokyo. The lone differences were no minimal subtitles in Tokyo, and we drank Mekong whiskey at a Thai place instead.My point? This is an unforgettable film.Low budget but they were VERY careful about the effects they used. Man sprouts metal from all over his body during a masochistic night with his girl. Pain all over.No point to it really. But great to watch. They made a monster of a movie here.This was a cult hit in Tokyo during it's long run. Don't miss it. "},{"Title":"Wow","Date":"30 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I have heard of this movie before from Clive Barkers A to Z Book of Horror, and thought that it sounded interesting. Last Week I was wandering around the mall and found it on DVD from Tartan DVD's and picked it up. The film was stunning. It looked a lot like David Lynch's Eraserhead (Which needs to be released in the US). The film is very bizarre and contains a lot of surrealistic images. There aren't too many characters, and there are a lot of crazy-looking scenes. If you're into foreign films and are looking for something very original i'd pick this one up. Oh yeah, check out the drilling scene.The film is unrated but contains bizarre violence and sexual situations. "},{"Title":"Trip thru Subconsciousness!","Date":"18 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Tetsuo is a perfect example of superb experimental film making, and it is also a monumental junction in surreal film making.When watching Tetsuo it is easy to see where it's inspiration stemmed from. From Eraserhead to The Evil Dead and even Mad Max II (The Road Warrior). However, since it's release you can also see the countless other features who have in tern, used Tetsuo as their inspiration. From Hardware to The Matrix to The Cremaster and even many of music's videos such as Nine Inch Nails and David Bowie.For first time users.... err viewers, who are not accustomed to this form of film making it is probably a wise idea to view this film simply as an abstract work of art. It would be useless to get bogged down in the narrative so just admire the technical artistry and break neck pace of this movie. It is only 60 minutes long, so then you can go back and view it again with the plot line as your guide.Tetsuo is a welcome breath of fresh air in a world of photo copied teen comedies, crime investigations and supernatural thrillers. This is a journey into our subconscious, a fantastical ride through our nightmares.If you love imagination in your films, see this one. Then see it's follow up Body Hammer! "},{"Title":"Quite a crazy movie...","Date":"22 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I admit, the movie is quite original, but a bit unconvincing. The camera-work is outstanding in the most of the situations (it's disturbingly good with it's frenetic movement), but it does have certain pathetic shots, in which it seems the director exaggerated a bit with his artistic pretensions. The gore is a bit too cheesy (but still good for such a low budget), and the acting doesn't really shine too (acctually, I think it's quite bad in some scenes). The plot is heavily suppressed, so don't count on understanding much, or on hearing more than 2 minutes of dialog in the hole movie, you must rely on the images. However the movie does deliver some impact, and the music fits too (some 80's industrial stuff) - seen that the movie is totally in the 80s' spirit.So, not a masterpiece, but certainly better than the Hollywood crap. And since it dates from the beginning of the director's career it's quite promising too. Although I really didn't enjoy it that much, i recommend it since it was very influential at that time.P.S. It seems it had quite an impact on Aranofsky, especially in Pi (for which I think is a better movie than this one). "},{"Title":"Machines have less problems. I'd like to be a machine, wouldn't you? -Andy Warhol","Date":"3 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Well, where to start... there's been lots of arguing about whether Tetsuo is a masterpiece or a steaming heap of artsy junk, but one thing is for certain it's one of the strangest movies ever made.The story begins as the character usually referred to as 'the metal fetishist' (since the characters really don't have names) cuts open his leg and sticks a metal pipe inside. Breathing hard of both pain and pleasure, he admires the work of his hands only to realize that larvae are crawling all over the wound. He runs outside screaming, and gets run over by a car driven by the main character of the story, 'the salary man'. The day after, the salary man finds a piece of metal growing from his cheek, and eventually he realizes that he's slowly turning into a some kind of a biomechanical freak. After several gruesome and tragic events, we witness the bizarre final confrontation between the salaryman and the fetishist, who is apparently responsible of the salary man's state, and is also experiencing a somewhat similar transformation himself.Now, that's the easiest part to explain, because the rest of the movie leaves a lot of open space for speculation. It's a light-speed tour-de-force of shocking and beautiful machine imagery, stop-motion animation, and violence. The movie doesn't stop to explain what the hell is going on, it keeps on speeding forward with rocket-powered metal feet. There's hardly even dialogue... and that's is a good thing, by the way. If the director, Shinya Tsukamoto had gone for a more conventional story-telling method, Tetsuo could be shrugged off as just another movie barely worth watching only for it's visual ideas. I feel that when watching Tetsuo, each viewer can form his/her own idea about what is happening on the screen and what's it's meaning. And that's exactly what makes Tetsuo such a great movie.Well, visually, Tetsuo is a mixed bag... for budget reasons, the movie was shot entirely in 16mm B&W film. For the same reason, the special effects are cheap, but they are however very impressing. Most of the special effects are made of odd pieces of scrap metal, pipes, and wire soldered together, which gives the movie a very unique visual style. There is also a great deal of stop motion animation, and although it looks pretty crude and spastic, that also suits the lightning-fast pacing of the movie. Tsukamoto shows that with a good eye for visual style, you don't need a Hollywood budget to produce good special effects.All in all, you might enjoy Tetsuo, or you might be left baffled and confused by what just happened on the screen. As I said before, I believe that each individual will experience Tetsuo in a different way. "},{"Title":"Goodbye Brain","Date":"21 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a  masterpiece of Japanese underground-cyberpunk-sci-fi.The whole 65 minutes of this movie are crammed and intense.Sure it is uncomfortable,sure its sick but hell,its compelling.Watching the metamorphasis of the main characters and using unique cinematography, gives this film the edge over a lot of its underground alternatives.Using stunning (though confusing) cut scenes and having an astonishing sondtrack ,makes Tetsuo an extremely difficult,but enjoyable viewing experience. "}{"Title":"If you're feeling pain, then at least you're alive! (SPOILER!)","Date":"28 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  'Tetsuo' is a very delicate movie it's difficult to sum up the plot, since no two viewers understand exactly the same thing, and moreover, it seems rather unimportant to do so Tsukamoto himself admitted that he didn't construct much of a plot, rather having a theme, a mood and graphic elements in his mind and then shooting scenes after scenes, getting ideas on the spur of the moment, and giving a semblance of coherence in the final cut. 'Tetsuo' is short (barely over an hour), difficult to follow, physically and morally exhausting because of its graphical and musical violence, and above all painful. Shot in a white-saturated (metallic) B&W, with a nearly always trembling frame and rapid and repetitive stop-motion sequences, this movie contains scenes of such weird and intense pain that you can nearly feel it. That should suffice to explain why there are usually two reactions to 'Tetsuo' either you enjoy it like an intense and truly unique experience, or you can't bear it at all (above all if you follow Tsukamoto's advice watching the film alone, with maximum sound and as close to the screen as possible!!).So what is it all about? What makes this seemingly nonsensical and weird object the major, groundbreaking film it has been said to be? Well, the difference between nonsense and art is usually the presence of meaning. And preferably deep and multiple meanings. And there's all that in Tetsuo. The story in itself is quite simple in fact, once you've seen the film a couple of times A young metal-fetichist-freak is hit by a car and remembers the driver, dreaming of vengeance. His hate manifests itself on the culprit (a depressingly normal japanese salary man) by transforming him progressively into a mad machine. The salary man is in for a real nightmare as his monstrous metamorphosis causes chaos and death around him, until the final confrontation with the young freak (also transformed in a metal/flesh mutant but quickly rusting) where they accept their monstrosity and declare war to the rest of the world, announcing a new world of metal and pain.What is really interesting in 'Tetsuo' is the fact that these two metal monstrosities are presented as the only ones in an already dead world (or at least the city of Tokyo) who find a way to be really alive. By mutating through metal and pain, they find a way out of a world of zombies, out of the oppression of the city and of 'normal' life. They achieve a nearly godlike status. Tsukamoto's vision is influenced by his own extremely negative vision of modern urban life, which in his films looks like a post-apocalyptic life where everything is already dead, albeit nobody seems to know it yet. His characters, be it in 'Tetsuo' I and II, 'Tokyo Fist' or 'Bullet Ballet', through the pain they experience, find out that they can be still alive, at the cost of discovering and admitting the monsters that they contain (deadly metal monsters in 'Tetsuo', boxing machines in 'Tokyo Fist'). Tsukamoto shows this way of violence and pain as the only solution. Whether it is optimistic or pessimistic is for the viewer to decide. And the best way to decide this is to experience the pain yourself! That's the basic justification of provoking such a shocking experience for the audience forcing the choice, forcing the discovery of a sort of pleasure, beyond the pain, and admitting its existence to oneself.With that sort of content, it is thus not very surprising that people like William Gibson or Alejandro Jodorowsky declared themselves fascinated by 'Tetsuo'. Neither is it surprising that 'Tetsuo' is placed among the films that gave a new start to japanese cinema (after all, Tsukamoto sees the japanese cinema of the 80s as as dead as Tokyo's inhabitants...).Some people might argue that there's not so much to be seen or understood in 'Tetsuo' and that if those were the director's intentions, the film does not meet them. Well, that might be true, but I think of Tetsuo' in very much the same way as 'Eraserhead' (above the evident formal influences, mixed with Cronenberg's) 'Testuo' is a sort of original matrix from which all of Tsukamoto's subsequent movies emanate. 'Testuo' can thus be better read and understood through 'Tetsuo II' (its more explicit remake/sequel) or even 'Tokyo Fist'. It is a sort of artistic manifesto, but not adressed to the mind rather to the body and the flesh, which integrate the meaning before reason can analyze it. So I have really only one advice Feel alive go and see it! "},{"Title":"anarchy metal chaos !","Date":"15 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  i have many reasons to love this movie  the black and white picture is very intense, the industrial music and the action are in a perfect hardcore synchronisation and the various electric sounds too ! the scenario is about revolution of the whole world into a piece of boiling metal. its seems to be a cronenberg cyber punk movie ! a must for all the electronic freak fans and weird movies aficionados. it's the eraserhead of the 90's ! "},{"Title":"Bye Bye to Flesh","Date":"12 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A comic book fantasy, this film defied my intutitions about the contruction of film and the revelations presented by acclimated fans of the science fiction genre.  This film draws the line between metallic rapture and the agony of dismemberment.  Much recommended by the fan of serious cyberfilm.  "},{"Title":"sensory blitz","Date":"29 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A masterpiece of underground filmmaking, mindblowing and constantly changing, Tetsuo is the king of whacked out flicks. The story concerning a junction of man and machine attacks you with bizarre visuals and effects. Definitely not boring, but at the same time, strong stomachs are required to get through all the revolting scenes of violence and bizarre sex, the likes of which can only be found in Japan (just look at all the hentai animation out there...or don't look at it). the drill scene is just sick, but at the same time fascinating. overall a wild ride that is a must for fans of bizarre cinema.  "},{"Title":"Crazy weird live-manga freakiness","Date":"6 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This really is one crazy mental movie, vying with David Lynch's Eraserhead for most bizarrely freakish bit of black and white weirdness. Piling some really quite disturbing imagery into a melange of stop-motion animation, sped-up and slowed-down film and lots and lots of fast-cut montages, this gradually builds into an at least slightly coherent plot involving a man slowly turning into a giant metal monster, then fighting some kind of rust-man-woman-thing on jet-powered skates. All of which is pretty much subordinated to the often almost nauseating power of the images. There's plenty of blood and gore on show here as people find various metal objects growing into and out of their bodies, fighting each other and at one stage having some pretty gruesome metal-on-flesh sex when our 'hero' sprouts a big scary drill from his groin. This is visceral viewing at best, perhaps one of the most intense and disturbing films ever created, definitely not for the fainthearted. If you can handle it though it is an interesting exercise in how extreme a filmmaker can be, and also asks some important questions about the predominance of the artificial in the modern world and the possibility of bionic implants creating a man-metal hybrid. A definite must-see for anyone interested in extreme cinema  "},{"Title":"A fragile movie experience","Date":"17 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It's difficult for me to understand, let alone explain, why I love Shinya Tsukamoto's movies so much.  They really aren't much more than diseased cinematic pranks, but there's something unspeakably beautiful about them.  I haven't found any other director who makes movies as repulsively absorbing as the Tetsuo films and Tokyo Fist.  Seeing a Tsukamoto film for the first time is a singular experience--either you'll vomit or you'll go out and buy every Tsukamoto movie you can find.  Some of you may do both.Tetsuo is perhaps the most primal and visceral of Tsukamoto's films.  He opens the movie with the grisly image of a man slicing open his own leg and inserting a metal bar into the wound, and from there the film journeys into a realm few sane people have ever glimpsed.  Stop-motion photography, graphic violence, and sexual perversion combine into one of the most horrifying nightmares ever put to celluloid, and it barely ever slackens its pace with dialogue.  Watching this movie is all about how much insanity you can endure, and if you can sit through the entire thing, you'll probably end up liking it.  This is cinema at its most basic and personal form, and either you identify with its madness or you don't.  I did.For the maximum effect, you have to watch it late at night, in the dark, preferably all by yourself.  Anything else would ruin the movie's power. "},{"Title":"Weird with a capital WEIR...","Date":"31 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This, put simply, is a very strange film. I strongly doubt anyone anywhere REALLY understands what the hell its about. Not many films leave me feeling physically ill, but this was one of them...a combination of the stomach churning horror and the extreme camera work used. The plot, such as it is, concerns a salaryman (no, I dont know what that is either), his girlfriend, and a guy with a metal fetish. After the metal fetishist sticks a piece of metal into his own leg, he is run over by the salaryman and apparently killed. Shortly afterwards, the Salaryman begins to turn into metal. After that, it gets REALLY strange.The visual look of this film is amazing, if rather gruesome. The metal man effect is extremely good, a clever touch is the way that the man turns into a huge mass of connected scrap metal and other junk, rather than smooth polished metal. This not only looked better but presumably saved the makers a lot of money. The way the city is portrayed, apprently deserted, is another effective and atmospheric touch. A special mention has to go to the vision of the future, (that the fetishist shows the salaryman)which is one of the most disturbing and bizarre scenes ever filmed. And the stop motion effects area also very good and another effective way of keeping costs low.However, the film has many faults too. The plot is too confused, I know thats the point, but it just doesnt work when you dont have the faintest idea what the bloody hell is going on a lot of the time. Sometimes it is too gruesome (The bit with the drill springs readily to mind....). It is also fairly heavily influenced by other films, especially Eraserhead and to the films of David Cronenberg, such as Videodrome. That said, it has in its turn influenced many susequent films, Pi being a particularly strong example. The scene in Pi where he has the hallucination of sticking a biro into a brain in a deserted railway station could be straight from this.All in all, worth seeing if only for the look of the thing. And a tip. Do not take your girlfreind to see this! "},{"Title":"Klink, Klank, iron man","Date":"5 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I loved this film. Creativity is at its best. Art direction is at its best. I was dazzled by the amazing work effort given to stop-motion animation sequences, and there is a lot of them. I watched this film and the 67 minutes just went by so fast. When the film was over my understanding and taste for cinematic art was at a completely different level. I have been dwelling on the meaning of the film ever since. We've got wires, rods, cables, rust, shiny metal, everything. What does that mean?  This film will be ranked as one of my favorites. Films like this are a rare gem. 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Killer beats and rather abstract film making.","Date":"28 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Okay, this movie, or moreover, this art project, was imaginative and disturbing.  The stop-motion was remarkable and the techno score kept hitting hard as the film progresses into total chaos.  Never before, nor ever again, shall I see a woman killed by a man's phallace!  The director was clearly opposed to progressing human technology, as the movie seems to suggest that technology assimilates its users.This is by no means heartwarming, or even logical, but Tetsuo DOES deliver in brutal cinematography and eclectic pacing.  I would only recommend it to those interested in either 1)Japanese independent film, or 2) junkies of the live animation cult.Tolka's advice trust your senses, if the first ten minutes are too much to stand, turn it off; but if not, enjoy the ride! "},{"Title":"A techno-nightmare on film","Date":"18 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I'm a little tempted to call Shinya Tsukamoto the Robert Rodriguez of Japan, with his do it yourself philosophy of filmmaking and abilty to work on a low budget, but his sensibilty is really much closer to David Cronenberg or David Lynch (I know, I'm far from the first person to make this comparison).Considering what Tsukamoto must have had to work with, this is an amazing film.  Tsukamoto wrings maximum effect out of his gritty black and white photography and dime-store special effects.  This is one of the most hyperkinetic films I've ever seen, the spots where it lets up are few and far between.  It's only about an hour long, but it sure packs a lot into that hour.The film really creates the feeling of a hyperviolent Japanese comic book gone berzerk, some bizarre things happen in this film, like the scene where the salaryman's penis turns into a drill, that never fails to get mentioned when this film gets written about.  This film is a must-see for aficianadoes of stop-motion animation, it goes almost non-stop throughout this film, like writhing metal spaghetti.  It also has a lot of that effect where actors are the subject being animated, like in Mike Jittlov's film The Wizard of Speed and Time.I think this film is really a must see for anyone interested in cult or underground film.  Also worth seeing (but not as good) are Tsukamoto's next couple of films Hiruko The Goblin, and Tetsuo II Body Hammer. Tsukamoto may have surpassed this film with his masterpiece Tokyo Fist though.  Also worth checking out are the short films A Phantom of Regular Size, which Tetsuo is based on (I've yet to find a copy of this film), and The Adventure of Denchu Kozo, which displays a more playful, funny side of Tsukamoto. "}{"Title":"Cool is the word","Date":"28 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The first time I saw Tetsuo, I gazed quite stunned for three fourths of the movie, my mouth open wide, jaw hanging down to my knees. That had never happened before, nor ever since. It was an extremely powerful visual-auditorial experience and still is, after several reruns. If one is into metal piercings and, as the tagline suggests, sci-fi movies, this is a must. (Although I would add the word weird before the sci-fi.) "},{"Title":"It's freaky baby! Hah!","Date":"19 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Man this is so freaky I was driven insnane by it. It dosn't have much of a plot it just has a car accident of some sort at the beginning. Then a man who was involved in it begins mutating into some type of robot, he begins to have a horrific orgy of pain, sex, maggots, and metal parts burst all over him. Ouuuchhhhh! Other things happen that are so bad that I can't mention them due to the rule that you can't put porn in a review. So this film is just full of twisted, creepy, images. If you're squeamish, you may die of fright, if you're a weirdo, you'll love this, if you're faint of heart you'll have a heart attack. This also has a rockin metal cacophony soundtrack and really grainy B&W photography. "},{"Title":"Wow","Date":"13 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This has to be one of the best films to come out of Japan since Sonatine. Incredible photography and direction combine with a completely incomprehensible story to give a really different film. Not one for the weak-stomached, this film is amazing. Watch at any cost.  "},{"Title":"contrasting opinions","Date":"23 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  We are an audience-group called C.S.I. (Consorzio Spettatori Indipendenti) who was very impressed by this movie which broke us in two parties. On the first side, the defenders of the artistic and emotional value of the film. On the other side, the slanderers who don't express themselves beyond the mere technical aspect. C.S.I.  Verona "},{"Title":"Biomechanical Disturbance","Date":"23 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I've seen the comments about the fast mental track Tetsuo imposes on the viewer and I declare such a film is not to be watched, but experienced. It's a highly hellish, though sophisticated imagery. Apocalyptic Junk, you can name it, but in a deep visionary format, which was, perhaps, really created to damage the eyes (and change the mind). Such a transcendence to the senses should not be judged by technical low reasons. It's perversion and techno-fetishism in it's best filmic form. If Tetsuo had a smell it would certainly be the highly intoxicating scent of adrenalin...  "},{"Title":"Well, it is my favorite movie for a reason.","Date":"22 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Aah, I even remember the day I purchased this movie. After waiting for almost three hours for my father to stop shopping and take me home, I was able to put this into the VCR. I haven't been the same since.If I had to name the one movie that had the most impact on me, I would undoubtedly answer TETSUO. It is also my favorite movie, and not without reasonHere you have a Japanese steam-punk film cinematically influenced by ERASERHEAD and story-line influenced by almost anything that David Cronenberg has done. Throw in a bit of Bunuel's Un Chien Andalou and you have one hell of an intense, but sickly entertaining, film. What is the plot, you ask? Well, it is better to figure it out for yourself. It took me almost five times to get it (I have since watched it over thirty times). Let's just say it is a revenge film.That's not important though. What is important is the camera work, effects, and pacing of the film. The stop-motion is awe-inspiring, the effects are great for the budget (which was almost non-existent), and it is one of the fastest-paced films I have witnessed. Once it starts, it keeps going and going until the very end.Now, I'm sure you have all skipped my review and want me to say something like So in closing, this movie kicks ass. Well, I am not going to be trite, so I will just tell you that I consider this film to be the cinematic equivalent of PCP. "},{"Title":"More fun than monkeys in a Meth-Lab","Date":"3 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Tetsuo is a perfectly disturbing movie, not for the faint of heart. The   stop motion is brutal, the content bizarre and story-line surreal. It   kind of reminds me of Max Ernst's collage novel 'Un Semaine De Bonte'   in that on the surface it seems like a incoherent series of images   until your mind subconsciously links them together into some sickly   plot.  "},{"Title":"Nightmarish near-masterpiece that proves cinema is limitless...","Date":"23 June 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Shinya Tsukamoto's cult classic Tetsuo the iron man (1988) simply is beyond words! Cinema takes an obnoxious, bizarre and graphic form and results in the creation of one of the most scariest and shocking film experiences. It's hard to believe that this film had a very low budget and was shot with a 16 mm. All the elements such as the jaw-dropping stop motion effect, the incredible metallic soundtrack, the smart sound mixing, the extreme film editing, the black and white cinematography and an highly innovative story come together beautifully and prove that cinema, indeed, is limitless and low budget can never suppress a man's vision. At times, the film takes a (deliciously) surreal form but we never lose our grasp on understanding Tetsuo's story-line. This film is not, even for a millisecond, afraid of throwing the most bizarre and gut-wrenching images at it's audiences (Which are hardly pretentious, for the record). There is, supposedly, a metaphor hidden in Tetsuo that man has developed a 'fetish' for machines and has been consumed by it. The film graphically shows people transforming into hybrids of metal and flesh which was quite brilliantly filmed. The idea of recycling metallic scrap as props was a smart move!This film is, obviously, not for everyone. And whether you hate it or love it, Tetsuo still manages to rape your senses (I loved it!), giving you an experience that is totally new. I warn you again that this film is extremely bizarre and experimental so enter at your own will. A nightmarish near-masterpiece that easily beats David Lynch's Eraserhead, a film which had originally inspired Tetsuo.4.7/5 "},{"Title":"A Huge Influence...","Date":"27 May 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Lloyd Kaufman of Troma turned me on to this movie while I worked for TROMA. They almost picked it up for distribution. This is perhaps the most visually impressive independent movies I have seen. I probably think about it once or twice a month. It is pretty surreal and esoteric, but if you can hang with this amazing example of Japanese Live Action animation/CyberPunk masterpiece, you will be pretty amazed. Not for the squeamish as it basically a harsh movie with a tremendous amount of angry energy. As a filmmaker, I can say that this is one of the top five movies that has influenced me the most. If you are fortunate enough to get a hold of this 16mm black & white gritty gem, keep in mind that it is nearly no-budget and that (I think) all of the tremendous Effects were done in camera. Shinya Tsukamoto is a genius. "},{"Title":"A disturbing and original, surrealist nightmare.","Date":"7 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A master class on how to make a low budget film, Tetsuo looks and sounds amazing. It's not for everyone though, the film moves at an often breakneck pace, stopping long enough only for you to take in its disturbing imagery. And it's shot in black and white and contains very little dialogue. Visually it is striking and highly unique, a collage of metal, junk, urban decay and flesh, an artistic style that is very eye-catching. And the strange electronic music by 'Chu Ishikawa' brings to life the metallic, teeth gnawing, body-horror, that is frequently compared to David Lynch and Cronenberg.It's hard to describe the story in Tetsuo, it's a true surrealist nightmare! A man known only as the metal fetishist (played by the films director Shinya Tsukamoto), whose insane 'fetish' is to insert pieces of scrap metal into his own body, is hit by a car. The car is driven by a man known only as the salary man (Tomorowo Taguchi, also the main star of Tetsuo 2). The salary man starts to transform into a metal monster, pieces of junk metal growing all over his body. And a confrontation soon begins between him and the metal fetishist.On artistic merit this film (for its time and budget) excels. Tsukamoto's sequel 'Tetsuo 2 Body Hammer', is more of a companion piece than a follow-up, there's no actual story progression. And although on a bigger scale, featuring more dialogue, full colour and a clearer narrative, it seems to lack the same punch as its predecessor. Although still good (with moments as brilliant as the first), some of what made the original so disturbing and engaging is lost. Tetsuo 2 also suffers from budget restraints which are more evident because it's trying to go beyond its limitations and also comes off a bit cheesy in areas. 'Tetsuo The Iron Man' still stands to this day (almost two decades on at the time of my review) as an extraordinarily original and extreme piece of cinema. And remains one of my all time favourite films and biggest inspirations. "}{"Title":"I can't help but think that there is nothing underneath the hyper kinetic surface","Date":"16 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Tetsuo is a complete audio-visual assault on the senses. This is one of the things that Shinya Tsukamoto must've set out to do and he certainly succeeded. One the ways I judge a film is how well it executes its intentions, and Tetsuo accomplishes what it set out to do. However, I absolutely couldn't stand what it did to me and found it to be a very unpleasant film. This has been compared to the works of both David Lynch and David Cronenberg, which is reasonable yet unfair. Tetsuo has both the industrial surrealism of Eraserhead and the bizarre sexuality of vintage Cronenberg, but it seems to serve no other purpose than assaulting the viewer. I can't help but think that, unlike the films previously mentioned, there is nothing underneath the hyper kinetic surface (for what its worth, Tsukamoto claims its a metaphor for homosexuality in Japanese society). This seems to be shock simply for shock.I don't mind films that are over-the-top and excessive. The newer extreme Japanese cinema films from directors such as Takashi Miike (who owes a lot to this film) are favorites of mine. But in addition to the excess, they have some entertainment value which enables me to enjoy them as well as appreciate. I was hoping throughout the whole thing that Tetsuo would end soon. The pace doesn't let up once for its thankfully brief running time.Overall, I'm not sure whether to damn or praise this film. Yes, Tsukamoto managed to create a horrifying industrial nightmare. It is a very disturbing film. However, I got absolutely nothing out of it intellectually and I didn't enjoy at all what Tsukamoto was doing to me. A film I can somewhat appreciate but in no way enjoy. On the plus side, I know I'll never forget this film and I'm actually somewhat interested in the other films of the director. (5/10) "},{"Title":"A very strange movie!","Date":"5 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Japanese employee Tetsuo is just having an average day until he runs into and has an accident with a strange guy who has shoved metal objects in his body. After that, strange things start happening to poor Tetsuo as metal pieces appear on some parts of his body and becomes almost like a semi-cyborg as the person who originally started the whole accident begins to taunt him through his horrifying transformation to the path of destruction.Weird and mind bending Japanese Sci-fi horror shock-feast with surreal and disturbing imagery blended with bizarre special effects and stop motion animation with it as well, the movie is a hyperactive and gory little movie with a complicated plot but some nice gore and violence along with it. The movie is like a dark nightmare come true in the tradition of David Lynch and David Croneberg, this film is not for every taste but worth a view if your into Japanese flicks, Sci-fi with horror and gore flicks.Also recommended Videodrome,  Scanners,  Akira,  Re-Animator, Dead Alive,  Street Trash,  The Fly ( 1986),  The Toxic Avenger,  Doom,  Day of the Dead,  Ichi The Killer, Riki-Oh The Story of Ricky, Battle Royale, Versus,  Perfect Blue,  Eraserhead,  High Tension, Caligula, Hostel,  Bad Taste, C.H.U.D., Evil Dead 1 & 2,  The Thing ( 1982),  Shivers, Rabid, The Brood,  Terror Firmer,  3 Extremes,  Fist of the North Star ( 1986 anime version),  Ghost in The Shell 1 & 2,  Driller Killer,  Troma's War,  Predator,  Cannibal Holocaust,  Cannibal Ferox,  Cannibal Apocalypse,  Basket Case,  Sin City,  From Dusk Till Dawn,  Vampire Hunter D (1985), Urotsukidoji Legend of the Overfiend,  Demons, Suspiria,  Inferno, Phenomena, Terminator 1 & 2, City of the Living Dead ( a.k.a. Gates of Hell), Bio-Zombie,  House By The Cemetery, Hellraiser 1 & 2,  Evil Ed,  Nightmare on Elm Street Series, Freddy Vs. Jason, Tokyo Fist, Oldboy,  Shogun Assassin,  Jason X, House of Wax (2005), Blood Diner,  Jason Goes To Hell The Final Friday,  Bride of Re-Animator, Beyond Re-Animator,  Metropolis ( 1927 and 2001 versions),  Natural Born Killers, Maniac ( 1980), Last House on The Left,  Se7en,  Jin-Roh,  Saw 1 & 2,  The Elephant Man, The Devil's Rejects, Men Behind The Sun, Citizen Toxie The Toxic Avenger part 4, Robot Carnival,  Troma's War, Combat Shock and Blood Feast. "},{"Title":"my point of view","Date":"19 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I have just seen the movie for the first time and had a (long) look at the first twenty-something reviews on IMDb and I am just astonished and upset of most of them. I can't understand how nobody seems to have cached the main issue of Tetsuo, i.e. GUILT. The main character is completely devastated with guilt since he hit and killed a man with his car. The guilt is shared by both his girlfriend and himself, since they carried the wounded guy in their car to a lost wood and dumped him away. This will slowly lead them both to utter insanity and self destruction. Come on guys, there aren't no metal fetishist! The poor freak just had some obsessions with runners, marathon runners, and by sticking a piece of metal in his thigh he just wanted to have the iron legs of his idols !! A part from that, I can only add that TETSUO is a brilliant piece of art, a cinematographic poetry that deserves an 8/10. "},{"Title":"How I became a psychopath...","Date":"31 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Watching this movie completely is almost a challenge...I will not give any plot here ( see other comments ), but just speak about feelings. Feelings that can give us a movie like this... frightening, disgusting, repulsive, very, very, very, very, very strange ;)... But how great it is...it'a real u.f.o. It is an explosion of transformations between flesh and metal, meat and silver... metal replaces bones, blood, flesh, everything...Add to that... This movie is a masterpiece of film making, not a single shot is normal.So, if poor everyday cinema bores you and you want something original... Take a look at Tsukamoto's Filmography ! Gemini is also a must ! PS it is my first review on IMDb ! ) not very pertinent but i'm proud of it ;) Others will be better, I promise... "},{"Title":"Powerful Steel","Date":"16 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The power of steel feticism, make a man fool for metal imbues. The pain and the suffer for his mechanical exstension, growth an insane way of life of steel and bioguns. The fever of the human machine is at the maximum levels, some accidents with his woman and with others strange people, make him a powerful dreadnought that destroy everything, all. Pure madness of wired and steel. This is real cyberpunk. Tsukamoto best film, black and white for the best human meet machine movie. Joe Hisaishi makes the ost, pure industrial power, only hammered notes!Sorry for my english, but I know that your italiano is worst =) "},{"Title":"one of my FAVORITE Movies!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"30 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It's JUST INSANE!! HYPER-FASTPACED SUPER WEIRD and yet it's so subtle you have to see this film two or three times to understand the plot. Shinya Tsukamoto is a genius! He works in great stop motion animation and wildly Imaginative cyborg designs. the sex in this movie is absolutely twisted and disturbing.  "},{"Title":"Extreme, Sadistic Japanese Sci-Fi Hardcore","Date":"19 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If you've ever wanted to get rid of a roommate or end a marriage you could always use Tetsuo (the Iron Man), released in 1988, as your main weapon. Pop it into your VCR or DVD player & watch the room clear within a matter of seconds. It's a pure sadistic nightmare, and is complete out-of-this-world extreme sci-fi horror hardcore. It's packed with grainy, harsh, hyperdriven images of dark shock sexual torture, flesh melding with metal, metal fetishism, maggots, nerve-splitting trauma & tension, and many other passions & unpleasantries.PARENTS WITH CHILDREN DO NOT let your kids get their claws on this one! This is entirely an adult film, and can only be stomached by about 2% of the human population. I'm personally numb to this sort of thing because I really love Japanese shock horror, and I'm a sucker for any credits & titles that violently flow down the screen in Japanese!  "},{"Title":"Gaaaaahhhhhh","Date":"17 May 2014","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This excruciating pile of infected sputum could appeal only to those people who actually thought 'Eraserhead' wasn't an unbearable ordeal and would like to combine that endless experience with staring up Shinya Tsukamoto's back passage for sixty seven minutes that extend into infinity.I hesitate to call this pretentious because it sounds like a word used by someone who didn't understand what the hell was happening in the movie. So instead I'll call it depressing, ugly, boring, sadistic, unpleasant and miserable, an incomprehensible, unwatchable, dreary, cacophonous bore. Also, I didn't understand what the hell was happening in the movie. So... we have a car accident, and a guy sprouting metallic parts and eventually transforming into a sort of eczematous Borg, and he has a girlfriend who screams a lot, and a metal fetishist with rockets on his feet duffs the robot up, and it's all so poorly directed that it's impossible to tell what's happening half the time and impossible to care for the other half.Tsukamoto overdoses on shots with the camera zooming through the streets and stop-motion animation that looks as if it was done by an arthritic Ray Harryhausen, then throws in far too many unbearable close-ups of people screaming, sweating and grimacing, and then tries to out-design Giger with a budget of 10p and some hoover attachments, throwing in an enormous drill cock for good measure. It's utterly dire. As for the sequel you couldn't pay me enough, you really couldn't. "},{"Title":"Violent and gross...and those are only its GOOD qualities!","Date":"24 January 2014","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Tetsuo, the Iron Man is among the strangest independent films I have ever seen. It isn't just because of the low budget black and white cinematography but the story--one that is incredibly strange, brutal and surreal. The film is packed with blood, violence and is one best not to watch if you don't have a very high tolerance for this sort of stuff--and my bet is that this includes most people! You certainly wouldn't want to show this to Granny (unless you were trying to kill her) or your kids (unless you want to turn them into psychopaths)! The story is very choppy, has very little dialog and often seems to be missing a clear storyline. It begins with some freaky guy living among metallic junk--and he's shoving pieces of metal into his body! It's pretty hard-core stuff--complete with blood, guts and maggots! Soon, he's run over in an accident that cost nothing to stage--because they don't show the accident in order to save money. Next, a man is talking to his girlfriend on the phone about the incident and tells her he's feeling strange since the hit and run. Following this, the guy has a LONG surreal hallucination about a woman who is made up of flesh and metal--as he, too, is becoming metal. She torments him for a long time, becomes a monster and rapes him brutally. Then, he wakes up to find that while it was a hallucination, he still is having metal erupt from his body. He and his girlfriend then make out like monkeys. All this only in the first 20 minutes of the film!! I haven't even gotten to the portion where he has a giant spinning metal screw for genitals!! Need I go on?! I really don't think so.The bottom line is that this is a film with almost no audience. Unless you love indie horror, Japanese films, extreme violence, sexual sadism AND surrealism, then you'll probably find the whole thing rather repellent. Believe it or not, actually found the film a bit boring after a while because it was so excessive there really couldn't be anything else to offend or surprise me after a while. "},{"Title":"'This is too much to take.'","Date":"2 May 2001","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  WARNING REVIEW CONTAINS SPOILERSA pretentious, foreign language film in monochrome with subtitles? Right up my street, surely? Sadly, no.Less a film, more a series of disjointed random images, Tetsuo is Doctor Who's Cybermen for art students. Some of the images are striking, and stunningly filmed in black and white, but this is more the masturbatory offering of a directorial undergraduate than a film for public consumption.Vague story seems to revolve around Tomoroh Taguchi feeling emasculated by his girlfriend and imagining that emasculation in terms of industrialisation. His girlfriend suggestively eats a sausage, but it does him no good &#150; all he can hear is a scraping metal sound whenever she takes a bite. He also has what appears to be a dream whereby she rapes him with a giant plug extension sprouting from her crotch &#150; now there's penis envy for you! Mind you, Taguchi certainly knows how to fight back &#150; he grows a drill for a John Thomas and tries to rape her to death, with a (translated) You want a taste of my sewage pipe? What a silver-tongued charmer.Surprisingly, in the midst of all this full-on pseudo-sexual shenanigans, Tetsuo manages to be very, very boring, seeming much longer than its 63m runtime. The soundtrack is occasional pop and white noise, though largely industrial clatter. Sort of like that dance troupe who clank dustbin lids at Royal Variety Performances.Eventually the TV set that Taguchi has in his mind drives him mad with visions of infidelity, and so he goes on a rampage against electrical appliances. The technology (Technology = bad!) is defeated by white liquid shooting from his pores (Sperm? Sperm = good!) However, it's not all over, worse luck, as an enemy attempts to destroy him in a plethora of stop-motion gunk.Largely dialogue-free at the best of times, the film then undertakes a high-speed chase, sort of like Benny Hill, except their feet aren't moving. The two foes eventually join together to take over the world as one metallic, fused entity. A satire over fears of homosexuality? Or just a load of old pants? You decide. As far as I'm concerned Tetsuo is one of those films that is put together in such a wilfully obscure fashion so as to convince you its worthwhile. It isn't. "}{"Title":"dialogue? narrative? plot? any recognisable storytelling of any kind?","Date":"25 April 2006","Score":"14 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" How can I explain Tetsuo Iron Man hum.. a few words spring to mind but I have no wish to be banned from this website so I will Keep those to myself. Its takes the basic technology takes over theme that is so common in contemporary Japanese sci-fi films like the Ghost in the Shell but fails to explain how and why it is doing so and therefore loses the intelligent philosophy that makes this brand of sci-fi so great. In fact it fails to explain anything so you will sit on the sofa in a state of confusion that will not lessen on repeated viewings until you come to realise as I have that there is no reasoning behind this film.Take Akira without any character development whatsoever, minus the amazing action action sequences, minus Otomo's skill at directing and scriptwriting, lose the detailed world in which it takes place, replace the Japanese drums and naked voice soundtrack with good old fashioned industrial and of course replace the Cristal clear animation with grainy black and white that looks like it was shot with a nineteen thirty's handicam and you have Tetsuo, Iron Man!Basically the plot is the same, Tetsuo has a traffic accident with someone who has unusual powers, develops those powers, kill his girlfriend in a grotesque manner then an orgy of violence and manga style metamorphosis ensues. However while Akira discussed the dynamics of tetsuo and Kanada's friendship and has additional themes and sub plots of a repressive government regime, a city in revolution and the nature of god Tetsuo just depicts the main character running around in circles for an agonising 60 minute's. I believe it omitted anything else as there were no other characters or events.If this wasn't enough the editor was clearly unsure about the order in which the scenes were intended to go (if indeed they were intended to go in any particular order) so they were simply spliced into one second shots and shuffled like a deck of cards so that each shot barely corresponds to the once which precedes it.Try as I might I cannot understand why this film has had such a positive reception from the various websites I have encountered, so I assume that there must be an audience for films where loosely related scenes are jumbled together like a Spanish paella (and I mean no offence to those of you to do like to watch films without narrative) But I can't help thinking that Tsukamoto's masterpiece Tetsuo takes all the worst elements from Manga like the flashing lights and unexplained morphing and put them in a live action film that doesn't include any of the good elements that make manga great or for that matter any good elements in the slightest. "},{"Title":"It would've been much worse with a weaker visual aspect","Date":"5 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Compared to other movies I've seen which I've either strongly liked or strongly disliked, my experience with this one was pretty peculiar. I can't say that I wish I didn't see the film. I also can't say that it was a waste of time seeing this. However, I also can't see myself recommending it to my friends anytime soon or re-watching it again.After a businessman hits someone who recently inserted a rusty, metal rod into their leg, metal slowly starts to pop up on his body as he begins to mutate into a massive chunk of metal.When the film first opens up, you get a couple minutes of quiet and calm pacing showing someone walking down an alleyway. Make sure you enjoy those couple minutes while you have them because the film doesn't give you much time before it quickly turns into a non-stop, frantically paced film with realistic and gory visuals which follows those couple quiet minutes. This film is incredibly fast-paced and it doesn't have any quiet and calm moments after the opening where you can catch your breath. The film is so determined with keeping this pacing that even the credits scene doesn't give you time to relax. I actually really liked its pacing because it made it stand out from pretty much all other films I've ever seen before. It gave the horror genre a great feeling of originality.Speaking of fast-pacing, it also has grotesque visuals and effects to accelerate the film. They look realistic, and it can be a visual train wreck to see metal combine with flesh. The gore in this film is a horror movie fans dream. However, the biggest reason why I think that the visuals work so good is because of the stop motion that many parts of the film has. Considering that its shot in black and white, the stop motion gives it sort of an old, classic feeling. On top of that, seeing the stop motion in some of the scenes made me question why stop motion isn't used much more often in horror films. I feel like it works very good, and it would provide a massive feeling of originality if more films used it. Horror film directors should replace cgi with stop motion practical effects.With all that being said, this film succeeds exceptionally well on visual and technical levels. However, director Shinya Tsukamoto puts so much effort into being a perfectionist in these aspects that he doesn't leave room for anything else besides violence and gore.When I was getting to the end of the film, I kept on asking questions like When are they going to focus on developing the characters? and Why is this whole film treated like its one big action packed climax?. Since character development is so minimal, I did not feel any emotional attachment to the characters, and they just seem like empty shells fighting for their lives. Its great that Tsukamoto was trying to make this film succeed visually and technically. However, as a result of doing this, he, in turn, had to sacrifice character development and depth to keep the outstanding visuals and frantic pacing.Another issue I have with it is that it can be occasionally hard to follow at times. It often jumps from one scene to another so quickly that it can be difficult to tell where the next scene starts and what is happening in it. The most confusing scene is the dream sequence. It made no hints that a dream was going on, and I had no idea that what I saw was a dream until I looked it up online after watching the film. The issue with Tsukamoto's directing is that he assumes you'll be able to figure out what's going on. There were some scenes where I was able to figure out what happened with little to no problem, there were some scenes where it took me a little while to figure out what happened, and there were some scenes like the dream sequence which were so hard to follow that I had to look up its plot in order to understand what happened. There were also a couple scenes which felt completely out of place such as the sex scenes. If your body is mutating into metal, you're not having sex with your girlfriend. You should be frantically trying to do something about it. Also, the film kept on cutting to something which looked to be a sex tape several times. I have no idea what the point of including that was, and I also had no idea what it had to do with the film.In conclusion, I had very mixed reactions to this. While many style over substance films would be dismissed as garbage, this one made its visual aspect so good that it felt like one of the more original horror films in years. Tsukamoto's directing choices helped it to be much better than what it would've been if the visual aspect had been less impressive. Unfortunately, the visual aspect was not enough to distract me from the lack of character development, and it was also a bit hard to follow at times. I feel like there were 2 ways Tsukamoto could've gone about to creating this. The 1st way was to make it like this. The 2nd way was to sacrifice the originality aspect such as the frantic pacing in order to focus more time at developing the characters. I don't know which choice I would've picked, but I can at least give the film a lot of credit for achieving near perfection in the visual aspect, even if the result was style over substance. "},{"Title":"A Shocking Shockfest","Date":"18 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A strange man known only as the metal fetishist, who seems to have an insane compulsion to stick scrap metal into his body, is hit and possibly killed by a Japanese salaryman, out for a drive with his girlfriend.The film draws inspiration from the 1988 film Akira. Although not exactly clear, it seems like something between David Lynch's Eraserhead and some of the stranger films of the 1990s. The imagery and music strongly evoke industrial music culture, which at this point was really in its infancy, not breaking for a few years. This film seems to have been an influence on Trent Reznor for such videos as Happiness in Slavery, though it may be coincidental.I am a bit surprised to see I was not familiar with any of Shinya Tsukamoto's work, including this film, despite my deep passion for horror and science fiction. I am quite familiar with the films of Takashi Miike, who is clearly a pupil of Tsukamoto. "},{"Title":"This is the REAL Iron Man","Date":"6 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Once again, after watching a movie where the audience's general response seems to be either love/hate, I found myself stuck in the middle of the road.I really wanted to like this movie, and for a while I did. The bizarre and captivating imagery, sound effects, music, cinematography and the use of black and white all work together to create a nightmarish experience. There are some truly freaky scenes in here. Problem is, the movie drags in places, especially towards the end, where it seems to go on forever and gradually loses it's creepy, nightmarish feel, and the endless barrages of scrap metal thrown in my face starts to get tiresome. Simply put, when the movie is good, it's nightmarish, but when it's bad, it's boring as metal-man s**t.While Tetsuo has several scenes that are really effective, and the effects look pretty awesome, as the movie went on, I just found myself increasingly getting more and more bored with it. I don't know, maybe it'll grow on me if I give it a second chance, which I will probably do, because I have not seen anything like it before. "},{"Title":"Harsh and innovative surrealism","Date":"28 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Tetsuo is a burst of raw power that hits you like a piece of metal in the brain, moving with break neck speed through industrial Japan; the imagery is gripping, hypnotizing, and at times utter chaos. In the right hands this film will drive you to devour it time and time again; others won't make it through one viewing. Take the time to experience Tetsuo if you haven't, as most movies worth watching you may find it trying; but there is an honest desire in the harsh imagery, too express pure creativity directly from the human subconscious. Tetsuo plays with tenderness and violence in equal parts and never wholly leaves one for the other. In many ways its a sadomasochist love story. The narrative becomes increasingly disjointed and surreal, as the run time increases it descends further into madness.It launched the long standing careers of Shinya Tsukamoto and Tomorowo Taguchi, and here both there mad talents are on full force. Tsukamoto rarely seems to loose control of the camera as it shoots through the streets of Tokyo, showcasing some very powerful low budget special and camera effects. Taguchi shows signs of greatness as he stretches his face from undeniable terror to unbridled lust.It's a movie that must be seen, by anyone; who is interested in experimental, personal or creative cinema from the planet earth. Not for everyone, but for the right type of person you'll come away with something new and wonderful each time. 10/10For more of my reviews, and other media check out www.gorehose.blogspot.com "},{"Title":"Weird, Surreal Cyberpunk","Date":"29 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" My acquaintance with Tetsuo began when I was roughly ten or eleven years old. When I first read the advertisement in the paper, it sounded like a typical Japanese kaiju film, and my family looked into seeing it. These plans ended when my father read a review of the film including a content warning mentioning phallic machinery. I've only recently gotten around to seeing it.Tetsuo the Iron Man is a difficult film to comprehend or categorize. At different points, it shifts between experimental film, science fiction, and an extremely graphic horror film. It also alternates between being interesting and headache inducing.The film follows a young businessman's transformation into a metallic monster. This is Cronenbergian body horror taken to the Nth level, complete with metal growths and a disturbingly positioned pneumatic drill. Given the extremely low budget, the special effects are amazing.However, the film is at times maddeningly difficult to follow or understand. The film's point is difficult if not impossible to pry out, and the how of Tetsuo's transformation is never explained. "},{"Title":"A Rusty Affair","Date":"21 August 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Just watched this movie last night, after hearing about it's comparison with another surrealist movie, Eraserhead. To compare both movies as the same is quite illogical really, the similarities are the analog method of filming and the industrial setting, but that's where the similarities end. This film is not for everyone, or to be precise a casual viewer. Those into mind-trips would enjoy this one, i did too, but in my personal view it's been over hyped really. It's a decent story, but the highs of this film has to be the special effects and the background score of which was made with minimal budget. Credit has to be given for Shinya Tsukamoto for his excellent effort. Overall, an above average film that might turn off some, but will linger in the thoughts of all for some time. "},{"Title":"Has many wild & bizarre moments but not as good as it's over hype would suggest","Date":"7 September 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" In this black & white nightmare caught on film, a Japanese businessman awakens one day only to find he is mutating into a cyborg creature after various metal pieces start sticking out of his skin, the cause of this? it may have something to do with the half man half metal being he & his girlfriend hit with a car, regardless he is soon plagued by weird phone calls & at one point is chased by a woman down a hallway that is slowly turning into a machine! Soon he morphs into a weird metallic creature with various gears, controls, cables & other such metal growing out of his skin & at one point his penis even turns into a drill! (I'm serious I am not making this up!) will he ever be human again or is he doomed to this horrific fate forever? TETSUO is a film I have wanted to see for quiet some time & heard nothing but many good things about it, when I was finally able to secure a copy to watch, in the end I didn't know quite how I felt about it, but perhaps out of all my mixed emotions over the film I was left feeling somewhat disappointed, after all the hype I was expecting something so much better than what I got, the plot sounded really weird & interesting which is one of the many reasons I sought both it & it's sequel out. First I'll start off about what I liked best about the film, the film has many terrifying moments which like I & many others on this site have stated this is like watching a nightmare unfold before your very eyes, it was almost like someone grabbed a camera & was actually able to get into someones nightmare to film it while they were having the dream, in particular the scenes that stands out as pretty creepy, weird & terrifying is the Japanese girl who chases the lead down the hall as she morphs into half metal being that he can't kill or escape, nor can he hide from, the black & white photography also added to the films weird energy & creepiness & the actors were good, the film also has some good stop motion effects on hand here, in fact this movie could be best described as one of the best horror movies you ever seen crossed with, oh let's say THE TERMINATOR as written by someone who was high up on the strongest street drug available, it's crazy! probably the craziest movie I have ever seen & I do mean that, this movies plot & execution is really off the charts! Now for the reasons I was disappointed with it. First off while I love the stop motion it was used way to much in the film & the film has no story for you to get hooked into, just a guy watching himself morph into a robot creature & many scenes set in fast motion & after viewing so much of the films wild imagery it gets boring after a while & the direction was terrible! while I understand the films cult reputation, the director must understand that a story is important to a film if it's ever going to be entirely successful & not just scene after scenes of weird nightmarish imagery. The film ends with an apocalyptic twist. All in all an interesting concept that is not fully achieved, it's unforgettable yes, but not entirely successful. Full marks for the stop motion, story concept & the nightmarish scene with the half human/robot girl chasing the lead down a hall, plus the make-up & creature effects that were all done on such an obvious low budget, but rather less for the movie as a whole. It was followed by a much better made but at the same time somewhat worse in name only sequel TETSUO 2 BODY HAMMER & at the time of my review there is supposedly another in the works sequel.**1/2 stars "},{"Title":"Weird and Weirder","Date":"5 April 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" OK, let's say you're not a cyberpunk. I'm not. You hear some interesting things about Tetsuo The Iron Man, pop it in the DVD player and...*SPOILER WARNING* Let's talk about the pace of the film. Without even entering into the movie's content, messages, or effects, let's just say that the pace will throw you. Don't sit down and think you will relax.. you won't. There is really no down time to the film. It's not a roller-coaster ride, but more like an out-of-control sled on an icy hill- fast, loose, and you don't know where it's going. Very unnerving.The editing comes next, and this makes the film even jerkier, something which you may find attractive. I liked the intellectual stimulation of having to decipher the filmmakers' minds here, but I was ultimately repelled rather than enthralled by the constant cutting.Special effects. Can't complain. Stop-motion galore, more on the order of Gumby than Harryhausen. It's not a complaint, though, just an observation. I like that art-student look to the FX. The makeup was probably the highlight of the film, with metal consuming one iron man, and devilish highlights the other. At first, I thought it was a dream, or a Kafkaesque imagery (and maybe it was supposed to say that) but no, it's the real deal, so you get the punk Robocop (not that he's a cop) vs (I'm gonna go with) Satan.The storyline. From what I can make out (*BIG SPOILERS*), this guy and his girlfriend accidentally run down with their car this other guy. Somehow, this turns the accident victim into a cybernetic organism, who then stalks the couple, electronically. The cyborg can insert himself into people and devices, and find the guilty driver wherever he goes, tormenting him, and trying to kill him, sorta like a cross between Telltale Heart, Ghost-Cat, and The Possession of Joey Delaney with a dose of Terminator (if you will). This begins with a truly terrifying chase scene at the start, when the accident victim first possesses a woman at a bus stop- sick! The story intensifies until the climax (oh please!). But, honestly, for my taste, the story went haywire towards the end, focusing more on a message than a plot. Don't take my idea of the storyline too literally, tho- it's presented with a lot of dissonance, and interpretations are up for grabs.The message? Well, to sort this out is like being a forensic analyst at a car crash- it's a mess, but it does mean *something*.(1) Let's take the technological message- is it Luddite or post-modern I-wanna-be-an-android? You know, who can say? There seems to be an undercurrent that we're much too involved in a world of iron and silicon, from the automobile (instrument of death) to the television (which is constantly on at the apartment, but nothing is really playing), to the electric shaver. We're at the mercy of machinery- it's certainly not the first time we've heard or seen this.(2) The sexual message. Yes, I suppose it's fairly obvious that Tetsuo is coming to grips with some type of homosexual issue. In the opening sequence, when the cybernetic woman chases Tetsuo into the subway, there is his fear, maybe his repulsion, of women which has come to the forefront. Why is she chasing him? Yes, because she is possessed by the cyber-dude, but also this is Tetsuo's mind- women are out to get him. This is echoed by Tetsuo's girlfriend after the accident- she is not upset very much, but seemingly turned on by the carnage, and this rocks Tetsuo's world. His mind cannot handle the information- to him, women are cold, like machines. Their sexual activity is frantic but not very erotic or even sensual- could be bad acting, or a great rendition of a typical man's clumsiness in bed, and Tetsuo's inability to perform anymore with his icy woman. When he feeds her a sausage, she is fairly sensuous, but he's freaked out by it. She repels him. I find this to be fascinating because it graphically depicts (although in wordless allegory and metaphors) how a person might become turned off to the opposite sex. Luckily, we as viewers are not banged on the head with this message, since the film's pace buries any time for reflection. Nevertheless, Tetsuo begins to lose his identity, sexual and otherwise. It's good that the filmmaker shows that there are reasons for people to lose their way, their orientation if you will, a moral imbalance caused by shock or trauma. Interesting. As it turns out, Tetsuo is fighting sexual feelings for the accident victim, who is male. Tetsuo grows armor, ostensibly to protect himself from both women's wiles and his own growing insecurity about being attracted to a man. This becomes quite cartoonish, very entertaining. But, at the same time, it gets dull, even as the two men race through the streets in stop-motion agitation. It is, to me, no puzzle- Tetsuo is chasing himself. That accident victim resides in Tetsuo's conscience, and those anatomical prisons we see on screen are very effective in conveying this. Graphic, but poignant.Well, it takes a lot of words to describe something of this magnitude. Unfortunately, I wasn't overly-impressed with the product itself. It had the attitude, but not the altitude. This doesn't mean that it's not worth watching- it is. It's just not a masterpiece. Why not? I think it can only appeal to a sliver of an audience, one which appreciates both art and gore, able to discern deep meanings but still stomach disturbing images. Maybe that's why Tetsuo is in black-and-white... if it were in color, you may as well call this Herschell Gordon Lewis sleaze.Recommended nevertheless.7.5/10 "},{"Title":"leftfieldism","Date":"15 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Where does a person start with this film? It's seriously shifted mentally. This whole film speaks in a language that doesn't communicate by the words spoken but by the actions carried out.One thing we know throughout this film is that the couple commit a hit and run and this is where everything begins to go wrong for the couple. They begin to loose control of their feelings about the situation and their world seems to spiral downward together. He finds metal under his skin and later finds out more has been embedded in his brain. Set in a world where there is so much metal, just lying in heaps - it seems like a symbol of a collective guilt and the feelings slowly taking over his body.It seems the criminal begins to get followed by a random woman who seemed to be trying to help him resolve his problems, by addressing a steaming metallic object lying on the floor. She becomes infected and chases him while he tries to run away from the metallic guilt that has even begun to infect people around him.The sexual/carnal relationship between the couple takes on a sadistic edge, where she stabs him and then becomes turned on by it. Everything becomes a compulsion and goes out of control. The man comes back from the grave to haunt the perpetrator of the crime and ends up trying to destroy him, but their futures are linked. They both cannot exist without each other and the film turns into a messed up love story of a man obsessed with his guilt, where both men ultimately become monsters. The criminal becoming subject to the guilt he feels.One of the most interesting films I have seen. This is only my interpretation, it is so difficult to get a firm hold on the concept of this film. I don't know if everyone would be able to watch and appreciate it, but I think if you are a lover of film or you are in someway interested in modes of expression you will find this film made of gold (or iron &#150; I know, bad joke). "}{"Title":"What the hell?","Date":"3 October 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is the craziest movie I've ever seen, and I've seen Ichi the Killer. Twice. It's about an hour of pure visual insanity. After the movie was done, I had a taste of battery acid in my mouth. Put it this way, in one scene, a metalloid she-demon anally rapes a man with a rusted steel tentacle that comes from her hoo-ha.Really fantastic though. Stunning visuals, and the director really captures the horrific look of metal-organics lurching to hideous life. Throbbing music adds the only logical counterpunch to the gritty, steely direction and the frenetic pace of what's on film. Pure insanity! Makes Ichi the Killer look like an episode of Everybody Loves Raymond. "},{"Title":"i don't know what to say and i'm saying it","Date":"21 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" gosh, erm, where to start? this is the second movie i've seen by Tsukamoto (the first being A Snake of June) although i've been wanting to see this and many other films by the director for a long long time.Tetsuo confused me a lot, i wasn't always 1005 sure of what was going on and the distorted camera angels and crazy re-arrangement of the plot made this even more difficult but i did enjoy this film very much and can see where it's influences were from and how it has since influenced (the ending of this film being very similar to that of D.O.A Final by Miike Takashi for instance.I will definitely watch this movie again, i've come away from it remembering the atmosphere much more than the story and i feel this is a primal aspect of this film, it's very much a mood piece that engulfs everything.So what's the atmosphere like? Stark, hard, cold, twisted, confusing, baffling, sexual, guilt, voyeuristic, suspense, boundary breaking, time-less, low budget, scary, over the top, dream-like, nightmare-ish...i could go on... but yeah, it's the sort of film that, i at least, felt more than understood. "},{"Title":"One of the strangest ideas ever committed to film","Date":"7 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Okay if you haven't got a copy of this film here is my suggestion hire some prostitutes (both sexes), go to a scrap yard, eat about ten or twelve handfuls of magic mushrooms and tell the hired help to crawl about f****ng wearing bits of metal and fighting each other.There is a storyline to this nightmarish stream of images but I won't bother you with it. this film is great simply because of the world it creates, the atmosphere it gives out.I regularly visit galleries and usually have no time for video work. I find it boring to sit through. however this inhabits some kind of weird nether region between art and 'normal' cinema and is captivating. As I have said it does have a narrative but it is hard to pick out due to the aggressively bewildering style, almost total lack of dialogue, and jumpy editing. The whole thing is shot on 16mm B/W film giving it even further abstraction and an even greater 'roughness'.this film is an absolute masterpiece and I look forward to being able to submit a comment for 'body hammer' "},{"Title":"this makes it clear black and white is just plain creepier","Date":"25 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  As aptly demonstrated in recent times by films such as Pi and Begotten (to say nothing of Lynch's Eraserhead - which is in a class all its own) Tetsuo succeeds in bringing forth the most profound and desturbing of all emotions imagination.  Shooting in black and white, be it for economic or stylistic reasons, for one reason or another manages to consistently tantilize and captivate the viewer.  By limited what is provided to the viewer (in this i am refering to color) the director and cinematographer force upon the viewer the burden of imagination.  The viewer must now take it upon themselves to imagine what blood really looks like, not just what rasberry syrup and corn starch looks like.  The color, the phenomenological content of the thing that is blood is now drilled into the mind of the viewer in a way that is simply unattainable with color production.This is why Tetsuo succeeds in creating such a dramatic and forceful impact upon the pysche of the viewer.  By withholding the security and simplicity of color (and i am speaking in terms of the cognicent ability of the audience) Tetsuo makes imperative the reaction of the audience to see color in the image and imagine (notice how closely those two words and etemologically related) the reality of gore and blood and dismemberment.An outstanding achievement on many levels. "},{"Title":"Like a moving HR Giger painting","Date":"20 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is something of an enigma. I can't say I 'enjoyed' it per se, but I did watch it twice over and did not get bored or tired of it once. Despite what some of the reviewers here have said, it is not pretentious or for fake 'sophistoes'like that guy from Texas said. He should mosy on down to a college and get an idea of what surrealist art is supposed to be like, because after that he'll realize that this movie is it. I'm no sophisto and I'm certainly not 'hip', and I can still recognize the value of this movie. Disturbing imagery, provocative and unforgettable scenes of horror and extreme violence, a sense of utilitarianism and the absurd--Tetsuo is all this and more. But as a warning, I strongly suggest that you understand what you're getting into when you rent or purchase this movieit is not for people who are easily offended or perturbed by gore and scenes of out and out psychosis. Even I shuddered at this, and I've been a huge horror fan since age 12. You might make a parallel between Tetsuo and the work of Kafka, as both have very similar disregard for 'logic' and so called 'reality'. This movie is a canvas for a portrait of the irrational, and the comparison to David Lynch is quite well founded.  This is a must for those who enjoy the unconventional, the mystifying, and just great art. A necessity  "},{"Title":"Any thirty second clip from this film would be interesting and disturbing.","Date":"19 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  	Metal spurting from a manÕs body.  Ouch!!	This is one weird and disturbing movie.  While it is done in black and white, this is not an attempt at creating a hokey ÒartÓ mood, so it is not pretentious.  In fact it is probably because the film makers could not afford good looking special effects in color.  As for the look and feel of this film, basically metal and sprays of blood spurt from the  Japanese businessman as music with a heavy beat, which shifts between heartbeat and the pump of a large engine, plays.	The fast movement and violent music work for most of the film, but the typical anime fight at the end weakens the movie.  Still I recommend watching this, if it sounds interesting to you. On the other hand if you like clear plots, donÕt bother watching. "},{"Title":"Metal fetish fun","Date":"18 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Tetsuo was a a very interesting film.  I just had the pleasure of seeing this film in an unusual film festival(which in my opinion was one of the best film festivals I have been to).  Many aspects of this movie were very inovative mostly how they used stop motion animation on real people, very different.  This movie reminded me alot of Evil Dead on how the camera moved and the acting and stuff.  Around the end were the big head came that also reminded me of the second Evil Dead movie were at the end the demon comes. I would advise any one who enjoys unusual films to view this masterpiece. "},{"Title":"well worth seeing","Date":"31 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  this a great cyberpunk scifi-horror flick.  though rather short the excitement is nonstop.  i wish there were more movies as intense as tetsuo. the soundtrack also adds tension from the opening credits throughout the show.  if you are into alternative type movies that are twisted, this is a must see movie.  next to possession and wicked city, this is one of the stranger movies around. "},{"Title":"A Must See, But Avoid The Sequel","Date":"27 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Nowhere else have I seen live action that feels so much like authentic anime.  Erratic, shocking, and effective enough to make most viewers feel like they are undergoing transformations similar to the characters'.A word of warning The sequel Body Hammer is an incredibly lame remake. In color, the cheap special effects just look cheap, and rather than frenetic confusion, the obfuscated plotline produces only boredom. "},{"Title":"Sick inducing visceral thrill!","Date":"1 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The first time I saw this was at University as I was passing through my obscurist cinema period.  The film left me feeling physically sick, as if I had experienced a torturous primitive rollercoaster.  It wasn't the horrific spinning metal strap-on or the poor hero who excruciatingly evolves into a bizarre robotic structure but more the sheer visceral 'thrill' of jumpy erratic camerawork, searing soundtrack and loss of control that induced this auto-sickness.  However, over the next few months I watched it repeatedly becoming more captivated in the rush of the film. Watch this on a double bill with Eraserhead. "}{"Title":"Original and disturbing","Date":"27 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I agree, the constant stop-motion was a lot to deal with... but I liked it. Very scary and gory yet intriguing... the man that the main character and his girlfriend hit with their car comes back to life to do them in? Are there flashbacks happening here or flash-forwards? Who's dead? Who's alive? Take 2 Excederin and call me in the morning. It's worth the brain trauma to check it out at least once. "},{"Title":"The strange case of a metal fetishist.","Date":"18 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is definitely one unusual and fine directed movie but it's not quite interesting enough to hold my interest throughout.I absolutely loved the movie for its first part but the movie sort of start to loose it more toward its end. It's already a strange movie for most part but toward the ending things start to make even less sense and you basically start to have no idea anymore what is happening on the screen. You could say that the movie is too long, even though its barely over an hour short. Things in this movie could and should had been wrapped up sooner and perhaps would had been a better watch if it was going somewhere different with its story toward the end.But for most part Tetsuo is simply being a visual experience. Just like the original short it got based on, by the same director, the movie focuses on its images and is all about its overall visual orientated directing approach, that makes the movie one weird and intense trip. It's really an artistic movie, that once more shows that movies don't necessarily need to have a real story or point in it to make an intriguing watch.Good and interesting, for most part, if you like 'different' and more artistic cinema.7/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"The Ultimate Mind F***","Date":"15 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw this movie for the first time a couple of days back and boy! Does it mess your head up! I mainly checked it out because someone said it was very David Lynch Eraserhead inspired, but after seeing this film i have to say that this makes David Lynch look like Disney!Seriously, this is the sort of film that you need to get stoned to, its visually terrifying but you just can't help but be dragged into it. Just think of it as a long nightmare that you can't escape.The scenes where the man slowly mutates into living metal is as horrible as it is satifying, and the labido thats turns into a drill.....enough said.This film rates as the ultimate head f**k, it only goes on for about an hour but you can't really go on watching it for much longer after that as it really messes you around. Defintely a cult classic of its time and another example that there is more to Japan then just animation. "},{"Title":"The best movie ever made","Date":"25 August 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If I should choose one movie out of the thousands I´ve seen, this is the best one. It´s artistic merits are obvious. As an IMDB reviewer wrote It takes me to places I had never been before. Who can say that even of your closests friends? I feel very connected to the director of this movie, and the final dialogue Ah... I feel great to Get´em em!!!!!!! to the final GAME OVER sequence, this is the most intelligent, artistic and wonderful movie ever made. I would rank it up there with 1984, the Process, American Psycho and other great novels of the 20th Century. This movie is simply a devastating critique of the negative sides of human existence loneliness, fear, greed, egotism, violence, absurditiy. The blending with machines and the facing out of nature and the animals. The oppression of a father of his son. The problems of sexism, and sex itself. The devastating experience of having been born human and into the urbanity and confusion of the twenty-first century and the future. This movie will stand as a horrible reminder of what it was like to be human in our time.   "},{"Title":"This film must be what pure hell feels and look like!","Date":"4 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Okay, I can't possibly reward Tetsuo with a rating higher than 6 out of 10, simply because the story was overly surreal and confusing (in all honesty, I didn't understand one iota of it...). But &#150; and this is surely worth something too &#150; it does get the credit for being one of the most disturbing film experiences I ever beheld! Tetsuo is a wild series of raw and nightmarish footage, roughly edited together and guided by an industrial-hardcore music soundtrack. The cinematography is in eerie black and white, the sound effects are ear-splitting and often unrecognizable and the low-budget special effects are shocking. All these elements, plus of course the insane plot of men turning into aggressive metal machines, make Tetsuo a truly ugly yet fascinating cult gem. I have no idea how to properly describe this movie...I suppose it are writer/director/protagonist Shinya Tsukamoto's personal fantasies of sexual perversion and sadistic violence, but obviously influenced by typically Japanse types of entertainment, like magna-comics and Godzilla monster-movies. One thing is for sure, though this film is no tea-party! "},{"Title":"Crazy weird master-piece.","Date":"4 October 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A man called the Metal Alchemist, who is obsessed with putting pieces of metal inside his body, gets hit by a car. The driver, instead of helping him tries to get rid of the body. Its then when he begins to be plagued by a strange curse that deformed his body and transforms him into a flesh-metal monster without being able to do something to stop it. This is the most remarkable movie from writer and director Shinya Tsukamoto. It was released in 1989 and it counts with Tomorowo Taguchi, Kei Fujiwara, Nobu Kanaoka and Shinya Tsukamoto himself as the cast. It is the first story of a whole trilogy also created by Tsukamoto. -Tetsuo The Iron Man(1989); Tetsuo II Body Hammer(1992); Tetsuo The Bullet Man(2010). It is based in a piece that he had already directed and interpreted at his University. The movie could be taken as a horror or science fiction film. However, it would be more proper to consider it to be part of the so-called cyberpunk movement, which is more like a sub genre of science fiction. It is actually considered to be the most representative piece of this sub genre. It had a really good reception by the Japanese audience even though the low budget that was actually used to make it. It was so low, that the director Tsukamoto was not just producing, directing and acting but taking care of half of the cinematography as well. The other half was on the hands of cinematographer Kei Fujiwara. This is also Tsukamoto's style, as he always wanted to control every aspect of his films since that was the way he took in all his previous non- professional projects. One change that did happened in this movie was the use of 16mm, being Super 8 what he was using until this film. The movie is entirely shot in black and white and it has an important use of the stop-motion technique, also used so many times by Tsukamoto in other films. Looking at the story, what we see is a lineal plot told in a non-lineal way. The story starts with a confrontation for our protagonist, a situation where his world changes, and asks him to change as well. All of a sudden his body is transforming into a metallic monster and he does not even know the reason. Then, he will have to fight against this terrible curse and all the odds that it implies in order to understand what is going on. The most obvious one the problem that it will bring to his marriage. Finally, he will get the chance to face his actual enemy and decide between fight him or accept his fate and join him in an apocalyptic war against the world. As I said, this is basic lineal storytelling, but the way is told is not that simple. The time structure gets altered several times by jumps in the time or by showing which seems to be a different dimension where this dark figure laughs and reacts to different situations. I would like to think he represents the curse itself, but this idea is never made clear enough to the audience, who gets confuse and lost in this mechanical and full of rusty cables maze. But, of course, this is the plan. That is the feeling the creator wants to put on us. Not just the plot will make us feel this claustrophobic and terrific feeling. It will be helped majestically by a really unique visual style. Constantly dirty shots made of cables, metal, pieces of junk and low-key lighting. Never got a clear shot and close- ups and extreme close-ups are everywhere. Of course the editing does his part as well. Super fast cuts, that barely let you see or understand the action; the use of the stop-motion technique for to help the special effect sometimes but also to give that mechanic felling of robotic movement. The persecution scene at the final battle is a masterpiece of editing storytelling in a lot of senses. The use of this technique to move the characters throughout Tokyo, transforming the city into metal while fighting, gives that scene a unique feeling of action. It is also in this part when we can see some of the influences from manga that this movie has. Because this movie as well as it is inspirational for other pieces or styles, it is also clearly inspired by some other authors. David Cronenberg's Videodrome(1983); The Fly(1986); David Lynch's Eraser-head(1976); Katsuhiro Ôtomo's Akira(1988) released just the year before Tetsuo; or even Ridley Scott's Blade Runner(1982). Another interesting aspect of this movie is the soundtrack and sound design, created by composer Chu Ishikawa. It really goes with the mood of the movie, giving that weird and bizarre feeling. Sometimes it seems like we are just listening to a saw cutting stones or to a metal denture chewing glass. It is really an artwork perfectly chosen for the perfect motive. Tetsuo The Iron Man is, definitely an amazing movie that tells a story in a weird cause-effect logic but that still understandable for the audience who males this travel throughout the mechanic and dirty world that the creator presents. The motivation in the story, even though looks kind of non-sense, still realistic within the world of the film ́s fiction. Therefore, the events are believable since beginning to end. It is also, as I said before, considered the most representative film from the cyberpunk movement, so the audience has to be ready for a non-conventional style where from society within the story, to the visual style keeps reminding you that you are entering a world full of bizarre physics, strange sounds and completely crazy characters who will try to survive this claustrophobic world. If you like Japanese modern culture, punk and experimenting new feelings that you didn ́t even know you had, this is your movie. "},{"Title":"What did I just watch?","Date":"6 April 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Crazy and visceral. This is quite simply an amazing piece of film-making from the drill penis scene all the way to the ending (open to wild interpretation) where the iron man has transformed and battles it out like some live action end of level boss in a late 80's NES game.Yes, the camera work is bad and the film really grainy (at least my copy was) but for me, it just adds to the surreal and nightmarish vision of the whole thing. Why didn't this launch the directors career in the stratosphere like other weird zero budget features did for other directors? (I'm thinking Pi and Following here). "},{"Title":"Strangely Amazing","Date":"20 September 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" What can I really about this film besides it makes me feel very uncomfortable. You can tell this film had no real budget for special effects. Just make up and tricks they used to make things look; gross. But it worked. I think this movie wouldn't of been that interesting if it wasn't for that. The story itself is very demented and very confusing, but it seems to come together by the end. The cast just did a great job of being so strange and usual. Tomorowo Taguchi plays the iron man and he was just over all fantastic. He rival is played by Nobu Kanaoka. He did just fine, but wasn't as high of standard as Tomorowo. The only other person who sticks out is Kei Fujiwara so can really move her body around. There are many scenes in the film that will leave you cringing at the site of them, but that is what makes this movie great. It I have one complaint it would have to be that the film was pretty confusing. So confusing at points that the movie seemed a lot longer than it was. Other than that, it was strangely amazing. "},{"Title":"TetsuoThe Iron Man","Date":"21 March 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Sheer insanity as I've never seen before. This movie focuses entirely on the merging of the human body(..the flesh)and metal whether it be the rusted tubes used by the fetishest for which he inserts in his leg(after a grisly scene where he opens a long gash in his leg for the bizarre procedure) or the stainless steel razor blade which pokes from the face of Salaryman(Tomorowo Taguchi)before wires, a spinning crotch drill, and other objects emerge, Shinya Tsukamoto's TetsuoThe Iron Man follows a very surreal nightmarish scenario to a really crazy conclusion. Tsukamoto is a man with a fixation for implanting metal in his body and in a crazed moment of madness(after seeing maggots all over the rusty tube he inserted)runs out in the street, getting hit by a man in glasses, tie, and white shirt(an obvious white collar worker of some sort). This man(the film dubs as Salaryman)and his girlfriend(Kei Fujiwara)decide to discard the guy down some hill to get rid of him(..and, after act, the couple get so hot and bothered by their misdeed, the two have sex as we watch them through metal fetishist's point-of-view), awakening a monster. You see the metal fetishist will get revenge by causing Salaryman to evolve into some sort of human junk heap. Gradually wires and other metallic odds and ends burst from within Salaryman and the missus obviously doesn't respond well to his dilemma. After an attempt to kill him with a steak knife, the drill pops up to burrow through her, splashing blood all over the place. We also watch as metal fetishist toys with Salaryman by sending him down streets at warp speed, causing the fella to evolve faster than he'd like, and eventually deciding to transform him totally and completely into a metal trash pile. I think Cronenberg is especially noted as an influence in Tetsuo because of the eventual metamorphosis of man and metal, the creation of an entire new species, as metal fetishist and Salaryman cohesively bond at the end, ultimately deciding they will share their union with the world around them. I've never seen a movie quite like Tetsuo, with the black and white photography, shot as if lensed by a madman, actually enhancing the hysteria in a way I can not describe. Tsukamoto uses incredible camera speeds with characters moving down streets at a blistering pace. But, what I was overwhelmed and exhilarated by was the stop motion effects where we see how metal fetishist and Salaryman slowly metamorphose into metal creatures...the way wires take on a life of their own. The movie is certainly an experience unlike any other, hard to define, and absolutely psychotic. It was probably for the best that TetsuoThe Iron Man was only 60+ minutes long, because it is such a shock to the senses, so nutty that it could easily overstay it's welcome. "},{"Title":"Manic Japanese nonsense","Date":"7 May 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film's audience appears to be split into two camps; those who thought it was great, and those who thought it was nonsense. I've got to say I didn't hate the film; but I'm fitting in more to the latter camp. The film doesn't have a plot exactly; it's more of a premise and involves a man who sticks metal to his body. He is later killed in a car accident; and for some reason, this leads the man who killed him to begin sprouting metal on his own body. The pace of the film is manic and some call it live action anime. Having not seen any anime, I've not idea if that is true; but there is a sort of comic book styling to the film. The film can only really be appreciated as a visual feast and director Shinya Tsukamoto does at least provide some interesting visuals over a largely techno-influenced soundtrack. The film is possibly trying to make some sort of point; but I've really got no idea what that might be and frankly don't really care. I would say that this film is worth a look if you're into this sort of thing; and while I found parts of it interesting, I wouldn't call myself a fan. "}{"Title":"Fascinating","Date":"4 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Ever since I even just heard of 'Tetsuo', this movie has intrigued me. As I love both Japanese extreme cinema ánd the rotten, grainy, high contrasted attitude that belongs to a music genre like noise (or indeed, the whole of cyberpunk), I knew I just hád to see this.It took me a while before I finally got a hold of 'Tetsuo', due to the fact that it has never been officially released on DVD in Holland. I had to shell out a lot eventually, because I had to import it, but well, I figured, it was Tetsuo, so it should be worth it. Was it? Yes. From the shaky opening scene off, 'Tetsuo' manages to grab its viewer's attention, and keep it for the 60 minutes this movie lasts. The pure beauty of the most repulsive and strangest shots and scenes is astonishing. At all times, Tsukamoto amazes with the most imaginative on-goings, presenting them at a manic pace. In the end, logic is nowhere to be found, but never missed either - the viewer totally accepts the world of 'Tetsuo'.Apart from its sublime imagery, there's also the gorgeous soundtrack. Industrial, noisy rhythms accompany the just as industrial and noisy visuals, making this movie the cyberpunk masterpiece it's said to be. Everything falls in place here. 'Tetsuo' may very well be the pure essence of cyberpunk. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"The Emergence of the Black & Pecker...","Date":"17 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Though to the average public this film may appear grotesque and disturbing, it is nevertheless a must-see for anyone that considers themselves on the cutting edge of contemporary film-making.  The metaphorical premise is this what if man and machine became one?  Human aggression and emotion synergize with the strength and objectivity of our mechanical counterparts.  It's a live action complement to the cyberpunk classic Akira (often alternately titled Tetsuo, the Iron Man) in low budget black and white.  If you can handle David Lynch's Eraserhead, you might just love this movie. "},{"Title":"Wild freakshow","Date":"20 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  TETSUO is not a film for the easily shocked. It is shot in black-and-white,which makes the industrial landscape all the more palpable. It explores the relationship of man and machine,and what happens when the all the barriers between them are broken. It's not an easy film to find,but should the chance to view it arise,I recommend it. I found it absolutely fascinating; it is a brave,unflinching film that took me to places I had never been before.   "},{"Title":"Metal or Mental?","Date":"23 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  First of all, I am not exactly your main-stream movie watcher.  I've seen a lot of weird sh*t - from one far-end of surrealism to the other far-end of science fiction/horror, you name it, I've seen it.My head hurts from watching this movie.  It's too weird... for even my well developed perception for weirdness -)  The plot of this movie is simple, but then, it is not the plot you are after when you see this movie.Random images, weird people, weird events, blood, metal.To understand this movie, you need to put director's message in perspective, or is there even a message in this movie.  Anyway, if you are stoned and/or have a taste for the extremely unusual.  I will recommend this movie. "},{"Title":"I have been changed forever...","Date":"6 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  (WARNING SPOILERS) This movie is something of a visual sensory overload, flashing grotesque cybernetic man/machine images in such rapid-fire speed that by the time it's all over you sit there wondering what just happened.  What did I think of Tetsuo?I loved it.What can I say?  I have a taste for the weird.  And trust me, this movie defines weird.  The basic story (if any) is pure cyberpunk, dealing with a rage-engulfed salaryman who's body is being taken over by grungy machinery. Throughout the film the protaganist is constantly trying to retain his humanity while at the same time dealing with an insane man with a taste for scrap metal, a psychotic woman in glasses, and bizzarre sexual fantasies. (I could not help being shaken a bit when the salaryman's groin sprouted a drill.  With this new 'enhancement', Tetsuo proceeded to murder his girlfriend.)Despite the weirdness, Tetsuo is an ingenious movie.  The imagery will keep the viewer fascinated from beginning to end.Tetsuo isn't for ones with a weak stomach.  This is film chocked-full of goodies (explicit violence and gore) that will destroy the brain of the average viewer. "},{"Title":"A commentary on Post Industrial Sociatal Decay...","Date":"23 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Tetsuo the Ironman is an excellent comment on the post industrial decay of society in Urban Japan, as well as the struggle of Nature to overcome over Industrialization. "},{"Title":"World of Rust","Date":"18 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Where do I begin? I have heard about Tetsuo The Ironman for a number of years, but because I am not a fan of science fiction, I put off watching the film. However, after watching Tsukamoto's Bullet Ballet and A Snake of June I became interested in watching the film that put him on the map. I must say that my first viewing of the film, during which I continuously dozed off, did not leave me with an overwhelming urge to watch the film again. Yet, I figured that there must be a reason why fans and a few critics, including Tom Mes, thought that the film was quite a piece of work. Therefore I decided to watch the film again. I enjoyed the film more the second time around, but I still do not know why the film is so popular.Filmed during the late 1980s, Tetsuo The Ironman stars Taguchi Tomorowo stars as a character simply known as the Salaryman who one day along with his girlfriend crash into a pedestrian in a hit and run accident and afterwards dump the man's body in the woods. Also, for some reason or another, the couple decides to have sex before the man who has yet to die. However, unfortunately for the couple, the man was no ordinary man. Referred to as the Fetishist in the subbed DVD, the man inserts metal objects into his body fusing rusted metal with his own flesh. Although the Salaryman and his girlfriend try to get on with their lives after the accident, things begin to go astray when the Salaryman notices a metal prong protruding from his cheek.Shot completely in black and white, the first fifteen minutes or so of the movie is quite stimulating because of its fast-paced action sequences, strangeness, and pulsating background music of Ishikawa Chu. However, for me anyway, the film grows a bit dull after thirty minutes because while visually stimulating, I would of liked the film to have more of a story. "},{"Title":"The 7th greatest film of all time.","Date":"11 February 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" What is it, where is it, how will it affect me? A formulaic lower middle class ill-doing man who is slowly turned into metal through a loosely explained supernatural curse by his victim, a self-proclaimed 'metal fetishist'. Tetsuo presents itself, in essence, as a neo-surrealist assault on the senses from uncharted waters of Far Eastern imagination. This is an odd, obscure and unknown film, and for it to feature on such a list is equally bizarre, so I shall write and write until it seems right for it to. Continuing to elaborate a little on the confusing plot As the salary-man's transformation gets more and more intense and the central character's girlfriend becomes caught up in the chaos, the fetishist, played by none other than Tsukamoto himself, begins to make personal visits to the newfound iron man's Tokyo household and reveals more ambitious plans for his transformation leading to an awesome and impeccable end sequence. Of course, there's a lot more to it than that. Tetsuo is deeply impressive for the apparatus and funds burnt a 16mm black and white camera from a back street shop in Yokohama and about GBP10000, Tetsuo's merits, of which on face value they are scarce, but after thought and time on its content and message, they reveal themselves in a flamboyance to elevate Tetsuo to not only one of the best films of its kind, but of its era. In terms of substance, Tetsuo seems thought through meticulously and comprehensively, and if it wasn't, then Tsukamoto is a silent and subdued master behind a camera. The way that the 5 characters develop, ranging from the confused and mulled salary man come iron man himself (Tomorowo Taguchi), his whining and delicate girlfriend (Kei Fujiwara), the callous and psychotic fetishist (Shinya Tsukamoto), his haunting and chilling infected woman (Nobu Kanaoka) and the soft and silky half-time narrator the doctor (Naomasa Musaka), is immaculate and thorough. I'd like to highlight the train station scene about a quarter of the way through, whereby Nobu Kanaoka makes her striking performance a truly memorable one when she becomes possessed by the fetishist's craft and wit. In terms of style, during this scene, the stop motion techniques used by Tsukamoto to portray the terror in the salary man's face, combined with the menacing soundtrack by Chu Ishikawa, composed entirely out of metallic objects to add to a trippy and naturalistic aura, become unstoppable. As Rene Descartes needed his 'I think therefore I am', his one indubitable truth to build his house of beliefs upon, one bold and malleable scene that showcases a master-class of style and substance is the starting point of more brilliant details of Tsukamoto's creation. Above all, what strikes home the hardest with Tetsuo is that is still remains soundly analytically ambiguous amidst such painstaking aesthetic work. The end sequence, when the fetishist's transformation comes to its apex, and Ishikawa's soundtrack emerges from its disgruntled cocoon into full colour and melody, leaves the reader with an interpretive reflection. Tetsuo could be a metaphorical protest at the destructive potential of Japan's 20th century rapid industrialisation, it could be trying to highlight revenge, sex and technology as the three most destructive forces in our world in a manner that would most definitely stick in the audience's mind, or it could be a message about something more spiritual, possibly related to karma you mutilate the world and it mutilates you back. At the end of the day, Tsukamoto presents the firepower to please both the sadist and the intellect, which isn't easy, to say the least. It's the work of a miracle. "},{"Title":"Weird, wacky, and, well, weird","Date":"27 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Weird is a term used often in the user comments for Tetsuo, and for good reason This film is WEIRD. Utterly surreal, with no grounding whatsoever in anything remotely conceived as reality, this disjointed, disturbing film jerkily gallops along at a madcap pace from start to finish. If the director had a message he was trying to get across, it is lost forever under piles of wires, bolts, screws, and scrap metal. Go figure... "},{"Title":"Deserves Most Likely to Cause Seizures and Most Phallic Awards!","Date":"17 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  My eyes hurt after watching Testuo.  It's bad enough when the movie has everything moving fast and jerky half the time.  It's even worse on the eyes when it's filmed in black and white.  This B&W, accelerated motion image might work fine in a rock video but not for an entire movie. On the plus side, there are some interesting scenes involving the transformation of flesh into metal, especially the massive drill that juts out in the groin area.  Yikes!  Apparently, the writer has a fascination for penis size.  "}{"Title":"What the hell ?!?","Date":"11 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" There's no denying that this black and white, non-linear, experimental film with no plot has some astonishing moments of imagination and horror. There's also no denying, as with David Lynch's Eraserhead, that it's not a whole lot of fun to sit through.Allegedly, Darren Aronofsky was influenced by this film. After watching Pi and Requiem for a Dream, I can see this. The nightmarish imagery and strange humor of Aaronofsky can be seen in Tetsuo.Seems like David Cronenberg did the theme of man vs./as machine better in Videodrome, but I have to shake my head in respect to the extreme this is explored here by actor/writer/director Shinya Tsukamoto.I also dug the music and the editing is top-notch.So why did I only give Tetsuo 5 out of 10? Tsukamoto has undeniable vision and talent, but it is in the service of a wisp of story, a vapor of an idea that can be charitably described as incomprehensible. Art it is, but an enduring piece of great narrative cinema, it is not. I prefer Hieronymus Bosch to Jackson Pollock. "},{"Title":"Live-action anime...","Date":"22 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Anyone familiar with anime (what used to be called Japanimation) will recognize this one for what it is live-action anime. Nothing more; nothing profound. The fact that it's done with live actors, is shot in black and white, and makes extensive use of herky-jerky stop-motion animation, seems to discombobulate many a viewer. Worry not there's nothing here that hasn't been seen for years in some of the more adult-oriented anime from which it issued. That's not a put-down, by any means it simply points up the difference between how American producers view animation (as a vehicle for telling children's stories, and nothing more) and how the Japanese view the medium (as a legitimate vehicle for adult storytelling). Very little separates TETSUO from, say, AKIRA or GHOST IN THE SHELL or NINJA SCROLL. The fact that most viewers liken TETSUO to ERASERHEAD speaks for itself, and is an all too clear indication of the aforementioned discombobulation.  "},{"Title":"My Head Hurts","Date":"4 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I have a pretty open mind to alternative films, but I have to say that I really had to force myself to watch the last forty five minutes of this movie.  The concept was interesting, but viewing stop-action non stop is damaging to the senses...it's like Gumby on benzadrine.  Good luck watching this one! p.s.  Make sure you're not eating bq ribs while viewing this film. "},{"Title":"Unpleasant, visually stimulating oddity","Date":"7 April 2003","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Unpleasant but visually stimulating art-house oddity.  It feels more like an animated film (one à la Terry Gilliam, perhaps) than a feature, and in many ways it is.  What it's about is really anyone's guess; from the look of the user comments (and imdb summaries), people can't even agree on what happens in the plot.  Others are right to point out that it feels much longer than its 67 minutes, and probably the thing it most has in common with `Eraserhead' is the bad taste it leaves in your mouth.  Still, it's got an undeniable energy, and I suppose it's worth a look for devotees of the weird.  4.5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Stop Comparing Tetsuo To Eraserhead!","Date":"13 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" As a fan of original quality films &#x96; and a hater of pretentious art-house trash &#x96; I'm concerned about the constant references to David Lynch's Eraserhead here. Yes, both Tetsuo and Eraserhead are weird films shot in black-and-white. But after that, the similarities end. Instead, let's run down the differences Tetsuo = kinetic, interesting, good acting, solid special effects, understandable, satisfying, and engaging Eraserhead = slow, boring, bad acting, horrible special effects, insoluble by design, pretentious, and annoying Shinya Tsukamoto made Tetsuo as a kinetic, interesting, and engaging film. The opening sequence immediately grabs the viewer, and the female flesh-metal zombie scene &#x96; a classic horror sequence in its own right &#x96; basically earns the viewer's attention for the rest of the film. David Lynch made Eraserhead as a slow, boring, and annoying film. The opening sequence is nothing short of irritating, and after 30 minutes the viewer's patience is taken to the limit when inflicted with such an utter waste of celluloid. Some dude pops his head into space, only to then walk around aimlessly for minutes on end, encountering nothing of importance or interest.The acting in Tetsuo, although over the top, is pretty good. The actress who played the flesh-metal zombie was awesome, and the lead actor was admirable. The acting in Eraserhead was abominable in every possible respect &#x96; I've seen trees that were less wooden.The special effects in Tetsuo were used advantageously. The camera work was sped up during the chase scenes and the stop-motion animation was fantastic, providing the metal effects. Eraserhead mishandled almost everything. The decapitation scene was pitifully fake, and the stop-motion was pointlessly wasted on &#x96; get this &#x96; a worm.Finally, the difference that truly sets Tetsuo and Eraserhead apart is the simple fact that Tetsuo is mostly understandable, comprehensible, and thoughtful. It's truly a revenge story that touches upon the relationships between man and machine (i.e., flesh and iron). Eraserhead is just dim-witted &#x96; as if the filmmakers were shooting random takes that were thoughtlessly spliced together to the detriment of comprehensibility.In the end, Lynch isn't even in Tsukamoto's class here. Tsukamoto is a master who is excellent at balancing originality and entertainment while avoiding the pitfalls of pretentiousness and incomprehensible artistic nonsense. Lynch likes to make a film that only he can understand because he doesn't bother to include the necessary communication to the viewer. Perhaps he should have kept this tripe in his basement. And perhaps the reviewers on this website could have refrained from drawing parallels between Tetsuo and Eraserhead. It would have saved me 90 minutes of torture.The fact that Tsukamoto succeeded in making the outrageous endeavor known as Tetsuo entertaining is simply amazing, but experiencing Lynch's dismal failure known as Eraserhead adds a great deal of emphasis. Movies that are both crazy and entertaining are difficult to make. So please stop comparing these films, lest you morph into a flesh-metal zombie. "},{"Title":"..Eh.. so-so","Date":"1 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw this movie today and I have to say that I'm really not all that impressed.  Now, I've read all the reviews and read how people proclaim this to be some sort of ground-breaking cinema, with a majority speaking a manner that borders on being elitist, but overall I just didn't enjoy the film. I'm sure all have read the story, but if not, here goes.  A man has a metal fetish, sticks a pipe in his leg and then runs and screams in pain (..hmm, I wonder why). Said man is then hit by a car, the driver is then infected with some sort of disease (for lack of a better term) that makes metal spurt from his body.  Through some various means of self-loathing and images of his girlfriend..erm.. having fun with him with a metal tube from her crotch, well.. I'll just stop there.As you can read, the movie is just odd.  Now, I know some movies are odd without meaning to be, and I know this one was made to be odd - but at some points, enough is enough.  I didn't find the stop-motion action nor the consistently jerking camera to be all that ground-breaking, nor did I take the extremely thin plot to be anything more than a movie that was dragged out a lot longer than it should have been.  There are some scenes of gore, but I really didn't have problems with them as there is far worse out there and is pretty hokey looking, hell, you might even get a few laughs out of it.  Overall, it might be worth it if you just want to watch something weird and kill and hour of your time, but despite wide proclaim for the film, I just found it weak with only smids of atmosphere that made it watchable. "},{"Title":"The amazing colossal bore","Date":"31 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Tetsuo is apparently about an urban dweller who finds himself turning, rather messily, into some sort of machine.  If this is meant to be an allegory dealing with the crisis of the human condition in an increasingly technological world, please that theme's been handled before, and better, at least since the 19th century, and possibly since the 18th.There is no story as such; just a long series of images presented via strobe-like editing in a nightmarish stream scored with techno music. It's rather like an early video by the Residents, except insofar as the Residents had the good sense to keep their videos to only a few minutes in length. Tetsuo, by contrast, is just over an hour long, and seems much, much, MUCH longer.  It seems to be an attempt at a Japanese answer to Eraserhead, a low-budget B&W indie surreal horror.  But Tetsuo is painfully self-conscious and pretentious, and it goes on forever.  It's the sort of emperor's-new-clothes movie liked by terribly hip sophistoes who wear their pretended enjoyment of this sort of junk like a badge, and who use it as a litmus test to detect the un-hip who don't get it.It's like this  I wasn't offended by Tetsuo, or shocked, or perplexed. I was bored.  I was also saddened by all the wasted time and effort of the many hours spent by that poor schmo sitting in the makeup chair, having pipes and wires and coils and junk glued to him; of the untold hours it took somebody to do the stop-motion animation; of the unimaginable hours it took to do the relentless, rapid-fire editing.  A sad waste of time and money, if not of talent, and a boring, disappointing waste of time. "},{"Title":"A good premise ruined by a desperate attempt at art...","Date":"25 August 2008","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" For over ten years now, I have been reviewing movies for various websites. My specialty is irredeemable films. And, boy, did I pick the mother-lode.I have seen terrible movies (I Stand Alone; Visitor Q; The Exorcist II The Heretic; Zombie Gang-Bangers), ridiculous movies (Feeders 2 Slay Bells; Meet the Spartans; Cabin Fever), unneeded sequels (Halloween III Season of the Witch; Seed of Chucky; Return of the Texas Chainsaw Massacre), and films I just can't classify (The Wedding Trough; 964 Pinocchio; Gozu; El Topo). And, in all my years of experience, I have never been so disappointed, disturbed, and downright enraged, by a movie that had so much promise Tetsuo Iron Man.The plot is simple, yet genius A man who enjoys metal way too much gets hit by a car, driven by a simple, nondescript businessman. The businessman and his girlfriend hide the body to cover up the crime. The businessman's world changes--as does his body (as revenge for covering up the hit-and-run).Sounds kind of cool, doesn't it? Well, it's thwarted by three things Stereotypical Japanese acting, ridiculous (yet unnerving) attempts at surrealism (Pictures of Jesse Owens, anyone?), and an over-use of the old-cinematic-chestnut, the jump-scare.Now, why must practically every movie (especially, art and horror films) that comes out of Japan (and China, for that matter) involve rape, or some other bizarre and/or illegal sexual practice? Oh, this movie's guilty of this, I can tell you that much. Name one Japanese movie in which two people have healthy, consensual sex and THEY LIVE HAPPILY EVER AFTER? Woman In The Dunes, anyone? Or, how about Ebola Syndrome? There's a famous saying that says that camp cannot be manufactured? Well, neither can surrealism. Synthetic-surrealism is the lowest of the low (The Wedding Trough, anyone?), and this movie is guilty of it. Stop-motion animation as a budget-saving device is not surrealism. Stop-motion animation with a purpose, like David Lynch's Six Figures Getting Sick, is surrealism.Lastly The jump-scares. Why? The mood, the tension, the acting SHOULD be enough. Making me jump out of my seat will NOT scare me--all it'll do is make me furious. And--on a separate note--I have seen 4 Japanese movies in recent weeks and why is it that they use the noise of a baby crying or laughing or cooing before/during/after a scary moment? Does an emotional baby scare these people? Or does good film-making? I'm inclined to think the latter. The bottom line Do NOT see this movie. Do NOT ever put this movie in a positive light. Do NOT ever put this movie in a DVD player. While the initial premise is quite intriguing (a competent American remake, anyone? In the hands of, say, John Carpenter or Paul Verhoven, it could be quite good.), it is COMPLETELY disarmed and ruined by childish scares (A man in a TV sounds like an infant laughing. Really, Shinya?), common stereotypes (what is with their (Japanese film-makers') fascination for a woman with a penis? And AN 8-FOOT LONG, CORRUGATED RUBBER ONE, AT THAT!), and forced, contrived attempts at surrealism (I'm never going on a subway if I ever visit Tokyo, I'll tell you that much...). This movie could have been so good. It's a filthy, pathetic, penis-infested shame. I give it a -19,110,890,139,079,221,117 out of 10.However, it does have a very nice, moody, industrial soundtrack.I'll give it a -19,110,890,139,079,221,114 out of 10, instead. "},{"Title":"if you said you understood this you are lying","Date":"22 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I think this film was just meant to be as confusing and disturbing as possible i have watched it 5 times now and I still don't have a clue what it is about so i'm just going to give up. This film is not for repeated viewing watch it once if only for the love scene ( the one memorable part of the film ) then never watch it again. "},{"Title":"TETSUO (Shinya Tsukamoto, 1988) *1/2","Date":"31 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I had already watched this film's sequel &#150; TETSUO II BODYHAMMER (1991) &#150; before I got to it and, while I recall not being all that impressed, I still wasn't prepared for the pretentiousness of its unbearable predecessor (and the only reason this didn't get a BOMB rating from me is because of its admittedly audacious concept per se)! Filmed in stark black-and-white, this is one intense and visceral ride (or should I say train-wreck) of a film when I recently watched the films of Koji Watanabe, the presenter of that After Hours programme in a brief introduction had described his work as being Samuel Fuller multiplied by 10; well, to get an inkling of what this one's like, think Cronenberg's 'body horror' multiplied by a 100! I can't begin to describe what the film is about except to say that, for some reason, the three main characters slowly turn into piles of metal junk &#150; an excruciatingly painful process, I might add! &#150; and at the very end merge into one eye-sore gob of steel intent on world domination. Or some such rubbish. The latter stages of the film, which seem to have been edited by a speed-freak, make no sense whatsoever and, frankly, even if the film is barely over an hour in length, I gave up on it fairly early&#133; "}{"Title":"It's just plain awful!","Date":"8 September 2005","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I don't understand what it is with people who see movies like Eraserhead, and call it a classic, or a film of substance and meaning. Even director David Lynch said there wasn't any special allegorical meaning to Eraserhead. Tetsuo is Japan's answer to Eraserhead. It is like Eraserhead in many ways.(1) It has a totally incomprehensible plot (2) It has minimal dialog (3) It has no noticeable continuity (4) The soundtrack/noise-track dominates (5) It features a lot of gross-out scenesUnlike Eraserhead, though, Tetsuo doesn't have a good look. All the camera-work is apparently hand-held and shaky. The film stock was likely 8mm, as it looks grainier than 16mm stock. I honestly do not know any valid reason someone would think this film deserves to be called a classic. It's one jerky, shaky, incomprehensible scene after the other, a few closeups of the main character covered with junk and circuitry, and a spurt of blood here and there. Apparently there is some allegory about man turning into machine, and such, but there is no exposition -- we just see some guy covered with random pieces of wire, metal, and circuitry sporting a giant metallic rotating power-drill of a penis. The same people seem to die over and over again. It's a repetitive, haphazard bizarre film that looks like a student film gone horribly wrong. I mean that, too -- A STUDENT FILM IS USUALLY BETTER THAN THIS CRAP! "},{"Title":"Think Japanese MTV with a dose of violence and you're getting close.","Date":"23 August 2002","Score":"5 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Unendurable, incomprehensible assault on the senses. Not really shocking or disturbing, because most of the time you don't even know what exactly you're looking at. Actually, this must be one of the worst films I've ever seen, but it has enough amazing (for what they cost) effects and bizarre images to warrant a viewing. But you'd better be prepared...(*1/2) "},{"Title":"I have never seen anything like this","Date":"30 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie should have a higher rating. In fact, it should be banned. All copies of it should be stored inside a bank vault and only people who could prove they could take it should be allowed to watch them. I have seen more movies than I can remember, and my brain has been dulled down so I didn't think very much about it when I first saw this one, except I've lost the plot completely and won't anyone ever say anything? (This movie contains 10 lines at a max)It was when I showed it to my friend that I first realized how dangerously sick this movie is. I'm talking about a guy who has seen Braindead over 10 times, a guy who records fake torture movies in weekends for fun. He refused to watch this movie after maybe 20 or 30 minutes and is still upset with me for the horrible memories he has of what he saw.After his reaction I reconsidered this movie. It really is horrible. I'm terrified that I didn't notice it myself. Don't see this movie or you will regret it. "},{"Title":"Absolutely Horrible","Date":"28 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Definitely not for children!!! This film has to be one of the most disgusting films I have ever seen... I was so glad it was in Black and White! Before I watched it, I read some of the information on the DVD box... I thought to myself, Oh, maybe this is a movie where nanobots turn this guy into metal... Definitely a horrible idea, but not hideous in the extreme... This movie was hideous in the extreme... Some people are going to want to see this movie just for the shock value... I suppose that some people are going to like it... It certainly wasn't my cup of tea... I try to say something nice about every movie I see, but this one was so sickening that I am having a hard time finding anything good to say about it... Oh, I did like the time-lapse scenes of flying through the city streets, though the speed is so great that it was hard to take it all in... Well, I guess that's all folks! "}]