[{"Title":"A Top Notch Crime Caper","Date":"21 January 2004","Score":"10 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I first saw Breaking In (1989) on late night television probably ten years ago and was instantly drawn in. This stars Burt Reynolds as old time Burglar Ernie Mullins. Although Burt is not one of my favorite actors he has made some good movies (Deliverance), (The Longest Yard), (Heat), (The End), and (Boogie Nights) . This is Probably one of his best movies. Along with Reynolds, Casey Siemaszko does a great job as a young Mike Lafeve who runs into Ernie (Burt Reynolds). Brilliant Writing by John Sayles and Great Direction by Bill Forsyth. A great guy flick you shouldn't miss. "},{"Title":"A delight","Date":"7 April 2000","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I remember seeing this little film in the theater.  It was a second run theater and this was the second part of a double feature with The Abyss which I had actually gone to see. I stuck around for this, not expecting much as Burt reynolds didn't have much a career going at this point.  Boy, was I surprised!  This film is a gem.  A low-key comedy, where the humor doesn't come from gross-out belly laughs but from characters we can relate to.  It was such a treat to see Reynolds shelve his tough-guy, trans-am persona and tackle a character role, showing warmth and depth akin to his work in Boogie Nights.  I admit to a fondness for caper movies, and while this one fits the bill, it's not quite as clever in that department as some others, but this movie isn't about being clever, it's about people and how they relate to each other, even in the realm of burglars.  If you haven't seen this, it's well worth renting.  "},{"Title":"Crime Comedy Charmer","Date":"20 November 2004","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" What makes this buddy crime comedy work rests essentially on it's sympathetic characters. Delivered here in traditional veteran/rookie fashion,the story paces along steadily as young and endearingly misguided Mike (Siemaszko) is given life lessons in the art of safe cracking by world-weary professional Earl (Reynolds). The chemistry between the two leads allows for cleverly-conceived comedic scenes to shine forth beautifully. From the moment of their initial accidental meet-up, you are instantly hooked. The film's best quality though is it's ironic approach to burglary, for Earl talks of The Job as though it were a viable career option! This is Sayles' savvy screenplay technique undoubtedly shining through. Guided by Forsyth's refined direction, this comedy never veers into slapstick, distinguishing it from the later inferior 'Safe Men'. It never strives to be what it isn't, and so it rarely disappoints. A similarly-styled, yet darker film worthy of viewing is Saul Rubinek's 'Jerry and Tom'.Rating 3 1/2 out of 5 stars "},{"Title":"i worked on this film","Date":"16 February 2007","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I was the music editor on Breaking In the experience of working with Bill Forsyth was one of the highlights of my long career. I just wish everyone could see the Director's cut. It was head-and-shoulders above the release edit. It was a very strange hybrid...John Sayles and Bill Forsyth - produced by Sam Goldwyn Jr. I'll never forget the day when Bill got yet another huge list of changes Goldwyn wanted - at the end of the list he asked Bill to respond to the changes he wanted - and also asked Bill(who is a Scot) to recommend a single malt whiskey for a party he was having. Bill sent a case of whiskey to Goldwyn with a note saying This should answer both of your questions The name of the whiskey was KNOCKANDHU ! "},{"Title":"Light & fun caper flick","Date":"13 January 2004","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Even though I appreciate Burt's bombastic,snide,cocky,gum chewing persona of old it was fun seeing him as vulnerable and pragmatic.  I love caper movies and even though this one is tongue-in-cheek it is quite entertaining. I especially love the cat-burglar genre.  Siemaszcko does a nice job of combining the youthful and arrogant with the need for those coming up to learn from a mentor.  The movie doesn't take itself seriously but provides a good relationship story.  Alot of fun if you just let it happen to you without analyzing every aspect.  If you liked Siemaszcko in this check him out in Young Guns, and 3 o'clock high. "},{"Title":"A Fine Character Performance By Burt Reynolds","Date":"4 November 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Burt Reynolds successfully ends a rather slow 1980's with a surprisingly good character part in this 1989 Samuel Goldwyn Pictures release. He portrays a veteran professional thief and safecracker who teaches a young novice how to be like him. Amusing crime caper.  "},{"Title":"ONE OF BURT'S BEST","Date":"5 September 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I caught this flick on Late Night Television about 12 years ago and was instantly drawn into it. Ever since whenever it comes on I usually watch it or at least part of it since I have seen it so many times. A True Relatively Unknown Gem. A guys flick. The two leads Burt Reynolds and Casey Siemaszko are great in it. Great Writing and Directing. Highly Entertaining. Character Development and story were spot on. Great Caper Flick for men who like Caper flicks. "},{"Title":"an assuming film that flew too low beneath our collective radar","Date":"8 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Burt Reynolds broke out of his leading man pigeonhole to attempt, for once, a more believable role, playing a middle-aged, low-rent burglar who enlists the help of a dumb but loyal grease monkey and then proceeds to give him lessons in both larceny and life. There are a few heists along the way, but this more a character study than a caper film, and it works in large part because of the rapport and timing between Reynolds and his blue collar sidekick Casey Siemaszko. Both characters are losers, and it might be argued that losers make more engaging heroes, perhaps because they're easier to identify with. In the spirit of earlier Bill Forsythe films it's a slim but disarming comedy, with an extra measure of depth in the canny screenplay by John Sayles, as always the working man's champion, who along the way makes some minor but interesting points about the haves and the have-nots. "},{"Title":"Reynolds steals this one","Date":"26 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Pardon my pun above, but if there's any reason at all to try and catch Breaking In, Burt Reynolds is the main reason. He underplays Ernie, a veteran safe cracker who goes about his business being low key and certainly not flashy at all. He winds up teaming up with a youngster named Mike, played by Casey Siemaszko, who rejuvenates Ernie and he hires him as an apprentice for odd jobs cracking safes. The first half of the forgotten film is the better half because of Reynolds' performance as the aging thief, and is both sympathetic and funny, especially the scenes he's teaching Mike the ropes. It's unfortunate Burt passed up on many good movie roles because the man can act. Anyhow, the latter half of Breaking In revolves around how flashy Mike has become with his cash rewards and his hooker/on and off girlfriend, which I thought slowed the film down a bit. I found Carrie annoying and uninteresting and rather selfish; not sure what Mike saw in her.Watch this film mainly for Reynolds' performance, as he plays his role convincingly and develops decent chemistry with Mike. Siemaszko also plays his role well, but not quite up to par with his partner in crime. "},{"Title":"A small movie gem!","Date":"15 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Burt Reynolds has had a very shaky career. Truth be told he has made far more bad movies than he has good movies. I personally believe it is because of very poor choices, such as , lame cop movies, smokey and the bandit sequels and both cannonball run flicks. However, amongst the very large pile of ruff this movie is a real diamond. His character of Earnie, the gruff but lovable experienced thief taking a young naive kid under his wing trying to teach him the ropes and tricks of the trade is done with such subtle depth by Reynolds, that it caught me completely and delightfully offgaurd. When you think about it, this was not a big budget movie and Burt gives a fantastic performance just like he does in Boogie Nights, which is also not a big budget film. Yet when it is a huge budget movie, Reynolds tends to give rather unispired and perfunctory performances. Maybe he should stick with these indie flicks more often. "}{"Title":"Dull caper film ......","Date":"31 October 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Breaking In is a very forgettable Burt Reynolds comedy. For a really great Reynolds chuckles film rent The End. This one falls flat, with just one caper after another, it is very redundant. Not much can be said about the two main characters either. Both fail to elicit sympathy, and in fact Casey Siemaszko as the thief apprentice comes across as more stupid than sympathetic. The ending feels so tacked on, it is bewildering. It is also very unsatisfying, which is not a good way to end what has already been a tedious film experience. Not recommended, even for Burt Reynolds fans.................................. - MERK "},{"Title":"technical assistance category in original credits?","Date":"25 June 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The movie is a definite watchable and I agree with folks who say this was one of Burt Reynold's better movies. It may also be my one and only claim to fame in the movie world. I was working for General Electric when it was made (if this is the right movie) and provided technical assistance over the phone for a piece of equipment being used on the amusement park set. I saw the movie on TV a year later by chance and saw my name on the credits as it went up the screen (October 11th, 1990). Due to circumstances in my life at that time, I forgot the incident until 3 weeks later and could not remember the movie title. I've been looking for the movie for 20 years now that has my name in the credits, and I think this is it, but I rented it and there is no technical assistance category on the rental version. If anyone has knowledge of that category being in the original credits with three names in it, please, please contact me. "},{"Title":"An Excellent Little Crime Caper with Style, Humor, and Irony","Date":"30 May 2014","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Make no mistake, Burt Reynolds can act. When he wants, he can be a very thoughtful thespian. In Gregory's Girl director Bill Forsyth's charismatic but low-key crime caper Breaking In, Reynolds plays 61-year old career burglar Ernie Mullins who sports spectacles and a limp. Not only does he prefer to work alone, but also he doesn't want a boss. He serves as his own boss and shows no desire to take orders from the mafia. When the action unfolds, our conscientious burglar is laying out his tools of the trade when he hears another intruder in the house that he has come to burglarize. By day a grease jockey who changes flat tires, Mike Lafebb (Casey Siemaszko of Back to the Future) likes to break into residences, raid the refrigerators, and short-sheet the beds. Ernie sees potential in Mike and takes him on as his partner. Despite the disparity in their respective ages, the two men get along well with each other. Ernie teaches Mike the tricks of the trade. You don't flaunt your cash and you don't call attention to yourself. Ernie lives in a small house out by the airport. He is anything but conspicuous and maintains a low profile. Although he did a stretch behind bars, Ernie is smart and doesn't like to take chances. The worst thing that you can say about Breaking In is that a prospective criminal might copy Ernie's lifestyle. On the other hand, Mike refuses to abide by Ernie's strategy and he winds up getting busting. The ending is something else.Nevertheless, this crime movie doesn't indulge in brainless antics and histrionics. The modest budget doesn't hurt this thriller and often enhances it. The screenplay by John Sayles of Eight Men Out is literate, witty, and filled with irony. Breaking In is not a tent-pole movie, but it is a very good movie about a collection of oddball characters told with warmth, humor, and class. This was Albert Salmi's last film before he committed suicide. He appears in one scene with Harry Carey as poker players at Ernie's house. As a director, the Scottish born Forsyth likes to craft small but meaningful films that people who appreciate the finer things in life. One of the best scenes is a supermarket burglary where the Doberman guard dog follows our heroes around during the caper and watches while Ernie blows the safe. Understated but effective crime yarn is pleasant all the way without getting too violent, profane, or sexy. Breaking In couldn't have been made back in Hollywood's Golden Age because the lessons that Ernie teaches Mike would never have been allowed by the Production Code Administration. "},{"Title":"Very enjoyable and appealing comic crime caper outing","Date":"20 February 2013","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Weary loner veteran professional thief Ernie Mullins (Burt Reynolds at his most relaxed and engaging) teaches eager beaver small-time novice Mike Lafebb (a fine and likable performance by Casey Siemaszko) the tricks of the trade by having Mike assist him on a series of heists. Director Bill Forsyth, working from a smart and witty script by John Sayles, brings a real sweet idiosyncratic charm and a good-natured sensibility to the premise. Moreover, Forsyth wisely eschews broad humor in favor of a more gentle and low-key approach that still gets laughs as well as adds a winningly natural and unforced warmth to the often delightfully quirky proceedings. The mentor/student relationship between the two sympathetic central characters gives this picture genuine heart, depth, and poignancy, with Reynolds doing ace work as a seasoned older man with a limp, bad knees, and a strong personal code of ethics about what he does for a living. The skillful and precise capers are a total joy to watch. The excellent acting by the super cast keeps the movie humming Reynolds and Siemaszko display a loose and pleasant chemistry in the leads, with sturdy support from Sheila Kennedy as ditsy prostitute Carrie, Lorraine Toussaint as worldly hooker Delphine, Maury Chaykin as shrewd lawyer Vincent Tucci, and Stephen Tobolowsky as a slippery district attorney. Both Michael Coulter's crisp widescreen cinematography and Michael Gibbs' harmonic score are up to speed. A lovely little gem. "},{"Title":"Breaking out. (spoilers)","Date":"2 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I'm as puzzled as another viewer who disagreed with the hype that this was going to be Burt Reynolds' big comeback or that this was his greatest ever return to film. Why? Though taken out of context, this movie doesn't seem like it had much pull when it was released in 1989 and is terribly forgotten today. I would also agree with this viewer that the movie was only half good, but slightly more than just a few minutes worth of entertainment.Burt Reynolds plays safe cracker, Ernie Mullins. Casey Seimaszko plays Mike, his somewhat cocky young apprentice. The two happen to meet while breaking in to the same house--Mike just to lounge in an empty house and freeload on food and booze, and Ernie for the treasures of the house safe. Ernie takes Mike in, shows him the ropes, and the two are basically in business together. And they're good at what they do. About the time that Mike screws up and gets in way over his head, pissing off Ernie with his overconfidence and wrecking things with his prostitute girlfriend, this is the point where the movie takes a dive because it never manages to recapture the smart-mouthed quick wit of the first half of the movie which at least made some of it funny. Soon, it just topples for either lack of a better resolution, having too much of a moralistic ending, or the filmmakers just seemed unsure of what direction to finally take it in the end (perhaps one of those films that the studios rushed to release, I can't be sure). I haven't yet decided after only one viewing which one I'm leaning toward. But there was something odd there that entirely disrupted the jib of the traditional three acts of the film. Almost as though we are watching two different movies by the way the pace and genre suddenly shifts. Too bad. It looked like with Mike's cocky youth attitude and Ernie as a sort of cynic, it could've been a much funnier production.This one isn't something that I'd recommend or not recommend, but would simply say that if you didn't see it, you're not missing anything. "},{"Title":"All Burt","Date":"25 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  In Breaking In Reynold's plays a platitude spouting, aging small time independent safecracker who happens upon a young upstart while on a job, takes him  under his wing, and teaches him his trade. A lukewarm comedy which does little more than show us the day to day vicissitudes of the safemen, this flick has little to offer save some mildly humorous moments before an unsatisfying conclusion. Okay for sofa spuds and Reynolds' fans. (C+) "},{"Title":"Good news for those who can't sleep","Date":"10 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Many critics hailed this as Burt Reynold's comeback, but audiences (including myself) didn't. While the first 12 minutes were ok, the story drags on and on. In particular, the previews make you believe its a comedy. So how hard does the writer of this movie try in making us laugh? When are character Mike (Casey Siemaszko)is in bed with a hooker she recites a poem she wrote directed toward his balls! (HA HA) Bad humor and bad writing.  "}]