[{"Title":"Not As Good As I Remember, But Still..........","Date":"17 May 2004","Score":"37 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  BLIND FURY is one of those guilty pleasure films. The late Chicago film critic Gene Siskel cited it as such during a broadcast of the show he co-hosted with Roger Ebert several years ago. It is not a great film, but has real moments of warmth and humor that are hard to ignore. It's difficult to explain, but what could have been just another vapid action film, is fleshed out by good performances, a self effacing sense of humor, and solid direction.During the opening credits, we meet Nick Parker (Rutger Hauer). Having been blinded during a firefight in Viet Nam, he is taken in by a local hamlet and nursed back to health. The villagers also teach Nick the art of the sword, we get several scenes of his progress in which he becomes a master. Jump ahead twenty years, as Nick wanders down a country road, walking stick in hand. He is on his way to visit an old friend from the war. After a silly scene involving switched hot sauce, Nick arrives to find that his friend, Frank Devereaux (Terry O'Quinn) does not live there anymore, having left for Reno. Well, Nick meets Frank's wife and son Billy (Brandon Call). Enter Slag (the Randall 'Tex' Cobb), who has come to kidnap Frank's son, to force Frank into making designer drugs, so that an evil Reno casino owner can pay off his debts. Anyway, after a especially violent debacle, Nick is sworn to protect Billy, and off they go to Reno to rescue Frank.Admittedly, BLIND FURY is plot heavy, and a lesser film would have sunk under the weight. But the film never gets overly involved with the story, never really takes it to seriously. This is director Phillip Noyce's follow up to DEAD CALM, a tense thriller that put him on the map (he would go on to helm PATRIOT GAMES, SLIVER, THE SAINT). It is a campy ode to samurai pictures and westerns, war movies and ninja chop-em-ups. Noyce sets the right tone and keeps the action moving. Observe the scene, near the end of the film there is a tense moment when Billy throws a sword to Nick. The sword sails in the air, in slow motion, the music builds and the sword slips right through Nick's hands. It is a wonderfully funny moment. Another important aspect is the character of Nick Parker. As played by Rutger Hauer, Nick is a simple man, not a super hero. He reacts through instinct to the situations he finds himself in, and uses mostly evasive techniques (similar to Jackie Chan), to defend himself. Hauer does a good job blending the realities of blindness with the Hollywood clichés, which makes scenes in which he drives down one-way streets, and the like, very entertaining. The film makers also keep the violence in a backlit, comic book style, never becoming overtly graphic (the antithesis of something like KILL BILL, where the characters dance through geysers of arterial spray). BLIND FURY is an enigma, it is not wacky enough to be considered cult, it does not deal with important subject matter, yet it is still somehow affecting. It will be cast into the discount bins at your local mall, left to languish in obscurity. But for those who will give it a chance, you may be surprised by this standard action fare raised to a higher level by a talented cast and crew. 8/10.  "},{"Title":"Absurd With Zero Credibility......But Fun!","Date":"28 April 2006","Score":"30 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Talk about suspending belief! Boy, if this is a prime case of that, I don't know what is, but, it's still pretty enjoyable to watch. You just have enjoy what happening and put your brain on the back-burner.Rutger Hauer plays a blind man who winds up killing about 10-20 bad guys in fights, despite the fact (1) they can see; (2) they also have guns! Yes, it's absurd, but it's all in fun especially with Hauer cracking jokes and showing compassion in all his violence. The villains, meanwhile, are so stereotyped you almost want to laugh out loud.This whole movie is really like a cartoon, without the animation. "},{"Title":"Wow!","Date":"6 April 2001","Score":"19 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I love this movie.  It's another example of brilliant, under-rated acting by the one and only Rutger Hauer.  In a way I feel sorry for Hauer, Like Christopher Lambert, he is a top quality actor but very under-rated.Anyway,  Rutger Hauer stars as a Vietnam War veteran. During battle, he was blinded by a mortar attack. He was then captured by a tribe in Vietnam and trained to master the sword. 20 years later, Hauer is back in the USA and sets out to find his fellow soldier friend, Frank.The sword which Hauer uses in this movie is so cool.  I love the sword fights in this movie.8/10 "},{"Title":"Funny and exciting popcorn action movie","Date":"9 July 2001","Score":"13 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie gets a thumbs up from me, not because it is a GREAT FILM, but because, when you put it next to similar movies--Chuck Norris or steven Segal movies-- it is superior.  the action sequences are tightly directed and exciting. the humor works. but most important, Rutger Hauer is the main character. When is everybody going to figure out that this guy is a great actor? He is always natural, can be funny, pathetic, intense, anything. He's truly on the level of,say, Gene Hackman, he just can't seem to get into many A-level projects.Blind Fury is a funny-exciting-goofy type of action film, kind of like a Jackie Chan film, and Hauer's presence raises the whole thing an extra level. "},{"Title":"One great movie!","Date":"7 August 2003","Score":"19 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is one heck of a fighting movie!Rutger Hauer is really good in the film and I feel that he could have made a ton more fighting films just like this!Randall 'Tex' Cobb was awesome as the bad guy!There are a ton of villains in this movie and in My opinion this is one of the best movies were a fighting hero beats up and/or kills every bad guy in the movie!Terry O'Quinn,Noble Willingham,Meg Foster,Rick Overton,Charles Cooper,Shô Kosugi,Jay Pennison,and Tiger Chung Lee were good!In My opinion this is a classic fighting and thrilling action flick that should satisfy even Steven Seagal and Jean-Claude Van Damme die hard fans!Very highly recommended! "},{"Title":"Fury-ous fun....","Date":"14 September 1999","Score":"14 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  First, Hauer played Roy Batty in Blade Runner, now he plays someone blind as a bat.  Get it?Okay, sorry.  The movie, right....Blind Fury has gone and done it; it's the only movie I have ever seen about a blind swordsman with an Anglo hero that didn't need dubbed in America.  It's in a class by itself.And so is Hauer; he really puts his all in this part and he does it effectively.  He wields a mean sword and actually is convincing as a blind man.  Top that, Steven Seagal!And there are action scenes in this film that will make your jaw drop.  Really.  Mine did, more than once.  You won't believe the goings-on herein.Not only does Hauer do well, but so does O'Quinn, Willingham, Blount, Foster, Overton (a great dimwit baddie if ever there was one) and even Cobb makes good.  Who would have thought?  Kosugi's part is small but he makes the most of it.Like I said, the action is the key here and if you like a lot of action, this one will leave you Blind-sided. Though for the sake of PC, maybe they should rename this Visually-Impaired Fury?Just wondering.Eight stars.   "},{"Title":"Typical martial arts action film is distinguished by an unconventional hero and a great sense of humor.","Date":"28 March 1999","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The setting is Vietnam, the year is 1969. Amid the explosive violence and the frenzied chaos, America begins to withdraw its troops from the Vietnam conflict. Two soldiers and long time buddies, Nick Parker (Rutger Hauer) and Frank Devereaux (Terry O'Quinn, star of THE STEPFATHER) are ready to go home.However, the mission of utmost importance to take down the enemy has been bestowed upon the two volunteers.  As the heroes begin to take their toll, Parker succumbs to the fiasco in Vietnam. He fights with all his might...but the devastation is simply too much for any one man to handle.Without warning, Parker is blindsided by the enemy...and left for dead. Waking up several hours later, Parker realizes that he can no longer see; he is permanently blind. Suddenly, he has nowhere to go. He cannot see the lurid horrors of his fallen comrades. Parker is lucky to be alive... Now, hell-bent on getting out of this nightmare and returning home, Parker must find a way to survive in the jungles before the Vietcong arrive.Without his ability to see, Parker must rely on his remaining senses to guide him out of dangerous perils.BLIND FURY is a surprisingly serviceable action film. This flick is a fast-paced and fun adventure with raging fury.  BLIND FURY contains impressively choreographed fighting sequences and a great, tongue-in-cheek sense of humor. There's plenty of violence in this film to appease action fans, however, and the stunts and action sequences are certainly directed with flair. The comical tones also remind the audience that this film, though full of bellicose characteristics, is good natured and harmless.As for the villains, Randall 'Tex' Cobb (UNCOMMON VALOR) is a nice addition as a wonderfully sinister, antagonistic philistine.  Sho Kosugi also performs a dazzling, show-stealing act. He happens to be a professional assassin with a vendetta against Parker.BLIND FURY is a commendable adventure with an unconventional hero. Exquisite sword-fighting, dynamite action, a likeable lead, and an amusing albeit subtle sense of humor all add up to an enjoyable experience.  It is definitely better than your typical action fanfare with plenty of chances to root for the good guys! Cutting edge entertainment with good natured fun. Overall, a smoothly crafted film.RATING **1/2 out of ****. "},{"Title":"That butter knife ain't gonna stop no bullet!","Date":"28 June 2004","Score":"21 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Wow, I love this movie!I have to watch it every time it comes on.Rutger Hauer kicks some major butt as a blind vietnam vet who comes back to society after spending some time with natives who teach him how to fight.Noble Willingham is a good evil character, who happens to be in one of my favorite films Corn Dog Man.Ok, the acting isn't the greatest from the supporting cast, but who cares?10/10 "},{"Title":"Great Film!, With Some Great Sword Fights, A Very Cool Story, And An Amazing Performance From Rutger Hauer!","Date":"11 October 2005","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This is a great film, with some great sword fights, a very cool story and an amazing performance from Rutger Hauer!. All the characters are awesome, and the fight between Hauer and Shô Kosugi at the end was just awesome!, plus Rutger Hauer is simply amazing in this!. However Brandon Call is extremely annoying as the kid, and Noble Willingham was a bit too over the top for my liking as the villain, but it was still very entertaining and a lot of fun!, plus the ending was great!. The finale was excellent, and it had some great chase scenes as well!, plus i thought Rutger Hauer's acting was fantastic!. at 86 minutes it's a bit too short, however i was very happy with the film, as it's very well made and exciting!, plus the character development is great!. There are quite a few shocking and disturbing moments, and Rutger has a great sense of humor as well!, plus the film is unpredictable for the most part!.This is a great film, with some great sword fights a very cool story and an amazing performance from Rutger Hauer, i highly recommend this one!. The Direction is great!. Phillip Noyce does a great job here,with great camera work, awesome angles, and keeping the film at a very fast pace!. There is a bit of blood and violence. We get, a few very bloody gunshot wounds,impaling's, cut off hand, lots of slicing and dicing, and bloody cuts ans wounds. The Acting is awesome!. Rutger Hauer is amazing as always, and is amazing here, he is extremely likable, witty, was very convincing as a blind man, is a great sword fighter!, is very charismatic, and was really into his role i loved him! (Hauer Rules!). Brandon Call is extremely annoying as the kid, and irritated the crap out of me, there was not 1 likable thing about him, i felt sorry for him for a bit at the end, but for the most part i hated him. Terry O'Quinn does what he has to do which was not much, he did OK i guess. Noble Willingham was too over the top for my liking as the villain, and wasn't very menacing, adequate at best. Lisa Blount did fine with what she had to do, which like Quinn, was not much.Randall 'Tex' Cobb was also too over the top as the other main villain. Nick Cassavetes(Lyle Pike),Rick Overton(Tector Pike), Meg Foster(Lynn Devereaux),and Shô Kosugi(The Assassin), all do what they have to do well. Rest of the cast are fine. Overall i highly recommend this one!. ***1/2 out of 5 "},{"Title":"Good fun movie.","Date":"14 March 2003","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I always like a good Rutger Hauer movie.  I wish he got more roles though in mainstream films.  This one is a rather fun flick to watch though.  It is about a man blinded in Vietnam, he was found by villagers of a remote village and trained to use a sword.  Flash forward, as the blind man is looking for an old buddy and goes to the buddies ex wife's house.  While there these people looking to capture the buddy's son kill her.  Hauer takes the boy and goes across country to find the father.  While on his journey the killers are pursuing them as they are looking for the kid so they can get the dad to make some designer drugs for them.  Not only does this one have action, but there is a lot of comedy too.  As long as you don't take this one to seriously, this one is fun to watch.  I especially like the two idiot brothers who work for the bad guys.   "}{"Title":"That thing's got more holes than my daddy's rubber!","Date":"25 November 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Fun but stupid action movie with Rutger Hauer as a blind Vietnam vet who returns to the States years later, now a master swordsman despite his disability. He seeks out his old Army buddy Terry O'Quinn and finds himself having to protect O'Quinn's son from drug dealers. A good cast goes a long way to help out a predictable script. Rutger Hauer is clearly enjoying himself and does a great job of juggling the serious and the humorous. Terry O'Quinn does fine as the guy not really worthy of Hauer's help. Meg Foster has an unfortunately small role as his wife. The two would star in Stepfather II the same year. The supporting cast also includes great villains Noble Willingham, Randall Tex Cobb, and Sho Kosugi. The action scenes are fine for the period, but none of them really stay with you after watching. It's a dumb B actioner, so expectations are pretty low on it. Rutger Hauer fans will love it more than most. "},{"Title":"Entertaining and fun action movie filled with violent fights ,  frantic action  impressive duels","Date":"22 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This moving picture is packed with frenetic action , thrills, suspense, and tension . Our peculiar as well as shambling hero is called Nick Parker (Rutger Hauer) , he is a Vietvet , he suffered horrible experiences who left damaged him , batty and blind . As at the beginning shows how he was rescued from the battlefield where was wounded by a bomb and become blind . As stricken Nick is rescued by a gentle Vietnamese tribe and is taught by a mentor about some swift sword skills . There he also learns self-restraint , patience , tolerance , goodness , and compassion . A bit later on , he returns USA , he is a new man with a new mission  save and protect unfortunate people . He is a swordsman who helps and saves hapless and protects a kid (Brandon Call) , his cute menaced mummy (Meg Foster) and his husband (Terry O'Quinn) , Nick's long-last army colleague , from the Mob . Nick is a Ronin-alike , a particular samurai without master . He will have to face a villain (Noble Willingham) and his nasty band (Randall Tex Cobb , Nick Cassavetes , Rick Overton). In this lively as well as appealing movie there are thrills , Katana sword fights , ass-kicking , emotion , violence and lots of nifty action . The picture develops the classic facing off between good guys versus bad guys . As there's plenty of pleasure fighting and swording , but also includes failed moments . It thunders along amusingly , if rather unbelievably with rapid scenes and spectacular fight images , if not downright supernatural starring's skills . This exciting as well as stirring film results to be an enjoyable attempt to Americanize Japanese ¨Zaito-ichi movies ; however it doesn't altogether work and contains some flaws and gaps . In fact , being based on the Zatoichi film/TV series from Japan , and subsequently adapted by Takeshi Kitano in a popular ¨Ziaitochi¨film . Nice acting by shrew Rutger Hauer as smiling , likable , sword-wielding Vietnam vet , as he carves up nasties and finally duels with a martial art expert played by Sho Kosugi . Sympathetic support cast formed by a bunch of humorous nasties such as Randall Tex Cobb , Rick Overton , Nick Cassavetes , Noble Willingham , among others . Atmospheric musical score composed by means of synthesizer by J Peter Robinson . Colorful and adequate cinematography by Don Burgess This brash motion picture was compellingly directed by Phillip Noyce , he skillfully orchestrates a cool film plenty of action , fights and hilarious moments . The picture works pretty well and is paced along admirably but also packs some failures and flawed scenes . Phillip Noyce is a known craftsman who has directed successful action movies such as Patriot games, Clear and present danger , The Saint , The bone collector and Salt . Rating  Acceptable , passable and amusing . Worthwhile watching . After principal photography was completed, a sequel to this film was planned, but never materialized . "},{"Title":"He also does circumcision.","Date":"26 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Blind Fury is a solidly entertaining film certain to please action fans, as it attempted to do an American version of a Japanese Zatoichi film. Rutger Hauer is fantastic as Nick Parker, an average Joe nice guy blinded during his tour in Vietnam. He comes to Miami to look up his old comrade Frank Deveraux (Terry O'Quinn), only to have to deal a variety of goons. It seems that Frank, a compulsive gambler, has gotten himself into a lot of trouble, and is now being forced by corrupt casino boss MacCready (Noble Willingham) to create designer drugs. So, in order to ensure Franks' cooperation, MacCready has dispatched a ton of goons to snatch Franks' young son Billy (Brandon Call) and then try to dispatch the blind swordsman in their way. Fortunately, Nick proves up to the challenge. He's not superhuman, but his instincts are good and his skills undeniable. He's also a pretty engaging guy who never takes himself too seriously; the viewer can hardly fail to notice that this film has a real sense of humour about itself. The action scenes are top notch. One is interestingly staged in a cornfield and the finale is great fun as it sees Nick do battle with an assassin played by martial arts legend Sho Kosugi, whose appearance is brief but welcome. The excellent cast also includes Meg Foster as Franks' ex-wife (she'd played enough blind parts herself during her career that it's a nice in-joke to have her play a sighted person here), Lisa Blount as his new lady friend, the always amusing Randall Tex Cobb as a towering heavy whose gruesome demise is a hilarious highlight, and Nick Cassavetes and comedian Rick Overton as the comedy relief henchmen Lyle and Tector. Director Phillip Noyces' direction is efficient, and the pacing is superb, with the running time coming in at a very reasonable 87 minutes. One problem, though, is that the confrontation with the bad guys is just too rushed, and we never actually see what happens to one of them. Still, this is an agreeable diversion that does satisfy, keeping up a steady body count, and coming up with some entertaining violent gags, but never getting particularly bloody. Hauers' presence kicks it up another point. Eight out of 10. "},{"Title":"An enjoyable action flick","Date":"21 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I bought Blind Fury in a Double VHS with the 1989 The Punisher and I love both films, I enjoyed the action scenes with the samurai sword and I liked the mix of humour thrown in with the character Nick Parker (Rutger Hauer), Rutger does a fine job acting blind and a great performance.Nick Parker was blinded in Vietnam and trained by the villagers how to use his sense of hearing and use a samurai sword. He returns home to meet his friend only to find that he's in Reno and when some criminals attack the house he and and his friend Frank's son Bill go to find Frank while encountering several people out to kill him for saving Frank's son.Blind Fury is a remake of a Japanese film/ TV series and is a great action flick with some humorous scenes. "},{"Title":"Entertaining enough...","Date":"31 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This late 1980's action movie is actually one of the better and more memorable movies of Rutger Hauer's movie career. That being said, it should also be said that it is campy and cheesy, but in a good way that only those 1980's movies could manage.The story is about a blinded Vietnam veteran returning to America where he seeks out his old army comrade, and ends up entangled with drug dealers out to kill his friend.It is an entertaining movie for what it was, although it had some comedy elements tossed into it as well. That is of course a personal preference whether or not you like that particular combination.The cast did a good job with their given roles and characters, And for those who were watching movies back in the 1980's then there is a good number of familiar faces amongst the cast.While Blind Fury is nowhere near a masterpiece or even matching the action movies from Stallone, Schwarzenegger, Van Damme or Seagal, it is still a movie that can sustain repeated viewings every now and then with some years in between. "},{"Title":"Good-natured action outing with Hauer on top form","Date":"29 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This quirky tale of thugs, slugs and martial arts is worth a look for those tired of mainstream, run-of-the-mill fare. Here, the central conceit is that all-action hero Rutger Hauer is blind. You'd think he would therefore be helpless too, but far from it...in fact, he's deadly with his sword and can easily take on a gang of bad guys single-handedly, unaided. The secret to Hauer's success is that he was trained in the jungles of Vietnam to cut a melon into quarters with his sword, in training scenes worthy of an early Van Damme vehicle! Another interesting thing this movie has to offer is a previously-undiscovered penchant on Hauer's part for physical comedy. I've long suspected that Hauer is underrated as an actor and here he proves the fact, by firstly being a totally convincing blind man, and secondly by being frequently funny when the script calls for it. On top of this, he's charismatic, an all-round nice guy and adept at playing either good guys (as here) or bad (THE HITCHER) depending on the film, effortlessly moving from side to side and creating either monstrous baddies or lovable heroes.Although the plot of this movie is predictable in the extreme, the blindness of Hauer's character makes for several unexpected comic moments, such as the scene around halfway where he drives a van at speed through a busy city - absolutely great stuff, topped off by fine comic interplay when an endangered fellow driver shouts to Hauer are you blind?! before realising that yes, indeed he is. The action, when it comes, is also clichéd but good, from the opening non-lethal bar-room fight between Hauer and a gang of thugs (just how many times have we seen that, anyway?) to a moment where he outwits a gang of bad guys in a cornfield. Come to think of it, the odd locations are what makes the action most memorable.The best scenes are saved for the finale, in particular a great moment when a load of bad guys gang up on Hauer on a disco floor, only for the lights to go out and him to get the upper hand and massacre them all in violent, bloodthirsty ways. There's also a superb one-on-one battle between Hauer and Japanese martial arts star Sho Kosugi, excellently staged.The supporting cast give mediocre performances, despite there being quite a few familiar faces on view (including Nick Cassavetes, Terry O'Quinn as Haure's Vietnam buddy, Noble Willingham and Randall Tex Cobb). Most of the villains are clichéd and uninspired, while some of the rednecks have some really dumb scenes which drag the film down a notch or two. Surprisingly, the bonding between Hauer and the young boy should be vomit-inducing but isn't, perhaps due again to Hauer's wry portrayal of the blind but very definitely not disabled. Fantasy fans will also probably notice Meg Foster (she of the incredible glowing eyes) appearing briefly as a mother. BLIND FURY is predictable stuff saved by some good action and the charisma of Rutger Hauer. Definitely recommended for action fans looking for something a little different. "},{"Title":"80s were good!","Date":"29 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This is a typical story from the '80s that keeps you at the edge of your sit and with a full bladder... yep. You'll not be able to take a bathroom break even if you stream it.A blind hero helps a family. A village helps a G.I. A villain gets it. A strong friendship begins. A touching story unfolds.I loved everything about this movie. The story is like a good book that you can't put it down and you want to keep turning the pages. There is friendship, action, history and again action! Love the way they played with the title of the movie. Sharp... if you catch my drift.You need to see what's happening at the end. Brilliant. "},{"Title":"For Those Of You That Don't Know, Rutger's Character Is Based Upon The Blind Samurai Zatoichi.","Date":"1 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" After watching Noyce's thriller masterpiece Dead Calm, this film is a welcome addition in the action thriller genre. The film is written by Charles Robert Carner(of Gymkata fame) and is a loosely based, modernized version of Zatoichi Challenged, the 17th film in the Japanese Zatoichi film series.Actor Rutger Hauer plays Nick Parker, an American soldier serving in the Vietnam War, is blinded by a mortar explosion, and soon after rescued by local villagers, who help him recover his health. Although he remains blind, as a part of his recovery, he is taught by the local master to be an expert swordsman, and to train his other senses. Years later, having returned to the United States, he visits old army-buddy Frank Deveraux (Terry O'Quinn), only to find that Deveraux is missing... I've been a fan of Rutger Hauer ever since his Blade Runner days. Later He played an iconic role as the psychopathic killer in The Hitcher. In this film, since he plays a blind man, there are some scenes in the film which are very humorous. For example, in one scene he apparently tries to drive a van down a busy road. He hits a car and the driver of the car says, Are you blind or what?. Hauer replies after staring at him through the window,Yeah. Whats your excuse? The acting, action scenes, background sound effects and solid script make this film very watchable.Notable actors in the film Terry O'Quinn(The Stepfather 1 and 2) and Meg Foster(Ticket To Heaven, The Emerald Forest).Verdict A must buy film.Other Hauer films to watch/buy Ladyhawke(1985), Escape from Sobibor (1987), Salute of the Jugger(1989), Wedlock(1991), Split Second(1992), Surviving the Game (1994 - Excellent and must see.), Fatherland (1994). I have seen the above films and recommend them highly. Add them to your shopping list. "},{"Title":"Rutger wrecks death and destruction in this action extravaganza of '89","Date":"18 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Blind Fury is too funny to be serious, which you would of expected to be. Instead, what you get is a film that doesn't take itself so seriously, a slapstick, of action film of continuity, as in action I mean. Our Rutger, great as always, loses his vision while fighting the wars in the humid jungles of Vietnam. Taken in by some villages, he's trained as a samurai swordsman, which is rewarding in the end, where he graduates as the ultimate sword master. Remember, he's blind, and when we see all the instruments of injury he dodges, and bad guys he takes out, we ask ourselves, how could of he become this good. Answer It's only a movie. No blind guy could be capable of this, except Rutger, in this heavy action pic of continuity with shades of humor too. Rutgers's vet friend (The Stepfather's Terry O'Quinn) is in deep trouble in Vegas, as having to owe all this money, to these mob swindlers. Saving Quinn's son, from death, where the mother's taken out, Rutger and kid head to Vegas. He's aided by Quinn's girlfriend (Lisa Blount) and they set to take these guy's down. Far fetched as it (one scene has Rutger behind the wheel, speeding towards a wall, missing it by sheer centimeters, when braking), the action, and fighting which would of taken hours of training are well choreographed. This film is just a reason to kill 83 minutes of time at the movies, where we know by now as in almost every of his B grade, straight to video CRAP, the name Rutger means action. Even Sho Kosugi, turns up near the end, as a bad guy, would you believe. Blind Fury, which had a humble cinema running, followed by Salute Of The Jugger, sadly, was the start of an endless of chain of duds for our poor Rutger. The same went for the career of another 'Hitcher' star, C. Thomas Howell. How the hell Rutger caught that teensy toy alligator at the end, when thrown by the kid, on the bridge above, takes the cake of implausible moments in the film. This film too was fresh off the heals of Phillp Noyce's prior hit, Dead Calm. "},{"Title":"Not bad for a blind man!","Date":"29 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Blind Fury is a mostly forgotten little martial arts/samurai film from 1990. The film is basically an Americanized adaptation of the Zatoichi (blind swordsman) film series that starred the late Japanese film star Shintaro Katsu (1931-1997); Blind Fury was itself reportedly inspired specifically by the film Zatoichi Challenged (1967).Part martial arts film and part road movie, Blind Fury is about blind Vietnam veteran Nick Parker (Rutger Hauer, Blade Runner), who becomes the reluctant protector of a youngster named Billy Devereaux (Brandon Call), after the boy's mother is slain by Nevada gangsters. Parker thus embarks on a cross-country odyssey to reunite Billy with his drug chemist father Frank Devereaux (Terrance O'Quinn), who was also Nick's best friend in Vietnam. Frank has become indebted to the gangsters from Nevada and to ensure that he can repay them, they try to capture his young son.What they don't count on, of course, is Nick and his awesome samurai sword-fighting skills, which he acquired from benevolent Vietnamese sword masters after being blinded in a mortar attack one night by Vietnamese insurgents and Frank abandoned him during the battle. Nick appears to have forgiven Frank for his actions (or lack thereof).Blind Fury was directed by Phillip Noyce (of the thriller Dead Calm from the year before). I'm not sure who worked on the fight choreography for this movie, but it is definitely top-notch (considering its budget limitations), and Hauer appears to be the real deal doing his own sword-fighting sequences. Additionally, Hauer also brings a sly, cunning wit to the proceedings, who as someone else once mentioned before, he hardly seems aware of the fact that he's often cutting down one legion of bad guys after another.Japanese martial arts star Sho Kosugi appears late in the film as The Assassin, a master sword fighter brought in by the gangsters to challenge Nick Parker.8/10 "}{"Title":"Nice B-class action movie","Date":"1 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Blind fury is a perfect example of a movie that could be very awful in the hands of wrong people . Thankfully , Australian director Phillip Noyce ( known for Dead calm ,  Patriot games  and Bone collector) is a solid craftsman . He doesn't turn the movie into so bad , it's good kind of movie , but tries to make this movie as good as possible.How could a movie featuring Rutger Hauer as a blind swordsman be anything but gloriously entertaining? Loosely based on the Japanese samurai movie, Zatoichi Challenged, the humorous, action-packed tone of Blind Fury is vaguely akin to a Hong Kong flick &#x96; in fact, it's the sort of vehicle Jackie Chan would have excelled at in his prime, with its numerous scenes of slapstick action, and its lead character's habit of accidentally injuring his hapless opponents. Here , Rutger Hauer plays a blind Vietnam veteran - Nick Parker who also knows how to use a sword. His friend and friend's family got trouble with mafia, so Nick must help them. Sounds cheesy , right ? Blind fury seems to fall into B-class movie category , but still manages to be a good movie. This movie has got brains , humor and (what is surprising) a heart. Noyce was able to convince a viewer that blind man with sword is able to defeat mafia . The movie doesn't take itself too seriously , there are plenty jokes , especially the ones about Nick's injury. Creators of the movie obviously had ironic distance to whole story. Despite that there were able to involve viewer EMOTIONALLY to the story . The friendship between Nick and Frank is done good , but the relationship between Nick and Billy ( Frank's son ) is done simply great. The ending to the movie is one of my favourite movie endings of all time . I'm always crying at the end and that is a a big achievement for a B-class movie.Acting is very decent . No performances worthy an Oscar , but Rutger Hauer is great as Nick Parker . He makes his character very human - funny , lonely , brave and honorable. He isn't a one dimensional tough guy , but someone who could exist in real life (just like John McClane from Die hard). It was also nice to see Randall Tex Cobb as one of the bad guys.There is some good music here . The main theme is quite funny and very memorable , just like the dialogue.Overall , I recommend Blind fury . I give it 6/10 . Give it a shot . You might be pleasantly surprised. "},{"Title":"A blind fighter?? Awesome !!!","Date":"22 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Awesome! What a movie! I never knew that Rutger Hauer(RH) does have martial arts experience involving sword fighting! as far as i concern this movie does really beat most of martial arts movies especially movies that stars Steven Seagle and Van Damme. None of their movies can beat Blind Fury. This movie is really awesome! I suppose this one should be rated more than 6. Allthe actors in this movie are surprisingly convincing. Sho Kosugi small part did really steal the show. I guess this is one of the best fighting scene i've ever watch. But i was wondering why this movie is not a success movie...huhu, never mind that..at least all the comments for this movie sounds positive, no one dares to say this is really a bad movie. I'll give this movie 10 stars. So far, this is one of the best RH movie...i mean the second best.. the best RH movie goes to The Hitcher. Go ahead and watch this two movies.. but don't watch Blade Runner, it really sucks...avoid it!I'll buy a DVD copy for Blind Fury in a few days.. D 10/10 stars (EXCELLENT) "},{"Title":"A deliberately dumb B movie minor classic.","Date":"28 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Blind Fury is at once implausible, illogical and often ridiculous, but it is also frequently hilarious and totally far fetched and cheesy &#x96; but in the right way somehow.Hauer plays Nick, and ex-Vietnam vet who lost his sight in combat and now 20 years later he is back in the US *Ahem* looking up an old war buddy named Frank Deveraux.Now being &#x96; as he puts it &#x96; blind as a bat, Nick relies on his other senses which have become finely tuned over the years to compensate. He gets about unaided by anything other than a wooden stick and his instincts, though in the early scenes we are already aware that after his initial accident he was taken in and recovered in the care of Vietnamese villages, some of whom gave him special skills.The movie is not above dragging out all the lazy blind jokes, he pats a crocodile and says 'nice doggie' and is fed a hard pebble in lieu of candy as prime examples, but Nick can also 'see' using his other senses, enabling him to be aware of his personal space and things and people moving about him.Back to the war buddy, Nick discovers that Frank has become embroiled against his will in a corrupt crime syndicate in Las Vegas and is being held captive and forced to make a new superdrug that will soon be unleashed.After some general unpleasantness Nick is left with his friend's boy Billy in his care, and the two set off across country to find Frank and reunite him with his boy.Along the journey Billy is initially quite unruly, not realizing that has happened to his Mum (hint it wasn't nice) and not yet knowing who the new blind guy is, Billy is a somewhat reluctant travelling companion. This changes after a cool action setpiece where Nick takes on several armed hillbillies in a cornfield, dispatching all.The remainder of the film has the unlikely duo progressing ever closer to Las Vegas where scads of heavily armed and trash talking hard men await. Surely more than a match for a 10 year old boy and a sightless guy with a stick? I mean right? The film has its share of car chases and Three Stoogery, and the second half of the film has Nick and his stick (which you can tell from the cover isn't realllly a cane) cutting a swathe through various buff, ornery henchmen and in true video game fashion, various level bosses. Nick's swordsmanship is more flourish and flair than intricate highly skilled moves, but the action scenes move quickly enough to ignore the lack of quick hands, and before you can dissect the previous scene someone is cracking the next joke to bring you back to the film.Blind Fury runs a neat 80 minutes, most of which is spent padding time until the next action sequence, so the bad guys are straight up redneck caricatures. In fact the meanest bad guy of all &#x96; cigar chomping MacReady &#x96; is essentially Yosemite Sam without the hat.Yet with all the obvious short cuts taken and the insane elements Blind Fury is more comedy than action film, but it works well on both levels. The strength of the film is that it doesn't take itself too seriously, leading the charge here is Hauer himself. Being the 'blind guy' means all the visually impaired jokes are at his expense, and even when he has the upper hand and gets to spit a put-down or one liner it is done totally straight faced and without relish or theatrics, often the funniest lines are delivered deadpan. And where the action is concerned like many of the best B flicks it is reminiscent of a classic A Team episode, only with more violence and swearing.It is cheesy, far fetched and the one scene where they unleash the special effects has aged about as well as Sharon Stone, but I wouldn't have it any other way.Final Rating &#x96; 8 / 10. Blind Fury was the coolest little film going around when I was 15, and 20-some years later it remains a thoroughly enjoyable guilty pleasure. "},{"Title":"A cool movie about a blind guy and his sword","Date":"28 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Blind Fury is about a blind man, Nick Parker (Rutger Hauer), who lost his sight in Vietnam and went missing in action. He was rescued by a tribe and trained to live with his habit. Twenty years later he returns to America a skilled swordsman to find his war buddy Frank Devereau. When he arrives in Miami he learns that Frank has divorced his wife and lives in Reno, where the only business is gambling and prostitution. Suddenly three thugs break into the house, kill Frank's wife but are foiled in an attempt to kidnapped his kid. Thus Nick must take the kid to Reno and rescue Frank from the hands of these thugs.I watched this movie because I have seen it before and liked it. Only near the end I realised why I liked it it was a sword fighting movie. I have never been much of a fan of martial arts, but I have always like sword fighting, especially Japanese sword fighting as their swords are of an extremely superior quality. The thug comments you can't stop a bullet, but we see that this swordsman manages to outwit and defeat many thugs with guns, and even manages to defeat a master swordsman at the end of the movie. Blind Fury isn't a movie with a twist, it is a simple action movie with a blind sword fighter as the main character for some laughs and thrills.The interesting thing about this movie I find are the characters. There seems to have been a little more thought into the characters of this movie that normally. The characterisation is not on the level of Edward Scissorhands, but it is far above other movies such as K9. Nick Parker, even though he is a master swordsman, is still very fallible. He isn't one of those unbelievable blindmen who can walk around just as if they could see. We are always reminded that he is not only blind, but his blindness is a weakness. At the beginning he walks along the road into Miama and finds an alligator, but mistakes it for a dog. He is also fooled by the kids little tricks, especially with the rock.The movie isn't really exciting, more average, but it is a level above most Hollywood movies. The bad guy isn't noble, as most tend to be, he is sadistic and doesn't care what he does as long as he gets the mission completed. The beginning where he shoots the woman dead is an example of this. The kid also begins resenting Nick but grows to rely upon him, especially after he learns that his mother is dead. Blind Fury is enjoyable but I wouldn't rate it with the great movies. "},{"Title":"action packed and funny","Date":"16 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" there's lots of great action in this film starring Rutger Hauer.but there's also some great comic bits and some good one liners.some of the acting is over the top,deliberately,i believe.the film is very entertaining from start to finish.Sho Kosugi makes a brief appearance toward the end of the movie(in a small role),which was nice,but i wish he had a bigger role.Phillip Noyce(Salt,Clear and Present Danger,Patriot Games)directed the film.i thoroughly enjoyed every minute of it.this may be one of Rutger Hauer's best films.it's nice to see him playing a non villain role.obviously he's a very versatile actor.for me,Blind Fury is a 7/10 "},{"Title":"Nice movie all round","Date":"30 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" As far as the sword and war movies go, this one packs a good punch. A man Nick Parker (Rutger Hauer) who was wounded in the Vietnam war is left behind by his own man during a strategic move to stop their foes in their tracks. But by happenstance, Nick is wounded and blind from a mortar fire and tries to find his way out of the violence. In doing so, he is adopted by a local villager and helps to heal his wounds and so for the next couple of years he learns the ways of the sword and his other senses which are tuned so greatly, that he can hear, taste or even feel with more clarity than he did when he had sight. Now back home in America twenty years later, he tries to catch up with his friend once more only to find out that his friend Frank Deveraux (Terry O' Quinn) is making a batch of highly toxic and addictive drugs. But to keep him in line, his boss tries to kidnap his son and use him as leverage. Now the battle begins where Nick, uses his skills against the gambling cartel with his unique and most powerful weapons, his senses and his sword. The kingpin Macready (Noble Willingham) is ruthless and goes out of his way to stop Nick from his exchange with the mob. And in so doing, brings in an authentic samurai soldier played by a real life Ninja teacher Sho Kosugi who also plays in another film called Ninja Assassin. Blending this last battle scene is nothing more than spectacular, Rutger Hauer was taught under Kosugi before the film was made, honing his skills as a sword wielder. This has all ingredients of humour, sadness, great fights, and a wonderful scene where our blind hero drives a van like it was natural. Not recommended for those under 14. But I recommend it for the crowd who loves a good fight with swords. Excellent movie. "},{"Title":"Nice Doggy.....","Date":"28 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Hauer Plays Nick, a blind Vietnam vet who wants to visit Terry O'Quinn to say hello. Having not heard anything from Terry in over twenty years, he reaches his house and Meg Foster tells him that he doesn't live here anymore.About five minutes later, she is gunned down, and Nick has to look after Hasselhoffs son from Baywatch. It turns out that Terry has racked up a sizable debt and the bad guys want him to make some drugs, and use his son as leverage.only Nick can save the day.Cue the Carnage....I haven't seen this film in over ten years, so when i decided to see it again, i went in with low expectations, as of course it wouldn't be any good now as i'm all grown up and action films like that are sparse these days.To my delight, despite the script being a little cheesy, and the fashion very distasteful, this is still a cracking movie, which has gained a little cult following some 21 years after it's release.It's funny, action packed, and very comic strip-esque in it's narration.Hauer plays this tongue firmly in cheek, and he owns this movie. He has a great relationship with Billy, and the film has a surprising humanistic edge to it. But other than this, it's your standard action film. Set piece after set piece, with some good one-liners to ease the tension during the darker scenes.Even though the film is bright and funny throughout, the ending is quite sad, but makes the film that little bit better.It's a Friday night film, fun to watch and to quote, but it's hammy and knows this.Especially when one of the main bad guys is called 'Slag'. "},{"Title":"One of Rutger Hauers best flicks ever!","Date":"12 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I think Blind Fury is a great action film. Rutger Hauer delivers one of his best roles ever,a performance right up there with The Hitcher and Blade Runner. He is very convincing as the blind swordsman, who makes sushi out of his numerous enemies. I recommend all Rutger-fans to catch this film, although you already, probably have.  "},{"Title":"A delightfully offbeat, amusing and exciting action flick","Date":"26 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Nick Parker (splendidly played by Rutger Hauer) gets left behind by his good buddy Frank Devereaux (the always fine Terry O'Quinn) during combat in Vietnam. Nick loses his eyesight in an explosion, but luckily is found by a bunch of nice villagers who teach him how to fight with a sword. Many years later Nick goes in search of Frank. He discovers that Frank has run afoul of evil Las Vegas mobsters led by crusty casino owner MacReady (a marvelously cantankerous Noble Willingham). Nick comes to Frank's rescue. Frank's bratty son Billy (an effectively obnoxious Brandon Call) tags along. Director Phillip Noyce, working from a bright and inspired script by Charles Robert Corner, maintains a brisk pace throughout, stages the stirring action scenes with rip-snorting aplomb, and spices up the proceedings with a wickedly funny line in quirky dark humor (the definite comic highlight occurs with a lengthy car chase in which Nick recklessly drives a van!). Moreover, there's excellent acting from a bang-up cast Lisa Blount as Frank's sweet girlfriend Annie Winchester, Randall Tex Cobb as scruffy, brutish goon Slag, Meg Foster as Frank's estranged ex-wife Lynn, Charles Cooper as MacReady's affable business partner Cobb, and ace martial artist Sho Kosugi as a deadly, formidable hired assassin. Nick Cassavettes and Rick Overton are hilarious as dim-witted redneck flunkies Lyle and Tector Pike. Hauer makes for a very credible and engaging oddball hero. Both Don Burgess' sharp, polished cinematography and J. Peter Robinson's funky, syncopated score are up to snuff. Better still, we've even got a welcome and touching additional human element concerning friendship and forgiveness. A real treat. "},{"Title":"HE'S NO DAREDEVIL, BUT HE CUTS EVIL IN HALF!","Date":"4 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Rutger Hauer really did well playing a blind swordsman. Like Christopher Lambert, he doesn't get much of the attention like most stars do. After losing his sight in a mortar attack, he really enhanced himself when they made him a swordsman. Though he's got a lot to learn about his surroundings. Other than that, he took care of the bad guys with his trusty fighting techniques. This movie was very much action-packed and I enjoyed it very well. The best in blindfighting. 8.5 OUT OF 10. "}{"Title":"Occasionally funny but downright silly!","Date":"5 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The film has a definitely tongue in cheek approach with plenty of jokes about Japanese samurai movies but the mood is inconsistent and is marred by a lousy ending.With a perfect cast and a good director the film could have been a lot better. At least Rutger Hauer,Terry O'Quinn and Brandon Call deserve better. "},{"Title":"You won't go blind with this offbeat movie, but is this really necessary?","Date":"28 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The problem with checking out a good low-rate action film is choosing the right one. BLIND FURY says it all, and it does a decent job....but how can this one be so great that it's actually cheesy? Having a tough macho guy like Rutger Hauer to do all the dirty work is one simple thing, even when he's blended into the lousy cinematography it has. Some of the acclaim went to restyling the blind samurai warrior legend into American form, which works depending on how serious the transition is. In this case, it looks pretty silly. Here, our main man Hauer acts like he's staring at a shapely feminist figure until reaching the boiling point to strike madly. That sounds like a typical and ordinary samurai plot. The brief appearance by martial arts master Sho Kosugi (known for the sour lemon called 9 DEATHS OF THE NINJA, as well as host of ninja movies) adds to the touch as a samurai assassin. The rest is purely offbeat and laughable, deciding on how to judge the movie's special identity. You may easily wonder why the acting, characters, and the whole nine yards wouldn't fit Tri-Star's image. Speaking of characters, keep your eyes wide open for two overweight hit men. The best thing about BLIND FURY is that it's funny, but then again, things already seem far worse than what's always expected pure high-quality action.  "},{"Title":"A typical martial arts adventure is distinguished by an unconventional hero and a great sense of humor.","Date":"17 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The setting is in Vietnam, the year is 1969. Amid the explosive violence and the frenzied chaos, America begins to withdraw its troops from the Vietnam conflict.  Two soldiers and long time buddies, Nick Parker (Rutger Hauer) and Frank Devereaux (Terry O'Quinn, star of THE STEPFATHER) are ready to go home. However, the mission of utmost importance to take down the enemy has been bestowed upon the two volunteers. As the heroes begin to take their toll, Parker succumbs to the fiasco in Vietnam.  He fights with all his might...but the devastation is simply too much for any one man to handle...Parker falls behind the rest of the troops. He inevitably is lost within the fiery situation... Without warning, Parker is blindsided by the enemy...and left for dead. Waking up several hours later, Parker realizes that he can no longer see...he is permanently blind. He has no where to go. He cannot see the lurid horrors of his fallen comrades. Parker is lucky to be alive... Now, hell-bent on getting out of this nightmare and returning home...Parker must find a way to survive out in the jungles before the Vietcong arrive... Seeking refuge in a small village, Parker is aided by friendly natives. He then learns the esoteric art of fighting without relying on what he observes. He learns the hard way that there is more to the scenario than what the eyes are allowed to witness. Without his ability to see, Parker must rely on his remaining senses to guide him out of dangerous perils.  As he perfects his martial arts skills...Parker knows that he must return back to America in order to complete one last mission... The action fast forwards twenty years later.  This is when Parker is assigned to track down an old buddy of his from Vietnam. Little does he know that his old friend is in deep debt with the mob.  As well, Frank Devereaux is now forced to create a new designer drug to be distributed into the streets... Under duress, Frank must either accede to the mob's requests...or else suffer the unthinkable consequences.  Meanwhile, Parker decides to take care of Devereaux's obstinate son (Brandon Call), taking him on a cross country trip to Reno, Nevada, where Frank Devereaux was last seen.   The invidious mob, aware that there is a vigilante out there cleaning up their acts...decides to deploy vicious mobsters and rednecks in order to eradicate him... BLIND FURY is a surprisingly serviceable action film. This flick is a fast paced and fun adventure with raging fury. What gives BLIND FURY merit though is its uncommon valor. Admittedly, it is kind of amazing how a vision-impaired person can be so proficient in martial arts. He certainly slices up the competition! Criminals ought to beware! He may as blind as a bat, but this swordsman has the reflexes of a jaguar, the sharp acuity of an owl, the ferocity of a lion, and the perspicacity of an eagle. His courage is as unlimited as his fighting ability. Yet, Parker can also be humble at the appropriate times. BLIND FURY contains impressively choreographed fighting sequences and a great, tongue-in cheek sense of humor. There is plenty of violence in this film to appease action fans, but the stunts and action sequences are certainly directed with flair and verve. The way the hero perforates through the villains with his steel blade is eye-catching. The comical tones in BLIND FURY also remind the audience that this film, though full of bellicose characteristics, is good natured and harmless. The thrills in this film are abundant, and even if the violence in this film is a bit excessive, the tension and humor keep this film from straying towards sadism. Also, one of the best features is the climax, culminating to an earth shattering confrontation between the blind hero and one of the greatest ninja masters ever known... Another interesting aspect in the story involves the humorous chemistry between Nick Parker and his friend's son. The two share a love-hate relationship. Although the boy may detest Parker for being overly attentive and pedantic, and Parker himself is annoyed by the boy's stubborn attitude, they both still care about each other like an uncle and nephew.As for the villains, Randall 'Tex' Cobb (UNCOMMON VALOR) is a nice addition as a wonderfully sinister, antagonistic philistine.  Sho Kosugi also performs a dazzling, show-stealing act.  He happens to be a professional assassin with a vendetta against Parker. Also, BLIND FURY is a nice revision of the ancient Japanese martial arts films. BLIND FURY captures the spirit of the Zatoichi movies (for which the premise of this motion picture is based on). For example, the imagery of the hero running through a cornfield evokes a reminiscence of the classic Japanese samurai films. The way this scenery was shot was haunting and surreal. That one moment was extremely well photographed.  BLIND FURY is a nice tribute to such Japanese classics as the films of Akira Kurosawa or the movies featuring Toshio Mifune. BLIND FURY is a commendable adventure with an unconventional hero. Exquisite sword-fighting, a great amount of dynamite action, a favorable lead, and an amusing albeit subtle sense of humor all add up to an enjoyable experience.  BLIND FURY is definitely better than your typical action fanfare with plenty of chances to root for the good guys! BLIND FURY is cutting edge entertainment which is good natured fun. Overall, it is a smoothly crafted film.RATING **1/2 out of ****.   "},{"Title":"see it for the unintended laughs","Date":"7 November 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" After being initiated into the Way of the Sword by his Viet Cong Captors and taught how to quarter mangoes in mid-air, Marine veteran Rutger Hauer returns home to rescue an old buddy and his son from a syndicate of gambling, drug-running scum. Hauer is, by the way, totally blind, but who needs eyesight when you have superhuman hearing and a three-foot long razor blade? Believe it or not the film was written as an action comedy, and like any martial arts adventure was meant to be at least partially ridiculous. But the choice of hero is ambiguous the villains may be dumb, ugly, and/or sadistic, but it's the blind, benevolent Hauer who travels from Miami to Reno leaving assorted body parts scattered in his wake, while dropping pearls of Oriental wisdom such as, whatever happened before&#x85;is in the past. Hauer eviscerates, dismembers, slices, dices, and impales every criminal he meets, at one point cutting a slobbering maniac neatly in two at the waist. And this is a role model? Kids, don't try this at home. "},{"Title":"A solid B","Date":"21 December 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" An American martial arts film has three main characteristics one guy with a sword against a thousand southern guns; someone wants someone else (usually not the guy with the sword) dead or as ransom; and finally, there's that one good chase scene that no self-respecting action film can go without. So it's save to say that Blind Fury is a martial arts film. While severely dated with classic 70s/80s characteristics, the film hides a few gems. Huaer pulls off the blind sword master with grace. He gets into his character so well, you almost forget he played in LadyHawke. The only issue, in fact, with the casting is no aging. All the characters look exactly the same in Vietnam as they do 20 years later. As for the humor, well, that's what gives it the seven. Brother Tector and Brother Lyle what a hoot! Such not-so-subtle lines like that's why I always voted for gun-control and I didn't know Daddy wore a rubber make the film worth the techno-music torture. Despite the over-abundance of mullets, music, and montages, Blind Fury is worth your time. It holds your attention and, while not really a family movie (unless your family's into fake blood), is good for those alone-in-the-house-what-should-I-do nights. One thumb up. "},{"Title":"Hard not to like...","Date":"23 August 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" There is something about this movie. Almost magical in a way. There are a lot of things wrong with this movie. The supporting cast shows acting chops like a cord of wood. The premise is somewhat over the top. Except for a few sequences, the cinematography is hardly above 1980's TV Movie of the week level.But somehow, everything is blended together and it works. This movie has a heart and soul and it is extremely touching. Rutger Hauer is at the top of his game as the Blind American Ninja who is shoved into the role of protector of the young son of an Army buddy. In his role as Nick, Hauer wins you over with a mix of the heart and sensitivity he so aptly displayed in Bladerunner. Even at his most slashing, slicing and dicing vicious moments, Nick is not a cold blooded killer, but a man who reacts instinctively to deadly situations.When you watch this movie and become engrossed in it, you keep asking yourself, Why do I like it? It is so much like other movies that basically chase you out of a theater, but then again it isn't. "},{"Title":"Great film! now go watch it!","Date":"27 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" awesome. iv'e seen this like 20 something times and it's immensely entertaining every time! the idea of a Vietnam veteran lost in the jungle, blinded by a grenade and gets help from a local tribe of a primitive sort. then they teach him to master a sword and to master the art of hearing. fast forward a few years back in America. he is of to visit an old Vietnam pal, coincidentally this pal is in a great deal of trouble with gangsters. now it is up to our blind hero to cut bad guys in to pieces in on hell of a entertaining fashion. Rutger Hauer does his best role ever! (second only the his role in The Hitcher of course). and the familiar Randall Tex Cob makes a great and menacing bad guy. this film is clearly a Must see! "},{"Title":"Agreeable But Undistinguished Actioner Of Blind Swordsman Avenger","Date":"8 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Nick Parker is a blind Vietnam vet presumed dead for years who tracks down an old war buddy and gets unwittingly involved in kidnapping and murder. Despite his handicap, he determines to rescue his friend and his friend's son from some sleazy Reno drug-pushers.Loosely based on the old Japanese Zatoichi / Shintaro Katsu blind-swordsman movies of the sixties, this is a pretty agreeable little thriller with an offbeat premise, a great cast, some good stuntwork and many nice moments - the chase in the cornfield, the old blind-man-driving routine, the relationship between Hauer and Call, the final showdown with arch-ninja Kosugi. But, as with too many action films, it's nothing special; there's no real atmosphere, a lot of the characters are just stock goons, the score is weak and the production seems half-hearted, as if nobody was really passionate about the movie. It's a pleasant way to kill time but with the talent of these people it should be much better (see for example Noyce's later Rabbit-Proof Fence). It's still fun though, and Hauer is terrific in the lead as usual, with fine support from O'Quinn (here billed as Terrance for some reason), the always-amazing Foster and the iconic Cobb (Lenny the biker from Raising Arizona). Cassavetes and Overton seem to be having a whale of a time as a pair of goofy hoodlum brothers called Lyle and Tector Pike, who wind up shooting each other. This movie makes me a bit cross - Hauer puts more into it than it deserves, and with a bit more care and originality it could have been something special, but instead it's fairly flat and formulaic. Produced by well-known actor Tim Matheson and a very bad director called Dan Grodnik, and shot in Houston and Reno. "},{"Title":"Fun 80's comedy action flick.","Date":"27 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Blind Fury starts as blind Vietnam veteran Nick Parker (Rutger Hauer) decides to look up his old army buddy Frank Devereaux (Terry O'Quinn), unfortunately Frank isn't at home but his wife Lynn (Meg Foster) & young son Billy (Brandon Call) are so he stops & has a chat. Shortly after two cops arrive looking for Billy, Nick senses something is wrong then a big guy named Slag (Randall 'Tex' Cobb) turns up & things get violent. Despite being blind Nick is a master swordsman & takes the bad guy's down but Lynn is shot dead in the process, feeling responsible Nick sets out to find Frank & discover what sort of trouble he is in & protect Billy at the same time. However the bad guy's are only just starting & Nick finds himself in danger every step of the way...Directed by Phillip Noyce Blind Fury is one of those cheesy 80's action comedy flicks which is almost impossible to dislike despite knowing that you should. The script by associate producer Charles Robert Carner is a very light hearted remake of the Japanese martial arts film Zatoichi Challenged (1967) & thankfully doesn't take itself too seriously which helps the already silly central story, I mean sequences when Nick who is totally blind dodges guy's with automatic machine guns, defeats other swordsmen who can see & drives a van in a high speed car chase by having the young boy Billy give him directions like 'left', 'right' & 'straight on' really do need the viewer to suspend their disbelief. However if you can & just take Blind Fury for what it is then there's plenty of fun to be had here, there's some cool fights, shoot-outs & even a cool car chase to keep you entertained across it's 90 odd minute duration. The character's are likable which helps, there is some funny dialogue & the film also has a Lethal Weapon (1987) feel to it with the whole clichéd mismatched partner plot where at first Nick & Billy dislike each other but as they get to know one another a mutual respect & strong friendship forms & despite being clichéd it actually works rather well in Blind Fury.Director Noyce does a good job, he keeps the pace up & things moving along nicely with some well choreographed action scenes. Blind Fury is also notable for some laugh out loud hilarious scenes as well, the opening montage of the Vietnamese villagers training the blind Nick with a sword & a vegetable are almost as funny as the scene in which Nick is sitting against a tree & he hears a buzzing sound & after one swipe of his sword there is a shot of a cut in half bee falling to the ground! Just the whole idea of a blind man cutting a flying bee in half with a sword is just too funny for words & has to be seen to be believed. As does the bit when Nick cuts the eyebrows off a bad guy with his sword! Unfortunately it's sometimes hard to relate Nick with blindness as he does all sorts of things a blind man in reality would find impossible, he has sword fights with people & wins, he walks around buildings & places he's never been before & never bumps into or falls over things, he drives a van he'd never sat in before & there are many things he does which he would have to be able to see to do. Nick's blindness could have been used much more effectively than it was. The violence isn't too excessive, there's a severed hand & Nick cuts a bad guy in half at the end but there's not much else in the way of graphic violence.Technically the film is good & has a solid 80's action feel to it, according to the IMDb Blind Fury was shot in Houston, Texas & in Reno, Nevada & strangely in Australia. It's well made & looks nice enough for what it is. The acting is alright, Rutger Hauer is Rutger Hauer I suppose which says it all while Noble Willingham puts in a bit of practise as the bad guy in preparation for his similar role in the Bruce Willis action flick The Last Boy Scout (1991) made a couple of years after Blind Fury.Blind Fury turned out to be a much better action flick than I had anticipated it would be, there's some neat action, a decent story & some funny moments that passed 90 odd minutes pleasantly enough for me. A must for cheesy 80's action junkies like me! "},{"Title":"Stand back! said the blind man...","Date":"11 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Rutger Hauer stars as Nick Parker a samurai warrior who is completely invincible, he knows martial arts, how to swing a sword and how to protect a whiny kid from mobsters. After the kid's mother is gunned down, Rutger acts as guardian and along the way turns his enemies into swiss cheese. Blind Fury is gimmick action flick that brings a welcome sense of humor to the genre. Blind Fury is utterly ridiculous and indeed the action sequences which involve Rutger holding his own against ninjas and the like, kind of ridiculous. However because Rutger Hauer doesn't take it seriously and has fun with the role, the movie becomes all the better for it. There are some flaws, as there are some various slow spots and Brandon Call is kind of irritating but most of the time the action takes over at regular intervals and provides the required entertainment for the genre fan. An adequate feature from the Hauer staples, though not his best.* *1/2 out of 4-(Pretty good) "}{"Title":"Great martial arts hi-jinks","Date":"22 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The first time I watched this movie back in 1990, I enjoyed a good yarn while watching it with my parents and sisters at home. I hadn't seen it again until recently, enjoying the film with a couple friends and a guinea pig by the name of Baku (who apparently is enthralled by martial arts movies). Needless to say, the film didn't disappoint either time.I'm throughly convinced that this is an anti-Republican movie. While I am an avid liberal, it's hard not to spot the obviousness of it. Everyone is absolutely evil to Rutger Hauer, a character trait of Reagan's administration; all the bad guys are overall-wearing Southern slackjaws and the bad guy is an evil capitalist. It makes perfect sense.Other than that, the movie is just a series of great scenes that display an evolution of all the characters. I especially loved Brandon Call as the evil kid, playing sadistic jokes on Nick before he eventually learns that Nick is a pretty cool guy. Terry O'Quinn was also good in this film despite playing such a cowardly character, but you can't be a hero in every film I guess. Either way, this was a pretty funny film to watch.Especially if you have a guinea pig sitting next to you. "},{"Title":"Not your typical slice of life","Date":"9 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" One thumb,way up on this one. I have seen this movie several times, and it's always fun to watch. Hauer adds a calm awareness that is rarely acted when playing a Blind person's role. He does it with facial expressions rather than just response to external stimuli. A marvelous acting effort, with a comedic element that makes the character and the movie. Underrated filmography in depth and line of sight for moving and still scenes.Jumps on you at the beginning and has a satisfying finish with tie-in to running device.I recommend this movie highly even for the hop and chop scene. One of my favorite swordsplay movies along with it's precursor THE BLIND SWORDSMANS CANE SWORD (Japanese, 1967 with subtitles), who also tied in to a running device at the finish.And you wonder what Quentin Tarentino was watching, eh? (Two movies which must have influenced him) "},{"Title":"You're a waking advertisement for hiring the handicapped!.","Date":"17 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  A brilliant, funny action flick that will not disappoint.  Rutger Hauer shows his lighter side here as the blind Vietnam-vet Nick Parker, who has returned to the States to patch things up with his old buddy Frank.  Mr. Parker may be blind, but he can still fight, thanks to his training at the hands of kindly Vietnamese villagers who befriended him after he lost his sight. He carries around a sword-cane, which he is a dab hand with, thank to those same villagersSPOILER WARNING!Frank is being forced to make designer drugs for Nevada casino boss MacCready, so MacCready may repay a loan he owes.  He orders his chief goon, a large Grizzly-bear of a man named Slag,  to kidnap Frank's estranged wife and son, Billy.  Nick is visiting them at the time and fights the goons off, but the wife is killed.  With her dying breaths, she asks Parker to look after Billy.  So with the bratty Billy in tow, Nick sets off to Nevada to rescue Frank, with the bad guys on his tail every step of the way.When they reach Nevada, they hook up with Annie, a friend of Frank's and get up to all sorts of mischief, culminating in a final big fight in a ski lodge, where Parker faces off against a Japanese assassin, who is just as skilled with a blade as he is.The action is great in the film, with Rutger Hauer brilliantly handling the fights. The action sequences such as a fight in a cornfield, and the final fight in the ski lodge, are excellently staged, with Parker constantly getting the drop on the bad guys.But, as with other action movies, the humour is the key thing.  This film has it's tongue planted firmly in it's cheek.  Hauer gets to make several wise cracks.  A pair of seriously dumb redneck brothers working for MacCready also provide a lot of laughs as they blunder around Reno.  There's also a great car chase sequence (with Parker driving!) and a great sequence where Parker gives the rednecks the slip in MacCready's casino.Noble Willingham as MacCready doesn't have much to do, neither does Terry O'Quinn as Frank,  but Randall 'Tex' Cobb is great as the hard-to-kill Slag (he survives two encounters with Parker, but isn't so lucky a third time). But for some reason, slag tries to pass himself off as a police Inspector early in the picture.  Well, maybe there are some cops who are as big and menacing as he is, but I think I would have seen through his disguise.  The kid playing Billy is an unbelievable brat when we first meet him, but he becomes likeable as the picture goes on.  The Japanese Assassin who appears near the end could have been used a bit more in the film.  He gives Parker a good fight, but it is over too quickly.  They could have had him and Parker clashing repeatedly in the film (like Joe and the Black Star Ninja in AMERICAN NINJA).  There are also a couple of plot holes which were pointed out on other sites, but despite this, this film is still one hell of a good ride! "},{"Title":"Blind Fury gives a nod to the great Zatoichi.","Date":"28 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I remember seeing Blind Fury back around 1989 when I was a lot younger and being fascinated by the idea of a blind swordsman. 13 years later and wiser I now realize that this movie was made in honor of the great Zatoichi samurai flicks from the '60s and '70s. Rutger Hauer will never win an Oscar but he can be enjoyable in such action movies as Blade Runner, The Hitcher, Night Hawks, and Blind Fury. If you can get past the idea of a blind swordsman taking on loads of armed crooks, and hitmen, then you may enjoy this film. If you are a Zatoichi fan, then you will be sure to pick out numerous rip-offs such as the cutting off of one's eyebrows, or exposing a crooked casino.I would give this movie a 6 out of 10 (1 point for Rutger, 4 points for putting out an American version of Zatoichi... the Blind Swordsman, and 1 point for Tex Cobb.) "},{"Title":"Joyous 80s action nostalgia","Date":"14 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  In the 1980s big video rental chains like Blockbuster had yet to colonise England. If you wanted to rent a movie you strolled down to your local garage (filling station) or off-license (liquor store) and browsed the small rack of abominable direct-to-video trash that passed for entertainment. Once in a while though, and entirely unintentionally, they'd have a real gem; a low budget, DTV classic that actually had a good plot, decent acting and some production value. This is how I discovered &#145;Blind Fury'.Rutger Hauer plays Nick, a soldier blinded by an explosion in some far-flung jungle hellhole. Wandering through the trees he stumbles into a small village, where a wizened old sword Master teaches him to handle a Katana in spectacular fashion.Years later, Nick is reluctantly pulled into a seedy drug conspiracy. One of his army buddies is blackmailed into producing narcotics for one of those low budget movie rent-a-mob guys. Nick must protect his friend's son from assorted redneck hoodlums and, most entertainingly, ninja movie stalwart Shô Kosugi.This is a thoroughly entertaining movie with some solid fights (the action choreographer later did Dragon The Bruce Lee Story), and director Philip Noyce (Patriot Games, The Bone Collector) knows how to shoot an action scene. Above all this movie has a sense of FUN, which makes it such a guilty pleasure.Oh, and the kid in the movie was later in Baywatch&#133; but don't hold that against him. "},{"Title":"A Must-see about a Can't-see.","Date":"7 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is by far one of the most underrated action movies I've ever seen. When I rented this bad boy I expected nothing more than stupid low-budget action. What I got was incredible. I haven't had so much fun watching a movie in a long time. I found this movie to be horrifically entertaining. The acting is great, the direction is great, and the script is great. Rutger Hauer is really something special, this is (Next to Blade Runner of course) his finest performance. Rutger, although an excellent bad guy, can definitely play a good guy worth rooting for. I've seen this movie about 15 times now and I recommend it to everyone. The film is so funny and exciting, I've only found one real flaw that makes me laugh and that is that he carries a picture in his wallet yet he's blind. It's there solely for storytelling purposes of course but this movie carries itself very well and manages to deftly cast aside all of it's unbelievable craziness and entertain like mad. This is a fun, fun film and I recommend it for anyone looking for a good time.     "},{"Title":"Good fun!","Date":"6 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  A fun movie.  Not a great, sweeping movie.  Not a trashy, useless movie. Just a fun, well-made action movie. Hauer does an excellent job as the blind hero and the swordplay in this film is top-notch. A must-see for martial arts fans.My Grade  B "},{"Title":"Great Action","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Well, If you like movies like american ninja  which are made in late 80s then you will like this movie. The story is too intresting. Its about a vietnam veteran who has gone blind in war. Later he learns secrets of the samurais and the people who teach him somehow enhance his hearing abilities. He becomes an excellent fighter and he perceive his surroundings better then a non-blind guy through his super ears. I like this movie since its funny unlike other martial art movies. It has the taste of a jackie chan movie. Rutger Hauer can make fun even in the hardest situations. You will never forget this movie. In the final scene, they bring another samurai sword expert to elminate him. The china guy throws an apple in the air and Rutger  Hauer cuts the apple into pieces without even seeing it. You should see the china guys face after that =) "},{"Title":"Just good entertainment","Date":"26 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Ok... so you don't need to many brain cells to watch this movie but it doesn't pretend to be War and Peace. It is just a pleasant way to spend an hour or so with an unbelieveable theme, lots of good action, great gags and a good guy who sticks it up the bad guys. This movie is so off-beat that it works beautifully as pure entertainment. Highly recommended.  "},{"Title":"I've got shoes just like buddy now!","Date":"18 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie's great because it's one of those ones where a guy gets taught martial arts and all that,and even though he's blind he's the absolute best at it!!! he dresses cool too, with a great pair of Chuck Taylor All-Stars that are Zentastic in their simplicity and functionality. Did you see his katana Sword? Isn't it cool that it's also his blind-man-walking-stick? Where can I get one? MMMMmmmmm!!! My buddies Parris and Pablo also loved it a lot, but with an extra-good reason as they are also blind. "}{"Title":"silly, and lots of fun","Date":"24 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Most everything seen onscreen in this Ninja tale is completely unbelievable. It is also thoroughly entertaining. The things our blind Vietnam hero Parker does here make the exploits of Kane from the tv series Kung Fu look like chump change. Once one has accepted the utter implausibility of it all, one can lean back and enjoy the proceedings. Hauer, an underrated actor who, aside from Blade Runner and The Hitcher has never really gotten a good vehicle for his talents, does good work with the lead role. The kid may perhaps someday learn to act. The villains are completely villainous. But what is it with those weird pupils of Meg Foster's (Billy's mom) eyes? Oedipus Rex this ain't, but it's a good popcorn-burner.  "},{"Title":"A commendable remake of the Zatoichi series","Date":"5 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie is, to those who are familiar, a remake of Shintaro Katsu's formulaic Zatoichi series. A blind swordsman must transport a little boy to his captive father (for Katsu, it was usually *from* a captive *mother*). Along the way, they must repel pursuing villains. An action packed road movie during which the little boy grows up a little and the stone-blind warrior gets in touch with his tender side. The transplantation from medieval Japan to modern America was handled well. A sequel may have worked better because it would not have had to explain how the swordsman lost his vision and such. Too bad a sequel was never made.  "},{"Title":"Adventures of a blind ninja!","Date":"5 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Rutger Hauer must have known that he's not the first person people think of when you mention martial arts, so he deliberately hams up the role of a blind Vietnam Veteran who learned the art of sword play in a remote village. The result is an often funny movie, with some very good sword play in the fight sequences.  The villains are cartoonish and corny, but hey, that's why they're the bad guys!  "},{"Title":"Cartoonish villains in an occasionally funny movie","Date":"31 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I liked the concept of a blind samurai fighter, and the scenario allows for many interesting developments. However, it continues predictably, with villains that are cartoonish both in looks and intelligence.  "},{"Title":"unbiased review of film","Date":"23 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The name of the film can be misleading. It's focused around a blind man who is a martial arts expert. One has to be blind to realize that the sense of hearing becomes sharper. And most of the film uses just this very fact.A film worth watching as it includes good stunts.  "},{"Title":"Blind Fury","Date":"9 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  *spoilers*Blind Fury is a tale of revenge, love, and being a blind, Samurai sword master version of Rutger Hauer.Our tale begins with Rutger Hauer beating up some mexicans and then kidnapping a sexually confused 13 year old boy with a mullet, played by Brandon Call (also known as JT from step by step). The two set out on an adventure of trying to find Brandons drug dealing father while a man who enjoys smoking cigars, being wacked in the crotch by corn, and being very scary follows them. luckily Rutger Hauer has a samurai sword and when he gets angry he gets furious, as well as the fact that he is blind, hence the name blind fury, honestly I've never actually seen this movie but I still recomend it.Highly "},{"Title":"An American version of a Japanese classic","Date":"24 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Go watch the Blind Swordsman movies. Thats what this film is based on. The black and white Blind Swordsman Japanese films are some of the best martial arts films ever made. A lot of humanity involved not just sword play. I don't remember the names of the original actors in the Japanese versions but the movies where well directed and the camera angles were amazing. Many people in America thought these films were comedies but they are not. The Japanese theater hold them very dear. My father remembers watching them when he was working in Hawaii. He remember all the white folks laughing but none of the other patrons were. Then he realized that they took this very seriously. Check it out. they are just as good as this film and you will quickly see the similarities. "},{"Title":"Zatoichi Ripoff","Date":"22 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I have been a fan of the blindswordsman(Zatoichi) films every since the IFC channel began their Samurai Saturday series. The films are poignant and very entertaining with lots of sword action. The star of the series (Shintaro katsu) is chubby and does't fit the hero mold, but he is a great actor. (The 2003 remake of the series is also very good). This film (Blind fury) does have some good action scenes (somehow they seen less violent than in the originals )but the plot is stale and predictable and it is a blatant ripoff of the original-even including the gambling venue. There is also the same need to suspend belief in the abilities of a blind swordsman! Hauer is good in the lead--more in the mold of an athletic hero (an underrated actor in my opinion) but if you're into this genre, see the originals! "},{"Title":"* * OUT OF FIVE","Date":"20 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Rutger Hauer stars as Nick Parker a blind vietnam vet who becomes the guardian of a kid named Billy(Brandon Call) who thugs are trying to kidnap and use him to get the boy's father Frank (Terry O'Quinn) to make drugs for them in this admittedly amusing yet sometimes dull actioner. Hauer works rather well in the role but too much plot gets in the way of the action. The Rutger Hauer VS Sho Kosugi fightscene make it worth a look. "},{"Title":"B-movie fun with Rutger Hauer.","Date":"13 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This movie is a typical 80's B-movie and is one of the better ones.The movie can be seen as utter trash. It has a silly story, bad dialogue, some cheap actors, horrible stereotype villains, A-Team like stunts and horrible 80's music by J. Peter Robinson. This movie will most likely not be liked by the casual viewer but B-movie lovers should really be able to appreciate this movie.It's a good thing that the movie doesn't always takes itself seriously with as a result that there is lot's of comedy fun to enjoy.The end fight is ridiculous as well as entertaining and is a fine and suiting ending for this typical B-movie that is a must see for the B-movie fans but not recommendable for the casual viewer.5/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "}{"Title":"I pray that Rutger has no children...","Date":"5 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Blind Fury is one of those movies that you just want to bash all to hell while screaming but can't because it's too damn unintentionally hilarious!!! It's unbelievably predictable, has some downright abysmal dialog, and the action makes The Matrix actually look like the epitome of action films as it's zealous followers suggest. What we have here is a blind man fighting men with submachine guns, with only a bladed cane to defend himself! It can't get much more ridiculous than that. But that's part of the reason that I actually like the film and couldn't turn it off when it came on. It's morbidly fascinating. The creators get no respect from me, but it makes you wonder just what in the world is going on in the minds of people on the sets of movies like this. They have to know even if just going by the premise of the film itself, that there's no way to pull it off without tons of cheese. If people like that can get jobs in the film industry, I certainly and assuredly can. But if you're like me and are fascinated and appalled by bad movies which in return makes them interesting, then this is a must see!Watch for the part in the casino when they are playing roulette......I think I had an epileptic seizure.  "},{"Title":"One crappy movie about a crime fighting blind vet.","Date":"12 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  A truly unbelievable story about a blind man with extraordinary sensory abilities that allow him to fight crime with a walking stick with spear heads on it. The whole film has cheesy dialogue, stupid fight scenes, no respect for the blind, and untalented actors. If you have a few bucks burning a hole in your pocket and want to laugh your ass off with your friends rent it. If not, dont waste your time on this horribly shot, poorly edited, goofball of a film. "}]