[{"Title":"An excellent movie","Date":"29 December 2001","Score":"104 out of 135 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is extremely well made.  Make sure you get the original director's cut, or Special Edition as they are calling it on the DVD.  It includes the real ending, along with more than 20 minutes of additional footage.  The morons from the studio in Hollywood decided that the public wouldn't want to see a nearly 3-hour underwater adventure, and forced James Cameron to cut it down and change the ending.  The ending the studios insisted on is your typical boring old done-a-million-times happy ending, and does not work.  It betrays the message of the film, and makes it nothing more than a good underwater shoot-em-up.  This movie is much more than that. See the REAL ending to understand why it is so important to this film.  As opposed to the canned studio ending, the REAL one makes you think.  Well, what did you expect?  Hollywood executives make movies for the common herd, they dumb them down to make sure every patron goes away feeling happy.  God forbid that anyone actually may have to think a little.  At the time, despite a few solid hits (such as the original Terminator), James Cameron wasn't enough of a power in La-La land to force the studios to release the movie as he wanted it to be.  After Titanic, they will do whatever he says, so we can now expect some great Cameron films to look forward to, rather than having to wait for the REAL movie to come out years later on a Special Edition DVD. "},{"Title":"Breathtakingly beautiful","Date":"18 April 2005","Score":"89 out of 106 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" When we think about aliens in the movies, I guess everybody immediately thinks about the series of Alien - movies, but there are some other fine examples and The Abyss may well be the best alternative I can come up with. Even though this was made by James Cameron, the same director who gave us Aliens, both movies are very hard to compare.When an American nuclear submarine is attacked during the cold war and crashes, the navy is convinced that it was the work of the Russians. They want to salvage the wreckage as soon as possible, because a storm is coming, but they aren't able to send a diving crew of their own that quickly. That's why they contact a group of workers of a nearby underwater oil rig, who reluctantly accept the job. They are joined by some navy SEALS who will help them to locate and investigate the cause of the crash. But they do not only find the crashed sub, they also find out that there is more down there in the deep than what they had ever expected to see.What I liked so much about this movie was that this time the aliens didn't feel threatening at all. It was something completely different from what we were used to see and it worked perfectly. This was a beautiful, well-crafted movie with some very fine acting and with some excellent special effects. Even though this movie was created in 1989, the computer animations were still marvelous and breathtaking. In fact, this entire movie is breathtaking. It is very touching and powerful at the same time and I'm sure that many people will have a lot of difficulties not to show any emotions while watching it. I give this movie an 8/10. It sure doesn't deserve any less. "},{"Title":"Masterpiece","Date":"13 October 2003","Score":"92 out of 120 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Though I prefer The Terminator and Aliens, this film is James Camerons most artistic film. The visual imagery of this film is stunning, with no half measures taken, it is such a pleasure to watch. The aliens look as beautiful as an alien can do and the underwater scenery is so picturesque that I just wish I could be there.The special effects are stunning. As with a lot of Cameron's hits, this was an innovator in special effects. If it wasn't for this film, films such as The Matrix and Lord of the Rings would not be here or at least would not have been able to express themselves in a visual sense.Cameron is the ultimate director. Although he is a pain to work with, he gets his image across and proves why he is such a hit machine. No one compares to him when it comes to picking a cast. Even though most of this cast were, and still are, unknown, the performances in this are fantastic. I know I always praise him but Michael Biehn as Coffey is one of the best acting performances I have ever seen and the fact that Biehn was not even Oscar nominated is a travesty! He is great to watch as the maniac who is irate and just plain horrible. Ed Harris is on par with his good performances in The Rock and Apollo 13. You just want to be his mate in this movie despite the fact he is another pain (see Rock out takes) which is why him and Cameron have not spoken a word since this film. Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio was a bit of a fad. She didn't last very long being in good films but she is good as the hard nosed estranged wife who near the end, becomes wonderfully vulnerable and loving.Cameron is a great writer and The Abyss, along with The Terminator and Strange Days, shows off his talent to a great extent. As with all of Cameron's Sci-Fi screenplays, behind the technology lies a distinctively human element. This enables The Abyss, despite the extra terrestrial goings on, to approach the audience on their level and suck viewers in to the film. The character of Coffey is a great obstacle character because he is losing his mind and is getting engulfed by paranoia to the point where he can not trust anyone. The way Cameron uses Coffey to build up suspense is very effective and the culmination of this is one of the most frantic underwater chases there will ever be. Spectacular is the only word that comes to mind. The ending of this film has been heavily criticised but this is unfair as it carries a decent message regarding humanity and fits the mood of the film. It may have been slightly rushed but the best bits of the film are all under water anyway.Anyone who likes their special effects, a great story and terrific acting need look no further than The Abyss. The contrast of the breathtaking beauty of the ocean between the claustrophobia of a vessel should be enough to captivate most audiences. A fantastic visionary piece. "},{"Title":"Patience is Required","Date":"2 November 2001","Score":"71 out of 88 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  James Cameron is mostly known for his blockbuster hits like The Terminator(1984), Aliens(1986), Terminator 2Judgement Day(1991), True Lies(1994), and Titanic(1997).  Those films contained fast paced action as well as tense moments of human emotions.  One film by Cameron that doesn't seem to get the same kudos as the films mentioned above is the beautifully crafted, The Abyss(1989).  A more character driven and humanistic film than any of the blockbuster features of James Cameron.  Seeing it in the Special Edition version is the best way because situations and people become filled with more depth.  Low Key epic picture that is driven by the excellent acting of its cast.  Certain scenes like the reviving and Bud's commuication with aliens moments make the film into an interesting constructed vision of human nature.  In some ways The Abyss(1989) follows some ideas that echos The Day the Earth Stood Still(1950).  Especially true in the film's message about the dangers of nuclear weapons.  Michael Biehn perfects his sterotype persona in The Abyss(1989) as the battle and take charged obsessed Lt. Coffey.  Maybe the finest directed feature film James Cameron has put forth.  The Abyss(1989) is way better than the overrated and less than average Titanic(1997).  Minor weakness is that the film at times drags towards the end.  Ed Harris produces a performance of human depth and quality as Virgil Brigman.  Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio as Lindsey Brigman is the perfect counterpart to Ed Harris's Virgil Brigman(which is why the two characters make a good couple).  The Abyss(1989) is a very good Scifi film from the 1980s that is a pleasure both emotionally and visually to experience. "},{"Title":"Superb sci-fi action adventure","Date":"15 January 2005","Score":"66 out of 94 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Abyss is one of the best sci-fi action/adventure movies ever made. Besides the usual ingredients of excitement, characterization and great narrative technique, the movie really scores on the wonder factor. The amazing, jellyfish-like aliens and their manipulation of water... A superb story incorporating the use of a then-recent SFX breakthrough to absolute perfection. A timeless story with great actors, great characters, great emotional substance.The story is fabulous. It is about the very survival of humanity, drawing on that time-honored science fiction trope will we be so stupid and disorganized that we cause our own destruction, or will love and reason prevail, inaugurating a great and harmonious future for our species? In thinly veiled symbol terms, this movie demonstrates how we will reach the brink of destruction due to our own folly, but can be redeemed if we rediscover the love and wonder that we once lost.My rating A clear 10 out of 10.P.S. Coffey's first name is... Hiram?!?! BWAAAH-HA-HA-HA!!!! "},{"Title":"Wow that was a fantastic movie!","Date":"16 December 2003","Score":"41 out of 60 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I like short reviews so I will try to keep this short!Let me begin to tell you this movie is original! Not to many movies are being made that have an underwater setting.The movie is about a drilling team who operate a high tech underwater drilling station deep under the sea. As soon as they become cut off from the surface in a storm near an underwater crevice things are getting a weird.Strange in a way that the movie slowly shows that something scary and silent is there with them on the ocean floor. It builds suspension gradually until it ends within a climatic ending of the movie which I really liked (but some people have other opinions about that!)Acting is great and the story very original with just enough action!**** out of five! "},{"Title":"Underwater Adventure","Date":"2 March 2005","Score":"22 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" James Cameron as a director is a bit of a mixed bag. He has created some of the most phenomenal action showcases cinema has ever seen. His movies make loads of money and create spectacle like no other. He has been part of the Alien quadrilogy, Terminator, and there was that little movie that could about a couple of lovers on a sinking boat. For that little picture he even won an Oscar. However, as a writer he has also given us some patently ridiculous dialogue. It's like he can create some pretty interesting story concepts, generate a great deal of tension between characters and pull of amazing action, but when it gets to finding the heart and soul of a character he pulls out the cheese. It is interesting then that my favorite Cameron movie would be so character driven with only a few moments of grandiose action.The Abyss came out in 1989 with a trimmed down 146 run time. Later when the movie came to video Cameron released his directors adding a significant amount of footage and bringing the time to 171 minutes. Most of this extra footage comes in at the end of the film and stands to clear up some major confusion wrought in the theatrical version. It seems that there are some creates living at the bottom of the ocean and are rather perturbed at humanities prevalence for violence. It seems these creatures (aliens?) can manipulate water and have forced giant tidal waves to start approaching every major port. Humanity is saved when the creatures see the true love between the two main characters. It reminded me of the quote from Genesis where God agrees to save Sodom and Gomorrah if He can find just 10 righteous people. In their case He didn't, and the cities were destroyed by sulfur and fire, but in Cameron's tale it seems that the rekindling of love between Ed Harris and Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio does save humanity.What Cameron does extremely well in this picture is create tension. From the claustrophobic setting of an underwater oil rig to the potential nuclear meltdown each scene slowly tightens the screws of suspense. The cold war plot raging outside of the main action reminded me a lot of 2010. In both pictures the main characters are isolated on vessels (a spaceship on 2010, an underwater oil well in the Abyss) while the USA and Russia bring conflict close to nuclear war back on earth (or above water). In both movies this helps to add tension as it also dates the movies since the cold war is now over.One of my favorite scenes involves the flooding of parts of the rig. Water comes rushing into the rig and several of the characters scurry to make it to safety and close off the doors to isolate the flooding. Ed Harris is saved by his wedding ring. One of the doors automatically starts to close and Harris sticks his hand in to stop the door, which normally would have crushed his hand, but because he still wears the ring his the door does not fully close. This give him enough time to be saved from the flooding waters. There was an earlier scene in which his wife asks him why he still wears the ring since they have separated. When I chose my own wedding ring I opted for a titanium band known for its extra strength. I can't help but think of that scene every time I look at my own ring.Much of the dialogue in the Abyss is of the heavy handed, clichéd variety that Cameron brings to pretty much all of his movies. Some of the extemporaneous characters bring little to the overall movie and help distract the viewer from the main plot. I think Cameron has done a very good job with the two main characters though. Ed Harris does a remarkable job playing his role as 'boss' on the rig while still hackling with his wife. Mastrantonio also does a fine job of portraying the tough as nails Lindsay while still remaining feminine and sympathetic.The directors cut ending is much debated in the online world. While it serves to clarify what was a rather abrupt and confusing ending in the original it also becomes quite preachy and is at a loss for any type of subtlety. Cameron attacks his anti-war message like Ripley against an Alien.Even with some awful dialogue and a preachy ending the Abyss has still managed to be one of my favorite sci-fi movies. James Cameron creates a tension like a master auteur and creates two of his best characters to date. "},{"Title":"ONE OF CAMERON'S BETTER UNSUNG FLICKS","Date":"21 February 2003","Score":"40 out of 62 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  THE ABYSS  DIRECTOR'S CUT (1989) **** Ed Harris, Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio, Michael Biehn, Todd Graff, John Bedford Lloyd, Leo Burmester, Kimberly Scott, Chris Elliott.  Director James Cameron's best work (bar none) and his most complex piece of filmmaking about an oil rig crew led by gruff yet vulnerable Harris and his estranged wife Mastrantonio to head a Navy SEAL expedition to unearth a sunken nuclear sub with some unusual otherworldly presence deep beneath the ocean.   Great ensemble, state-of-the-art special effects (early morphing of the sea alien prior to T2) and unexpected emotional turmoil.  Harris and Mastrantonio are top notch in Tracy/Hepburn mode as is Biehn as the crazed SEAL out to start WW III.  In this extended version the aliens show Harris their plan of action and global warning for Earth to cool it with all the hostility.  --- Personal note I actually cried during the resuscitation sequence of unabashed love sacrifice by Mastrantonio. "},{"Title":"S10 Reviews The Abyss (1989)","Date":"17 April 2005","Score":"28 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Towards the end of the Cold War the USS Montana, a nuclear submarine runs straight into an underwater cliff after an encounter with what they believe was a new beyond state-of-the-art Russian submersible. The Navy dispatches a SEAL team (lead by Michael Biehn) to record and survey the situation and to find some answers. The commission a nearby (or is it hijack?) deep sea oil drilling platform run by the estranged Brigman's, Bud and Linsey (Ed Harris and Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio). During their mission things aren't quite as they seem as they discover that they are not alone deep in The Abyss. On the verge of war topside and below with themselves the SEAL and workers struggle to come to terms with an unbelievable situation that could lead them to a nuclear confrontation.The Abyss is a richly constructed story that puts well thought up and executed characters into a situation that looks to be a schmaltzy, love story set under the sea. The aliens or NTI's pretty much take a backseat to the human element and our old conflicting ways, these NTI's are non-violent and they want to teach us the error of our ways and they mean business (especially in the Special Edition cut). The whole cast does a wonderful job and most of the leads give Oscar-caliber performances. Harris and Mastrantonio do it so well you think their actually married. James Cameron establishes his love for the ocean in The Abyss will fully succeeds on all the technical levels. The production design is amazing with the full-size Deep Core set that was submerged at the bottom of an unused nuclear reactor building. Cameron shows his affinity for technology as the pseudo pod soon championed in the new wave of computer generated imagery. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Epic original sci-fi adventure with a lot of heart, action, suspense, and brains","Date":"5 July 2005","Score":"19 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Abyss is one of my all-time favorite sci-fi films. It mixes hard science with abject fantasy to make moral and philosophical points about the human condition and our place in the universe without the usual clichés. And it does so with good dialog, strong characterization, and intensely emotional acting. Harris and Mastrantonio are absolutely electric together and dominate the screen, but the entire cast deserves plenty of credit. The production itself is mesmerizing despite its vast scale and tastefully used special effects. The film is long, but worth every second of the experience, and the slightly lengthier, more detailed Special Edition version is even better than the original.Ostensibly, this is a film about first contact with non-terrestrial intelligence. But the story allegorically deals with an amazing array of themes common to great dramas - violence, love, capitalism, war, courage and cowardice. The hardest, most obedient soldier in the film, played spectacularly by Michael Biehn, is a coward, and a man who is hopelessly in love with his estranged wife (Harris) turns that love into an act of suicidal heroism which might unintentionally save the world. And yet nothing is exactly as it seems to be, and there are really no spoilers in this review. There are so many subtle and sensitively developed themes in this film that it is hard to imagine a more epically human drama in the sci-fi genre. Even so, this is a film which entertains at every level, and will satisfy the action fan as much as the wannabe film critic. ;-) Most of the film takes place on an experimental submarine drilling platform owned by a petroleum company. A nuclear sub has been lost in the abyss - a subduction trench near the Caiman Islands - after encountering an impossibly fast object. Soon, the US military commandeers the platform and its command ship - The Benthic Explorer - to attempt a rescue mission. As everything begins to go wrong, and the encounters with strange phenomena continue, the Navy SEAL in charge of the rescue attempt begins to crack. Meanwhile, on the surface, accusations concerning the sub are escalating between the USSR and USA, and nuclear war seems immanent. This describes just a small segment of the deliciously complex plot that unfolds in The Abyss. You'll have to see it to enjoy the rest. "}{"Title":"One of the greatest films of all time.","Date":"1 June 2001","Score":"74 out of 134 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The special edition of this movie must rate as one of the best movies ever made.Everything is present in it's correct quantities Action Romance Adventure Sci-fi Black ComedyThis film is head and shoulders above every other film because of it's attention to detail and the excitement and drama it deliversThis is a DVD must have. "},{"Title":"These guys are about as much fun as a tax audit.","Date":"29 April 2005","Score":"38 out of 64 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Abyss was a movie of destiny. First off, this movie either began or was the result of a lifetime obsession James Cameron has the ocean (see later Titanic and his IMAX deep sea movies). The Abyss is also full of echos of claustrophobic thriller/adventure movie Alien, in which Cameron directed the sequel. So combining one of Cameron's old movies with his new obsession, we get The Abyss, a solid sci-fi thriller starring Ed Harris and Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio. Ed Harris plays Bud, the head of an undersea oil rig where very little actually happens and the people on the rig are only there in case something goes wrong. Well, wouldn't you know it, but an American nuclear submarine patrolling the US coast near the oil rig suddenly sinks, killing the sailors on board. The Americans suspect it's the Soviets, but we know better. Something pink and glowing does something to the submarine causing it to sink. A team of Navy seals, ferried down to the rig by Bud's ex-wife Lindsey (Mastrantonio), boards the oil rig and uses it as a command base for their mission to recover the submarine. And that is when the fun begins. Of course a hurricane has to enter into the plot, in movies like this, there is always a hurricane, but beyond, The Abyss is a solid sci-fi thriller, where the oil rig becomes a character in the movie. Much like the Nostromo in Alien or The Discovery in 2001, the tight spaces adds flavor to the movie, bringing the setting in as another character of the movie. The special effects were groundbreaking at the time and hold up well today. The scene of a column of water snaking its way through the oil rig still creeps me out to this day. "},{"Title":"Good Sci-Fi Flick","Date":"31 December 2003","Score":"18 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I've never really heard of The Abyss except in Fox DVD commercials.  When it came out, I was only 8 and not into sci-fi movies that weren't titled Star Wars.  However, now I decided to check it out and was quite pleased with this solid sci-fi movie.At first, I wasn't quite sure why this was considered sci-fi.  It seemed pretty normal with the sinking of a nuclear sub and the hiring of an oil crew to save it.  It wasn't for a while till we really got to meet the extraterrestrial creatures.  The special effects for representing these characters were quite good, and I especially liked the water creature that toured around the rescue vessel.  It's also neat to see that effect inspire a similar one used in Terminator 2.As I said, the story took a little while to gain steam, but it was pretty interesting from then on.  The acting was good too, most notably by Ed Harris and Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio.  The other actors didn't do anything really extraordinary but serve as solid supporting characters.Overall, I wouldn't say The Abyss is the best sci-fi movie out there or that it will dethrone Star Wars anytime soon, but rather it's a solid addition for any sci-fi fan's collection.My IMDb Rating 8/10.  My Yahoo! Grade B+ (Memorable) "},{"Title":"Enjoyable hokum (spoilers throughout)","Date":"10 March 2006","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I wouldn't recommend watching the Theatrical Cut of The Abyss. It's a decent film but the ending is so butchered that it has you wondering what the hell happened. It just doesn't make any sense. However, the ending to the Special Edition isn't perfect either. It clears things up, it tells you why there are these florescent aliens swimming about, but in the extended edition they're less likable - in the original cut Bud (Ed Harris) disarms a nuclear warhead, is saved by aliens and then meets them for about two seconds before being taken back to the surface; it's nonsensical but at least the aliens seem helpful and friendly. In the Special Edition, though, you see that these aliens are on the brink of destroying the world. They can control the waves so they're going to flood everything. And when Bud asks why they're going to do this they show lots of shots of nuclear bombs going off on some watery video screen. Here they seem a bit preachy and just a little bit psychotic. But then inspired by Bud's love for his wife they change their mind and the waves dissipate. The aquatic nutballs realise that we're not all bad and that there's no need for watery genocide. Suddenly they're a bunch of extraterrestrial hippies.But although the message of the Special Edition is pap in the extreme (war is bad, okay? Why can't we all just get along?), it's at least an acceptable resolution. You're not left scratching your head.But the aliens are perhaps one of the least satisfactory aspects of the film. In parts the film becomes Close Encounters underwater, yet the wide-eyed wonder is just a little bit cornier than it should be. Much more successful is the Cold War paranoia and the working class banter amongst the characters. Cameron is no Spielberg.For me, the most enjoyable parts of the film are those dealing with Coffey (Michael Biehn). He's a Navy Seal who has to hitch a ride on Bud's underwater drilling platform to locate a sunken nuclear sub. At the beginning his mission is just to look for survivors, but when the aliens show up he thinks they're Russians. Cue psychosis.The progression from normality to lunacy isn't exactly handled with subtlety (Coffey goes mad almost instantly; a reaction to being so deep underwater), but it's fun. One of my favourite bits is when the divers are talking and Coffey is discretely cutting his arm under the table. Mental just doesn't describe him adequately. And I also like it when the divers confront him after he brings a nuclear warhead onto the rig. He says something about them doing an 'about-face', but Biehn delivers the line superbly; he hisses it like a snake. And then once they leave you see that he's been holding a gun behind his back all the time. Again he's just completely lost the plot. But what makes him such a good character is that he doesn't think he's mad. He thinks what he's doing is for everyone's good; he thinks there are commies down there. So as dangerous and crazy as he is, he ends up being something of a pathetic figure. Indeed, even his death isn't cause for celebration. After an excellent submarine chase he falls down into the abyss and dies when the sub cracks under the pressure. Soldier boy just couldn't take the strain.But although Coffey is the most fun character (if fun is the correct word), Ed Harris is the person who makes the film work. You can feed him the corniest lines and he'll somehow make them seem genuine. And he'll give them a ring of truth because he's so damn intense. Just take the resuscitation scene. It's silly in the extreme. Bud's wife drowns after the chase with Coffey and Bud then takes her back to the rig. He then resuscitates her. It really shouldn't work, and we've seen so many resuscitation scenes that they're clichéd beyond belief, but Harris jumps into the scene with such vigour that it ends up being one of the best scenes in the film. He gives CPR like a madman and yells Fight! at the top of his lungs before slapping his wife across the face. It's pretty hardcore. And then when his wife wakes up (after an interminable length of time), a shaking of the head, which would be the normal reaction, is replaced by a goofy grin.And credit also has to go to Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio as Bud's wife Lindsey. She gives an excellent performance and she joins Ripley and Sarah Connor as female characters that are genuinely tough. These days there are tons of annoying lipstick heroines that are supposed to be 'empowered' &#150; women who can fire over-sized guns and 'kick ass'. But they're usually anorexic models with balloon tits; they're about as tough as a glass of water. But Cameron has a habit of creating genuinely tough female characters, ones that feel like the real deal.However, as good as Harris, Biehn and Mastrantonio are, the rest of the cast are far from stellar. In fact, some of the acting is downright dire. But it's weird, although there's some cringeworthy Oh my god! moments, and although there's some unconvincing crying and some bad line delivery, there's genuine chemistry between the actors which makes up for some of the shortcomings when it comes to craft.But to be fair, the bad acting isn't limited to the supporting cast. Mastrantonio suffers in the scene where she has to talk to Bud as he's journeying down the abyss to disarm the nuke. But then again, the script doesn't help her much. She has to talk some nonsense about candles. However, that's Cameron for you. He's a master at action but an amateur at emotions. Just watch Titanic for another lesson. "},{"Title":"Massively over-rated nonsense","Date":"3 March 2010","Score":"17 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I watched this movie based primarily on my love for other Cameron movies and the mostly highly positive reviews here. What a mistake! This movie is deeply, deeply flawed, both as science fiction and as a matter of film-making. It suffers from many of the worst clichés of 1980s American films, and displays none of the sense of atmosphere, imagination and style which are present in Cameron's best work. I find it almost unbelievable that he followed the amazing Aliens with this movie.So what are the problems? First, the plot. It is clichéd, silly, and resolves with a laughable deus ex machina. Like many a poor action/sci-fi movie, it relies almost entirely on coincidence and contrivance to develop the story, rather than being driven by strong characters with believable motivations. For example, we are presented with a series of pathetically derivative stories - the estranged husband and wife who we know are going to get back together from the first second; the psycho, chain of command-loving military guy; the rag-tag bunch of lovable tech specialists who find their beloved undersea rig taken out of their hands; and on and on. Characters live or die based on unlikely coincidences, the worst of which is undoubtedly Ed Harris' character being saved by his wedding ring, which he never takes off - symbolism doesn't get much more obvious or ridiculous. The main action sequence, an underwater sub-fight, drags on and on for no real reason. Nothing here is remotely new or interesting. Not content with that though, we also have man's folly with nuclear weapons and is man inherently good or evil? thrown in for good measure. Ultimately we get a preachy, silly ending which gives virtually no resolution to those questions - the characters learn nothing, except that if we're naughty the aliens are going to drown us all.Second, the characters. They are just totally implausible. In Aliens Cameron gave us a more believable bunch of characters, despite the fact that they were billions of miles away and hundreds of years into the future. Here they are just clichéd, boring, unappealing and predictable. The 'lovable' undersea cowboys talk in ridiculous slang and catchphrases. The military guys (perhaps presaging Avatar) are robotic and wholly defined by crew cuts and personal aggression. Of course, there is the 'crazy' guy who no-one takes seriously but who turns out to be right, the cold-but-sexy woman who knows how to take control, even a sassy black chick. It's all so predictable, and there are no surprises at all.Thirdly, as a matter of science fiction, this movie is an epic failure. We learn little to nothing about the science allegedly involved. The undersea creatures display no characteristics which reflect their environment (why would they have technology to control water through the air when they live entirely UNDER water?). The physics on display is awful (a huge station presumably weighing hundreds of tonnes is rapidly dragged by the weight of a small crane, for example). Even the science of deep sea diving is largely ignored - things crack and crumple when it is convenient from a plot perspective, but other times the characters and equipment seem to be immune to the effects of being deep underwater. Where, incidentally, there is no life, and the water is a pleasant, clear aquamarine colour.Fourthly, and most importantly, this movie is simply boring. When you have a silly plot and characters who are far from engaging, the last thing you should do is have a film which drags on and on and on, but that is precisely what this one does.A word about the special effects - they are OK by 1989 standards, but pretty awful by contemporary standards. The undersea creatures look like a bad children's cartoon, and the much celebrated water effects definitely show their age. Much more impressive are the underwater and flooding scenes, but even these are fairly average by current standards.This movie seems to hint at what was eventually going to be done much better in Avatar (right down to the fluro blue aliens). Although Avatar repeats some of the mistakes listed above, it is a far more coherent and, more importantly, engaging film. This film has plenty of defenders, but the truth is that even amongst Cameron's own body work there are many films which are far, far better than this. I refuse to believe anyone can watch Aliens and then watch The Abyss and come away thinking that this film is even half as good. "},{"Title":"There's a phenomenally original thriller stuck somewhere inside this unconvincing Sci-Fi epic.","Date":"29 October 2003","Score":"15 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" The movie I'm talking about is about the absolute deepest depths of the ocean, with pressures so enormous that a tank would be crushed like a soda can. This is distinctly different from other undersea dramas which just deal with strange and dangerous flora and fauna a few metres below the surface; here the danger is from the power of the water itself.In 1969 Neil Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin landed and walked on the moon, a different planetary body from the one on which we live, a quarter of a million miles away. Over the next three years 10 more men walked on the Moon.Further back, though, in 1960, Piccard and Walsh reached the deepest part of the deepest ocean, the Marianas Trench in the Pacific - a total depth of 35,810 feet (or less than seven miles.) Despite the fact that the distance travelled was 0.00003 as far, this feat has never been remotely equalled in 43 years. And they found life down there. This is a truly alien environment.Given a background in which the defining danger is water pressure and the sometimes surprising consequences of that - like the fact that a fall off a cliff deep underwater is just as dangerous as one above the surface - a normal contemporary human plot about the dangers of nuclear weapons in the wrong hands makes a truly original thriller.Unfortunately, Jim Cameron had new toys to play with, to whit the CGI optical effects system, which necessitated the creation of alien intelligence in the bottom of the ocean which was completely superfluous in the context of the genuinely strange worlds available home grown by our own planet. The result was a sub-par touchy-feely aliens tell us peace is better than war plot which deadens the effect of the entire movie. Instead of assuming that aliens are superior to us in every way (as every other alien movie does), why not depict the difficulties any creature used to living at such a depth, would have with our measly 15lb/in² atmosphere. But instead the aliens have no difficulty in manipulating water against gravity at our atmospheric pressure, which would be rather like us being able to carve a face in a soap bubble.All this movie needed was a human ending, as opposed to an alien one, and it would have been simple to cut all the alien scenes out and make a completely different (and far more satisfying) movie. "},{"Title":"Typical Cameron Sleazeballs","Date":"17 November 2006","Score":"17 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" If profane, stupid dialog doesn't bother you, this is a very interesting and unique film. Unfortunately, its a James Cameron-directed movie which means you get a lot of disgusting, foul-mouthed characters as the leads - people you are supposed to like. In here, it's Elisabeth Mastrantonio and Ed Harris, who are no strangers to play hard, profane people. They spend most of the moving yelling at each other. This romance is so stupid it's insulting, as is the ridiculous New Age-alien visitors ending.The good news, in addition to the unique story, was the special-effects. I'm not sure how it looks now but 15 years ago this was a real eye-opener. Now, if someone else - someone with more class and morals than Cameron - could have written the script, this might have been a great film. The same thing applies to Cameron's Titantic, another movie where unlikeable lead characters ruined what good have been an excellent adventure movie. "},{"Title":"Unfortunate...","Date":"5 July 2003","Score":"18 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie was, and I say this with all due respect to James Cameron, terrible. The script should never have made it out of Cameron's office alive after he wrote it;let alone have been made into a movie. The premise is what first got me interested (An American Nuclear sub goes down with all hands and when some underwater-Oil-drillers try to rescue them, they discover something in The Abyss...); but that only got me twenty minutes into the movie, at which point, I realized I had some TWO AND A HALF HOURS to go. (unfortunately, I watched the long-version.)There were three problems with this movieFirstly, it attempted to be character-driven, but the actors kept changing how they played the parts every ten-or-so minutes (Especially Mary Elizabeth Whatever-her-last-name-is)Secondly, I felt it showed what was in The Abyss too early, and once I saw it, I was mad!Thirdly, the ending was outrageously stupid. (Although I won't give it away, you can see for yourself.)Despite these problems, the film did have a few genuine moments of thrill and suspense. See it if you must, but don't expect too much. "},{"Title":"Zzzzzzzzzzzzz","Date":"13 December 2007","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Just watched this film for the first time in years. Wow, is it a yawner. The characters lack dimension entirely--we're supposed to buy into a deep love between the two main characters just because they swoon at each other a lot? Secondly, it's so cliché. What saves the world? The hero calling a woman his wife. Note the giant zoom in on the word wife as it's projected onto the wall of water. Way to reinforce convention--on one hand it's nice to see a film reinforce relationships, but on another, it's just another boring nondescript pairing. I get that the aliens were impressed that he'd give himself a one way ticket into the abyss to deactivate the bomb, but really, isn't that a bit pat? And how many other thousand times have we seen this story done better and with more depth of feeling? This movie left me as cold as the water it's submerged in. "},{"Title":"Kind of boring","Date":"7 January 2012","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Mr. Cameron is fond of portraying military people as somehow vacuous and monstrous at the same time, as in Avatar, where he drives the point home with a vengeance. He gets another golden opportunity at military-bashing here, and his fans probably won't be disappointed. I, for one, got tired very quickly of the characters constantly yelling at and bickering with each other. None of them are particularly likable, especially the female lead. The constant efforts by the female lead's ex to make her like him again grow equally tiresome. As a subplot his obsession ends up overshadowing the rest of the story-line. The special effects in this film received a lot of critical praise, but by now they look a bit dated and predictable. Worse yet, they're simply too cutesy to be taken seriously. There were times when I thought I detected the telltale influence of Spielberg in this movie -- and I don't mean that as a compliment. "}{"Title":"What's going on?","Date":"19 November 1999","Score":"10 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  You know, James Cameron supposedly started writing the script for The Abyss when he was 15 or so. Director's cut or studio version, I find it dull and uninteresting. If Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio's character is such a b**ch then why doesn't she ever act like it? Why do the under sea creatures suddenly change their minds in the director's cut? And spectacular the CGI effects and action sequences are, these a film doth not make. "},{"Title":"Special Edition is a must","Date":"8 February 2006","Score":"12 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" In it's original form The Abyss is an absolutely brilliant film. I cannot begin to explain how different my viewing experience of the Special edition was from the severely truncated theatrical version. To sum it up, the special edition is a richly thematic and far more resonant experience, the difference between a good movie and a truly great film. Perhaps Cameron spends too much time in the beginning of the picture explaining the technology and how it works but I believe that knowledge only helps one immerse themselves into the world of the characters. The Abyss is actually three films; a technological thriller, a love story, and a lesson in basic morality. This is definitely a movie that warrants your full attention since the details are so vastly important to the whole that if you were to step out for five minutes (which no one should ever do!) you would become completely lost. This film has some of the most amazing scenes I have ever seen in film, and they are quite diverse. One would have to be the scene where Linsday chooses to drown and be taken back to the rig by Virgil...the real human element of that scene that struck me was when the water level started to rise over her neck, she doubts that it was a good idea. I can feel her fear as she desperately tries to keep her head above the rising water. Immediately following is the scene where Virgil revives Lindsay, screaming for her to fight while everyone else thinks he is crazy for trying to bring back what appears to be Linsday's corpse. That entire scene is so gut wrenchingly emotional that it's a good thing that there are a few quiet scenes afterward...we need to catch our breath, but then this also has to do with Cameron's storytelling, he knows we do too. The biggest moments of goose bump inducing awe that this film gave me came only from the special edition...the whole reason for the NTI's being there is explained and the reason they didn't go through with using the wave to wipe out mankind was because of Bud's own self sacrifice. It's hard to comment on a movie you love without getting incoherently jumbled, but this one will always be special to me because it does one thing that many films these days do not it makes me feel something. "},{"Title":"Close encounters of the wet kind","Date":"12 December 2006","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Yesterday evening, I watched this movie (the extended version) for the first time. I was expecting some wonderful underwater photography, and a lot of chills and thrills. In hindsight, I must say that The cinematography is actually breathtaking! The sets are great! (claustrophobic, dirty, dark, complex). The SFX are good, even by today's standards. Harris' and Biehn's acting was very good, but all the other characters (including that terrible woman) were only by-standers. However, the SCRIPT is, uhm, well, ridiculous. First of all, it's obviously a rip-off from several earlier movies, like (e.g.) Close Encounters of the Third Kind and The Day the Earth Stood Still. What's worse It's completely absurd. Who in the world would believe this stuff A Navy SEAL gets psychotic and tries to nuke some aliens, who are residing in an underwater trench, by using a nuclear warhead from a submarine that was sunk by those very aliens, whom he - the navy seal - mistakes for the Russians????I actually found the first 50-60 minutes very exciting (most of all the exploration of the submarine). Great stuff ! But when the SEALS started to pursue their own secret mission I quit. I watched the rest of the movie somewhere in between amazement ('cause of sets, cinematography and SFX), and amusement ('cause of the laughable story). It's hard to feel thrilled by something that you know would never be remotely possible. Contact by Robert Zemeckis was much more believable - and thus, much more involving. What also sucked was the climax close to the ending Monster waves, summoned by the aliens to intimidate and impress the earthlings (cf. The Day the Earth Stood Still), are stopped just before destroying everything. And all the people in the world (e.g. on the beach) cheer, applaud and probably live happily ever after. There comes a time in each man's life when he can't even believe his own eyes (Plan 9 from outer space). My such moment was when I watched the ending of this movie. Finally, the aliens' mother ship (cf. Close Encounters) looked as if Tron had tried to bake a pancake with handles (sic). Despite these major flaws, I give The Abyss a 7, because of the many strengths it also has. "},{"Title":"Serious action AND a spiritual message in the same movie? You betcha!","Date":"14 February 2004","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  First things first this review refers to the extended director's cut, NOT the stripped-down original theatrical release!Still, I have to admit that the original theatrical release worked remarkably well for me just as a plain action movie back in 1989 (along the lines of Die Hard being a very well-done action movie, and just that).But when I finally saw James Cameron's director's cut, I was pretty much blown away by this great movie, and it went from being among, say, my 100 favorites movies of all time, right into my personal top ten.Why? Because it combines the intensity of a great action movie with a wonderful spiritual message without getting preachy.And yes it is early evidence that James Cameron just has a thing for deep blue under-water stuff that led him to creating the biggest box office success of all times (Titanic), and some more great bottom of the ocean films such as Ghosts of the Abyss (there's that Abyss thing, again, and filmed in 3D, nothing less).So, what's going to be next? Total Abyss 3D? "},{"Title":"Deeply Amazing","Date":"9 September 2006","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Dear Readers,One of my favorite Sci-Fi films is The Abyss, a deep water action/adventure film by the master of Science Fiction, James Cameron. A stunning thriller filmed almost entirely underwater and one of the first films to feature CGI effects. But it's not the special effects that define this film. It's the plot, the script, the characters, and the direction.The Abyss begins with a US Nuclear Submarine encountering an anomaly in the ocean, causing them to crash into a trench at the bottom of the ocean. The US Navy is powerless to reach them because of an incoming Hurricane. So instead they hire a group of underwater oil miners led by Virgil 'Bud' Brigman. Brigman's soon-to-be-ex-wife, Lindsay, infuriated that her underwater oil rig is being used for a military operation, tags along with a group of Navy SEALS led by the cold Lieutenant Coffey. As they investigate the Sub wreckage, the Divers and the SEALS encounter a power living down in the Abyss...A power with the ability to save the world or destroy it.James Cameron outdoes himself with this underwater thriller and so does the cast. You get inside each of the characters heads and see each their points of view. Ed Harris plays his role quietly and coolly, playing a man who's become bitter from losing his wife and questioning whether there is life at the bottom of the ocean. Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio is awesome as Lindsay Brigman, a dedicated engineer and scientist determined to prove that the life at the bottom of the Abyss is not a threat to mankind. Michael Biehn steals the show, though, as the slowly-going-insane Lieutenant Coffey. Not since watching Platoon have I seen such insanity in a man. Gone is the cool charming character of Kyle Reese and instead is a man who will kill anything that threatens his mission.Point blank Watch this film.Signed, The Constant DVD Collector, Matt MacleodParental Warning There's some mild swearing and tense moments, but there's also a scene of nudity as well. I recommend not letting your kids see this if they're under teenage years. You be the judge. "},{"Title":"Eye-Popping Underwater Science-Fiction Epic","Date":"1 May 2005","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" When a US nuclear submarine crashes mysteriously in the ocean, the crew of a nearby prototype submersible oil-drilling rig, along with a specialist Navy team, are asked to search for survivors. The investigation finds no obvious cause for the wreck but when inexplicable underwater phenomena start to occur, tensions run high between the riggers and the marines. Is there some military power at work, or is some much more powerful natural force behind events ...This is without a doubt the most amazing undersea movie ever made - getting on for half of the running time takes place underwater, and visually it is simply spectacular. By all accounts it was a horrific ordeal to make for everyone who worked on it and the technical complexities were enormous (much of the diving gear, vehicles and camera equipment were new designs that had never been used before), but none of this shows on screen - what remains is a majestic and powerful undersea science-fiction epic with amazing action scenes and terrific, passionate performances. Harris as the honest-Joe down-to-earth crew chief Bud is the absolute core of the movie, and his fine performance gives it the solid centre from which the fantasy can flow, but the support cast are equally impressive, particularly the scene-stealing Graff, and Biehn as the slowly cracking-up Lieutenant Coffey. Visually the film is a sheer delight from start to finish; Leslie Dilley and Ron Cobb's incredible sets for the rig make it seem astonishingly real (the main set was built in the tank of a disused nuclear power plant in South Carolina), Mikael Salomon and Al Giddings' photography is stunning and the Oscar-winning visual effects are mesmerising, particularly the pseudopod/water-tentacle sequence, which was the first modern-day computer-generated digital matte sequence (a style which has now sadly superseded virtually all other types of visual effects). The movie has so many memorable scenes it's hard to pick favourites, but I particularly like the crane-collapsing sequence, the spine-tingling search of the sunken sub and the euphoric swim over the alien city. The evocative choral score by the talented Alan Silvestri is arguably his best work and adds immeasurably to the movie's atmosphere. This review is of the original 145-minute theatrical release; the film was subsequently re-released on video in a 169-minute version which has some interesting but not very crucial extra footage and plot development. This can never be stated enough; movies are about images, and the more fantastic and imaginative the pictures are, the richer the movie. The Abyss may have been horrible to make, but as a piece of pure cinema it is simply dazzling. Forget the overblown Titanic, this is Cameron's most audacious, thrilling and best movie. "},{"Title":"Director's cut is a great cinematic experience","Date":"16 February 2004","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I really enjoyed the theatrical version of this film when it first came to home video. I then saw the director's cut of the film and felt that an entertaining movie became a fantastic one. In the theatrical version it seemed as though the aliens kind of popped up at the end to save Ed Harris.  The director's cut is by far a much better viewing experience because it gives more depth and reasoning for why the aliens are there and what there purpose is.   It has some underlying messages in the film about the dangers of nuclear war, but that was seen in many of James Cameron's flicks from the original Terminator thru True Lies.  Some of the characters are a little annoying at times, but I felt The Abyss is a great roller coaster ride with its action sequences.  The movie also did a great job in making the viewer claustrophobic at times, especially in the diving scenes aboard the sunken sub.  It amazes me that there is some negative feedback that appears on the IMDB regarding this film. I sit there thinking to myself&#133;what film did that person watch? You only have to watch the documentary, Under Pressure Making The Abyss, to have respect for the finished product, and an all-new respect if you have seen the film already.  Don't listen to the negative feedback about The Abyss.  Decide for your self by watching the director's cut today.  It is a great cinematic viewing experience. "},{"Title":"i want to see more films that explore the underwater!","Date":"30 January 2004","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  what a good movie! i put on the Special Edition - first time seeing the film - and i had no idea what to expect. i had no idea i was in for such breathtaking imagery! and talk about drama! i was laughing with them all when they brought Lyndsey back to life. and the underwater city almost brought me to tears. a must-see! "},{"Title":"An underwater adventure that is among the greatest......","Date":"17 April 2009","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Abyss was the first underwater film by film-making genius James Cameron. In less than 10 years after The Abyss, Titanic came and swept the Oscars and the box-office with ease. And then in the 00's, he made a few underwater documentaries, but still has yet to make a real film (which he will, in 2009 with Avatar).And The Abyss is freaking excellent, and it's got everything, acting for the realism lovers, a story for the film lovers and special effects for the action/sci-fi lovers.It tells the story of a diving team that are forced by the marines to search for a missing nuclear submarine that was sunk by an extra-terrestrial alien species. Once the Navy SEALS reach down to the diving team, the leader of the SEALS starts to become more and more paranoid and schizophrenic and hatches a plan to steal a nuclear warhead and use it on the aliens while believing it to be the Russians. And also the head of the diving team also has to go on this mission while dealing with his ex-wife.James Cameron has always been known for giving his characters very human personalities and characteristics. And there's this one scene at the beginning when the whole diving team are all singing along to a song on the radio which shows off their goofiness and the human nature that we all have.Goddammit, you bitch! You never backed away from anything in your life! Now fight!-Bud Brigman Ed Harris who plays as the central character Virgil Bud Brigman, is at his best. Bud is basically, as i said before, a very human and vulnerable character, and although he frequently makes jokes and taunts his soon-to-be ex-wife, Lindsey (Mary Mastrantonio). But deep inside, he's very troubled and still loves his wife which is evident when he throws his wedding ring into the toilet and then goes through the trouble to get it back. Also, after the film's 2nd hour, he tries to resuscitate his wife in the one of the best scenes of the movie, you can totally see Harris' acting skill in there. And Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio is excellent as Bud's wife and displays the right emotions at the right time, like when she and Bud start to re-connect towards the end and when he about thousands of feet below her.It went for the warhead, and they think it's cute.-Hiram CoffeyAnother high-point performance is Michael Biehn as the insane Hiram Coffey. Everything Biehn does in here justifies the claim that he should've gotten an Oscar for this. As soon as Coffey enters the rig, you can tell that there's something about him that is sinister and when his hand starts shaking, you feel like that theory is proved correct. It is to this day, the most realistic portrayal of a delusional man suffering from pressure-induced paranoia, and I've never seen an actor perform like that in my life. And we all must be wondering why Biehn never got the recognition he deserved.And the other supporting actors are totally memorable and likable because of their humanity, and that's what James Cameron does best. And after seeing this movie you can remember all their names right off the bat Hippy, Catfish, One-Night and Jammer. And they each got their gimmicks, like Hippy with his pet white rat and Catfish with his fist that used to be called The Hammer. And like in Predator and Aliens, The Abyss makes you care about and wanna see an individual movie on each character to show you more of him/her. But the world ain't perfect, so we may never get to see that happen.The special effects were great and totally ahead of its time, and the water tentacle completely blew me away and I wonder how they did that since modern film studios can't do that if their life depended on it. And I think that tentacle was probably the inspiration for the boss Morpha in that Legend of Zelda game. The aliens and the mother-ship were very well-done and Cameron would only get better with the special effects in Terminator 2.Also, Cameron's directing shows us a story about the survival of humanity and how we might be destroying ourselves. And that's what the aliens show Bud at the end when gets onto their ship. And they plan on sending a massive tidal wave to wipe everyone out. But after seeing Bud's message to wife, they realize that not all humans deserve to die, so they spare them.And as for the adrenaline rushes, you're gonna be relying on the thrills mostly. The part when the rig gets damaged and a few people drown is one of the best edited and one of the most suspense filled sequences ever. And when Brigman and Coffey face off in a brief fight scene, basically has James Cameron written all over it. And the sub chase is another one worth mentioning.The Abyss is just another one of the greats that James Cameron has to offer, and he is only gonna be making more in the future. "},{"Title":"Buy one get one free - not a good idea!","Date":"8 February 2004","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Abyss is very much two separate films in one. It's almost as if the producers got scared and tacked on a sci-fi sub plot to make sure all of James Camerons usual fans turned up at the cinema, and I think this is the movies downfall.Film A is a brilliant tale of a lost nuclear sub, a civilian diving team, a squad of Navy Seals charged with recovering the sub and the seals seriously deranged commander (brilliantly played by Michael Biehn, a very underrated actor). It has tension, incident and characters we grow to care about put into danger. In short, a very good film!Film B is Sci-fi hocum, underwater lost cities, big Close Encounters style space ships and some exceptional CGI effects. Oh yes, and the same characters as film A!Film B doesn't really kick off until the close of the Navy Seals storyline - just about the point in this long films running time that you're bum is starting to ache and you're seriously regretting that large cola you bought. It's not that either part is BAD, it's just that they don't gel together at all and you leave the cinema with the feeling that something somewhere is wrong. Unsatisfying is sadly the appropriate word. "}{"Title":"Grand","Date":"20 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Abyss is a grand epic of a movie from movie making genius James Cameron. Though this isn't Cameron's best (I would say Titanic and Aliens are his best) it definitely isn't his worst. The main problem with this film is its length - it clocks in at 146 minutes (and a whopping 171 minutes for the special edition!) which makes it hard to watch without at least one bathroom break. I very much enjoyed the performances by the superb actors Ed Harris and Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio, whose character interactions are quite heartfelt especially near the end. And talking about the ending, it's one of the best climaxes I have ever seen (won't give it away but I LOVED it!). And special mention goes to Alan Silvestri for his superb score. A solid 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"The most underrated Cameron movie ever. Period.","Date":"5 August 2004","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I just wanted to say that no matter what anybody else thinks, this movie is still one of the most underrated James Cameron films out there. Everybody loves Titanic and everybody loves Terminator 1 and 2, but this movie speaks to us on a totally different level. It's a 171 min (special edition) motion painting. There is so much to love about this movie. The action sequences, the variety of characters, the pod chase and fight, the alien encounters, and the fact that it's set in the most unstable environment imaginable.First, Alan Silvestri's score is compelling and eerie, only adding to the amazing visuals we see on-screen. Ed Harris is the main character and stands out as the leader of the oil crew and he carries this movie right to the end. Michael Biehn should have won an Oscar for his absolutely wicked portrayal as the Navy Seal who gets mentally sick and winds up being the bad guy, unintentionally. He nailed that role perfectly. And for James Cameron, his movies are like algebra is to math. His vision of this movie is displayed wonderfully on screen and everything you see has been well mapped out. From camera movement to sound to lighting, he is the jack of all trades on the movie set. And there is nothing in this movie that doesn't have the 'official' James Cameron stamp on it. Apparently, this IS James Cameron's most favorite movie that he's made. Don't quote me on that, but it's just what I've heard. So, now that you've read what I've had to say about the most underrated James Cameron movie ever, why aren't you in front of your TV seeing if what I've had to say is true. Either, A You've seen it and don't care for it. Or B Hopefully you still have to go rent it from the video store. Enjoy.  "},{"Title":"My personal favorite","Date":"2 July 2004","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  As a huge movie fan people attend to ask me my favorite movie. It's difficult to answer because there are so many excellent movies but if I'm forced to name one I always say Abyss. Oh yes, Abyss is the movie what includes all the major parts what makes a great film for me. It's sci-fi, it's action, it make you cry and it's 100% James Cameron qualityMovie is about underwater oil workers which are involved in a nuclear sub conflict what got something to do with extra-terrestrial life forms.  The best part in the movie, (in every James Cameron movie) is that even the plot is pure sci-fi it has been made so well that it doesn't feel supernatural at all. Master film `tweaker' Cameron has made the film with such a focused way that you can almost feel yourself diving with the crew. Part of the Cameron movie realism is that he tries to shoot everything in real places like in Abyss the actors were acting in a underwater station what was really put underwater. They were using the liquid oxygen for real and diving without any gear if that was necessary. No doubt that some actors don't want to work with Cameron anymore but the main thing is that the movies are great!Abyss is extremely fluent movie. Plot has action and drama well balanced with fancy twists. Cutting is made with extra care giving the film a perfect mood and pace and actors are giving their best to make believable scenes. Music is powerful and when needed very beautiful as well.  Cameron has taken everything out from the water element and the shots underwater are just overwhelming.I suggested everybody to watch the director's cut of the film witch I prefer to be the one and only version having included over 30 minutes extra material compared to the theater version. In dir. Cut you'll find plenty little details and answers what are left outside of the `normal version'. This is the movie what I'll watch at least one time in a year and every time I'm surprised of its perfection. Simply the Best!  "},{"Title":"Great underwater drama plus light science fiction","Date":"14 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  James Cameron did an excellent job with this movie.  (That's par for him, of course.)  Warning minor spoilers... I can never get past the whole drowning and recussitation scene without getting a knot in my chest and a tear in my eye, thanks largely to the great acting up to that point.  I hated seeing Michael Biehn play a bad guy, especially after Aliens, but he did a great job here, too.For some reason, the movie doesn't feel quite like a 10 in my book... but it's definitely a solid 9.G-  "},{"Title":"Stunning Science Fiction on every level.","Date":"16 May 2003","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I was about ten, possibly eleven, when I first saw James Cameron's The Abyss and immediately I was struck by it. It was the film that made me realise that I was a fan of Cameron's work, however I was deeply surprised to find that the film is not regarded as the classic it so rightly is.What Cameron has done is to create a science fiction thriller that is epic on every level. The story, especially in the director's cut, is one that goes beyond being a bottom of the ocean/alien film, it becomes a deep message for why we should try to live in peace and how we should respect each other as a race (maybe George W Bush should be made to watch the film, maybe he might learn something), but amazingly, amongst all the superb visual effects (the birth of CGI) and fantastic underwater cinematography, Cameron creates characters that we come to care deeply about. He doesn't forget that for something epic to be truly moving, he needs to have three dimensional characters that we want to see alive at the very end and here he has more than succeeded. Giving us a love story (of sorts) before Titanic was even a possibility, he creates an estranged relationship in Bud and Lindsey's faltering marriage and makes us hope for a Hollywood happy ending, one we thankfully get.The supporting cast and characters are also fantastic here. Hippy, Jammer, Catfish, One Night and Coffey also get a chance to be fleshed out and all have their moments and even though he is, essentially, the villain of the film, Cameron even makes one feel sympathy for Coffey is that nightmarish final moment he has as he faces death.I love the film and I make no apologies for it. There are many who have problems with the film, I know, but I just have a soft spot for any film that Cameron makes. His mixture of fantastic and ground breaking visual effects and his talent as one of the best storytellers in the movie business today always combine to give us a journey we never forget and with The Abyss all those abilities come to the surface (pun unintended, I swear). Even better is the Director's Cut of the film that gives Cameron a chance to flesh his story even more making the film one that is epic and which gives us a message that, while some may find preachy, in today's day and age is highly relevant.Fantastic in every regard. "},{"Title":"one of my favorites","Date":"14 May 2003","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  First of all, this is a review of the special edition version I first saw about five years ago. The Abyss is one of my all time favorites, even better than Titanic, which, like The Abyss, was directed by some hack whose name is James Cameron. First of all, what I love about The Abyss are the special fx, including the first appearance of the INT's, if I am correct. Then there are the performances by the leads, Ed Harris and Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio. One great scene for me is when Mastrantonio's character Lindsey has apparently died and Bud, played by Harris, attempts to revive her. It is an phenomenal shift from tragedy to relief, and as a guy, I will readily admit to have shed a tear. And all the moments of action and suspense, plus the end where the tables have turned and it is Bud who seems to have been lost forever after diffusing the bomb (another cut-the-wire situation). "},{"Title":"Very effective and impressive underwater thriller","Date":"1 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  James Cameron directed The Abyss before three of his biggest, finest and grandest superhits. Two phenomenal and massively entertaining Arnold Schwarzenegger classics Terminator 2 Judgment day and True Lies as well as Titanic which many would call a movie of the decade followed this splendid sci-fi adventure. The Abyss is just one proof more that Cameron is a real wizard in what he's doing. If you suffer from claustrophobia I guess you shouldn't watch this flick because some of the scenes are so well-made, impressive, suffocating and powerful The Abyss will drive you absolutely crazy. Beginning wasn't very interesting but when the story started to move on The Abyss turned out be a fantastic underwater thriller. The ending might have been different but otherwise this movie was totally awesome. I would almost like to mention that Ed Harris in the leading role makes one of his greatest screen performances ever. Great piece of movie entertainment! "},{"Title":"A little more sedate than Cameron's other work, but every bit as good...","Date":"12 April 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"     By far James Cameron's most personal work, it takes at least half an hour for anything conventionally 'exciting' to happen, but by then we're so involved with the characters and their situation that it makes the drama all the more intense.   Cameron is a master of the 'pared down' screenplay, giving us all the elements necessary for the story but no frills.  The Terminator epitomises this technique.  Rarely does the story slow down long enough for the characters to indulge in reams of exposition; but then, that's what makes it such a visceral experience.  Cameron's dialogue is made up of either bold statements of fact or smart wisecracks.  Never are the audience or characters allowed to think I wonder if they meant this...   So it is with The Abyss.  Only with the story being naturally slower, non-stop action is not contrived to take the focus off the dialogue.  It is left to the visuals to do this; and what stunning visuals they are.  The reputed 'hell' that Cameron put his cast and crew through during the shoot would doubtless by judged worth it by the director, pointing to these as his evidence.   The film is no less interesting when things are confined to the interior of the sub.  The actors convey their uneasiness with their surroundings and each other perfectly.  No, the relationship between the characters of Harris and Masterantonio isn't very credible, but this is more down to Cameron's shunning of backstory than any deficiencies in performance.  In any case, it doesn't damage the drama at all.   There are some (not very subtle) allusions to the Cold War for those who want them, but for those who don't, The Abyss proves surprisingly difficult to categorise.  One thing that can be said about it is that it is consistently entertaining throughout its running time.  Cameron hasn't lost the knack of providing for his audience.  Fans will find something different to his usual style, but pleasingly, this at least remains the same. "},{"Title":"Directors Cut Only Fantastic vision, amazing effects.","Date":"18 November 2000","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  May I first point out that these comments are for the Directors cut version. James Cameron outshines himself in this film, bold, ground breaking film. The acting is nothing short of intense, especially from the three leads, they deserve awards galore for some of the harrowing scenes they went through, and they produced sheer magic. Amazing effects and the stunning underwater scenes actually don't detract from the simple storyline - love one another. Don't see the TV version, there's so many cuts it doesn't make sense, watch it as Cameron intended. "},{"Title":"Special Edition is Superb!  The theatrical cut...not so much","Date":"8 September 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is one of my all time favorite films. James Cameron knocks it out of the park as he did with Aliens and The Terminator just prior. It works on so many levels and is one of the pioneers of CGI special effects. But for some reason this film gets no love, and today I found out why. Today I saw, for the first time, the theatrical cut of the film which doesn't even compare to the far superior director's cut. The whole extraterrestrial storyline seems so out of place and it would have almost worked better if he hadn't included it at all in the theatrical cut. The theatrical cut just didn't work for me and I can understand how the critics weren't so sweet on the film. The special edition director's cut is something no one should miss! With the added 28 minutes you get more colorful/in depth characters, a film that carries a stronger dramatic punch, a greater sense of wonder when the E.T.'s grace the screen , and reasoning behind why the beings have traveled to our earth and do what the do. This is a film that doesn't get the recognition it deserves based, probably, on the far inferior theatrical cut. This film is a real gem and a must see. "}{"Title":"This film was very exciting and interesting and i would like to watch it again and again","Date":"14 April 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Overall i thought that this film was very interesting and it showed me what may happen to the future of the earth many years from now. Before watching this my favourite sci-fi film was the terminator films but after i saw this amazing film i made up my mind and suggested that this would now be my best sci-fi film that i have seen. The storyline was great and the actors that played all the characters were very good. I really liked this film and if i get the chance to see it again then i will be watching it for certain. thanks for making this film and i hope that you make more films like this so that other people can watch it too and then they may also write comments like what i am doing now. "},{"Title":"Better the second time around.....","Date":"29 November 2001","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I have always loved this movie.  I have it on video and have watched it many many times.  However, last year I was in a hotel in Charlotte on New Years Eve and turned on FX on the tv.  They were showing the movie so of course I watched it while I was getting ready to go out.  What I saw was a movie that finally made sense.  Immediately I realized that the movie I had been watching had been butchered at the editing stage for the sake of time.  I then had to have the special edition and now watch only that one and not the other.  The special edition finally explains everything and I think if I had been James Cameron I would have been thoroughly ticked off to have to edit the movie to the extent that the original was cut.  The special edition is the only one to watch because it is the only one which explains several of the previous plot holes in the movie.   The final scenes, with the tidal waves, are absolutely brilliant and give a nudge to the idea that while human beings think they are all powerful they are in fact infants in a more advanced universe.  Watch The Abyss in it's cut form for the sheer brilliance of the story and the brilliance of the special effects, then watch the special edition for an explanation of the story.  This is one of my all time favourites and I will always give it a 10.     "},{"Title":"Abyss, a great film","Date":"12 March 2006","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Despite reading the goofs, I love watching this movie. Abyss continues to be one of my all-time favorite films along with Independence Day, Twister, among other. Bud and Linds are indeed a great couple and that rat is too much. The rest of the cast compliments them both. Being a former Navy brat, I understand the language is critical to being an honest Navy film. Loved one-night and Mr. Burmeister (have seen him on Law and Order as a lawyer). Tried to find out about that rat but its not in the credits. It looked real but these days you never know. I realize that some things are a bit far-fetched in this movie but the action, underwater sequences, and the final saving of Bud in the end by the aliens was masterfully done. A truly great film, I have a purchased copy at home and take the time to watch it whenever its on Sci-fi Channel. Being a sci-fi enthusiast, an original Trekker, etc., I love good science fiction. Miss Julie, Tampa, FL "},{"Title":"Science Fiction at its Best","Date":"8 April 2005","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is Science Fiction at its best &#150; science fiction based on science fact. It's difficult to find a flaw in this impeccable production. It has above average characters and acting, brilliant editing and camera-work, and top notch special effects. The plot is one that crops up fairly regularly, as is the simple message of the movie; but this is undoubtedly the best of the sudden spate of under sea alien movies that appeared during the 1980's. It is beautiful to look at, and it conveys the religious overtones of an alien encounter quite well.Some scientific accuracy is necessarily compromised in places to make easier and more exciting viewing, but never to the point of fantasy. I think the balance here is just right. "},{"Title":"Severely collapses under its own massive weight","Date":"19 October 2002","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Somewhere between Die Hard and Home Alone, 20th Century Fox thought they had another goldmine with this film. The film fell short of its expectations but it didn't lose too much money. However, I'm just glad that I didn't go to the theaters to contribute to the ticket sales of this mess of a film. It's way too long for such an implausible plot and not even its special effects and underwater footage can save it.  "},{"Title":"The Mess","Date":"27 June 2001","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"    One does not need to see the director's cut when it comes to The Abyss,for the bottom line is it is a overrated and bad film.It is too long and the writing is trite and the plot is makes little sense.   Many will want to see the underwater scenes when viewing this movie.Either on the original cut or on DVD.But how can one get past the horrible acting here?Aside from Ed Harris' and Mary Mastrantonio's charcters,the rest of the crew is something you might find on a TV sitcom.I mean they all seem to be miscast for what should have been a crew of a deep sea vessel.   I didn't believe in the black woman being the vessel's pilot she seemed so out of place,aside from being downright annoying.They had some crew member carrying a rat in a plastic bag throughout the movie.When they have the scene when the vessel sinks to the bottom and water floods an area of the vessel you see the fellow still being able to hold on to his plastic bag with his pet rat in it despite the state of emergency and water following everywhere.Incredible and inconsistant.   Mastrantonio is a fine actress,but I didn't believe her being a member of an deep sea vessel one bit.Her casting seem a bit of a stretch.Then comes the unbelieveable ending that will make you throw up your hands making you ask yourself how could you waste over two hours watching this mess?Harris does his usual great job in his role but it isn't enough to save this film.Irwin Allen may not have done better but he sure wouldn't have done worse than this.  "},{"Title":"Overall point?","Date":"1 March 2000","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I recall James Cameron doing an underwater interview in his souped up scuba gear about this movie. He said the film had hardware but wasn't about hardware. It had romance but wasn't about romance. It had special effects but wasn't about special effects. It was under the sea but wasn't about being under the sea. Well just what exactly was this picture about? I have heard a lot about the Directors Cut being superior to the original release. Plenty of things happen in the story but don't seem to tie in. The ending was really whacked out and served absolutely no purpose.   "},{"Title":"Not Cameron's finest hour (or should I say nearly three hours)","Date":"17 May 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" This review is based on the extended special edition version of The Abyss which is 164 minutes long (as opposed to the normal version of the Abyss which is 139 minutes long). I suspect that both versions of the film are too long, but at close to three hours the extended version is almost intolerable to sit through.I'm all for films that have slow burning narratives whereby you're teased to breaking point, but for the majority of the running time this film is just one big tease; I think the best analogy I can use to describe this film is to say that it's like foreplay; whereby you're teased for a long period of time, but eventually you get to the point where you think 'Hey I want to have sex now' except here it's all foreplay and no sex.It's also clear that Cameron never seemed to know which direction to take the film in; it starts off as a mission to rescue survivors, then it becomes a film about hunting down supposed Alien life forms, then we get the clichéd crazy character who's intent on destroying the Aliens with a nuclear warhead. Cameron is usually a good story teller, but this film is so sloppy, lacking in focus and poorly conceived that it just becomes hard to take it seriously. It has a pointless political agenda that went nowhere and the film is just so painfully boring to sit through. It didn't help that I didn't like any of the characters and the soap opera between Bud and his wife was more annoying than anything.There was also something that puzzled me when this film ended; I understood that the Aliens only saw bad in humankind (hence the reason why they were intent on destroying the human race) and presumably this is why they attacked the nuclear submarine at the start. However, what I couldn't understand was why they didn't destroy Bud and his team when they had the chance? I understand why they didn't at the end when they realised that not all humans were bad and that humans were capable of loving each other, but they didn't know that at the start so why did the Aliens spare their lives in the first place? It's sloppiness like this that really brings the film down despite the fact that it has a good message and surprised me by being something different to what I expected.As with most of James Cameron's films this film has some wonderful special effects and some beautiful cinematography. Sadly, unlike a lot of Cameron's films this does not have a compelling story and doesn't even have any exciting set-pieces (anyone who is expecting an exciting Aliens style film underwater is going to be bitterly disappointed). For the most part it was just an unfocused mess and I felt that the pay-off at the end nowhere near justified the ridiculous and boring build-up to said pay-off. "},{"Title":"Excleelnt!","Date":"23 March 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Abyss was a movie of destiny. First off, this movie either began or was the result of a lifetime obsession James Cameron has the ocean (see later Titanic and his IMAX deep sea movies). The Abyss is also full of echos of claustrophobic thriller/adventure movie Alien, in which Cameron directed the sequel. So combining one of Cameron's old movies with his new obsession, we get The Abyss, a solid sci-fi thriller starring Ed Harris and Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio. Ed Harris plays Bud, the head of an undersea oil rig where very little actually happens and the people on the rig are only there in case something goes wrong. Well, wouldn't you know it, but an American nuclear submarine patrolling the US coast near the oil rig suddenly sinks, killing the sailors on board. The Americans suspect it's the Soviets, but we know better. Something pink and glowing does something to the submarine causing it to sink. A team of Navy seals, ferried down to the rig by Bud's ex-wife Lindsey (Mastrantonio), boards the oil rig and uses it as a command base for their mission to recover the submarine. And that is when the fun begins. Of course a hurricane has to enter into the plot, in movies like this, there is always a hurricane, but beyond, The Abyss is a solid sci-fi thriller, where the oil rig becomes a character in the movie. Much like the Nostromo in Alien or The Discovery in 2001, the tight spaces adds flavor to the movie, bringing the setting in as another character of the movie. The special effects were groundbreaking at the time and hold up well today. The scene of a column of water snaking its way through the oil rig still creeps me out to this day. "},{"Title":"Stuning","Date":"25 February 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" The special effects are stunning. As with a lot of Cameron's hits, this was an innovator in special effects. If it wasn't for this film, films such as The Matrix and Lord of the Rings would not be here or at least would not have been able to express themselves in a visual sense.Cameron is the ultimate director. Although he is a pain to work with, he gets his image across and proves why he is such a hit machine. No one compares to him when it comes to picking a cast. Even though most of this cast were, and still are, unknown, the performances in this are fantastic. I know I always praise him but Michael Biehn as Coffey is one of the best acting performances I have ever seen and the fact that Biehn was not even Oscar nominated is a travesty! He is great to watch as the maniac who is irate and just plain horrible. Ed Harris is on par with his good performances in The Rock and Apollo 13. You just want to be his mate in this movie despite the fact he is another pain (see Rock out takes) which is why him and Cameron have not spoken a word since this film. Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio was a bit of a fad. She didn't last very long being in good films but she is good as the hard nosed estranged wife who near the end, becomes wonderfully vulnerable and loving. "}{"Title":"Awe Inspiring Spectacle","Date":"7 March 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" The story of The Abyss starts with a mysterious crash of a US nuclear submarine that is armed with the appropriate nuclear weaponry for its time. With reports of it down, we want to get it before the Russians do.When it rains it pours, literally in this case. A fast moving storm forces the Navy to use the crew and equipment from a nearby underwater deep sea drilling platform and the oil roughnecks are promised some big government checks for their help. Crew chief Ed Harris gives his reluctant consent, made even more reluctant by the fact that his estranged wife Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio has designed some new equipment for use in the really deep waters of The Abyss of the Atlantic Ocean. The Navy people and the oil people are a bad fit to start with, but when the deep depths effect Navy SEAL Michael Biehn by bringing out the worst aspects of the military authoritarian personality things get real interesting down in the deep.The spectacle does dwarf the story which is the only real criticism I can make of The Abyss. What the submarine made accidental contact with is some incredible alien life form which I can't go into further because that's the whole point of the film. Of course Biehn still believes it's all a Russian plot of some kind and therein lies the conflict exacerbated by the extreme paranoia he develops.Unlike Cameron's Titanic, the spectacle at the end just overwhelms the human players in this film. But it was those special effects that go The Abyss its Academy Award recognition. The Abyss was also nominated for Sound and Art&Set Direction and Cinematography. It could have been a winner in any of those categories. In fact the biggest mistake you can make which is the one I did make, to see The Abyss on the small screen and formatted. This film is what IMAX was developed for.Though the story does get lost somewhat in the special effects the point is still made about man being ready and open to all kinds of possibilities of life that can exist anywhere. See The Abyss, but wait for a revival showing at a theater. "},{"Title":"Ambitious and deep undersea adventure","Date":"30 June 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" This review is for the special edition of Abyss that adds 28 minutes of footage especially near the end according to Wikipedia. I had seen it many years ago but although I remembered it was underwater and had a particularly cool and original creature, I didn't remember much else from it. After watching it again recently, I wonder why. This is one of the best undersea adventures I've seen, certainly the most ambitious. This was made before computer effects became so prevalent so most of the action underwater is actually shot underwater on sets and in diving suits. State-of-the-art computer effects (at the time) are used to portray most of the strange deep-sea creatures and they still look great today. The Abyss starts as the rescue operation of a nuclear submarine but veers more into good first encounter science-fiction as it goes along.What struck me was the great underwater setting that at times made you feel claustrophobic and isolated as if you were deep underwater yourself. It's not the most action-packed film and it can feel slow at times so try to be relatively awake before watching it. The first half sometimes somehow made me feel contemplative and relaxed but it might bore some people. You should be warned that most of the film takes place in a relatively confined location so there's no undersea exploration a la Cousteau per say. It's also a character-driven conflict between reason and open-mindedness (the rig crew) VS ignorance and destructive impulses (the military). As it went along, my appreciation of the film went from only good to remarkable. There are strong suspenseful and dramatic character moments extremely well played by Ed Harris (rig captain), Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio (creator of the rig and future ex-wife of the rig captain) and Michael Biehn (leader of the navy seals). I particularly liked the shuttle scene between the captain and his future ex-wife. Because of the creatures, there's also a feeling of mystery and sense of wonder at the unknown which is rarely seen in modern sci-fi but that I often enjoy. The characters are not the type to shoot first and ask questions later which I found refreshing.What I also found noticeable is that there are several false endings, as in it might stop there but it doesn't, going further into the abyss as it were. This is a great humanistic and human sci-fi flick that gets better as it goes along. It's closer to 2001 than Aliens but it's not really like either one. The extra footage in the ending makes for a more satisfying conclusion that helps things make sense. However, your appreciation might vary on how cynical you are, I can see it ruining the film for a minority. In my opinion, it's worth owning but be careful of which DVD version you pick, the special editions don't necessarily have a second disc with the extras and the covers don't tell you how many discs there are (you want the 2-disc version).Rating 8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"A movie with depth","Date":"23 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I found this movie a pleasant surprise. I am not much into the disaster genre, but high sea adventures offer many possibilities for script and direction. I also consider The Poseidon Adventure one of the more successful movies of the genre. There the motto is &#132;up to the bottom, here it's &#132;down into the bottomless depth.The abyss is much inspired by Stanley Kubrick's 2010. But it is really more than a ripoff, with a simple, formulaic but coherent and credible story. The main character, a diver dwelling in middle depths, descends further down into darkness on a rescue mission. His loneliness and his &#132;border experience give occasion to a very poetic sequence which is handled perfectly by the movie crew. And somehow deep sea pictures grip me much more than space flicks. They are just in the water, right? I know water. Everybody knows water. Gives it a sort of intimacy. There also is a cranky, creaky low tech angle to the whole setting of the movie that is very endearing.But what really lifts The Abyss above the average fair is the choice of actors. Ed Harris is just perfect for those he man roles where the hero has to suffer a lot. Very unusual is the female lead She is actually the boss of the crew, not least of her own husband, played by Harris. Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio exudes competence, authority and warmth in this difficult role which only makes you wonder, why this excellent and versatile actress isn't in more movies. The chemistry between her and Harris is excellent. Nice detail early on Harris decides to gets rid of his wedding ring, has a change of heart and &#132;reaches deep for the first time.Don't watch the Abyss while having a bad cold or if you suffer from claustrophobia. "},{"Title":"Fantastic Movie!","Date":"11 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  As a movie devotee, especially of action, sci-fi and fantasy movies I thought this movie was excellent! The plot was clever, the special effects awesome and the acting superb. Ed Harris is always a favorite of mine and watching Lindsay sacrifice herself so they could both live was awe-inspiring. The crew of the diving platform were all interesting and well-acted. Being a nurse the rescue scene was well done. The special edition has extra scenes not in the movie and well worthing buying! James Cameron sure had a winner in 1989. I never get tired of watching the movie. I even feel sorry for Michael Biehn character at the end. I hope we have deep sea diving suits like that, 'cause they were cool. It kept my rapt attention the entire journey. I've always enjoyed underwater movies and this was one of the finest. Great job James Cameron!  "},{"Title":"Absolutely Perfect","Date":"12 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film was absolutely perfect. I loved everything about it. Ed Harris was excellent in this film. He really brought the character to life, I thought. My favorite scene would have to be when Bud is trying to revive Lindsey. I am not sure why that is my favorite scene, maybe it was because he refused to give up on her death. I would recommend this to anyone who loves science fiction. I give this movie a 10 out of 10. This film really stands out to me. It is the only film I remember watching as a child. The plot and actors are absolutely perfect. Everything in it, I thought, was perfect. I personally like the special edition with the 20 minutes not shown in theatres better than the original. "},{"Title":"Wow, thought it was great. Then I saw the Extended Edition, now I think it's Fantastic","Date":"16 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  For those who have access to the extended edition of this film, give it a go. It will probably make you like the standard edition less though.The standard edition is a great adventure about trying to stop an underwater nuclear holocaust. Riveting stuff, one of James Cameron's Best. Back in the eighties, when it was ok for a mainstream movie to view the military as the villains, for want of a better word, without it being banned.  "},{"Title":"The additional footage makes the film one to watch","Date":"28 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"   The addition of extra footage into the Special edition of the Abyss makes the film much better. I remember seeing the original version when it was first released and thought the ending seemed to be tacked on just to end the movie. Now, with the Special Edition we get to see what Cameron intended. Although this film has incredible visuals, the story was a tremendous disappointment. With the addition of the 28 minutes, we are treated to a whole new film. This one a tad darker then the original, and much more meaningful. It now has the flavor of other cautionary tales like Day the Earth Stood Still. Not the best of the Camerion epics but well worth a watching. "},{"Title":"Bigger and Better","Date":"28 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Seeing the Special Edition on the DVD i can say this movie is different from the cinema version. Although can't really remember when i seen the original back in the 80's, this one promising something different from the cinema version.Some of the effects are better than now. Imagine the technology they have more than a decade ago. Overall, the movie is excellent especially the surround sound that i enjoy much about DVD. "},{"Title":"edge of my seat","Date":"1 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I just saw this thriller I'd never heard of - despite the fact that it came out what, 16 years ago? Wow, I was on the edge of my seat by halfway through the film! Loved it! Tension builds and a nice pace, until you are holding your breath along with the characters in the film. Nicely acted by leads I haven't seen much of (always a plus in my opinion). Plot turns surprised me too. They are clearly taking some liberties with the facts of science, like many Hollywood films. But I was so caught up in the movie, I didn't necessarily care. One criticism, the movie may have gone on a shade longer than it should have; this is a very long movie that could have benefited from a director's cut to the ending. Recommended for anyone who likes Jacques Cousteau documentaries. "},{"Title":"Could have been better.","Date":"6 March 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  With such truly fine actors as Ed Harris and Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio, this film had great potential. However, for once, James Cameron's love of special effects, actually hampered the movie.If the movie had been treated as a psychological thriller of being trapped under the water with a dangerously unstable Navy SEAL on the loose, the stars and director would have made a superb movie, but the use of an alien species, while using stunning special effects, was simply ludicrous, and ruined the movie, especially the ridiculous ending.Harris, Cameron and Mastrantonio can all do better than this. "}{"Title":"One of the best underwater films ever","Date":"22 June 2000","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  James Francis Cameron's The Abyss is a wonder of action and suspense.  It works better as a underwater saga than it's typical sci-fi genre, but that's fine.  Not always what I expect (especially because the version I saw was the special edition), but the ending is amazing and great as a sum-up to the movie.  One of Cameron's best.  A "},{"Title":"Not another one...","Date":"30 September 1999","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  While The Abyss is far from being a BAD movie, it would be more than presumptuous to call it a good movie, either. Ultimately, its numerous flaws drag it down to the category of 'disappointing.'The greatest problem is that The Abyss (or, more likely, Cameron, who is clearly torn between the TWO screenplays that he knows how to write...) has no idea what it wants to be an underwater version of the overblown Aliens or an underwater version of a sort-of Terminator-style action movie. Had The Abyss settled on one direction, it would have been a vastly better film, regardless of which avenue was chosen.The characters are completely one-dimensional (another problem typical of Cameron's work); the vast talents of Ed Harris attempt to salvage the character development. He succeeds to mild extent, but there isn't too much for him to work with.The ending is a complete cop-out. Granted, it could've been even more happy than it is, but it's bad enough as is.Still, Cameron's action sequences are most spectacular, which one should expect from the self-perpetuated 'king of the world' by now. They the f/x and the action sequences carry this movie, which is unfortunate, since it could've been so much more than just an f/x showcase.Rating 4 out of 10. A great premise, but it loses its focus several times, bringing out the other weaknesses of the story. At points, it's just unbelievably BORING. But it's worth watching just for the f/x. Many imdb users have reccomended the Director's Cut, which I have not seen; hopefully this will flesh out some of the inconsistencies and make for a better film. As is, The Abyss fits nicely into the mold of a stereotypical Cameron film-- to be taken however you choose... "},{"Title":"watching this movie is like reading the rest of this review.","Date":"19 February 2006","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" watching this movie is like reading the rest of this review. a large empty space without much to say.this movie is boring boring boring.clichéd dialog and clichéd characters.half way through you realize you could care less about the story and by the end you just hope they all die a watery death.although Ed Harris does manage to give a decent impression of hackneyed performance.the best thing that can be said for this movie is, it effectively killed the semi career of Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio.the most memorable exchange we just lost the crane the what? the crane!the end. "},{"Title":"Fantastic Underwater  Sci-Fi Adventure!,With Some Jaw Dropping Special Effects!","Date":"13 April 2005","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is a fantastic Sci-Fi underwater adventure with unbelievably jaw dropping special effects. this is one hell of an exciting ride, with non stop thrills, and some underwater shots that just blew me away!. It was dull for the 1st 20 to 30 minutes but the rest jam packed with action and thrills, and never lets you take a breath!.The characters were very cool,and the story was especially good. The 1st 20 to 30 minutes i was thinking to myself well this one's going to suck, boy was i wrong, the film is extremely tense in the last 40 to 50 minutes, i was on the edge of my seat and i really cared and rooted for the 2 main character. This is one of James Cameron's best films, and think you should rent or buy this one immediately!. The Direction is absolutely incredible!. The Underwater shots are absolutely, incredible, the use of colors, is awesome, the underwater shot near the end will blow you away it left me speechless, it's also visually stunning, and stylish, plus he kept the film at very very fast pace!,i don't want to spoil it anymore see for your yourself! incredible job. The Acting is awesome!.Ed Harris is fantastic here, and blew me out of my seat in his emotional scene, where he was trying to keep his wife Lindsey alive, he also had great chemistry with Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio , was very likable, and just did a wonderful job overall. Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio, is excellent here, she was great during her emotional scenes, had great chemistry with ed, and was very likable!. Michael Biehn is awesome here, especially when he goes mentally unstable (psycho) later in the movie, awesome job!. Rest of the cast do great. Overall you must see this immediately! it's one of Cameron's best!. ***** out of 5 "},{"Title":"All hail James Cameron","Date":"4 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" One of my all-time favourites, thankyou James Cameron. It's long, but that suits the unique setting, and lets the tension build slowly, which makes it more effective. The cast is great; there is a palpable sense of camaraderie between them which is entertaining and suits the setting as well. Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio is just perfect, convincing us that she is a submersible oil rig designer. But the movie belongs to Ed Harris -- the man is a born leader, but much more accessible and sympathetic than Tommy Lee Jones. His acting in the resuscitation scene is absolutely electric. A great movie needs a great villain, too, and Michael Biehn manages to scare our pants off. The movie breaks new ground with both its underwater footage and its special effects water is notoriously difficult to simulate, but it all looks amazing. "},{"Title":"The Best Deep Sea Adventure I Have Yet Seen","Date":"23 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Sorry for the long gap between reviews lately. I just have been busy with school and work. So sorry if it's not that good. So I got The Abyss out of a Walmart $5 movie bin and watched it the next day, which is today, because I had just come from seeing The Hobbit The Desolation of Smaug, which is good, by the way, and I will review that later. The Abyss is a triumph for its time, and is great except for a couple things. For one, there is too much swearing. There is s*** and b**** left and right. You don't need that! There is already a good enough dialogue without all of that. Also, the movie is really long. There is about 10 minutes worth of film that you could cut out and not notice its missing. I paused the movie once to go read a book for about 10 minutes. Besides those two things, the movie was very good. James Cameron is just a master of filmmaking, and has had other such masterpieces such as Terminator, Terminator 2 Judgement Day, Titanic, and Avatar. I have to say this movie is maybe 5th on the James Cameron scale, however I think it deserved a little more than a 62 from critics. Maybe somewhere around 68-72 is where I would put it. The acting in this movie was great all around. Seriously, it was. The people in the film had great fake accents, and moved like they should have, looked like they should have, talked like they should have, and looked scared like they should have. All of them. Congrats to you actors! I've heard some people say that this movie is cheesy. Sure, for this era it is, but this was made 24 years ago! That's like saying King Kong is a backyard film. That movie was made 80 years ago. If you tried to make a movie with the technology they had I'm sure you wouldn't be able to do anything better. Hmph. This movie is actually more realistic than some movies of today. Like any Syfy original movie, or Machete or Snakes on a Plane or Piranha (2010). The movies special effects are like nothing I have ever seen before. It's like they aren't made from a computer, It's not made from stop action, and it's not made from a set or miniatures. It's probably made of all 4, though. Well actually, all 3, because I know it's a set. This is one of the few reviews I actually talk about the poster. The poster on the IMDb page for it, anyway. It's awesome and iconic, and you know what movie it is even if there wasn't a title on it. It is strikingly similar to the Thing, but The Abyss has a surrounding that makes you know they're underwater. Just look up the two, and compare the two people on them. I really don't know what else to say about this movie. Except for the storyline. It really is original, and enjoyable. Sure not for now it isn't original, but back then it was, so I say it is anyway. Where else are you going to find a deep sea oil rig that turned into one of the most epic adventures of the 80's and 90's? Seriously! This is one of the best deep sea movies I have ever seen. Maybe the best, I don't know. Even now, you don't find stuff as good as this. There are many iconic scenes in this movie that help the story, but you'd have to see them for yourself. I definitely recommend this movie to anyone that likes deep sea movies, good movies, and sci-fi movies, or adventure movies. Thanks for reading guys, and I'll have some more reviews up soon. "},{"Title":"The good outweighs the bad","Date":"25 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" James Cameron's first budget-buster, this underwater sci-fi thriller briefly spawned a swarm of rip-offs, just about all of them simply Alien clones set underwater. The Abyss is more in the vein of Close Encounters, though there's a strong whiff of Aliens in some scenes.Unlike those films, this one isn't trash. It's a serious, ambitious epic, with some awe-inspiring visuals. The Oscar-winning special effects are still a joy to behold. Production design is impressive. The score adds to the epic feel. As always with Cameron, we can expect intense, relentless set-pieces, and he doesn't disappoint, with a memorable opener, disaster hitting the undersea rig, and growing hostility between the protagonists, and an unstable Navy SEAL. And on top of that, the growing suspicion they're not alone down there...A truly impressive film, but it isn't quite up there with the best of Cameron's. Filming underwater scenes always presents pacing problems, and this film is no exception. There are many long-winded, sluggish moments that cause the film to drag at times. The anti-war anti-nuke sermonizing is stronger here than in the Terminator films, and is heavy-handed to the point that it couldn't be any less subtle if the heroes were all wearing peace symbols and No Nuke T-shirts. The cast are good enough, but at times performances verge on overly histrionic, especially at the climax with Lindsay - Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonion - talking to estranged hubbie Bud - Ed Harris - as he descends into the titular crevice to defuse a nuke. I don't think much of a spoiler to reveal the aliens are friendly, as the film more than signposted that in earlier scenes. This does however present a problem - whereas the aliens in Close Encounters didn't seem aware they were causing harm by snatching the boy, it seems conveniently forgotten all of a sudden that the aliens in The Abyss inadvertently caused the deaths of the entire crew of a missile submarine.The Special Edition is even longer, close to 3 hours, but it helps flesh characters out a bit more, and we see the aliens aren't entirely sweet-natured, as they come close to causing a terrible catastrophe to avert a possible conflict between the US and the Soviet Union.Unfortunately, the Cold War subplot of the Special Edition, means it hasn't dated as well storywise as the theatrical release.A flawed film to be sure, but a likable often impressive one. "},{"Title":"Mother Nature Underwater","Date":"17 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" James Cameron's 'The Abyss' is a well-crafted film that bounces between atmospheric thriller, fantasy and science fiction. I saw the special edition director's cut version which is about 20 minutes longer than the theatrical one. The story and characters are very well developed. Cameron and his team successfully create a chilling and tense atmosphere. This is a film that was made before the CGI boom that took over in the late 90s and in 'The Abyss' the visuals look authentic. Art direction, sound effect and cinematography are first rate. The special effects are wonderful.On the flipside, the ending, especially the conclusion, felt a little sudden and drastic, as if the film moves towards a completely different direction. Whether this is the right ending or not depends on how the viewer chooses to see it. In addition, there are a couple of sequences that felt too Hollywoodish, like the resuscitation sequence which, in my opinion, was overdone just to keep the viewer in suspense and the final sequence itself when the camera focuses on the reaction of the American public.All the actors, including Ed Harris, Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio, Michael Biehn, Leo Burmester and Todd Graff do a solid job. The dialogues are witty and there's some fine dry humour.This is perhaps one of Cameron's most underrated works. Yet, in my opinion, it's much better than some of the movies he's more known for, especially his later works. "},{"Title":"For 2 1/2 hours, it's unparalleled in its scope.","Date":"21 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" James Cameron is a true visionary director. If anyone can prove the auteur theory it is him, for every single film he makes is of his own, unique vision that separates him from the rest of Hollywood. With the Terminator films, Titanic and The Abyss, he shows his full-out talent as one of the premier entertaining directors of the last 30 years. Considered to be his most arduous and challenging shoot, The Abyss plays like a National Geographic documentary showing footage of divers underwater. The scope and scale of Cameron's vision here is tremendous; almost every shot begs the question, how did he do it? Yet, compelling as that footage is, it doesn't begin to scratch the surface of what a deeply involving experience this movie is. Though his dialogue comes off as corny or amateurish at times, his storytelling ability is unparalleled. He creates a complex plot-line, sometimes to the point of over-stuffing the amount of content the audience can take. He introduces one thread, than another, than another, than pushes them all together until we are overwhelmed, but not confused. It really is quite a head-trip, but it is so well-made that very few other films could succeed as this one does. As with most Cameron films, the director's cut is almost assuredly superior to the original. Certainly the extra footage is not totally necessary to the central plot, but it gives more evidence to account for the incredible scale and detail he puts in every single one of his productions. The acting also contributes the riveting action taking place; Ed Harris and Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio are quite good as exes forced together and the supporting cast also really helps bring the audience into this world. Not enough can be said of Cameron's incredible vision. For that reason alone, practically every film he's made is worth seeing. Unfortunately with this one, the ending suffers quite a bit. For the first 2 1/2 hours, I cannot think of many other films more engrossing and riveting than The Abyss. However, the final scene seems almost forced and tacked on. Cameron essentially opened up for a number of different possibilities here and took the easy way. Had he created a more compelling finale, this might be his unsung masterpiece. Despite this quibble, there is no doubt this is a unique film by a unique director. You know you're in the hands of a master when all you can think about while watching the movie is how the heck did he do it. "},{"Title":"Treading water.","Date":"10 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" How many drugs was James Cameron on when he wrote and filmed this thing?! &#x96; One of the many thoughts running through my head during the two and half hours The Abyss fills up.An oil rig crew is sent to the depths of the ocean in hopes of recovering a sunken nuclear submarine. Led by Bud (Ed Harris), the crew makes a grisly discovery about the fate of the sub and meets friction with a group of Navy SEALs, led by the psychotic Coffey (Michael Biehn). Thousands of feet below the surface, a mysterious alien force is discovered, although their intentions are unknown. At the very least, we know the Russians aren't on the attack. That's about all that is really made clear in this movie.When it isn't busy drowning itself in character clichés and predictability, The Abyss uses most of its effort to force us into believing the impossible. This is all well and good, seeing as how even James Cameron himself acknowledges this film as purely fantasy, but little things like the previously drowned coming back to life in a schmaltzy scene and the comatose awakening to save the day tend to stick out like sore thumbs. Cameron, well-adept at both film-making and screen-writing at this point, could have and should have known better. Unlike The Terminator, this film fails to make its characters believable despite an implausible situation, and on the other side of the coin, lacks the intense adventure and horror of Aliens. This could all be forgivable, though, if the film had a solid or consistent plot. It's almost like Cameron was suffering from A.D.D. when he made this film, as evidenced by its multiple endings and dead-end subplots.On the upside, the film is, as expected, a stunning visual affair. You also have to admire Cameron's ambition (which would be focused a little better later on with Titanic) in under-going such a ridiculous film-making process, both in the magnitude of its production and in how outlandish its story really is. The film is anchored by Ed Harris, given one of his juicier roles, opposite the tough and endearing Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio, whose career has curiously fizzled out since. The Great Michael Biehn shows up with a mustache and helps amp up the energy of the film, despite the fact that his character is disposable in the scheme of things. Truth be told, the film steers close to perfection as far as the actors and the overall direction goes. Yes, there are some dated effects that trap this film in the 80's, but that's not enough to bog things down. The main problem here is that the story seems to have been forsaken for action and razzle-dazzle. Not one of James Cameron's best flicks, but at least worth seeing for the assault on the senses it delivers. The Abyss is worth sinking into, provided you can forgive its lack of an engaging story. "}{"Title":"Really great one","Date":"17 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Meticulously crafted but also ponderous and predictable, James Cameron's 1989 deep-sea close-encounter epic reaffirms one of the oldest first principles of cinema everything moves a lot more slowly underwater. Ed Harris and Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio, as formerly married petroleum engineers who still have some issues to work out, are drafted to assist a Hung-ho Navy SEAL (Michael Biehn) with a top-secret recovery operation a nuclear sub has been ambushed and sunk, under mysterious circumstances, in some of the deepest waters on earth, and the petri-teaches have the only submersible craft capable of diving down that far. Every image and every performance is painstakingly sharp and detailed (and the computerized water creatures are lovely) but the movie's lumbering pace is ultimately lethal. It's the audience that ends up feeling waterlogged. For a guy who likes guns as much as Cameron (his next film after all, was the body-count masterpiece Terminator 2 Judgment Day), it's interesting that the moral balance here is weighted heavily in favor of the can-do engineers; the military types are end-justifies-the-means moralists, just like the weaselly government bureaucrats in Aliens. "},{"Title":"An immense achievement that is unfairly dismissed in many quarters.","Date":"3 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film almost defines the word epic.James Cameron is a fearless film maker who thinks big and The Abyss is one of his most underrated works.I think the film is a rival to Aliens in as much as it was pioneering,courageous and brilliant.I think the slightly sugary sweet ending may have hurt its appeal but there is no denying the films sheer scale of achievement.Cameron squeezes every ounce of performance out of his actors and takes the camera places most would never dare. His skill and ambition are all on display here and he doesn't disappoint.The subway rescue at the start of the film is a little akin to the marines first landing on LV426 in Aliens but is that a bad thing?The film manages to be suspenseful and thrilling and only a slightly annoying Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio let things slip a little however Michael Biehn and Ed Harris cancel that out.The Abyss is a fine film from a super talented director sitting right on top of his game.For a real undersea adventure, choose The Abyss. "},{"Title":"Awesome 80's Classic","Date":"29 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Although I just saw this movie for the first time a few months ago on the Sci Fi channel, I'd heard about it over the years and had wanted to see it for a long time. When I finally saw it, I was just blown away. It really is one of James Cameron's best movies.In the movie, a group of cocky oil drillers are hired by the Navy to check a sunken nuclear sub for survivors. The sub is rested on the edge of a very deep trench. But while they're working on their rescue mission, the crew get the eerie feeling that there's something living down in the trench...The casting in this movie was great. There are only three big stars in it. The rest are ensemble. Ed Harris plays the brave, but somewhat laid-back Bud Brigman. Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio plays Bud's more serious ex-wife Lindsay Brigman. James Cameron regular, Michael Biehn, plays renegade Navy SEAL Lt. Coffey. Before this movie I didn't know Michael could be insane and power-crazy. But my favorite character in the movie was Hippy (Todd Graff), the crew's crazy, rat-loving, audiovisual nerd.But the real reason to see this movie is the awe factor. This movie is literally one jaw-dropping scene after another. And the special effects were awesome. There are some early attempts at CG visual effects in this movie, but even by today's standards, they're amazing. Even the music in the movie was amazing. It really helped to establish a sense of astonishment in the audience.Just a reminder, this is a long movie, and some parts drag on a little bit. The special edition is almost four hours. So be sure you're willing to sit for that long. But I guarantee you, it's worth it. "},{"Title":"Amazing Film","Date":"1 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is probably one of the most overlooked and underrated movies in history. It's a spectacular film, with great acting, an interesting story, entertaining characters, social relevance, great musical score, and great special effects. Even though it was made in 1989, I'm not joking when I say that most of the effects still hold up today. The plot remains interesting with all kinds of twists and action sequences, but the heart never leaves.Basically, film is a very imaginative underwater action adventure that's just plain fun for everybody.Be sure to watch the Director's Cut, though, or the Special Edition DVD with the 28 extra minutes. Do not, I repeat, DO NOT watch the theatrical version because they cut out pivotal plot points and some of it doesn't make sense - especially the entire end of the movie. "},{"Title":"Cameron Does Spielberg","Date":"10 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A slight slip-up inbetween the brilliant Aliens and Terminator 2, James Cameron's The Abyss is an indulgent and overlong foray into themes and techniques much better explored in Cameron's aforementioned classics.  For instance, while Cameron again demonstrates his mastery over tense, cramped interiors, he never even approaches the pulse-pounding fervor of Aliens, and the occasional action pieces, particularly a dull underwater-probe duel, completely lack the hyper-kinetic flow of Terminator 2.  Of course The Abyss is intended primarily as an emotional human-drama, and two scenes, a desperate CPR revival and a heroic but doomed dive, work exceptionally well. Unfortunately, these scenes fail to save what amounts to a ridiculously long Close Encounters of the Third Kind retread, especially when this near three hour movie has such an anti-climactic ending.  The Abyss is a decent movie but a disappointing James Cameron film.*Note - don't bother with the special edition  it only serves to exacerbate things by adding even more length (!) and including one of the most cloyingly cliched and sophomoric anti-nuclear war subplots this reviewer has ever witnessed. "},{"Title":"Special Edition demonstrates wise choices in initial edit","Date":"9 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a comparison more than a review.  As such there are significant SPOILERS ahead.  You have been warned.I originally saw The Abyss in the theater some 12 years ago.  I truly enjoyed the movie, not only the special effects but the characters as well.  After watching the DVD special edition I must say that in my experience, there has never been a greater justification for judicious editing.This is not to say that I did not get a sort of voyeuristic thrill from seeing the cut scenes.  In particular, as a fan of the film I enjoyed the extended scenes of crew interaction.  They did not really provide any new insights, as these are thinly drawn characters, but it was enjoyable.  In an action movie one must be very cognizant of pacing and though I enjoyed these scenes they brought to a moribund pace what was already a slow film.What I could have done without was the additional background on Bud and Lindsey's marital problems.  This film was not realism and knowing that Lindsey has been cheating on her husband, or that she considers him too poor, or too uneducated may explain the divorce, but it detracts from their relationship.  Particularly as these issues are not addressed or resolved.  You really need to make a choice between drama and melodrama, both work in cinema but a mix rarely does.As for the flood scenes, they are terrible.  Not from a special effects standpoint (though the effects are not exceptional) but from the standpoint of plot.  The theatrical release presented us with what seemed to be a truly alien presence that did not understand humankind.  It seemed that the first hesitant step at investigation was a water tentacle that probed blindly into the rig, and mimicked a human face- as if seeing it for the first time.  When the moon bay door is slammed shut it rears back like an innocent creature struck.In the theatrical version, when Bud is saved and brought into their ship, the communication consisted of replaying his typed message- as if this was their first contact with human communication.  It seemed as if they were attempting to communicate verbally after exploring physically with the water tentacle.  It is then plausible to assume that they were truly ignorant of the danger posed by the warhead, and that they were responding to Bud's love for his wife, that between two species alien to each other-love was the thing they could build an understanding on.  This is a beautiful sentiment and a great resolution to the movie.Then there is a sort of symmetry in the rise to the surface.  Bud has saved the aliens by descending, now they save him and his wife by ascending.  Their rescue is not technologically impressive, they don't whisk everyone to the top with alien beams, they simply raise their ship, taking the crew along with them.Contrast this to the Special Edition version where the aliens have been monitoring mankind forever.  It destroys the whole idea of first contact between two different life-forms.  It also throws a suspicious light on the initial submarine accident and all subsequent contacts.  It abrogates Bud's self-sacrifice, as the aliens clearly could have taken care of that problem too. It makes the rising of the alien ship a much more menacing affair, as it is right below a Navy battle group.  The worst part of the Special Edition however is its message.  Basically it is saying that human beings are incapable of governing their own affairs, that they need some alien force to come down (or rise up) and force them to be peaceful.  One of the most distressing lines is when the captain on the crane ship turns to the military commander and says You guys maybe out of business, as if this is a good thing- to be commanded to disarm by alien super-beings.  Apparently the idea of free will, which Bud and has so magnificently displayed, is completely superfluous.The theatrical release left you with a sense of wonder about these strange creatures and the discoveries that lie ahead.  The Special Edition gives you none of this, it throws in a glib morality sound-bite against nuclear war.  More importantly though, it really deflects the resolution from the transforming power of love, to a vague science-fiction Armageddon.  In the theatrical release the aliens responded to Bud and Lindsey's love.  In the Special Edition they're Greenpeace on steroids.  The film does not have the dramatic weight to carry a big issue ending, it is much better as a love story.  You can't switch horses at the end and take in  Social Commentary when you rode the whole way on Action Flick.If you loved the original you will enjoy the Special Edition, but here is no question as to which is the real film.  Horray for editing.  "},{"Title":"Could've been Cameron's best. But isn't.","Date":"20 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Much of this constitutes a spoiler. READ NO FURTHER IF YOU DO NOT WANT TO KNOW CRUCIAL PLOT DETAILS!Am I the only one who thinks that the inclusion of friendly ETs in this film was utterly superfluous?Perhaps so. Nevertheless, this film could've been a nice Cold War drama without the danged aliens making so much as a cameo, which, for the first ninety minutes or so, is about all they do. Snip the rest and simply allow the human conflict to play out; there's plenty of it, and it's by far Cameron's most tension-inducing work. The much-praised drowning sequence is truly grueling to watch, and the claustrophobic atmosphere exceeds that of Aliens, probably his best movie. But the horribly awkward dog-leg turn at the end threw my suspension of disbelief right out the window, and the director's cut is even more egregious in this respect, with an entirely new plot line that had not really even been hinted at previously suddenly appearing and then being abruptly resolved within minutes. Another Architects of Fear we don't need.Some directors do a good job at incorporating a moral within their narrative, but Cameron isn't one of them. His comments on human aggression and non-cooperation reduce to people being mean bad! People saying 'I love you' to family good! Frankly, most of us have figured that out independently. Show, don't tell, is a technique Cameron has never seemed comfortable with, as if he doesn't trust his own ability as a director to convey the idea he wishes to promote without writing it on a baseball bat and clubbing you about the face with it. Good performances, photography, and effects aren't enough to save a potentially great movie about interpersonal conflict from the preachier aspects that, as the director's cut makes clear, were Cameron's most favorite parts of the story. Too bad.And I hate when violation of physical law is explained away with dialogue like, they must've done something to us. Thank you; that explains everything. JC really needs to hire a dialogue writer to take the burden off of his own skills; they just don't rise to the occasion. "},{"Title":"I love this movie.","Date":"30 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  THE ABYSS combines so many of some of my favorite elements which makes it a great movie - great action sequences, romance, breakthrough special effects, underwater suspense, sci-fi, and story.  Plus, it has one of the most hard to watch, gut wrenching, wonderfully acted scenes I have ever seen on film - when the couple in the little sub-vehicle decides that one of them has to drown to save them both... I find myself gasping for air as I watch. Great flick. "},{"Title":"The movie that made me love sci-fi","Date":"15 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is one of my favourite movies and I can see it over and over again and still be engaged with the suspense. The special effects are really good for such a relatively old sci-fi film, and being an underwater lover I especially enjoy it. Ed Harris is great as Bud and ME Mastrantonio makes a really good 'bitch'. To her credit, of course. Beside the whole story being fantasy, it's still not that unrealistic because it doesn't go that far; it leaves open to the imagination if the underwater aliens were ever really there. The end is a cliche, but that's all right since there's not too much romance during most of the film. Michael Biehn does a good job; I really loathe him in the end (and it's a great criticism of military institutions' brainwashing), but then his fate is sealed so... One of the things I really do like about it is that, despite the introduction of the aliens, it doesn't get all gory like 'Aliens'. These ones are portrayed as peaceful and friendly, which is a pleasant variation to other sci-fi films. I give this one 8/10.  "},{"Title":"It doesn't get any better.","Date":"10 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Abyss is my all time favorite film.  Action, adventure, romance, suspense, fantasy and horror all rolled into one.  Critics hated this film... but what do critics know?  Some of the same critics who hate The Abyss thought SPEED 2 Cruise Control was amazing.  Anyway, I never get tired of the watching this awe-inspiring movie... gives me hope for the fate of the human race. "}{"Title":"Excellent film","Date":"26 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  As a fan of James Cameron films, I enjoyed this film highly the first time that I saw it, in my 8th grade science class.  Nothing could prepare me, however, for the special edition, which I saw on TV a few years later.  That blew me away so far that I refused to buy the film on video, since it was just the regular edition, until one day I happened to see the letterboxed edition of the special edition.  If you plan on watching this film or buying it, I strongly recommend getting this version, as it is far more superior.(SPOILERS BEGIN) Now, onto the plot.  Ed Harris and Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio are excellent as an estranged couple who fall in love with each other again after an extraordinary ordeal under the sea.  Michael Biehn (one of my favorite actors), is also excellent as a paranoid military man who begins to lose his grip on sanity.  And, the part that blew me away, of course, was Harris' descent into the abyss, and when the aliens bring him over the crest in sight of the totally awesome spaceship!  Then, thinking that there was nothing left to blow me away with, the aliens cut loose on mankind by making giant tidal waves to destroy humanity with!!!  You won't find that sub-plot in the regular edition, so look hard for the special edition, all you fans of Cameron or sci-fi. (SPOILERS END)Well, anyway, this is a very good film.  Although not Cameron's very best, it ranks up there as one of the best. "},{"Title":"James Cameron's best film --topping even Titanic, Aliens and T2.","Date":"25 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"   When this movie was first released I had just learned how to scuba dive and this movie sent me right back into the depths. The opening scene of a sub in jeopardy rivals anything in the excellent Das Boot and kills anything from The Hunt For Red October (which was would not be released for another 6 months)and, of course, this was just the beginning. Cameron did a brilliant job of weaving a mystery with great action and a heart-wrenching love story.  Ed Harris and Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio are at their peaks as an estranged couple who find each other again 3 miles below the ocean's surface (it is rare to become teary-eyed in a movie like this). Michael Biehn is also memorable as the paranoid military guy who can't handle the deep. Amidst all the hellacious action the drama and the acting really shine. I was deeply moved and thrilled.  I bought the first ending, but it is hard to review this movie without thinking about the Special Edition that Cameron came out with a few years later. Of all the different cuts that other directors have released in recent years (thank you all) this is the most special. The added tidal wave scene drives home what I suspected in the first place. The Abyss is a adrenalized update of the classic The Day The Earth Stood Still. This is a movie I keep going back to. "},{"Title":"Loved every minute of it","Date":"25 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  THE ABYSS is a really underrated epic from Jim Cameron.  The special edition is excellent, but even the theatrical cut is good.  The groundbreaking FX and high tech stuff in the film makes it hard to believe it was made in the late 80s.  It almost looks like it was made last year!  Unlike 2010 (another good 80s sci-fi epic), very little of the Abyss has been dated over the years.  And the music is excellent.Also, the characters are very likable and the drama is riveting. A lot of people complain about the ending, but I LOVED the ending.  I was in awe when (WARNING SPOILER AHEAD) the alien took Ed Harris to that cool underwater alien city/ship at the end.  Remember, this is a sci-fi FANTASY.        "},{"Title":"Best deep sea sci-fi movie","Date":"24 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Abyss is my favorite movie, and there are many reasons why.  It took James Cameroon about a year to shoot this movie and actors needed to become real divers.  Many of the scenes were taken under water with special cameras. It also took great acting, and this movie showed other good directors to use computer to some special effects.  "},{"Title":"Original versus Directors Cut","Date":"19 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It's always nice to see something in the original widescreen but I am writing to warn you off from the director's cut of this film, especially if you haven't seen the original. The director's cut moves the focus of the story away from the people and onto one of the sub plots, making the sub plot more of the main plot. The strength of this film is the people. The Director's Cut leans more toward the plot of the book of the movie.As to the film itself. It is tense and interesting and when things go wrong it doesn't feel like just another plot twist. It's genre is sci-fi but it is a drama, watch it as one. "},{"Title":"Director's Cut gets a 10, regular cut gets a 4","Date":"1 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The difference in my rating between the 2 different versions of this film ought to clue you in on how important the material that was cut is to the plot, character development and theme of the movie.  I have never understood director James Cameron's decision to remove as much of the end as he did yet retain the opening (unnecessary & expository)sub scene- all the details of which are later recapped in dialog anyway.Despite the terrible Titanic script, Cameron proves here he actually is capable of writing a solid romance.  This film *is* a romance that happens to be set against the backdrop of aliens at the bottom of the ocean.  Again, the director's cut is needed to get the full impact of Bud & Lindsey's relationship, as it includes an important conversation between Bud & One Night which is built on later during the descent as well as a much more detailed argument between Bud & Lindsey prior to him disposing of his wedding ring.If your judgement of this film is based on the version you saw in the theater you owe it to yourself to watch it again, all 3 hours.  The additional 25 minutes will answer so many questions you won't believe it's the same movie.  I had the good fortune to see the director's cut on the big screen and it was amazing!The Making of the Abyss documentary is a fascinating companion piece, perhaps second only to Hearts of Darkness- A Filmmaker's Apocalypse as far as showing the trials of getting films made in the most difficult of circumstances. "},{"Title":"Thrilling Underwater Epic","Date":"19 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Abyss is a thrilling epic that has good performances, good direction, very, very good visual effects, and a sense of magic to it. All of James Cameron's film have magic to them. Despite being nearly 2 1/2 hors long the film is never boring. This film must be seen in widescreen to be fully appreciated. "},{"Title":"Stunning and great acted","Date":"10 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is on my top 5 list. The film provides great moments in it`s 2 hour 45 min running time, especially the last 30 minutes in my heart is maybe the most stunning ever made, you just can`t take your eyes of the screen.  An incredible movie which mixes suspence and fantasy wonderfully. The part where the wave is coming from the ocean is for me the most stunning moment ever on screen. The movie favours of course from great performances from Ed Harris and especially the beautiful Mary Elizabeth Mastroantonio, she`s outstanding as she always is.James Cameron gives us a masterpiece in the Sci-fi, action area. A truly stunning movie which you never forget. You can`t make it better then this. "},{"Title":"Incredibly Moving","Date":"3 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie pulls your emotions up and down as the story displays an incredible amount of action, adventure, love and wonder involving a complex cast of characters and ideas.  The overall message of peace was strong and incredibly fitting for the time the movie was written and released. "},{"Title":"The Special Edition is one of my favorite movies","Date":"1 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I read the novelization of this movie before seeing it and, in its original version, was able to plug in some details excised for time constraints. When I purchased the laser disc special edition with restored scenes and subplots, the movie seemed to me to be much more complete and meaningful. The restoration of the subplot involving the Americans and Soviets on the surface and its resolution by the aliens made the movie much more complete and enjoyable.  It stands, in the special edition, as one of my favorite movies. "}{"Title":"Ageless Cameron Classic","Date":"29 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" The lesser known Cameron film.  It impresses me that it is ten years old and still does better for effects than many sci-fi's today.  Cameron proved that a good movie cannot be carried by computer graphics alone , which is sadly becoming the trend (eg Godzilla).  "},{"Title":"i really liked this one","Date":"25 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  the abyss is remembered mostly for being one of the first films to use realistic computer special effects, but its much more than that.the effects are not overused,but enhance the movie.one good thing about this film is it creates real tension,and scenes where water is rushing into the compartments of the sub are particularly exciting.the actors do a good job of conveying terror and hopelessness at times, especially when bud decides to stay at the bottom and when bud keeps trying to resusitate lyndsay even know she is most likely dead.this movie would have been good without the sci fi element, but the underwater creatures look good and enhance the story.this is much better than cameron's other ocean epic, you know what i'm talking about "},{"Title":"OMG awful","Date":"29 January 2016","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I saw the extended version with the 'real' ending. It is just as rubbish as the shorter version. This is an astonishingly poor movie.It is sort of Close Encounters underwater, but with awful dialogue, one-dimensional characters and zero imagination. It's the kind of film that one keeps watching, presuming that some development or impressive finale will make up for all the dross that one has to sit through. It doesn't. I watched the longer version, thinking the 'directors' cut might have some qualities that the theatrical release did not. Big mistake.Unless you're a student of bad film-making, avoid this. "},{"Title":"didn't live up to the potential","Date":"21 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" i don't think this was a good film.first off,i just found it so tediously slow.it never really picked up much at all.when it gets to the reveal of some undersea life,it redeems itself somewhat,but not much.though i will say the special effects were pretty impressive in this regard.the problem is,we are not shown as many creatures as i would have liked.and for me,the whole movie hinges on that aspect.beyond that,there isn't a lot i liked about the movie.the acting was adequate,but nothing more.the movie is also way too long,in my opinion.i unfortunately watched the extended version,which clocks in at about 170 minutes,while the original theatrical cut was only 140 minutes.anyway,when you put it all together,the most i can give The Abyss is a 3.5/10. "},{"Title":"The Perfect Sci-Fi Movie","Date":"4 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I recently bought the DVD for The Abyss. I had seen it in reruns for years, but never sat down and watched the entire original end to end (not sure what planet I was on when it came out).I am now happy to exclaim this is the best science fiction film ever created. Yes, we all have our soft spots for Star Wars or Star Trek or Forbidden Planet or Close Encounters, but hands-down The Abyss trumps them all.It has all the elements for not only good sci-fi but good drama, suspense and action all in one. Here is but a partial listDown-to-earth, well-acted characters. An ensemble piece, not single-egotist stars of the day. An interesting, believable, exciting plot line. One of the most amazing and imaginative chase scenes ever created (the submersible chase in the fourth act). Amazing photography and visuals, all set underwater. A creepy villain, expertly played by Michael Biehn. Great visual representation of the aliens. Extreme tension and fear in the various diving scenes. A moral imperative.This is storytelling and film-making at its absolute finest. A must see and definitely the best movie of its genre ever created.10 out of 10.Barky  "},{"Title":"One of the best films ever made.","Date":"22 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Back in 80's James Cameron was the man, So far he had The Terimator and Aliens under his belt...So he went for somthing different...It had nothing to do with space or the future...Just a film about people,Fear,Love and a force smarter then any man on earth.I watched this film about a year ago for the first time...And now it goes down as one of my favorite films of all times. The story was very simple,about twenty oil drillers that live in a underwater oil rig and five Navy Seals go deep into the ocean to check out a sub that crashed for unknown reasons. After a storm the people are stuck down their...But their's somthing coming out of the deep dark abyss...Somthing that looks like a flash of light...Somthing that puts joy in others...and fear into the Navy Seal leader Lt. Coffey.  The film was very well done...I might say James could of done better,Maybe not such a happy go lucky ending...maybe add some fear into it...But at the same time he made a great film and went on to make many more. The film's main highlight is Lt. Coffey ( Michael Biehn) He plays his part as best as anyone could and I think the man should of won an ocar for this role, If James makes another movie make sure you put Biehn it in...Somthing about thouse two...they just make great movies together. "},{"Title":"One of the Greatest Movies Ever Made!","Date":"15 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a Sci-Fi movie, so there are going to be things that just can't happen in real life.  That's the point.  But the story is great, the special effects are amazing, the acting from Ed Harris and Mary Elizabeth Mastriantonio is excellent, as well as the supporting cast.  The ending is fine.  Everyone likes a happy ending and I personally hate open endings that leave you guessing and confused.  Kudos to Cameron from wrapping up the movie and letting me get on with my life.  If you like sci-fi, high-tech underwater adventure, you'll love this movie.  If you want to nitpick every detail of a movie, watch a documentary on paperclips or something.  "},{"Title":"One wild journey","Date":"7 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Abyss is one of my favorite sci-fi/action films of all time. In this amazing James Cameron adventure, a crew of determined oil rig workers lead by Virgil Bud Brigman (Ed Harris), risk the depths of the ocean in a search and rescue mission concerning a downed nuclear submarine. When the Navy gets involved, and comes up with their own dangerous agenda, Harris' crew is put to the test. This film is full of action, drama, and intensity. The crew must truly work together and look out for each other, as their honest friendship becomes clear. Ed Harris is his classic self, showing both intensity and bravery. The scene in which he tries to bring back his wife from hypothermia is an emotional highlight in the film. The plot plays out well and takes its time (2 hours plus), but you'll love every minute. With a magical feeling and a great ending, this movie is a classic.  "},{"Title":"Director's cut is a must","Date":"25 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I had been away, living in a third-world country for two years and had not seen any movies during this time.  The Abyss was the first movie I had seen upon my return to the states.  I was very impressed and thought it a good movie, one that rivaled the Star Wars trilogy as my all time favorites. It wasn't until a friend brought me to his house to view the director's cut on laser disk that this movie became my favorite of all time.  The regular movie is good, with interesting effects and story line, but the DC made the movie, adding additional story lines as well as clearing up some of the plots left in the theatrical release.  I don't understand why James Cameron cut so much out of The Abyss, but left Titanic as the marathon love story it is.  You shortened the wrong flick, Jim.A great Sci-fi action/adventure! "},{"Title":"A true Cameron epic","Date":"11 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Oil diggers planted on the ocean floor recieve a mission to explore some strange phenomenon under water. In the cramped confines of the underwater oilrig, psyches fall apart and strange things start to happen. Beautiful, esoteric and quite special is this Cameron epic, with man's encounter with the unknown in its epicenter, and with a climax sending shivers along the spine. The director's cut version is preferred, though, since it doesn't end so definitely and revealingly. "}{"Title":"An unexpected miracle of a film","Date":"8 September 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Abyss had two things going against it, after production was wrapped (for the story of one of the most incredible productions ever, see the Laserdisc ).  First of all, There were two copycats, Leviathan, and Deep-Star Six, that managed to open before this film, making the original seem like the copycat.  Secondly, the movie was cut down horribly by the studio, something which Cameron takes the blame for, saying that no one wants to see a three-hour movie (well, maybe Titanic!).  The studio cut made the film no better than a very good f/x film, with a strong, but muddled story, and some really interesting characters, to go along with the usual brilliant Cameron visuals.Since its release as a Director's Cut, I have managed to sway each person who has seen it, into dubbing it a spectacular piece of cinema.  With the added scenes, the story makes sense, the finale has the right knockout punch, and the love story really takes center-stage.What the full version offers, is truly one of the great Hollywood love stories of our time, with one of the greatest scenes in recent years.  This is really a film for everyone, with unparalleled visuals, a tense story, and a terrific message, that love can conquer all.  If you have the chance, don't miss out on the Director's Cut, on as big a screen as you can find!  "},{"Title":"The Abyss where James Cameron finally goes off the deep end...","Date":"28 October 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie started out as a really good thriller. It had all the ingredients a great cast, a believable story line, fantastic special effects, and brilliant use of editing and post production. When compared with other Cameron successes like Terminator (1984) and Aliens (1986), this ranked with them &#150; until he ruined it all by turning it into a fairy tale.Here's a basic story a US nuclear sub goes down during war exercises; a navy SEAL team is sent to retrieve information from the sub with the help of a nearby commercial oil rig crew who are in the final phases of testing a new undersea oil platform; the leader of the SEAL team goes wacko thinking that a Russian sub is nearby, trying to get nukes or information (who knows really?) from the downed sub; so, the wacko leader attaches a nuclear bomb to an automatic submersible programmed to detonate near what he thinks is the Russian menace...That's when the fairy tale really starts, although by that time, the poor viewer has already been introduced to it, a bit earlier on. If Cameron had ended the movie when the bad guy gets his just desserts that would have been fine; the movie had been going long enough, anyway.But, no! Then Cameron takes the viewer into la-la land at 16,000 feet below the surface and proceeds to launch a polemic against the state of the world. This then is a lesson for all storytellers and directors on how to turn many viewers off, guaranteed. For the remainder of the movie, there is about as much excitement and thrills as there is at any political convention.I don't mind polemics. I really like good action thrillers. But polemics belong in the documentary genre. Yes, I know the movie is trying to be a metaphor for the abyss of nuclear warfare, but we all know that nuclear war is a no-win situation anyway, already.The only remaining question for me is why did Cameron deep-six such a good story with such a goofy ending? "},{"Title":"Aquaphobic and awesome movie","Date":"18 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Wow, what to say after seeing The abyss ? I'd say that it's a very awesome movie, and it shows very well that James Cameron is very talented. He made very good movies, like The Terminator, Aliens and this one, who's a sci-fi movie which plunges you to the deepest reaches where you've never been before.The alien life form which is made only of water in the station is very eye-popping for a 1989 movie, and I was glad to know that all of them were good with humans instead of bad like in many movies. They don't want humankind to kill each other, so they warm the entire population of Earth with a giant wave, which terrorize everyone in the peak of Cold war.Also, I like the aquatic world and all the scenery of The abyss, especially the submarine research station. There's many times when I felt nervous when the station went to the deeps after the crane crashed in the sea and hit it, and when Lindsey almost died drown. When she recovered, I was happy that all the members managed to reanimate her.It was a very brilliant idea to make a so awesome sci-fi movie, cause it's a different one of the whole kind. But seeing it can make you aquaphobic (haha just kidding), but it also worth the extreme effort to gain a wonderful and superb experience.Steve Baillargeon "},{"Title":"Underrated Classic","Date":"21 September 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" (Spoilers).The acting was great by the three lead stars, Masterantonio, Ed Harris and Michael Biehn. Alan Sivesti's score was good, The love story element between Lyndsey (Masterantonio) and Bud (Harris), was well done as it was a married couple for once and not too soppy. The suspense over what Coffee was going to do next (biehn) was well portrayed as he slowly slipped into Psychosis and the scene where Lyndsey has to drown in the freezing cold water in the little sub to be dragged back to Deepcore for me is one of the best moments in a film. The revival sequence is well acted by all, especially by Ed Harris; the expression on his face as Lyndsey came around from her near death experience. The special effects were good, such as the water tentacle sequence and the way in which the submersibles were used was good too. The underwater environment was beautifully portrayed, Dark and menacing, I really felt that the under water oil rig Deepcore had a kind of soul to it. The bit were the rat breathes the liquid oxygen is clever (this technique has been use on people as well) The action sequences were good as well (such as when coffee's submersible exploded under the pressure of the ocean and the suspense over whether the aliens were good or evil was well put together. I think James Cameron did a great job on this one. "},{"Title":"Classic Sci-Fi","Date":"14 September 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Very good Hollywood formula sci-fi film that could have been a Masterpiece if it did not have such a Walt Disney type ending which was out of place from the edgier flow of the rest of the movie.The lead actress,Mastrantonio was quite irritating and the film overall felt like it was trying too hard to be a classic.But still,the special effects here is truly ahead of it's time and very entertaining for all true sci-fi fans.Only for sci-fi movie fans and big fans of the lead actors...... "},{"Title":"The BEST underwater sci-fi adventure ever!","Date":"13 February 2006","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" A group of underwater oil drillers, led by Bud (Harris), are informed that a nuclear submarine sank by an unknown cause near their position and are asked to to go to the site and check for survivors. A group of SEAL's, led by Lt. Coffey (Biehn), arrive, as well with Bud's ex-wife Lindsey (Mastrantonio), to carry out the mission. But soon the motley crew encounter strange though fantastic events...Fantastic directing, top-notch performances (especially Michael Biehn's), great characters which you get to care for, beautiful underwater filming, great story depicting human behavior, breakthrough special effects and awesome action sequences. One of the best movies I've ever seen, Cameron delivered perfectly.Great sci-fi adventure which I recommend strongly! "},{"Title":"One of my favorites","Date":"24 September 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" There's not that many movies I'd give a meaningful 10 out of 10. Today I bought this masterpiece's special edition DVD. It includes 28 minutes of cut scenes, along with many other extras. To see the full, uncut version, was completely... totally... well, it was even better! Alright, so you should know what this movie is about, right? I'm not going to tell you again. What I will tell you is that this movie is a classic. A marvel, a diamond, an almost perfect master piece. Perfection is very hard to achieve. This is probably as close as one can get. 10/10 is not enough to describe what I re-saw today. It's just so perfect... "},{"Title":"Hollywoodish to the max, inconsistent and naive","Date":"27 May 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Call me a pedant, but this movie shows so many inconsistencies, that it left me wondering whether the editors were drunk or in a real hurry when cutting it.  The dialogue is horrible.  I could excuse the naiveness of the plot, since that's the way it is with most sci-fi movies, but the plot of The Abyss has outdone them all.  Very typical eyes-watering happy end.  Let's see... what else is wrong with this movie? )The underwater shots are nice at places, though. I rented The Abyss because I wanted to see something easy and silly for a change, and the flick has met my expectations.  I guess it has its own niche. "},{"Title":"Son of Abyss, This is a Good Movie","Date":"7 September 2001","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The special effects and underwater scenes do not overwhelm the human drama, which is usually the case with James Cameron movies.  He knows how to dazzle you, and he knows how to appeal to you emotionally too.The leading man, Ed Harris, has said that he will never discuss the way he feels about making this movie, but once on 'Inside the Actors Studio' he tipped his hand by saying that he just felt like asking himself the entire time, 'is this acting?' I am sorry he feels that way, since he does some great acting, has some fantastic moments and if the stunts were egregious to him, he probably should have passed on the project. I saw this at Radio City Music Hall when it opened, which of course is ideal for a movie of this magnitude.  Sorry also it was not a blockbuster hit, its really a very good story, conducted by a part-time maniac, part-time sentimental fool named James Cameron.  "},{"Title":"Not James Cameron's Finest Hour","Date":"3 July 2002","Score":"10 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It's a good thing that James Cameron ended up directing Titanic. If he hadn't he might have ended up being remembered for this - and no one would want that hanging around their neck like a millstone for all eternity.The first ten minutes or so of The Abyss are fine - good even, as a U.S. nuclear submarine sinks after encountering some mysterious force off the coast of Cuba. From there, the whole thing falls apart. The cast (headed by Ed Harris) appears wooden and uninterested and has no discernible chemistry. The story never really seems to set a direction and follow it. It tries to be part Cold War thriller, part alien encounter stuff, part disaster epic. Then it tries to blend them all together in a movie that is nothing less than dull - and that seems to go on and on and on. And did I mention that it seems like it's never going to end? And when it does end it leaves you wondering why you bothered watching this thing for almost three hours.This really is bad.2/10. "}{"Title":"I don't get it!","Date":"13 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Spoiler Alert!!! OK the first that I don't really get is what is this film actually about? I mean there's so much stuff that happens even Alien isn't this complicated. Let's see there's Aliens under the water, there's a psychotic soldier with the group, and they are all under the water to find out what killed the ship before them. I really don't understand the plot. I'm still trying to understand the entire plot but it is so complicated. From what I remember though it did have a lot of intense and awesome scenes that I liked. I think my favorite scene of the entire film is when Michael Biehn's character begins lashing out at the group and plans on blowing the aliens in the water up. "},{"Title":"Not too bad at all...despite the friendly aliens","Date":"16 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" One in a wave (pun intended) of underwater horror/science fiction films to proliferate the late '80s &#x96; offhand I can think of LEVIATHAN and DEEP STAR SIX as others in this sub-genre. THE ABYSS was one of the few James Cameron films I had never watched, mainly because I find the idea of peaceful underwater aliens to be less exciting than killer robots from the future or acid-drooling alien beasties from outer space. I've never watched TITANIC, either.Still, one night I caught this on the schedules and decided to give it a go. I'm glad I did. It may be overlong and slightly unsatisfactory, but for the most part it contains all of the elements that make Cameron films great taut suspense sequences, clinical attention to detail, plenty of tension, a fine score and outstanding special effects. The 'water creature' scene is truly a landmark of CGI technology and helped pave the way for TERMINATOR 2 in a spectacular way.Otherwise, we're in familiar territory here an undersea crew are cut off from their team mates and forced to fend for themselves against overwhelming odds. Along with the aliens, they have to contend with a brilliantly done disaster scenario and an increasingly unhinged team mate. The casting is spot on. Ed Harris might not be everybody's first choice as hero, but he acquits himself very well indeed &#x96; and it's a wonder he never really found the success he should have done, based on this performance. Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio is more shrill and slightly annoying, but she does get some very good moments, like the infamous 'drowning' sequence. I also appreciated the fact that Michael Biehn stars as something other than the clean cut hero (as in THE TERMINATOR and ALIENS); he seems to be relishing the chance to explore other facets and brings the screen alive.To be honest, the 'friendly alien' stuff I can do without, but Cameron handles it with the right mix of awe and wonder. Better than CLOSE ENCOUNTERS OF THE THIRD KIND, in any case. There's an outrageous special effect at the climax which works very well indeed, but the slow spots and occasionally weak plotting stop this from being a classic in the same league as the director's other films; I'm glad I saw it, but it's not something I'll eagerly seek out to watch again. "},{"Title":"Overall I love this film","Date":"26 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" The actors and characters they play were just right. I feel the effects and underwater graphics were amazing the actor that plays Coffee adds the spark to this movie knowing that if I were stuck in his situation I would absolutely go crazy, no way to communicate with the world, stuck in a place not knowing what is there in a place that is dark and cold. when I read the book was unable to put it down, was on the edge of my seat and even though they don't tell you what kind of aliens they are was just outstanding ( I pretty much thought they were angels ) being that they can control water, water can cause a lot of damage it would have been interesting to see what they looked like when not in water. Like would they float, fly or can they walk. This is a movie that I could watch repeatedly never get tired of it. "},{"Title":"...like a dance of light.","Date":"15 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Beautiful sci-fi film about a civilian dive team trying to help the Navy find a sunken nuclear submarine. The mission goes horribly wrong and the crew find themselves struggling to survive as well as fighting to keep a deranged Navy SEAL from starting World War III. In the midst of this, they also encounter what appear to be aquatic aliens!I'm kind of a sucker for underwater films as they tend to have a lot of beautiful imagery and some interesting premises. Now, I'm giving this a score of 9 but that is for the Special Edition version. The theatrical release I would give a 7. Why the difference? Well, the Special Edition has the wave scene ending that drives home the anti-nuke moral of the story better. It reminded me of The Day the Earth Stood Still. The theatrical release kind of ends anticlimactically. You never get an explanation for why the aliens were there to begin with nor is the issue of conflict between the US and Russia over the sunken sub ever resolved. You also get additional scenes that build upon the relationships and conflicts between some of the characters. The version with the expanded ending takes it from being a good movie to a great one. "},{"Title":"E.T. takes to the sea.","Date":"28 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is an amazing sci-fi adventure where an American nuclear submarine crashes and sink, and the U.S. government believes that the Russians are responsible. A team of underwater drilling platform workers and Navy SEALS try to locate the crash site and as they get closer to their destination, the friction between the two teams increases. Some workers report seeing UFO's but the SEALS suspect it's a Russian mini-sub. Soon, the events that follow consist of a daring adventure in trying to save alien species and the prevention of World War III.My dad and I would catch this film on TV when it aired a few times when I was a kid, and it is always memorable and fun to watch. The first appearances of the aliens and the part ***spoiler ahead*** where one of the aliens, which looks like an E.T. with wings, takes Bud (Ed Harris) to its underwater city, are some of best parts to watch. The special effects crew really did a great job in the alien effects, making them believable and realistic.Each actor gave a terrific performance, some dramatic yet heroic, and some tough yet humorous. It gave a perfect balance of comedy and drama in this pure sci-fi film. Leo Burmester as Catfish De Vries was my favorite character performance; loved his expression when he first spots the alien. Ed Harris, on the other hand, was too reactionary at times.Overall, this is a very entertaining film - exciting to see all the mayhem and chaos as the characters struggle to survive and complete their mission in their sunken sub. I would recommend watching the extended non-theatrical version because it explains the origin an purpose of the aliens better.Grade A "},{"Title":"Great looking and impressively made, but it's a bit of a slog (especially the 171 minute version that I watched)","Date":"23 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Probably the least memorable and good film that James Cameron made between The Terminator and Terminator 2, but it's still pretty good. I watched the 3 hour special edition, and it was far too long. Ed Harris stars as the head of an underwater mining crew who is tasked by the US military to rescue a nuclear submarine that has sunk. With help from Navy Seal Michael Biehn and his scientist ex-wife, Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio, Harris and his crew descend deep into the ocean and discover something amazing. Being a Cameron flick, the most impressive thing is the special effects. They really are amazing (and they won a much deserved Oscar). Of the actors, Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio is the strongest. I don't know if she's ever been better. I could really do without all the character actors in the supporting cast. They all seem like they're trying to steal the show. A lot of the script feels like a repeat of Aliens. The film really does pick up when the appear. "},{"Title":"How Could This Get Mixed Reviews?","Date":"14 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Reading through some of the reviews of The Abyss on this site, those who bagged on this film cited how this was just so cliché, and been done to death... My jaw dropped upon reading that a story about a salvage mission half a mile under sea level despite a bowie-knife wielding jar-head, that results in an underwater submersible battle to the death, followed by a man jumping off an underwater cliff has been done to death... Oh yeah, I see this plot line ALL the time.I can't even think of ANY other underwater sci-fi flick in existence, so how could this be a boring cliché? It was the first and last of its genre Underwater SCI-FI... made...Utter nonsense....They said the dialog was either too vulgar in some reviews, or too simplistic in others. Well, which is it? They compared this movie to Aliens quite a few times, despite the films having nothing in common besides James Cameron. I have become a bigger Cameron fan with each subsequent movie he releases, as have most people. The haters of this movie likely hate ALL Cameron films, and lump this in. I think one of my most favorite scenes of all time is when Ed Harris's Bud Brigman has to watch his wife drown right before his eyes, ON PURPOSE. Tell me where in the heck THAT scene has been done before? I recommend the Director's Cut, but was perfectly okay with the supposedly abhorrent Theatrical Cut as well. Purists shouldn't point to an edited version and call it trash, and THEN laud the Director's Cut. Someone should have locked Peter Jackson in an edit bay until he got his movies under 24 hours apiece..The movie offers pulse-pounding excitement from the 20 minute mark all the way to the end, and has everything you look for in a great film artistic greatness, innovation and heart. It has all 3. "},{"Title":"James Cameron's first underwater adventure","Date":"24 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" James Cameron has made many great films over his career, including The Terminator, Terminator 2 and Aliens. But The Abyss is often forgotten when compared to his other films and was a box office flop when it was first released.An American Navy sub mysteriously sinks in the Cayman Trough at the height of the Cold War. With the American Navy unable to launch their own recuse operation they hire an oil drilling crew working on an experimental underwater oil platform. The US SEALs, the crew and the platform's designer, Lindsey Brigman (Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio) personalities start to clash underworld, with the SEALs' leader, Lt. Coffey (Michael Biehn) suffering from pressure madness, America and the Soviet Union moving closer to war and the potential discovery of alien life in the depths the ocean.The Abyss is a very tight, claustrophobic thriller which is very much about paranoid and distrust like The Thing and about the delicate state the world was in during the Cold War. The Abyss is a very character driven film, with all the characters being very distinct and memorial. I personally feared that some of the characters were going to only defined by their quirks or traits such as one of them being a conspiracy theorist and has a pet rat and other one is a woman in a cowboy hat and listens to country music, but the characters slowly get more fleshed out and likable as the film progress, particularly the relationship between Lindsey and Bud (Ed Harris). The team is as memorable as the Marines in Aliens, but there still leave an impression. Compared to most of Cameron's filmography, The Abyss is an action light film and more like a sci-fi film of old. As already mentioned that The Abyss does share similarities to The Thing because of its themes and basic settling (a group of highly trained personnel isolated in an extreme environment). At the end of the special edition The Abyss in the Special Edition also shares a lot of similarities to The Day the Earth Stood Still, with a little bit of 2010 The Year We Made Contact near the end and this is when Cameron goes on his soapbox about war and nuclear disarmament.For the time the special effects were incredible, using a combination of models and minitures and CGI. The water effects particularly hold up, especially when you still see water effect being very hard to do, like in The Last Airbender. The aliens too also had a unique design, looking like glowing stringrays with the pink, purple and blue lights and the aliens themselves had a mix of a classic grey alien look with more colour to them.Composer Alan Silverstri was also able to add to the visuals with an excellent score, using many different styles. There were heavy drums for the military to a softer choir when we see the aliens are present, giving them a divine presence.The Abyss is a long film and the Special Edition is over two and half hours and near the end the film The Abyss does start to drag. This is not helped when Cameron becomes more preachy and a little cheesy when Bud meets the aliens.The Abyss is a thoughtful, character driven sci-fi from Mr Cameron that reflects more older sci-fi films and shows that special effects should be used more then just for spectacle. "},{"Title":"UFOs everywhere. That's Underwater Flying Objects.","Date":"30 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Abyss plays like a more extravagant, more mature and more interesting version of director James Cameron's 1984 breakout hit The Terminator. Therein, we witness what is essentially a love story which happens to have an awful lot of general flak revolving around non-human entities and a range of supporting acts skewering proceedings playing out around it. There are special effects and a distinctly science fictitious atmosphere of fear of the unknown to proceedings, but nothing that matches neither the aggression of The Terminator nor the tendency to rely too heavily on B-movie convention. I don't think it would be at all untrue to label The Abyss as one of Cameron's best work. I view it a combination of the various traits that made up what the man was known for at this time in his career we have the underwater set/ocean based narrative of Piranha II The Spawning combining with that very claustrophobic atmosphere of Aliens, as something that's supernatural lurks out there ready for you, furthermore combining with that aforementioned idea of two people coming together under extraordinary circumstances before realising just how much they have in common while the exterior elements brood. Later on, the film even goes so far as to channel Paul Riser's character from Aliens when someone gets their own big ideas on how to deal with the newfound entity apparent in their company.The conflict in those three examples was, of course, much more obvious than it is here &#x96; a killer robot; a shoal of killer fish and a pack of killer extra-terrestrials, three things of which can only be so interesting for so long. The Abyss may be a slower and more patient film in its covering of events and depiction of character, but it at least has a little more to depict in the events column than mere second unit action. The film is additionally richer out of the fact its ambiguity and tendency to avoid straight up human heroes and non-human villains. Akin to Cameron's previous work, The Abyss covers a group of people in an inescapable situation made worse out of the fact they have to come to deal with a potentially non-human entity &#x96; a non-human entity whose first action during the opening sequence appeared to be to lure a submarine to its doom. The film is, despite this, so much more than how that sounds.Ed Harris leads a team of oil drillers whose expertise is in doing such a thing at great depths beneath the sea, a team of people recruited by the government to uncover precisely why it was that aforementioned submarine crashed and burned like it did. Although, one can hardly crash AND burn when one is underwater... The crew is distinguished by Harris' character Virgil Brigman and that of Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio's Lindsey, two people who were once married but now maintain their professional relationship with one another in a working capacity. Also down there is a group of Navy SEALS, whose presence is that of protection should whatever caused the crash still be down there and still be dangerous. Lindsey is the lone female presence and Cameron plays with us in the manner he did when depicting one of the few feminine presences in his prior film Aliens. This occurs when one of the SEAL members asks Harris' character if she should be referred to as sir, raising the issue of what's expected of specific genders in these sorts of projects we have already witnessed hard-line female space marines who are as powerful as their male counterparts and a complete overhaul of the Sarah Connor character in The Terminator, whose passing from servant (waitress) to solider was there depicted.There is also a great deal of effectiveness in the way Cameron goes about depicting this newfound world the characters find themselves in. While we are a long way from both the inter-planetary colonies found in Aliens and the way in which Cameron attempts to make a parallel between the Los Angeles of 1984 (the setting for Terminator) and a god-forsaken post nuclear war Los Angeles of the 21st Century, the underwater setting here might just as well be somewhere futuristic and unreal for the feeling it evokes. There is a real vulnerability to the setting and its surroundings and as a tropical storm rages above on the surface severing communication with that which can only be defined as 'the outside world'. The film additionally toys with oxygen levels, deep-sea pressure and all the important apparatus required when one is this deep below the Earth's surface. There is a nasty, gooey feeling to these scenes such as there would be if one was in outer space and oxygen quantity in tow with levels of pressure were too vital.As far as dramas go, rarely does a film avoid a misstep like The Abyss does. The piece is, ultimately, the template for an adventure to allow for former romances to be rekindled while its attitude towards its premise that sees it resemble a deep-sea rescue/disaster film with a science fiction twist is the sort of Cameron genre hybridisation I can live with. One of the film's more crucial ideas revolves around when it is the entities make their presence known and to whom they appear. Many are the times wherein we watch as the character most prone to fits of hysterics is the one whose 'contact' is made first &#x96; thus, few are believers. Such is The Abyss' inherent maturity that when that happens here, it is not the character closest to psychological meltdown whose condition is abused for meek dramatics. Indeed, they are calm and measured enough to merely report that they thought they were dead on account of seeing an Angel approach them. The Abyss is not the Cameron film that has captured the imaginations of the many over the years, but it enthralled me. "},{"Title":"One of my all time favourite sci-fi movies","Date":"24 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Well, this is my very first review here on IMDb so I wanted to make it a good one by choosing a great movie I can still remember!The Abyss is a masterpiece in my opinion done by none less than James Cameron himself and this movie is an unforgettable adventure and epic in length. This movie has it all fast-paced action, tension, sad moments and just pure eye-candy for enjoyment. What made me love this movie so unexpectedly might be because my expectations was not high or low, I had heard it had gotten good reviews and not so good ones too. So I got on hold of the extended special edition and saw it instead of the theatrical one and it just blew my mind.There are not many (if any) sci-fi movies made today that are as mind-blowing or as fresh like The Abyss, and it was made in 1989!Okey now for the acting I liked everyones performances in this movie and almost all actors were new to me, except for Ed Harris and he and Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio are the more outstanding characters because of their relationship and opinions about each other.For me I think the ending to movies are important for the flick to make sense and really be worth the build-up its making, like this one. I'm not gonna spoil anything but the ending contains a deep message and could have not been more perfect than it is.I can easily say that James Cameron is one of the best directors and writers living today and we can thank him for giving us this one, Terminator 2, Aliens (not seen it yet), Avatar and Titanic to name a few.I highly recommend this movie to everyone actually and not just to sci-fi-fans because it keeps your interest throughout the whole 2h and 43 minutes (S.E) but I haven't seen the theatrical cut but see the extended first and you will enjoy this awesome masterpiece to the fullest. ) "}{"Title":"Sea odyssey","Date":"22 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" An enthralling and remarkably ambitious underwater epic by James Cameron, As a kid, I grew up watching Voyage to the Bottom of the Sea, well this was voyage to the bottom of the bottom of the sea.Cameron clearly wants to show us that the uncharted depths of the oceans are as much the final frontier as outer space, but that clearly enough to satisfy his artistic vision as he grafts on an encounter with an advanced sub-sea life-form for a remarkable finale, at least the equal of Spielberg's more celebrated Close Encounters.Cameron sensibly gives us just one prior encounter between the entity and the humans, but a remarkably beautiful one it is, a special effects triumph so good he would rework it into Terminator 2, some time later. The cast isn't starry by some standards but this helps give the incredible adventure they share credibility and it's to the actors' collective credit that their sense of camaraderie comes through strongly. That said Ed Harris and Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio make an especially believable ex-married couple, very necessary as they pull each other back from the brink with the force of their respective feelings. Perhaps the very long story could have got to its point without the contrived enmity between the riggers and the Navy S.E.A.L.'s, but once the latter are out the way, the action intensifies with Harris' literally heart-stopping mission to de-activate the nuclear warhead some 10000 feet below and his remarkable experience at death's door.I haven't always liked Cameron's work, considering him too light and clichéd in characterisation, usually at the expense of spectacle, but here he delivers an eye-popping but still engrossing movie that works on many levels - including the one that Harris has to descend to, to save the day! "},{"Title":"Not impressed","Date":"15 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I was not impressed with this movie. Maybe for a light pastime it is OK. I am not very moved by special effects, so perhaps I am neglecting something that for other people is most important. When I watch a movie I try to think if it makes sense, even if it is science fiction; the special effects are important if they help to make a good story. The science fiction part of the movie is irrelevant and does not add anything to the story, except that provides the way to a happy ending. To call this a science fiction movie when there are films like Alphaville, 2001 a Space Oddisey or Fahrenheit 451 sounds almost like a joke. "},{"Title":"Classic Cameron!","Date":"24 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Boy, do I miss James Cameron. By that I mean Classic Cameron, not the Cameron of Avatar fame. To me Classic Cameron is best represented by three movies The Terminator, Aliens and The Abyss. To me these three represent the highest pinnacle of mainstream action movies. Of the three, The Abyss is the least perfect but its got a permanent place in my collection of movies that blew my mind and made me the movie freak I am today. The thing I love about this film is that it takes you to a whole new place. For me, that is what movies are about. Any movie that can convincingly transport me to a different time or place is a success in my mind. And The Abyss achieves that in spades. The second thing that makes The Abyss a great movie are the characters, in particular the three main leads. I think Ed Harris' character is one of the greatest and most believable action heroes of all time. Forget Tom Cruise, Bruce Willis, Schwarzenegger, Stallone... Ed Harris as Bud Brigman is The Man as far as I'm concerned. He never strikes a false note once during the entire 2,5 hours, even at the end which is the movies weakest point. Then there's Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio. Wow, what an awesome female character. Strong, fearless, yet so believable. Cameron writes 'em like nobody else. Their relationship is also really convincing and touching. I never fail to tear up when I watch the climatic scene when Bud revives Mary Elizabeth. It just kills me. Finally there is Michael Biehn as the inimitable Lt Coffee. I mean, come on! Has there ever been a more sinister bad guy? I don't think so... Michael was, of course, absolutely fantastic in Terminator but I think he achieved the pinnacle of his career as Lt Coffee in Abyss.Apart from that, there is so much else to enjoy here... the awesome underwater setting, the relentless action, the mind-blowing special effects, the humour, the unforgettable characters. My only regret is I somehow missed it on the big screen. But when I finally get that 40-inch HD flatscreen, you can bet the first movie I'll watch on it will be the Abyss. Classic Cameron!! "},{"Title":"Aliens in the water","Date":"25 September 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" A civilian diving team is given a mission to search for a lost nuclear submarine.It is thought that the Russians have something to do with it.But they don't discover Russians, but what they do discover is some alien life form under water.The Abyss (1989) is a Sci-Fi film by James Cameron.Ed Harris plays the lead, Virgil Bud Brigman.Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio is his estranged wife Lindsey.Michael Biehn, also known from Cameron's Terminator, plays Lt. Hiram Coffey.The late Leo Burmester plays Catfish De Vries.Todd Graff portrays Alan Hippy Carnes.Kimberly Scott is Lisa One Night Standing.Ken Jenkins plays the part of Gerald Kirkhill while Chris Elliott is Bendix.I saw the original version and the special edition on a DVD a little while back.I had seen the movie once on TV in the mid 90's.This movie is visually amazing.Just look at Bud sinking deeper and deeper into the trench, when a bright light appears below him.The scene where water is rising giving Bud and Lindsey some hard time is really something.The Abyss is worth checking out. "},{"Title":"Shame on the abyss!","Date":"19 September 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie definitely goes to my bottom-up list as number 65536 (=2^16). It is by far worse than Independence Day. It is really trash, even in its romantic details like the (moralist) messages of wife...sorry, abyss E.Ts...Let's say it again This movie definitely goes to my bottom-up list as number 65536 (=2^16). It is by far worse than Independence Day. It is really trash, even in its romantic details like the (moralist) messages of wife...sorry, abyss E.Ts...And again This movie definitely goes to my bottom-up list as number 65536 (=2^16). It is by far worse than Independence Day. It is really trash, even in its romantic details like the (moralist) messages of wife...sorry, abyss E.Ts... "},{"Title":"Would be great, except for one little problem","Date":"17 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Jame's Cameron's the Abyss is often regarded as one of his best movies. Well, I don't know about that, I certainly wouldn't call it bad, but for me, there isn't that much special about it, or much that gives it much rewatch value.Usually James Cameron uses a cliché premise to tell his story, but adds fun and likable characters. This movie is the opposite, sort of, the plot is better while the characters are really forgettable. I remember four of these characters, the lead male, the lead female, the black chick, and the guy with the rat. I don't get the villains motivation. But probably my biggest problem is that the movie can be very boring. It's very slow, especially in the beginning, and then it just doesn't know when to end. I swear it ends like five times, or should I say, climaxes, each time gets more tedious. And also, this may just be me, but the movie came out in 1989, I know the Cold War didn't officially end until 1991, but wasn't tense relations between the Soviets and the U.S. pretty much done by 1989. And no, sorry, but she would not be able to live after staying underwater that long.The mystery and plot is what makes the movie watchable. Don't get me wrong, it's pretty much a mix between Alien and Micheal Crichton's Sphere. But it's interesting enough to keep you watching. The direction and special effects are great for the most part, but this is James Cameron, so who would be surprised. It has some great action scenes, the best being when the crane falls. And some great moments of atmosphere, including when that rope of water comes in. And it's pretty funny.Basically when stuff starts happening, it gets interesting, but a lot of the characters are forgettable, and it's pacing is all over the place. I know a lot of people love it, but this isn't one I tend to rewatch a lot.6.5/10 "},{"Title":"So Close And Yet So Far!","Date":"4 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" From the director of The Terminator & Aliens, The Abyss is an ambitious, daring & harrowing work of underwater production that explores oceanic life unlike any other example before it, is significant for bringing several technological breakthroughs when it comes to underwater shooting & visual effects, makes clever use of its claustrophobic setting to create suspense, only to throw it all away with its dumb, ridiculous & frustrating final act.Set at the height of the Cold War, the story of The Abyss concerns an underwater oil drilling platform crew which is tasked with a new assignment; to help a team of Navy SEALs locate an American submarine which drowned in the ocean under mysterious circumstances & to also investigate the cause of its crash. Once the crew embarks on its new mission, they run into several problems and eventually end up discovering something they never expected.Written & directed by James Cameron, The Abyss follows into the footsteps of his previous works and presents the writer-director pushing himself, his cast & crew to their extreme in his effort to further stretch the barriers of live-action filmmaking & take it to a whole new realm, at which he succeeds. The screenplay is no slouch either for the content carries reasonable weight & characters are well-defined but it certainly could've used a more refined ending.The technical aspects are state-of-the-art stuff as is the case in every Cameron film so far. Production design team delivers sets & props that seem authentic in appearance, the visual effects are spectacular as well & is one of the first to experiment with CGI, Cinematography makes superb use of its specifically designed camera for shooting underwater sequences & captures every moment in fine detail while Editing keeps the story engaging for at least the first two hours & then goes downhill.As far as its soundtrack goes, Alan Silvestri delivers a tense, moody score that wonderfully compliments the narrative & goes a long way in elevating its moments of suspense. Coming to the performances, the cast comprises of Ed Harris, Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio, Michael Biehn & others, and they chip in with admirable inputs to bring their interesting characters to life. Harris is as always dependable, even Mary Elizabeth is strong in her given role but it's Biehn who leaves the most lasting impression.On an overall scale, The Abyss had the ingredients to succeed as one of the most thrilling, captivating & gorgeous-looking works of science-fiction plus it travels on that route for the most part in quite a comfortable manner, setting new standards in the process but messes up real bad near the end to finish as a technically groundbreaking cinema that falls short in the emotional pay-off department. Still, it's a James Cameron film which makes it worthy of your time & money by default, and although the ending didn't work for me, it might for you. Recommended version Special Edition. "},{"Title":"One of the best movies I have seen","Date":"30 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I have discovered that in some cases I can say much less about a movie that I love than about a movie that I hate. Well, with movies I hate I can rip them to shreds, and some movies such as L.A. Confidential are so deep that one can rave on for hours about it, and some movies, such as the Abyss, are just masterful pieces of story telling. The Abyss shows hints of what is to come in James Cameron's career. It won an award for visual effects, and the Abyss is seriously visually effective. The story is what makes the Abyss an exceptional movie. An American nuclear submarine spots something unusual underwater and gives chase. They believe it to be Russian but it is way too fast to be anything of a kind. The sub goes into a deep ocean trench and smashes into the wall sinking it and killing all on board, not before it manages to release a warning beacon. Nearby Benthic Petroleum is test running an underwater drilling platform and is drilling for oil. The US Navy commandeer this platform as a base of operations so as to get at the sub. Meanwhile, tensions between the US and Russia are escalating because of the sinking of this submarine, and a Hurricane is approaching from above. The Abyss starts off as slow but really begins to pick up pace when the hurricane hits and the Navy Seal commander begins to go psycho due to his inability to handle high pressures. One reviewer comments that there are too many crises but I don't think that you can have too many as long as you keep them logical. When the crane comes down, it drags the rig to the edge of the abyss, but some have said that there is no way that the crane could have pulled something the size of the drilling platform. As is typical of Cameron, he seems to interweave interesting philosophy into his movies. He opens the Abyss with a quote from Neizsche (who is dead) which is about the emptiness of the human soul. He doesn't seem to really pick up on this point, but what we do have is a scenario in which the world is on the brink of an abyss, which is world war III. Unfortunately the original version doesn't play this out so it comes out as more of an underwater adventure. When the World War III scenario is put into the movie we can see how there is two layers to this movie. On one side the rig is perching on the brink of the abyss while the world is hotting up for a really hot war. Then there are the aliens. They seem to take a back seat in all of this, but they are the reason as to why the war is starting up. Yet aliens are not exactly something that we encounter everyday, so even though there is a lot of evidence that what they are facing underwater is not human technology, the Navy Seals do not want to believe it. The Russian Water Tentacle, as is so aptly put, does not convince the commander that the aliens are peaceful, so he decides to blow them up. On a third level there is the relationship between two of the characters. They begin on the brink of divorce, another metaphorical abyss, and the underwater adventure, where they face each other dying, reunites them. Both of them are stubborn, but brought together on this rig amidst the dangers that they face, including loosing each other. What I thought at the end though was that even though these events brought them together, will it keep them together for twenty, thirty, or even forty more years? "},{"Title":"Incredible amounts of fun and technical innovation","Date":"15 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" James Cameron might not make perfect films but he is certainly one dedicated filmmaker. The Abyss was one of his most demanding projects, shooting 99% of the film actually underwater with giant sets, no stunt men, and diving equipment galore. The film is about a group of blue collar oil rig workers who are called to clear the wreckage of a crashed nuclear submarine. The cause of the subs crash is unknown, but it soon becomes clear that there are some sort of extraterrestrial forces at work that the crew must face, along with US versus Russia pressure and a crazed and paranoid captain. The Abyss is a fun filled adventure flick that is more of an impressive technical feat than anything else. James Cameron was a revolutionary filmmaker long before Avatar, and if you don't believe me watch The Abyss.This film really is quite the spectacle. The sets are very impressive and the vastness of their underwater setting is breathtaking. There is some great movie magic going on in making the film look as much like it is in the ocean as possible. The special effects are also incredibly impressive for 1989. A long floating tube of water moving around submarine hallways might not sound impressive but it is when you consider how hard water is to animate and just how limited the technology was for this sort of thing back in 1989. Then of course there is the design of the actual aliens, which isn't incredible but it is pretty. There is a wide shot of their underwater spaceship lit up in beautifully colored patterns and that truly is immaculate.But what's not so immaculate are the script and story. There's nothing really wrong with it, it just isn't all tied together as well as it could be. It is easy to become confused as to what is going on in certain scenes and why the characters are having to do what they are doing. Character motivations are often not fully fleshed out, especially towards the end when we have to just sort of accept that they are doing what they are doing. I felt like some scenes were in the film just so that the technical innovations could be utilized as much as possible. It's not always clear what is going on, but it always looks cool. I commend Cameron for trying his best to explain all the science of the film, even though parts of it are a a bit of a stretch. There are things like the diving suit that allows a human to dive incredibly deep. The science behind this is never really explained so we sort of just have to take it for granted. It's not a frustrating issue, but it's there and you can't ignore it.Bottom line is that The Abyss is a very fun movie. I watched the three hour special edition of the film and not once did I get terribly bored. It gets slow at times but always picks back up with some new intense action sequence. This is a far from perfect film with some pretty obvious flaws. It doesn't help that it has a very Hollywood cheesy ending, but the ending takes place on a great set piece that is quite impressive to look at. And that's where this film succeeds. Great technical innovation helps it to be a memorable film that I wouldn't be totally against watching again sometime down the road. I also suggest reading the IMDb trivia section on the film because you will learn things that make the film all the more enjoyable. The Abyss is a film full of excitement and fun and, despite some flaws, is really a great movie. "},{"Title":"An Abyss Odyssey","Date":"3 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" When it comes to the 1989 film; The Abyss a few things come to your mind. It is important to state that i saw the Special Edition, not the normal one. The movie has a lot of great features, and some less great ones too - some times the action scenes would become a bit lame, but the fight between the crazy guy and Ed Harris was a real nail biter. I really like this film for 3 reasons 1 the very human and touching portrayal of the characters which were very lifelike and made you connect and sympathize with the characters. Due to that there are some really great scenes in this movie. 2 The usage of the camera inside the Commandpost/base in some situations which was very intense at some times and would follow the oilers while running down halls and trying to close hatchets while fighting a seamlessly endless battle against the forces of nature. It sort of reminded me of Das Boot or something like that. 3 The slow but steady creation of tense.You shouldn't watch this movie for its aliens, special effects, or pretty obvious and way over the top anti-war-statement-post-cold-war-pacifism-ending. Its OK but a bit to corny i suppose. This, and the fact that there really is no explanation as to why the alien-thing had to swim right pass the third-world-war-sub, thus destroying it, makes it impossible for me to give this more than an eight though i would like too.Watch this film for its musicological dramatic tensions between the actors and the deep blue. "}{"Title":"Close Encounters (of the Aquatic Kind)","Date":"1 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" A crippled deep sea mining rig lies helpless on the ocean floor, with two equally lethal bombs on board the salvaged nuclear warhead from a scuttled military sub, and an unbalanced naval officer ready to snap. The plot may not hold water, but James Cameron's undersea action fantasy is still a thrilling adventure, despite a conspicuous absence of the human element from all but a few scenes. Clearly a good deal of care (and cash) went into the production, and the attenuated pace of filming under water gives every scene an eerie, ominous momentum. But Cameron is obviously more interested in showcasing his (admittedly dazzling) state-of-the-art special effects, and the 'Close Encounters (of the Aquatic Kind)' subplot is a definite liability. The overblown resolution is uncomfortably at odds with Cameron's already tense, claustrophobic inner space survival story, but it does at least offer one consolation the visual razzle-dazzle helps divert attention away from all the stock characters and comic book dialogue. "},{"Title":"Of its kind the de luxe model - Cameron pulls it off","Date":"13 August 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I've said it before, I'll most certainly say it again and I'm saying it now there are some films which, for whatever reason it might be, you simply do not like, so even the smallest flaw will irritate the hell out of you. And there are some films which despite their tics and oddities just win you over and which you are prepared to forgive almost anything. The Abyss is one such film there is much about it, not least the science, which has you suspending your disbelief almost to breaking point. But - well, you can't help but like it. Or at least this viewer can't help but like it. Perhaps it is Ed Harris as the boss of the underwater rig who is not only likable but believable; perhaps it is James Cameron's intelligent use of remarkable special effects which serve the film rather than, as all too often, demand that the film serve them and which, at the end of the day, seem to be a particular kind of film's raison d'etre. The Day After Tomorrow would be a case in point; perhaps it is the very touching and credible romance between Harris and Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio, an estranged couple who find that at the end of the day they simply love each other too much to split up (which makes a welcome change from the usual stereotypical mush Hollywood likes to serve up); or perhaps it is simply Cameron's achievement of filming underwater and managing to persuade us that it is not all taking place in some multi-million gallon tank somewhere in Arizona. Actually, I'm not in the mood to analyse I simply liked and enjoyed the Abyss. The plot in which a Navy seal loses his marbles and heads off to detonate a nuclear weapon underwater is barely credible. And however intriguing the 'underwater civilisation' is, it, too, does not bear close scrutiny. (Who built the city? Who are they? How do they exist? Etc, etc - just don't go there). Harris's team underwater is populated by the usual suspects of lovable quasi misfits, all with a heart of gold, and there is much about The Abyss which could, in lesser hands, have seemed like filming by numbers. But Cameron has the knack and pulls it off. I saw the extended DVD edition which spends more time on the civilisation than the theatrical release which Cameron cut and in which he focused more on the Harris/Mastrantonio love story, but either way there are worse ways of spending your time. It ain't great film-making, but of its kind it is the de luxe model. "},{"Title":"Unfocused but always compelling","Date":"6 May 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" A submarine crew investigates a mysterious underwater accident and come to believe they may be dealing with aliens.Unfocused but always compelling, at times moving, adventure/fantasy takes a while to get going, but it has likable characters and suspenseful scenes (including a harrowing near-drowning). Beautiful effects animate the aliens, which are without much point. They don't fit or do anything instrumental to the plot.They are given more purpose in the expanded version, which benefits from added exposition but suffers from overliteralization of the film's message, conveyed in the hopelessly heavy-handed final plot turn. "},{"Title":"Wet and wonderful","Date":"25 April 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" On his way to Titanic and Avatar via assorted Terminators, Aliens and Lies, James Cameron made Close Encounters Of The Wet Kind aka The Abyss.Two main story elements - gung-ho military nutcases pursuing secret mission, and secret aliens living on the sea bed - turn out to be very connected, and are intertwined with the domestic problems of Virgil and Lindsey Brigman (married couple at war) in the claustrophobic confines of a drilling rig 2,000ft below the ocean's surface, cut off from support by a storm.Notwithstanding the fabulous special effects, exciting plot developments, and stunning set pieces, the Brigmans' relationship is the heart of the movie. It's what makes you care, and Ed Harris and Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio do a great job of bringing these people to life.The whole alien encounter business is lifted directly from CE3K, of course, but the deep water setting so so very different that this doesn't matter. Also, Michael Biehn's loopy navy SEAL (playing essentially the same part which Stephen Lang played in Avatar) is an element not in CE3K, notwithstanding his familiarity from so many other movies.In the end, though, this film buzzes by quickly, excitingly and thrillingly, with some real emotion driving it. Like all of Cameron's films to date, it is a big film, an entertaining film, and a film with heart. "},{"Title":"Special Edition is one of the best movies ever made","Date":"5 February 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I don't know how they have cut the original director's content to 138 min. It's 171 min long Special Edition ...1989 theatrical release, rumors were circulating of a wave sequence missing from the end of the movie.I would say, without it ,the movie is not complete.With the release of more extended special edition it has since developed a strong cult following.I recently saw Avatar..But i feel the Abyss is much better than Avatar. It's engaging..The movie is complete and artistic.. The Abyss was hidden behind the shadows of Terminator,Alien,and Titanic.But its cult following will make it a widely considered Masterpiece in near future for sure.. "},{"Title":"Invaders from the deep","Date":"18 December 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" You know how it is You're a successful movie director and have recently completed one of the most accomplished sequels in movie history (Aliens) and, in the back of your mind, an idea is forming about another sequel, one with Arnhult, Asta La Vista and GnR warbling over motorcycle sequences. Trouble is, Linda Hamilton isn't available for a few years and Arnhult has prior commitments up to his nutsac. What to do? Well, why not direct an underwater sci-fi spectacular, making use of one of the most expensive and elaborate sets ever designed to whet your appetite for future projects? Eh? Eh? Why not just go and direct The Abyss? Well? Beautifully shot, much admiration must be expelled in the general direction of Cinematographer Mikael Salomon for the visuals which truly captivate, right from the off.The plot An American nuclear sub' has been lost and it is up to an expedition led by a young looking Ed Harris and the weirdly sexy Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio to seek, locate and extract anything useful, be that people or equipment. A bunch of Navy SEALS are sent along to assist, though they seem to have an agenda all their own whilst, most worryingly, it seems they may not be alone in the depths as something altogether alien stirs.Whilst this is essentially a monster movie, it is a monster movie with a difference. Here, the gribbly-ibblies aren't befanged and hungry for human flesh, instead they are more cerebral, content simply to float around and look beautiful in a vague attempt to make contact, seeming more curious than threatening. At times heart-stoppingly evocative, the film does occasionally delve into mawkish territory, particularly the soap opera-light relationship shared by Harris and Mastrantonio, which is the single reason this did not gain top marks.An excellent, ideas driven sci-fi movie that will, if you have any semblance of humanity in your cold, empty heart leave you simply breathless. "},{"Title":"Deep in the Abyss","Date":"1 November 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" And as he waited for his last breath of air, they came and saved him, but would they spare the world? Would his last words change the tide for mankind? With Academy Award visual effects, we plunge deep into the world of The Abyss. Tension coils around waves of suspense, and the depth of mystery carries across a brilliantly written storyline. The heart of drama flows through the talent of actors that bring to life characters both conflicted and driven, and we dive further in-between the lines of struggle and fate. And as we drift down into the end, we find ourselves lifted up by music that pulls at the fabric of our being, and inspiration lights up before us in a vision created across the silver screen. "},{"Title":"Has its moments, but misses the mark","Date":"5 October 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I am usually always impressed by director James Cameron's scope and vision in film crafting and after the successes of The Terminator and Aliens, it was intriguing to imagine what he could come up with at the bottom of the deep blue sea. Sadly, The Abyss fails to live up to its potential and feels like a short-changed project. The technical aspects of the film, barring some notable exceptions that I will address shortly, are first-rate. The film actually falls apart in the story-telling, which has actually been one of Cameron's strong points in his other films. Set on the ocean floor next to a rather intimidating bottomless drop (aka abyss) it opens with a joint effort between a marine mining crew and Navy SEALs to investigate the cause of a downed nuclear submarine. The film convinces the audience right off that extra-terrestrials are at work, although their motives are unclear. Unfortunately, Cameron's storyline is unfocused and pulled in myriad directions, and suffers from the lack of a worthy adversary to pull in the audience. The crew become trapped by a hurricane above, the head of the Navy SEALs (Michael Biehn) develops a pressure syndrome that makes him paranoid and dangerous, there is a ticking nuke, estranged married couple Ed Harris and Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio alternately bark and flirt with each other, and periodically the aliens emerge for a special effects show to let us know they are still around in an often forgotten subplot. Harris is adequate in the stoic dull hero role and Biehn gets to go all bug-eyed as the increasingly psycho soldier. One has to credit Cameron for crafting another tough female role, but Mastrantonio is often more shrill than involving, and a sacrifice that she makes later in the film fails to have the impact it should because of her frosty quality. Unlike in his earlier films, Cameron also tosses logic to the winds whenever inconvenient here, with characters venturing out sans protective gear onto the ocean floor without being done in by the pressure - and then having pressure play a role when he wants it to. The film also has pacing problems with too much technical babble and too few moments of high tension. The conclusion with Harris' descent into the abyss and the realm of the alien critters ultimately degenerates into a fiasco - with cutesy E.T.-like beings saving his bacon. When their ship miraculously takes everyone safely to the surface without pressurizing them, it looks suspiciously like Cameron's budget ran out and a huge piece of foam rubber with some splotches of psychedelic color passes for the ship, while the story seems to forget to provide the aliens with any raison d'etre. Who were they? Why were they here? What was their point? Who can say, since none of those questions are answered in Cameron's cinematic cut of the film (truthfully the extended version Cameron later provided is not that much better since the aliens appear to have snagged the same motivation as the beings from 2010). What we are left with is a promising misfire filled with some striking moments that ultimately go no where. "},{"Title":"In Regards to the DVD releases !!!","Date":"27 August 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" The is an EXCELLENT movie, it's in my TOP 10 list !! I can watch it again and again, especially since getting the 2-Disk Extended Release (2003-09-23)on DVD (171 minute version). I saw this movie when it was first released in 1989 at the theater. I read the book first before seeing the movie and was amazed at how well they produced the CGI for the Pseudopod. My only disappointment is with the screen format on all the DVD releases. This wonderful movie has yet to be released in Anamorphic WS. All DVD versions have been 2.35 LETTERBOX, very disappointing !!! The Bonus Disk has some GREAT Features, and definitely has one of the nicest Menus I've ever run across.FYI's First, to properly view on a 16x9 WS TV your set/projector needs the capability of Zooming. Some set-ups require you to set the resolution to 720p to get the proper Zoom functions, i.e. my 52 Phillips LCD. Secondly, I noticed that the Audio defaults to 2.0 Stereo instead of 5.1 Dolby, so make sure to change if your viewing on a Home Theater set-up !! "},{"Title":"Mark of James Cameron all over it....","Date":"25 August 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Abyss , a production 20 years old still incredible in acting , production , camera work , FX and other special effects , CGI , script , editing ( well OK Special Editon is far better ) is a wonderful piece of art. It has James Cameron stamped all over it... Perfection..Getting best performance from everything , pushing limits hard...Ed Harris was solid as rock as main character , Bud Brigmann , captain of DeepCore underwater oil rig. He is a well established leader of men in underwater condition with a troubled personal life and collapsing marriage. Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio is also showing quite a performance as somewhat annoying Lindsey Brigman , Bud's soon to be ex wife who is also rediscovering herself and her feelings for her husband....But real ace in the hole of whole movie was Michael Biehn as Lt. Hiram Coffey , Navy SEAL Commdr. who arrives to DeepCore rig and began to descend into madness right after wards due to high pressure environment....Biehn definitely deserved an award for his characterization here. Rest of the supporting cast was also impressive with Leo Burmaster , Todd Graf , Kimberly Scott and Adam Nelson...If you like decent science fiction with deep themes don't miss this one... "}{"Title":"Amazing... simply amazing...","Date":"15 August 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Abyss has to be one the most beautiful science fiction films after Star Trek The Motion Picture. James Cameron created an amazing vision of a rather doubtful, but interesting life form that lives in an aquatic way.For the most part the film focuses on the crew of an underwater oil rig, investigating a nuclear submarine that was involved in a mysterious accident. They soon find out they are not alone in the deep...We get treated to some interesting and compelling characters, of which the most important are portrayed by the charismatic Ed Harris, the beautiful Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio and the wonderful Michael Biehn. These three great actors and the rest of the very decent cast give solid, if not top notch performances.However, in the end, it's the mysterious underwater life form that makes the movie. Why? Because James Cameron is a genius and brings these beings to life with good camera-work and amazing cinematography, plus a very capable visual style. He wanted a vision and brought it to the big screen well! See this film! 10/10 "},{"Title":"I can watch this one again and again!","Date":"28 June 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" When my son was around 5 or 6, he'd watch either The Abyss or Back to the Future almost every day. Our family never got tired of either movie even after dozens and dozens (and dozens) of repeated showings. What I think I may be most grateful for is the fact that no sequel was ever made! Yay! Sequels usually only degrade the title, leaving us with less each time.This movie has everything, action, suspense, comic moments, romance, near-death experiences, undersea aliens, and themes of loyalty and open-mindedness. The acting, writing and directing are all top-notch and it keeps you glued to the screen the entire time. Real edge-of-your-seat stuff. "},{"Title":"The Dice Man Revieweth #1 The Abyss","Date":"25 March 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Hmmmm, is The Abyss then abysmal, twenty years later? Well, it depends on what you want from a film. Great FX, sound, colour and a heartwarming moral tale? Check. Once great - now a little ropey - FX, cheesy and poorly reasoned dialogue, over-sentimentality bludgeoning it's way through the last 30mins? Check that too if you're so inclined. At it's (Deep)core it was a personal labour of love for James Cameron, the nautically interested (crazed?) Director, gene-splicing Sci-Fi and the Sea, and for that it's a worthy film - Respect the Sea is a heavy (and far better) sub-text to the frankly ludicrous ***Spoiler*** pre-text of tensions between the Superpowers over a downed USN sub. The real-life Kursk incident was by comparison far more revealing of how nations might react to such circumstance.I watched the 163min special edited version, but was left wishing I'd stuck with the Theatrical Cut. The Abyss then - it's not for me, but it might be for you.The Dice Man. "},{"Title":"Screw Reality, this is good cinema","Date":"21 March 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I once dated a girl who hated The Abyss. Threw everything but the kitchen sink in that one!She was right. This is a film where clearly director Jim Cameron bit off more than he could chew. But you know what? I loved every bite.The Abyss is a technical and completely original marvel of film-making. Despite clear recollections to other Sci-Fi works, even the obvious Star Wars or Kubrick's 2001 and even The Day the Earth Stood Still, for the extended cut. Yet watching The Abyss, I do not stop and feel as if what I'm watching has been ripped off. I just enjoyed every moment of it.The ensemble cast is well written and preformed. And while the script isn't as efficient as The Terminator, it holds some great moments of suspense and human drama lacking in that film.Sure the story ventures into redundancy. Sure there are too many endings. Sure it ventures into deep bellows of high cheese melodrama followed by happy ending nonsense only seen in a Spielberg movie. All these things I do not dispute. But every time Bud gets to typing after disarming the bomb and we see ..knew this was a one way ticket. it just gets me every time. And between the theatrical version or the extended cut, I easily prefer the theatrical one. The intimate and claustrophobic story in the theatrical version is a story I vastly prefer. While the nuclear annihilation plot line may have been vogue in cold war times and even timeless, I can do without the civics lesson and can enjoy the voyage to the bottom of the sea with the underwater truckers and a some of Navy Seals without my giant killer wave. "},{"Title":"Cameron's Marvellous Close Encounters Of The Sea  Kind.","Date":"6 March 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" A deep sea oil crew are called upon by the military to investigate the events that saw an American Nuclear Submarine crash down in the abyss. As the crew, and their hot headed Navy Seal passengers, get down deeper, it would seem they are not alone down there.The Abyss is a flawed movie when put under the microscope, even allowing for the reinserted (and much better) ending that James Cameron was forced to cut by idiot studio executives. Most glaringly obvious as a fault is that The Abyss, after holding us for 2 hours of engrossing cinema, can't quite seal the deal as a deep (hrr hrr hrr) message movie for the modern era. What isn't in doubt upon revisits to the piece is that it's at times spectacular, at others it's joyously ambitious, both things coming together in one big loud boom of being a blockbuster with brains. James Cameron can never be accused of not trying to entertain the masses, and here, with a bit more thought on a humanist level, then we would have been talking in the realms of masterpiece.The making of the film is itself worthy of a movie, a fraught and angry shoot with many problems, of which I wont bore you with as they can be found at the click of a mouse. But Cameron pushes hard because he wants to please and dazzle, and he does, every buck and sweat drop is up there on the screen to be witnessed. The lead actors put in great work, Ed Harris and Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio give the film its centrifugal emotive heart as the warring Brigham's, while Cameron fave, Michael Biehn does a fine line in Gung-Ho decompression nut case! The technical aspects do dazzle, the visual effects rightly won the academy award in that department, and both the cinematography (Mikael Salomon) and art design (Dilley/Kuljian) are worth the price of a rental alone.It's true to say that The Abyss is a fusion of Close Encounters Of The Third Kind & The Day The Earth Stood Still, but really I don't personally see anything wrong with that. As a spectacle it rewards the patient in spades, as a deeply profound moving picture it falls just about short, but a less than 100% Cameron picture is still one hell of a ride. 8.5/10 "},{"Title":"One of James Cameron's Finest","Date":"28 January 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" There are very few filmmakers in modern cinema who can do science fiction as well as James Cameron. Cameron is responsible for bringing us some of the best sci-fi in the last 25 years, having created the Terminator and even delved into the Alien franchise. Cameron's 1989 film seems to be a bit under-appreciated and overshadowed by his other accomplishments. The film follows the crew of an underwater oil rig who are enlisted to assist the military in searching for survivors in a downed nuclear submarine. Events take a turn for the worse when a hurricane forces their topside support to evacuate and the military lieutenant overseeing the operation in the rig begins to show signs of stress-induced psychosis. Soon, the stranded crew discover that they aren't alone on the ocean floor...First, I need to recommend that, if you plan to watch this movie, be sure to watch the special edition that was re-released to include an additional 27 minutes. The special edition restores the original ending for the film that goes into greater detail of the crew's discovery and the message James Cameron was trying to instill upon the audience about mankind. Despite the films near 3 hour runtime, you will hardly notice the time passing as the film never gets boring. Strong performances and high quality special effects will keep you engaged throughout.The casting in this movie was exceptional, with Ed Harris and Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio headlining the film as the divorcing couple in charge of the rig crew. The best performance comes from Michael Biehn as Lieutenant Coffey and his slow mental deterioration as the high stress environment eats away at him. Even the supporting cast was of high quality and were a great addition to the film (particularly Todd Graff as Hippy, who I found to be a bit of a scene-stealer at times). The effects in this movie feel ahead of their time. While the film was created in 1989, it's effects were just as impressive (if not more) as movies released well into the mid-1990's. Overall, the film is a blast to watch and, while it didn't seem to receive as much recognition as some of Cameron's other work, it remains one of my favorite films from his career. It's well worth the time to sit through this 3-hour epic. "},{"Title":"I got to tell you, I give this whole thing a sphincter-factor of about 9.5","Date":"8 December 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is such an underrated movie.In my book, Cameron had a movie score of 3 good (Terminator, Terminator 2 and Aliens) to 1 bad (Titanic). So I decided to give The Abyss a try. I was not at all let down.The special effects were some of the best I have ever seen. Everything was so vivid. Not to mention a lot of equipment used was hi-tech and almost sci-fi quality.The acting was perfect. Best performances were by Ed Harris and Michael Biehn on 2 opposite sides. All other roles seemed to be played by small-time actors but they all gave such good performances that you could never tell.I read in the trivia about how difficult this movie was on cast and crew alike, and I respect the actors and crew for their hard work and determination in making sure this movie was done right.Over all a great movie. Sci-fi fans will love this one.10/10. "},{"Title":"My Review","Date":"12 August 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" A U.S. nuclear missile submarine mysteriously sinks after coming into contact with some colorful unidentified object. The government enlists the help of expert divers Bud Brigman (Ed Harris) and his estranged wife Lindsey (Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio) to take a team of divers to the sub and search for survivors.What they discover far exceeds anything anyone could've imagined. Not only do they have to do battle against the government, who steals one of the nuclear warheads, but they're also subjected to the mysterious lights, as well as survival against a hurricane that is about to strike.James Cameron knows how to develop characters, and the characters of Bud and Lindsey come across as people you really root for. As for the mysterious lights (also known as Unidentified Submerged Objects), I thought it was a great side-story to the main focus of the film, and overall it's just a joy to watch. "},{"Title":"This movie is James Cameron's BEST Movie not Titanic.","Date":"2 August 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Abyss is perhaps one of the most unsung movies ever made. It's never really garnered the praise t deserves and in light of Cameron's other achievement's this movie is overlooked. Granted Titanic made the most money and Terminator made Arnold a MAJOR Star. And Aliens put Cameron on the movie map. But it's the Abyss that realizes Cameron's talent Here he makes a very impressive movie that stays with you long after it's over. Ed Harris deserves the lions share of the praise as his acting is the best it's ever been. His Bud Brigman is a true hero and leader always watching out for his men. The Story is simple The USS Montana encounters something of immense power under the water and during this encounter it sinks. A rescue crew is dispatched of Navy S.E.A.L.S and a oil rig with a experimential underwater rig is asked by the Government to assist in the rescue. The Seals goal is to ensure all aboard the Montana is dead and then gather up any code books and Nuclear keys that they can and to bring them back. However the Seals Leader LT.Coffey becomes mentally unbalanced due to a underwater condition that can affect anyone. Michael Biehn's acting is very very good a performance to be watched. He's Subtle and he underplays his role until he needs to kick it into overdrive and then his LT Coffey becomes a scary person indeed. During the Rescue a Hurricane blows in trapping them all under the water. And during all of this they discover that they are not alone under the water something else is with them. Is it Friendly? or is it a Enemy waiting to destroy us? I won't say I'll just say this finding out is half of the fun. The Cast of this movie outdo them selves by giving realistic performances that echo what a close knit work family can be like when faced with a crisis and outsiders getting involved. This movie deserves more praise then any of Cameron's work because it delivers the thrills and chills and suspense that we go to a movie for. If you haven't seen it I urge you to. And if you have I urge you to see it again. "},{"Title":"close encounters meets the day the earth stood still...underwater","Date":"1 May 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" others on this site may have said this before, but those were the films that automatically came to mind when watching this film.it is a great underwater film and probably surpasses 20,000 Leagues Under The Sea.some of it i guess is a bit far-fetched at the end, but the first encounter Linds had with the creatures was great. This is of course a sci-fi film, so anything goes.If you've ever seen science specials on TV that have focused on deep water life, you know that the visual representations in this film of the creatures is amazing close to some of the amazing, transparent life forms deep, and i mean deep in the oceans. the one creature that saves Ed of course is not one of them, but overall, this film rocks. "}{"Title":"Young Ed Harris's performance in the film is good enough to bring anyone to tears","Date":"8 March 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I really think James Cameron's The Abyss is one of the greatest and (sadly) most underrated sci-fi gems out there, miles better than Revenge of the Sith and other, more popular, choices. Young Ed Harris's performance in the film (which was shot and released back in 1989) is good enough to bring anyone to tears. The sci-fi element in what originally seems like a cold-war submarine drama comes as a complete surprise towards the second half of the film, driving it up into one of the biggest, most satisfying, climax sequences I have yet to see on the silver screen. That, and the fact I saw this film at the tender age of nine at the theater and was completely blown away after watching it, turns this baby into a keeper in my book.I recommend anyone who considers himself a science fiction fan to grab hold of the film, watch it breathless, and understand what i'm talking about. "},{"Title":"Floating Rat in a Ziploc","Date":"5 March 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Star Wars underwater and a pleasure to watch even after the 50th time. It's what happens when Hollywood invests in professionals. It's funny how we can sit and complain about movie length when we walk out of the theater massaging our buttocks with thighs locked together but at home with our remote controls we wish the movie was twice the length or at minimum a mini series. Thank god for DVD and all those extra scraps of film on the cutting room floor. When you're this good at making movies it's all about details and that's what makes it a pleasure to watch over and over again. A classic blockbuster with a star studded cast that spared no expense. They gave it their all and it showed...because they are professionals and free from the shackles of the corporate monkeys that will try and emulate The Abyss. They will try full of budget restraints and corporate tinkering...but will fail. There is only one, The Abyss. "},{"Title":"Blooper","Date":"19 November 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I have watched The Abyss 10 or more times; it is one of my favorite all time movies. However I couldn't help but notice that about midway through the movie when Coffey and the other SEALs carry the warhead off of Flatbed, it is VERY heavy, taking two of them to carry it. Yet late in the movie when the warhead is attached to Big Geek, Big Geek seems to carry it with ease. Even when Brigman tethers it to Deep Core, Big Geek doesn't sink to the bottom, but hovers there, twisting and turning. If that were a true warhead, Big Geek would have dropped to the bottom instantly instead of carrying it over the drop-off as easy as it does. "},{"Title":"Incredibly moving undersea drama.","Date":"8 September 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is the movie that made me fall in love with Ed Harris. What a fantastic actor. The emotion he puts into this part is beyond compare. The movie itself is an epic of humanity. Threat of nuclear war. The near loss of loved ones. The connection between the characters and the audience is palpable. The mystery and beauty of the 'alien' life adds an added dimension to this 3-dimensional blockbuster of action, suspense, terror and yes, beauty. The characters each have their own distinct memorable personality and you feel for them (or dislike them, as the case may be) and share in their peril. Wonderful acting and pristine directing add up to one of my favorite movies of all time. Watch it. You'll be glad you did. "},{"Title":"surprisingly good","Date":"3 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I am not sure if the overall rating comes from the extended version or not, but this comment and rating comes from the extended version of the movie. I think this really enhances the movie viewing experience, but it makes the movie considerably longer and a little harder to get through, especially towards the end. But acting was good for the most part and there were a few times when I was not convinced. The bringing of Lyndsy back actually gets to a lot of people, but I was not convinced by Ed Harris there. I do think he did a good job and I liked most of the cast, but a lot of them were played over the top because they were just over the top characters. I think I would have preferred a smaller cast and more time expanding each character, instead of omitting everyone's back ground story. That would have added to some of the emotional aspect of the movie. I liked the ending with the aliens, but there is something that always bugs me with all movies with the same theme. After looking at all the horrible things that humans do they always decide to save humans because of one act of self sacrifice. In all honest I would still end the world after looking at a lot of crap we have done in the past and continue to do everyday. That was always funny to me even as a kid. I liked the atmosphere he gave the movie and some of sets were amazing. Just to think of being underwater for such long periods of time. I have to give full props to all the actors who had to dive and do a lot of it. I do enjoy this movie, but I am not sure how much I would recommend it to people because a lot of people I know cannot get through the 3 hours of it. Oh yeah I loved the fight scene between the two underwater vehicles. I thought that was a lot of fun. "},{"Title":"One of Jame's Cameron's best.","Date":"14 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie is simply amazing. Words cannot explain it. People just need to see this. This movie is full of amazing shots that were all shot underwater. James Cameron made a landmark film with those shots. I saw this movie in theaters. I left the theater thinking that there were some plot holes. But then I saw the extended version and that version explained everything. If you haven't seen this movie, you should see that version. This movie had great acting, great directing, a great script, a great story, and it was funny and sad in parts. The special effects were incredible for 1989. James Cameron made a landmark film with this movie. I said that it was one of his best. I think it was his second best next to Terminator 2. This was a great movie. 9/10. "},{"Title":"Too many subplots","Date":"17 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Watching the special edition, the story's even more of a mess. There's an added ending with giant waves that, while looking cool, adds another subplot into a movie chock full of them. At nearly three hours long, it gets to be a bit much. The original version has the same problems, though. There's a love story, a disaster flick, an alien contact film, and an anti-Cold War message all trying to get out of this movie, and none of them mesh together very well. The visuals are very impressive, but also just seem to be attempting to mimic Close Encounters - underwater. Ed Harris is overacting a bit, but nothing compared to Michael Biehn, who finds the scenery so damn tasty. Still, it's well-made, and the scene with the water arm is classic. "},{"Title":"'Close Encounters' meets DAS BOOT.","Date":"3 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" My Take A splendid claustrophobic adventure with terrific special effects and gripping tension. Unless (or even if) hell froze over I can only say this No one makes blockbusters like James Cameron. The director who shone in THE TERMINATOR continued to shine in his subsequent films including ALIENS, a TERMINATOR sequel, the ever-so-popular TITANIC (which finally earned him his deserving Oscar for Best Director), and this sometimes subtle but mostly gripping underwater adventure THE ABYSS. James Cameron is one of my most favorite directors (joining Spielberg, Hitchcock and Burton). You may know this guy as the director of the blockbuster, multi-Oscar winning Titanic. Or the dude who brought you the superior sequel Aliens and the first two Terminator movies. The said films are big hits but among those Cameron films is this enjoyable adventure flick. THE ABYSS didn't make much of an impression in its original release, but thanks to a Director's Cut, THE ABYSS is better than ever. Other than the claustrophobic first half, the finale is improved from a simple what-if deux ex machina to a morally-induced ending. While the final product still falls short of the director's ALIENS or his later movie TITANIC, THE ABYSS has stood up as a classic underwater adventure. Rating ***** out of 5. "},{"Title":"Close Encounters of the Third Kind meet The Poseidon Adventure","Date":"6 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Extraterrestrials hiding in the depths of the sea? Why not! We don't really know for sure what is hiding in the abysses, which are the lowest points of extern Earth. So it's a rather interesting way of seeing things.Directed by James 'Terminator' Cameron, The Abyss opens with a nuclear submarine which crashes after chasing what looks like a spaceship taken from Spielberg's Close Encounters.A military expedition is sent in order to retrieve the submarine and the mission needs involvement from an oil-driller crew, led by Virgil 'Bud' Brigman, played by Ed Harris. Also on the scene are Bud's wife Lindsay (Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio) and paranoid SEAL officer Coffey (Michael Biehn).On the surface, however, the climate isn't very sane. As this is a Cold War-era picture, American officers involve Soviets with this accident, while the Russians deny all this. This leads psychotic Coffey to plot a scheme in order to launch a nuclear head and thereby satisfying his need of Russian blood.At the same time, a hurricane strikes the drill platform and things seriously begin to go awry. After a series of action scenes orchestrated by Cameron, Coffey is out of scene and I thought that the movie would end that way. It's not the case.The following scenes are the best ones. They involve Bud having to save Lindsay from hypothermia drowning and then defusing the nuclear weapon in the abyss. And, the icing of the cake, a meeting with the aliens.Much of the interest for this movie relies in its special effects and its visual spectacle. Cameron proves himself incredible in filming underwater sequences (which would be even more obvious in a certain blockbuster he would make in 1997). At one point, we almost forget the presence of water...The hurricane Fred sequences are also well done. It feels like a precursor for Wolfgang Petersen and The Perfect Storm.But the greatest moments of the movie are those which involve the visitors themselves. As far as I can remember, it is the first time that I see UFOs (Underwater Flying Objects). And Cameron couldn't have depicted them better than actually. When UFOs approach, power goes out and a blueish violet light fills the environment. It makes the alien scenes somehow predictable, but each one is different from the other, so there are always surprises. The mini-ships are very intriguing and this sense of wonder is greatly expressed by Mastrantonio's face. The heavily-transformable water column provides some mystifying twisted visions and also frustration when it's slashed by Coffey.The best scenes of the movie occur at the end when Bud is rescued by an alien which looks like an hybrid between a stingray and an angel. The alien brings Bud to the visually dazzling and admirably conceived alien base, which then emerges to the Atlantic's surface.As this is a visual spectacle, dramatic and emotional are kinda rare and when they're there, they're not really successful. The only one which actually works is Bud's stubborn attempts to save Lindsay's life after a dramatic and last chance move.Cameron also tries to show deep water psychological effects on the characters, but the results are mixed. When it's about Coffey going crazy and insane, it's rather annoying and uninteresting. But when it's about Bud descending into the abyss, now it works.The Abyss is a movie to grab, because there are no other pictures like this one. If you love sea adventures, visual magic moments and alien encounters, this is definitely a must-have. But if you're interested in character developments and you're not really patient, you'll find that 140 minutes could be really long. "},{"Title":"Stick with the original","Date":"22 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" The acting in this movie is excellent and the effects are awesome. The relationship between Mastriano and Harris is the pivot point of the movie, and it's outstanding. It also provides the opening for an unexpected encounter in the abyss. The movie is thought-provoking, heartening, and worth every minute of viewing. However, a word of caution regarding the Special addition with the additional 28 minutes a few scenes added to the movie, but for the most part the additional footage relegated the Special Edition of The Abyss to the category of disaster (or near-disaster) flicks that are rarely worth the time. I was very disappointed to see how much the additional footage detracted from the original version, and extremely appreciative of the editors who cut the original version! If you haven't seen it yet - find the original version. It is very worthwhile! "}{"Title":"The best of movies, the worst of movies","Date":"6 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" The first hour of this movie is one of the most boring movies ever made. It is a basically an instruction manual on the dangers of underwater construction, complete with laconic military males barking orders, some obligatory fires, and lot of water, sort of like endless Titanic retakes. I could not for the life of me figure out where I was or what was happening, and I did not care. The only character I cared lived or died was a pet rat. Full of sound and fury signifying nothing... The special effects water creature is legendary, and that sequence is utterly magical. Those few seconds alone makes the movie worthwhile.The psychotic Lt. Coffee and his Dr. Strangelove need to set off a nuke, really turn up the emotional volume. At that point, you begin to know the characters and care about them.Then the movie takes a 180 degree turn and becomes about emotion, love, the survival of our species, in long heart-wrenchingly emotional scenes that were so intense I had to take a break, reminiscent of Leonard di Caprio's death in Titanic (another James Cameron film). The tail end of the movie reminded me a bit of Stanley Kubrick's 2010 with its quasi-religious awe, though I burst out laughing at the Atlantean city that seemed to be modeled on Euro bathroom fixtures.This movie handles alien intelligence exceptionally well. They are properly mysterious and awe-inspiring, not just silly drooling monsters or cutesy muppets.The extended version was almost 3 hours long, a grueling experience. "},{"Title":"Amazing Suspense movie.","Date":"25 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Abyss is about a mysterious attack on an American Sub that was caused by something not human. The Lifeguard and Navy believed it was done by the Soviets, only that doesn't explain how something can go fast and stop anything that's electrical.So to get to the bottom of this the Navy hired an aqua oil repair team from Texas to solve the mystery of this incident.The Aqua team has it's own underwater fortress as well as several mini subs and high tech gear.Once they encounter the cause of the incident, they're about witness something not human. Something that mankind has never seen in the ocean before.This movie is directed by James Cameron who also made Terminator and Aliens possible. The visual effects and structure of the movie is just amazing to watch. It's unlike any suspense movie you'd ever witness.Those who like Cameron's other movies will enjoy this one.The flow of the movie is slow. Course it is if you were to watch the extended version which is 171 minutes. Plus it's rated PG-13 for language, violence, and some suspenseful moments.It is worth seeing in my opion. "},{"Title":"Awesome, powerfully filmed, good acting, thrilling contact with a different species","Date":"12 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" A believable science-fiction story, well told. A great movie for those of us with a fear of water, enclosed places, cliffs, and highly trained killers with brains about two steps out of contact with reality. I.e., this movie has the potential to scare you silly! Yet it really does no such thing. Instead, you are entertained. Given realistic views of the possibilities in underwater living (sans appropriate color scheme). Show a possible scenario for contact with non-human intelligence. It would be easy to call this a morality play, and you wouldn't be wrong. But, it is much more than just that. I am not sure just how this movie was filmed, but you definably get the feeling that you are deep in the ocean living in a very unique environment. All is not good though. Seems like any deep-sea environment designed for an isolated crew would make much better use of color and the layout of living spaces. The furniture provided the dwellers is poor inducement to ever return. Military racks, bunk-beds, hard chairs. The general industrial design and coloration (hundreds of pipes and fittings are unlabeled and not even color-coded, walls, floors and ceilings all the same dingy brown-gray, Highly unlikely if the operations people have any hope for the efficiency and mental health of those living in such a situation to say nothing of safety and operability. NO cogent designer would design critical wiring that looses its identity in emergency lighting. A cold (and cooling) environment with freezing water, yet I never saw anyone actually shiver. Wet clothing & hair that magically dries in the damp and dank atmosphere in time for the next scene. With all the little burbles, this is still a great movie. You will be on the edge of your seat, in no danger of dozing off as this tale reveals itself. "},{"Title":"superb","Date":"25 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" the abyss is one of the finest adventure/sci fi movies i've seen... ed harris brings such warmth and dignity to his character, and Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio is every bit his equal... michael biehn is one of my journeyman heroes, and turns in a good performance as the tragically misguided lt. coffey...although a cynic could claim this movie is emotionally manipulative, somehow i never felt used at the hands of the director... the final descent is wonderfully acted, with fragility, love and isolation emanating from every scene... as the revival scene is wrenching...the movie also has some amazing visuals, and some thrilling action sequences that never feel excessive...while not at all hard science fiction, i found one or two of the ideas to be interesting, and the movie seemed to blend very distinct, separate elements into a cohesive whole...this movie has an enormous, throbbing heart, and a beautiful sense of wonder... seek it out... "},{"Title":"When science fiction goes under-water","Date":"14 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Somewhere deep in the Pacific Ocean, sometime. Bud Brigman and his team of professional divers are exploring the depths of the ocean for their mining company when they are suddenly required to look for a lost nuclear submarine and its weapons. Bud's estranged wife, Lindsey, who designed their submarine platform, joins them with a team of Navy Seals. Soon, everything combines to stop them and endanger their lives &#150; from a storm that isolates them from the surface to the Seal captain's depth sickness that makes him dangerously mad. Bud finds it quite hard to impose his views (When it comes to the safety of these people, there's me and then there's God, understand?). But their ordeal leads them to discover something much greater, much more awe-inspiring than a mere nuclear submarine&#133; Let's ignore the infantile morals and typical American values (although one has to admire how they determinedly strive to find every way to shoot their weapons and kill each other in the most unlikely places). The movie is well made, the creatures are beautiful, the underwater scenes are quite skillfully shot&#133; and there even are some attempts at humor &#150; Ed Harris style. "},{"Title":"Chilling, touching, and intriguing","Date":"11 June 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" NOTE I watched the Special Edition version of the film which contains 25 minutes of additional footage, and as this was my first viewing, I don't know how much this version differs from the theatrical version.Nothing short of spectacular!! A unique and original interpretation of extraterrestrial life, this film is a success on many levels. It almost feels like two movies rolled into one, the first half being suspenseful and captivating, with the second half being more like a good sci-fi movie with romantic elements. I was moved to tears in two different scenes near the end, which is not an easy feat for me.James Cameron had a vision, and as both the writer and director, he brought it to the screen for all to see. This is a powerful film unlike any other I've seen before. Ed Harris and Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio provide a lot of on screen chemistry and fill out their roles well. The CGI was dazzling and seems very much ahead of its time, considering this was done in 1989. I can't believe this movie isn't talked about more&#133;VERDICT A hidden gem, plain and simple. HIGHLY recommended to all. I was literally captivated by this film, but as I do not wish to spoil one second of it, let me end by requesting you to rent it tonight (I recommend night viewing for all sci-fi/suspense movies as I've found it contributes to the effect). 9.0 out of 10.0 "},{"Title":"...when you look long into an abyss, the abyss also looks into you.","Date":"15 May 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" During the height of the Cold War the USS Montana, a US nuclear ballistic submarine, sinks into an ocean abyss due to unknown circumstances. The US Navy scramble to the scene to rescue survivors and recover the nuclear missiles on board before nearby Russian forces do. Their best hope are a team of divers attached to a submersible drilling platform not far from the crash site. During the operation freak weather conditions damage the platform and sever its communication with the surface. As World War III looms above and tensions rise between the divers and a deployed SEAL team the rescuers discover that there is something else besides the submarine in the Abyss.Now I have to say first of all that I watched the Directors Cut, so if I make mention of something you don't know about, that's why. This movie was made in 1989 and yet has better effects than half the movies today. But the thing was that the effects were not the story, the characters were the story and the effects merely added to that fact. This movie has great acting from Ed Harris, Michael Biehn and Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio. Mary has been labelled as annoying in this movie which is actually quite good. She needs to be perceived early on as annoying so that her change later on actually works. Ed is the star and provides a killer performance. Michael Biehn though, I felt stole the film. He was just f***in creepy in this movie. Michael is a great actor and should be in more big movies. Maybe Cameron or Taratino can help.I only have one problem with this movie and that's the audience. I've read so many reviews that say that this movie would be bigger if it wasn't for a Disney movie ending. Uh, hello, what the f*** do you expect? This movie couldn't have had a better ending. It completely suited the movie. What the f*** do you want, Ed Harris to turn into the f***in Terminator and hand all those aliens asses to themselves? Get a warhead and blow the b******s to hell? That would sure as f***in hell not have suited the movie. In a movie like this you need to stop the aliens by non-violent means, otherwise you are as bad as they say.Have the aliens destroy the f***in world? That again would not stick. These are peaceful aliens who have been driven to a brink by humans and are trying to stop them before they do anything worse. The aliens just needed an excuse to not go through with the plan and were provided with it by Ed Harris. The Day The Earth Stood Still has a bigger Disney type ending and is a f***in landmine in Sci-Fi history.Nobody wants to badmouth The Day The Earth Stood Still because it had a message at the end which everyone accepted. James Cameron tries to update this message with The Abyss and gets f***in s*** on because of it.People, just watch a f***in movie and if you enjoy, enjoy it! Don't go out and b**** that it wasn't perfect. No movie is completely perfect but there are some that are nearly there in their respective genres. The Abyss is one of the best f***in Sci-Fi movies out there and should rightly be on the top 250 list instead of being badmouthed! F*** THIS, I'm done! "},{"Title":"Beautiful underwater epic...","Date":"27 December 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Okay, I'll start off by saying I'm a sucker for underwater epics and so this movie was a must see for me. Though slow going at times, especially the Special Edition version which has an extended length of 171 minutes, there are some lovely underwater shots which I thoroughly enjoyed. Personally, I would have preferred it if, instead of going with the alien presence, the writers had inferred that the creatures were natural to earth. There are vast amounts of ocean still unexplored and, truth to tell, we have no idea what all lives beneath the surface. This said, I feel confident in recommending this movie to all who enjoy the water. I for one, thoroughly enjoyed it and will be watching it again. "},{"Title":"Relationships","Date":"10 October 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I have read most of the comments on this board and I just wanted to add a slightly different take on this movie. I have always enjoyed watching this film since I saw it originally back when it first hit theaters. Having said that, I have always had a problem with the alien angle in that I never felt like it served any real purpose in the film. To me what made this movie special-and what sets James Cameron movies apart from others-is that depth of the characters and their relationships.The relationship between Bud and Lindsay is the core of this film's heart. The reality of a failed marriage being played out in absolute isolation under impossible cirumstances creates a dramatic tension and reality that makes this film hold viewers. Maybe it's just me because effects in films don't hold my attention without character development, but the resentment between these two characters and the depths they go for each other as the film goes on are what gives this film its drama.  "},{"Title":"Surprising suspense, never expected it to be more than a 'B'!","Date":"7 October 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Since I had never seen a trailer or ad for this movie, it was a pleasurable and surprising experience watching it. By the suspense and the content, I would have imagined there would have been more promotion of it by the media.This is one of my most favorite movies and I might have missed it if I hadn't rented it by mistake! I thought it was a different movie; one that a friend had told me about but couldn't remember the title of. (To tell you the truth, I have NEVER found THAT one!!!) The basic premise is a most provocative concept and expresses ideas unusual to science fiction. The action is remarkably like the 'Energizer Bunny', it keeps going and going and going... It is a long film but until it's over, you just never realize it. I can still sit down and enjoy watching it, even tho' it would probably be the 30th time. The characters are very real and are just like some people I have known for a long time, BUT I think they would have handled the situation better.  "}{"Title":"Lots of fun","Date":"6 July 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The movie was lots of fun to watch. Time went fast, and before I knew it, the movie was over. I enjoyed how the story continued to be energetic and the actors kept the action rolling. I thought the special effects were really cool also. I liked the story and directing too.SPOILER ON THE WAY..I liked how he brought back the girl from death after they made their way back to the big station (don't quit).  I thought it was fake that they went down so deep without getting crushed. I also thought the end where the city came up was like Dr. Doolittle's snail which made me laugh. "},{"Title":"The religious allegory of the hero beating the odds","Date":"17 June 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  THE ABYSS is a great film because of the religious allegory of the hero surviving what appears to be an impossible situation due to spiritual intervention. This time it is aliens underwater that intervene to save the hero capably played by Ed Harris. There is a value placed on marriage when Ed Harris' wedding ring stops a closing door from crushing his hand. Ed Harris' character impresses the Aliens when they play back love you...wife on a video screen after rescuing him. The character of Michael Biehn has good command presence as a Navy Seal officer. I have trained beside Navy Seals at Cecil Field Naval Air Station in 1997 when I was with the Canadian Forces. Navy Seals are much tougher than the ABYSS portrays them as being. The concept of Aliens living underwater in spaceships is impressive. If they do exist I coined the name for them the CareRankKI. Its like the defensive move in chess where your king keeps going back and forth in the corner forcing a stalemate. The care and rank represent the two squares in the corner and Ki represents the king piece. President Kennedy talked about tossing our hat over the wall of space and now we are forced to retrieve it. He could have been talking about contact with aliens under the ocean. ME Mastrantonio plays a heroine that we care about and we silently cheer her on as Ed Harris' character tries to revive her. I gave the ABYSS a ten out of ten for the great acting and script.   "},{"Title":"Quite slow, but has many good intense moments.","Date":"30 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The AbyssAn American submarine carrying nuclear weapons crashes under mysterious events, as a storm is coming along an underwater oil rig is called up for help. As the investigation of the submarine starts the wires to the controlling ship gets cut during the storm, the oil rig and the crew is stuck with a few navy seals who are afraid of the Russians, as the atmosphere gets desperate the crew encounters an unknown life form.Personally I feel James Cameron haven't made many wrong steps in his career, his movies always manage to amaze and entertain me, that includes Titanic. So i was looking forward to watching this movie, and despite a few flaws I found it very good. There were some things which i disliked, but overall I thought it was pretty entertaining and intense.Of the negative sides the movie is sometimes maybe moving a bit too slow, not much is happening, but actually that is sort of okay, because our interest is kept because we are eager to find out what is beneath, what is the secret. This makes the movie very unpredictable, it's sort of a mystery, and I thought i had guessed the end many times. I'll be honest, I love unpredictable movies as they keep my interest better, and I found this movie very original and unique.Even though the movie moves at a very slow pace it still creates many very intense scenes that had my heart pumping a few extra times per second, naturally it's the whole thing with the navy seals, and there is never any doubt either where the sympathy lies, even though you may wonder if they are actually doing the right thing, but as the sympathy is far from there, their leader is portrayed as the villain and he sure is a psychopath, and a total moron before he goes insane, down there.As always James Cameron has done a fantastic job with the directing, and especially the dramatic scenes of this movie is very well handled and extremely intense, especially the scenes where the oil rig is getting dragged towards the bottom were fantastic, another amazing job from Mr. Cameron here.On the acting I think many of the lead ones did a good job, they were all above average and made a very believable foundation for the movie. Ed Harris had a few flaws, but I also think he had many good scenes, especially the scenes with Mary Elizabeth were superb and their chemistry very good. But for me the star of the movie is the villain, Michael Biehn, his portrait of a nervous psychopath were fantastic, I could almost feel his wrath and damn did I hate him, absolutely terrific!To sum it all up a bit. I Found this movie very good, and it kept my interest all the way through, but even though it was a fantastic original idea and the details were thought through. But actually I have to admit that i disliked the ending, i loved that i didn't see it coming, but the final end was just too over hyped and classic for me, I was constantly hoping for a shocking end, but the end was just too melodramatic and reminded me too much of something I've seen a million times before, the classic Happy End.8/10  "},{"Title":"Brilliant, long and strong","Date":"19 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Some people may moan that 'The Abyss' is excessive in it's length, which is probably one of the reasons why the DVD and video sales of the film have been a major factor in it's success overall.Like all of James Cameron's pictures there are many really original flares of genius with regards to plot twists that I wont give away (but will hint that the sequence in which Harris and Mastrantonio are trapped in the submersible contains one).They final act is nothing short of wonderful - the entire film is all about taking the viewer on a voyage of discovery - and truly awe inspiring, with special effects that would make George Lucas swoon even now. These last few moments also contain the trademark Cameron moral ambiguity, in which he highlights some major human weaknesses and questions them, making us all tae stock and think, despite the fact that his films are blockbusters we can still learn from them.Brilliant cast and beautiful camera work, he's pulled another classic out of the bag here! "},{"Title":"Ground-breaking film about discovery and humanity.","Date":"30 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Despite Titanic's evilness, James Cameron has made some extraordinary films. This is one of them, right up there with Aliens, The Terminator, and True Lies.  This was one of the first movies to use CGI (computer generated images/imaging) successfully.  It was definitely the first film to CG an entire character, albeit for just one scene.This movie takes us to the ocean bottom, where a deep sea oil-rig is commandeered by the US military/navy/whatever to investigate the mysterious demise of a USNavy nuclear submarine.  The Navy sends down some SEALS to help out, but the depths of the ocean can cause anybody to have problems. The film pits the crew against the SEALS against everyone's fear of the unknown.  Though there are no car chases, there are some gripping action sequences, owing mainly to the fact that the people in this story are battling against not just each other, but so many other odds as well.Hurricanes, the danger of deep-sea pressure, and the unknown.  Whether the mysterious abyss is home to aliens, deep-sea denizens, or just the imagination of a stressed group of people, is for you to decide (well, kindof).This film is definitely worthy of a once-over view, and I would recommend starting with the cinema version.  If you see it and liked it, try the extended director's cut for a whole new perspective on what Cameron had intended with the movie.  The original ending was cut down quite a bit, as it had implications too grandiose and intense for the general public to be exposed to.  Either way, this film has a lot to say about us all. "},{"Title":"Cold War in Cold Water (positive review - some spoilers)","Date":"10 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"         During the cold war, the nuclear superpowers found themselves under a great deal of pressure as they held the power to end the world literally at their fingertips. Both sides felt no trust for the other, and even a rumor could begin a buildup of military forces. James Cameron takes the tensions of the cold war and places them 2000 feet below the  surface of the Gulf of Mexico where the bizarre happenings become a compressed version of the looming nuclear face off between the United States and the Soviet Union. In Cameron's screenplay, the real dangers arise from a lack of communication which plunges the characters into life-threatening situations and greater distrust even when there was no real danger in the first place. Only when people begin to talk and listen are solutions brought about.         At 1000 feet below the surface of the Gulf of Mexico, a U.S. nuclear submarine crashes into a canyon wall after a close encounter with an underwater U.F.O. and sinks to a shelf in the 2 and ½-mile-deep Cayman Trench. Although the Navy is equipped with rescue equipment, it cannot get it to the site before an impending hurricane and recruits the team of an American - owned submerged oil drilling platform to help with the rescue. In spite of heated arguments between the designer, Lindsey, and the platform manager, Bud, the Navy team transfers down to the platform for the rescue operation. As tension between Lindsey and Bud grows because of their impending divorce, the team leader, Coffee, begins to experience High Pressure Nervous Syndrome (H.P.N.S.) which clouds his judgment and contributes to his paranoia of the oil workers and the unknown phenomena that caused the sub crash. After finding no survivors in the wrecked sub, the Navy team is ordered to retrieve and prepare a nuclear warhead for detonation in the event that a Russian sub happens upon the wreck. Even though there is no evidence of Russian involvement, the U.S. blames Russia for the sub disaster and both sides begin to build up naval forces in the area.  Various miscommunications between the Navy and the oil crew lead to deaths on the platform, and occasional visits by the aliens increase Coffee's paranoia. Cut off from the surface and forgetting his duty, Coffee turns the timed nuclear warhead loose on the aliens in spite of the efforts of the crew to stop him. Although the differences between  Lindsey, Bud, the Navy and the workers begin to be resolved, Bud must descend into the trench to disarm the warhead and, however unplanned, face the consequences of threatening the aliens who now plan retribution against the human race for their nuclear threat. Only one final series of communications brings the world away from the edge of interspecies brinksmanship.           Tensions exist between several different groups that parallel the silent enemies of the United States and the Soviet Union in the film. On the mainlands, Russians and Americans don't trust one another. Lindsey and Bud experience difficulties speaking with one another as unresolved issues from their failing marriage arise at inopportune moments. The oil workers trust neither their management nor the Navy team because  they feel that they are being denied important information. Suspicion on the part of the Navy team arises from the workers' constant curiosity about classified issues. Ultimately, fear and suspicion between the aliens and the humans holds each society under the thumb of the other's destructive weapon. Just as the cold war, miscommunication and lack of understanding leads to the use of weapons and threats.        From the start, suspicion works to disable those who don't communicate. The captain of the submarine automatically assumes that the unknown object is a Russian bogie to be dealt with. Not trying to investigate the source before encountering it causes the sub to be caught in the massive wake of an alien vessel which sends the sub reeling out of control into the canyon wall. More deaths occur when the Navy borrows a key vehicle from the oil platform to retrieve its nuclear warhead without consulting the workers first. Without the vehicle, the platform cannot be disconnected from its surface boat, and crew members die as the platform is violently dragged about by the surface boat helplessly caught in the hurricane.         The film brings the audience close to the action and the characters with its use of the camera. In unbroken follow shots, the audience receives a tour of the oil platform as the camera follows Bud on his duties. The same style of shot is used to keep the audience involved with the crew as they run about when the platform is tossed about. As a tough, strict character, Lindsey is introduced in a close up shot of her high heels stepping down from a helicopter behind the boots of the Navy team. When Coffee locks himself in a compartment with the nuclear warhead, his paranoia and loneliness are expressed by a close up shot of his face looking out a porthole that pulls away and pans down into the trench. James Cameron is noted for not letting his audiences pull back into objectivity, and with dramatic photography, he keeps his audience captive in The Abyss.       Although delivering its cold war message more seriously than its original release, the expanded edition of The Abyss is more enjoyable. Certain scenes help expand the relationship between Lindsey and Bud. Unlike the original, the revised ending brings the aliens more fully into the story rather than letting them simply remain an unmotivated  catalyst to push Coffee over the edge and provide a pleasing end. The film is not without its faults (a long run time, dark scenes). However, it is a thrilling sci-fi adventure that captures the fear of the Cold War and marks amazing milestones for special effects and film making for both Cameron and Hollywood at large. "},{"Title":"Great underwater Sci-Fi Thriller!!","Date":"15 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I think James Cameron did a fine job on this movie.... the overall theme, and plot were quite unique.  I think the acting was good, I loved the special effects, and a lot of the movie is made to be quite believable. I liked both endings, the directors cut just explains more than in the original.  I particularly like all the technologies used in the movie, none were that far-fetched, to where you could't believe it.CAUTION POSSIBLE SPOILER AHEADThe only thing that could have been better was the explaination as to why they didn't need to Decompress after getting to the surface.... this they must have done something to us crap didn't cut it for me, sorry.... (well, yeah, DUH!! Yup, I guess they did... yuck, yuck yuck..)end of spoilerAll in all, it was a great movie with fantastic special effects, a great story line, and overall, a very enjoyable movie to watch. "},{"Title":"good movie with ausome special effects","Date":"3 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is one of James Camerons lesser achievements but it is still a good movie. It's no T-2 but the special effects are great especially (*minor spoilers*) the alien who takes the shape of the water. I loved that part. All in all its worth watching, I give it a 7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Great, until the end","Date":"29 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie started out so great, the special effects were amazing, and the plot was solid, the film was going well, when all of a sudden the giant, city/ship, thing rises to the top, I was not happy with this ending. I don't know, I didn't hate it, I was just dissapointed, but thats my opinion. (6/10 good) "},{"Title":"Grand Fimlmaking in an Epic Scenerio","Date":"23 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Out of all of James Camerons's films (Piranaha II withstanding), The Abyss has to be the least appreciated but the most well made.  There you have it. The Abyss is in my opinion better than the Terminators and Titanics of the world.  Why?  Because The Abyss defies convention.  When crafting an under-sea adventure, Cameron doesn't go all out with visuals and grand vistas.  He keeps it human, and that is a brilliant move.The film's scenes take place mostly inside the DeepCore rig, allowing interaction and teamwork, as well as heavy intervention and conflict within themselves.  But when we travel outside, into the murky depths, we are bombarded with claustrophobia and lonliness.The Special Edition DVD (which is fantastic), adds 28 minutes of restored footage that adds character development and the theme of self-destruction. Good move.  Michael Biehn plays Coffee, an Army Captain who when loses contact with his superior chooses to go a differnt route than that of the crew, and in the sea (where nobody can here you scream) loses his mind. Self-destuction.  When Ed Harris (who is phenomenal) makes contact with the NTI's, he is shown that mankind has the chance to stop the hate, stop the violence, to save their species before they consume everything in their path, like Biehn.It saddens me that such a truly epic film becomes lost in the hoopla of The Terminators and Aliens and the money-machine that is Titanic.  The Abyss is terrific, terrifying, and touching.  And it's about time it got some respect. "}{"Title":"A good Sci Fi Thriller","Date":"3 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Cameron Does it again. A visual masterpiece back by good acting. An old idea given a novel twist. Keep the watcher spellbound to the end. Visual effects tend to overshadow other aspects of the film. But the actors do quite well.  "},{"Title":"Not too bad","Date":"18 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I quite enjoyed this, despite it's being overlong and rather involved towards the end. I think they could have just missed out a ton of stuff and still have had an enjoyable film - 251 is far *far* too long for a disaster/tension thriller. I feel it falls into that category more than scfi, although it does go waaay out into scifi territory at the end! "},{"Title":"okay, but not like I expected","Date":"19 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie originally came across to me as more of a scary/suspense movie, and the beginning accomplishes that, but towards the end, it gets too sentimental, and too wierd. It leaves almost nothing to be desired from the film. The ending reminds me of another movie that did this Mission to Mars. They start off very suspenseful, then they get all fantasy on you, and you leave very disappointed. "},{"Title":"Piotr St. says A real good one despite some faults.","Date":"8 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I've seen this film first about 12 years ago, when I was 12, and I found it then really fantastic. I saw it again a few days ago and I have to admit I still like this one.(spoilers here) The Abyss sometimes lacks tension, and is divided into three sub-plots a family movie with soon-to-be-divorced husband and wife reuniting again, a cold-war (?) movie with a S.E.A.L. commander strongly believing that the Reds have sunken US submarine and should be nuked for that, and a science fiction thriller about an alien race living deep in the ocean and their encounter with the human race. However, these three sub-movies are put together well, and the final effect is really good, despite the saccharine ending.This flick costed about 70,000,000$ and never was a blockbuster, but now has a group of diehard fans. A cult movie for 70,000,000$? That's a punt! 8/10. "},{"Title":"One of the best underwater sci-fi's","Date":"21 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Abyss is an excellent underwater sci-fi, probably the only one of its time period that wassuccessful. The special effects were breathtaking as well as the acting, especially Ed Harris and Michael Biehn. The whole idea of an alien like species undersea is chilling, but ends up actually being very heartwarming at the end. There were many other underwater sci-fi's back in '89 that were supposed to be terrible, such as Leviathan w/Peter Weller, and Deep Star Six and I'm afraid to watch them because of their awful reputation, but you never have to worry with The Abyss because it rises far above the other underwater sci-fi's of its era. 9 out of 10 "},{"Title":"If only humanity learned...","Date":"7 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Sometimes it's hard to try and explain why a film is special. This one is no exception. The actors are superb ( especially when you see the making of and understand what they've been through), the script is great and visually, more than a decade after it still surprises. To the ones who still haven't seen the directors cut version, see it! It changes completely the whole movie. Who said aliens are bad guys? These will teach everybody a lesson bigger than life... "},{"Title":"Great movie with an interesting ending....","Date":"21 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  First thoughts were  Yuk, another deep-sea based movie about a submarine accident and a resue-team too stupid to scratch their own backs getting themselves in trouble BOY, WAS I WRONG.... Not only does this movie has suspense from the beginning on, it just keeps on getting weirder (and I like that a lot in a film) and weirder until finally the end of this film strikes you (and especially the DVD special - edition, click on DVD-details to know more)and leaves you wanting more.... A great example to all the film-makers who think a movie has to be entertaining only from the beginning on and has to have a dull ending attached to it....8/10 "},{"Title":"wet","Date":"24 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  technically, the movie is great and wonderfully made. curiously, the only scenes that are lousy are the over-the-water ones (boats are too evidently models). However, there are two stories in one, which is one too much. first part of the movie is a classical drama. after that, the last part is more like close encounters of the third type, which is a bit disappointing. the movie becomes suddenly more poetic than action-like and even if the aliens are well made, we do not have time to be interested to them. so, all in all, a good movie but a far from perfect one. "},{"Title":"Bit long but some good sci-fi","Date":"22 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Based on R2 'Special Edition' DVD 163 mins.Sci-fi and sfx fans should love this movie, at the time the effects were ground breaking and still look impressive thirteen years later. The movie suffers two flaws, one is the totally mush ending the other applies to the special edition which devotes far to many of the additional minutes to drawing out scenes which have obvious conclusion. more than once I heard myself says .. 'oh just get on with it!'Quibbles aside this is 95% plus good movie and a must for the nerds.6/10 worth watching (general) 7+ for sci-fi fans. "},{"Title":"An Enjoyable Film A Must see for Science Fiction Fans","Date":"8 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I enjoyed this film for several reasons the strong character of Ed Harris and his dedication to protect his crew and the UFO element involved in the plot.Also but not least is Alan Silvestri' scoring of this film, I'm one fan that believes scoring a movie can make or brake a film.  A film worth watching. "}{"Title":"cool movie","Date":"5 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Well I saw this movie when I was very young, I was  6 years old. This movie amazed me by the special effects. The special effects are really advanced at its time. James Cameron did a good job doing this movie. I'm a fan of his works like True Lies and Titanic and his tv show Dark Angel, I hope he keeps on making movies like these. The actors did a wonderful job plus I like that alien friend ) I give this movie 9 stars out of 10.   "},{"Title":"Epic effects, almost epic story...","Date":"26 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  James Cameron is a true visionary when it comes to the visual side of film-making. I have to give the man credit for creating some of the most amazing images in the history of film; however, his hand at dialogue and storyline falls just short of being truly believable.For the heavy, desolate, and terrifying place that is the abyss, Cameron meticulously creates the essence of the unknown that lies far below the ocean's surface. His attention to detail is what enables him to generate such grand places for us to see, hear, and (almost) touch. The Abyss takes us to such a region we probably will never experience in our lifetime.The casting is perfect. Ed Harris and Mary E. Mastrantonio, though given quite an unoriginal love story, take a wild character journey through walls of steel to human fragility. The swim back from the submersible was heart-wrenching, and what follows truly shows Cameron's potential as a great writer. Most of the dialogue does run into, unfortunately, corny territory, as does the We Are the World ending. But, I do have to give Cameron credit for making us care about the characters through these trite bumps.He did it in Titanic, and he does it here. "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"31 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Special Edition is even better than the original release. The special edition adds weight to this underwater Epic. The sheer size of this movie. The script is rather good,the acting is super.Ed Harris dominates the screen whenever hes on. A really Great Movie.9 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Camerons under water masterpiece","Date":"30 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Camerons under water masterpiece is the first movie I can think of that showed us how movies can be brought to life by C.G.I., now common place in most movies but ground breaking at the time.The film itself is one of the best sci-fi films ever made, with only the odd flaw ( some corny lines hear and there ).  The movie also carries a good message about man's treatment of the planet.I highly recommend that people should watch the superior special edition which expands on the aliens presence.On my system 9/10 ( very good ) "},{"Title":"Special edition - Wow a completely different movie.","Date":"18 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I always enjoyed The Abyss, but it was never a top ten favorite of mine. It always left me with a somewhat unsatisfied feeling that I just couldn't put my finger on.  I guess the biggest question I was left with was - Why are these aliens doing all these things to these people?  Well, I had never seen the special edition until I happened upon the Laser Disc for $8. Now, I already own the regular version because the special edition sold for around $80 when new.  If you have never seen this version, do it soon.  It gives the movie a whole new meaning. This version answers all the questions about the aliens as well as setting the tone for Bud and Lindsey's past relationship.  I was blown away! I would have to say it is now definitely entrenched in my top ten. I'm not sure what has to go. Maybe Howard the Duck or Ishtar. Nevermind, those are in the bottom ten. Anyway, there is a great essay written by Cameron that explains it was not the studio that mandated the cuts.  He had final say on cuts.  It was more a decision of running time. He explained that when he edits, he would rather cut out an entire subplot than hack small pieces off of each segment.  Sounds reasonable, but in the case of The Abyss I feel he removed the wrong material.  Actually, I don't think any should have been removed at all.  I applaud him for admitting his error and in putting the energy into restoring the film. ILM had to actually finish the wave scene just for the Disc. He also redid much of the music to make the new scenes flow better. This is not officially a Director's Cut special edition, because he had the final say on the theater version, but it is definitely an improvement to an already excellent film. "},{"Title":"underwater fantasy thriller makes for an intriguing twist on the disaster genre","Date":"13 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  James Cameron's underwater fantasy thriller makes for an intriguing twist on the disaster genre. A nuclear sub gets wrecked underwater, and a team of oil rig workers, along with a handful of Navy SEALS, have to go investigate. It makes for a thoroughly gripping epic. The film suffered greatly from twenty-eight minutes of studio-forced cuts, however. Fortunately, the cut footage has been restored in a special edition of the video and laserdisc; the restored footage gives the story a whole new dimension, providing added motivation for the characters and wrapping up the end more completely.  "},{"Title":"Watch the Special Edition!","Date":"9 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I didn't get the chance to see this film when it was first released in 1989, and now that I have seen the Special Edition on DVD I feel that the theatrical release WAS a great movie, but the added scenes made this film even better because characters are more developed and we see more clearly the motivation behind the actions of the aliens. Of course, the story is cheesy at times but hey, this is just another feel-good-happy-ending Hollywood movie, what are you expecting? Whether you have seen the original 1989 or not, you have to see this new cut. A real improvement. "},{"Title":"good film","Date":"29 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I like this film because it is a James Cameron flick who always seems to bring out an entertaining movie. The special effects in this movie are second to none and the idea of space under water is a good idea.Ed harris(Bud) plays his part well with Mary Elizaberth Mas(whaterver) as his hated wife. Michael Behin needs to shave that moustache off cause he just looks silly but he is the man for the part. James Cameron seems to use Michael Behin in a lot of his films. (aliens,terminator,the abyss) Very claustrophobic movie with great effects. "},{"Title":"What is George talking about?","Date":"11 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Apparently, George from Germany didn't watch The Abyss closely enough(1) Military men are evil. Everyone else is quite nice, though they don't always show it at first.ABSOLUTELY WRONG. None of the Navy SEALS were depicted as evil, not even Michael Beihn's character - who is under the affect of pressure sickness.If George had bothered to watch the movie at all, he must have noticed the medic was extremely helpful, and even stole the clip so Koffee couldn't kill Bud. Moreover, the rest of the SEALs help them try to retrieve Big Geek, showing them how to use the special diving suit. Name one instance that shows any of the military to be evil.(2) We should spend more time being nice to each other.And that's wrong because...?(3) The only people who ever die are either evil or unimportant.Huh? (4) Disasters at sea happen because people are far too stupid to take extremely basic safety precautions like providing a reliable way for two connected vessels to separate.Ever heard of hurricanes? I know they don't occur in Germany, but let's see how you deal with the class of hurricane they dealt with (200mph+). Morever, the plot point was that they were incapable of decoupling because a) the guy in the crane got killed, and b) the cable was too unstable to grip underwater. Did you watch the movie at all? Do you know something called physics?(5) A leading woman will always start being tough and aggressive, but in a crisis her feminimity will come to the surface, making her more attractive to other beings and promoting marital relations.What's THAT supposed to mean?(6) We should stamp out discrimination. All dangerous missions should have at least one black and one woman on board. The easiest way to achieve this is to combine them into one person, and avoid allowing them to advance the plot in any essential way.Uh... George... Adolf Hitler died over 50 years ago. Did you feel threatened by One Night? That she loves Linda Ronstandt? You must feel anger there was a Lt. Uhura, too. And by the way, One Night is part of the crew. She is the one whose job it is to run the submersible. Moreover, I think it was kind of critical to the plot that she was unable to decouple the cable, which led to the crane plummeting into the abyss, stranding our heroes?Moreover, she was the one who knew how to use the defib kit.George, watch the movie next time, carefully, and leave the racism in the garbage can. "},{"Title":"one of the most technically stunning movies ever made","Date":"16 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This has got to be James Cameron's most intelligent movie to date,with spectacular CGI,great sets,performences and direction,which combines to give us one of the best movies of the 80's,james cameron has truly shown us his visual flair  ****1/2(5) "}{"Title":"Brilliantly made","Date":"20 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I have had this film on tape for a while but haven't had the time to watch it until now, due to being ill. It was brilliantly made.I liked all the scenes underwater. They were superbly done. There are first class animations and is overall an excellent piece of work.I rate the first two hours or so as outstanding. You know something is down there but not exactly what. That is what makes it so good.Surely Ed Harris must be Hollywood's most underrated actor? He was brilliant. Not only in this flick. He just seems to have a problem being recognized in Hollywood. Mary Elisabeth Mastrantonio was also acting very good.*SPOILER* I didn't think this was a strong film. It was very thrilling, however there were one scene that really touched me. Lindsey (Mastrantonio) had passed out after being in the cold water too long and without oxygen. Bud (Harris) helped her to the ship and the rest of the crew tried to save her. Everyone gave up but Bud, and finally she woke up from her coma. I thought that was one of the best scenes in this film and completely unexpected. *END OF SPOILER*I recommend this film to anyone who wants a good and exciting movie with an interest water and unidentified flying (or swimming) objects! "},{"Title":"WOW - big splash","Date":"18 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  this is a GREAT movie. A first league cast with a great concept, fantastic sets and the best special effects. It deals with all the ideas in films like Contact but cleverly in Innner Space instead of Outer Space. Tense and thrilling - ultimately its a feel-good movie. "},{"Title":"One of the really great sci-fi movies.","Date":"18 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A great movie with a superb plot and some great acting.In the lead role you will find Ed Harris as the diver Virgil. This movie takes place thousands of feet below the sea and has an amazing plot about a new form of species living deep down,where no one has been.The story is told so wonderfully and there is also a love story mixed in. And for once the aliens aren't bad,(I like that).Very good sci-fi and a good movie all togetherI will give it a 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Little Geek to the Rescue!","Date":"14 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie came at a time after other, dissapointing under-water flicks (Leviathon, Deep-Star Six) but audiences should have no need being hesitant when seeing this movie, it is great! It has amazing special effects well before it's time, with probably some of the first usage of CGI in movies. Everyone is bashing the ending but lemme tell you this Before this movie came out they had no idea how to choose the ending, they had a few in mind, so they had an advanced screening showing all of the alternate endings, and people actually voted on which was the best ending, and this one won, so obviously SOME people like it! I personally think it is a nice fit. Again, great special effects, some shallow characters but it is made up for with a good plot. Overall, an enjoyable movie. (8 out of 10) "},{"Title":"Excellent effects, great acting","Date":"7 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I finally saw this movie for the first time on a cable channel and again on another cable channel a couple of nights ago. I was not disappointed! The sfx were amazing. The actors were both funny and great! From a rating of 1 to 10, I give this movie a 9.5! And one more thing, for a PG-13 movie, there was too much profanity. "},{"Title":"Great effects, good story","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Originally this movie would have recieved an 8 out of 10 untill I saw the additional footage when aired on TV. I can see why the creators cut the scenes for the theatrical release. The additional footage was so cheesy and unrealistic(even in the terms of a sci-fi movie). But overall the movie was excellent. Great, groundbreaking special effects and decent acting all around.  "},{"Title":"Better than Sphere","Date":"10 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is almost like a Spielberg movie rather than a Cameron one. It is an original movie with good special effects and good acting, however it does not have much going on in it. It is more on the dull side which is one of the reasons that it is not a normal James Cameron film. The ending scenes were strange but as I said before there is good special effects in them. Despite all this it definitely surpasses Sphere. "},{"Title":"Non-terrestrial Intelligence (NTI)","Date":"30 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Probably those into UFOs and alien as a subject of interest would appreciate this film more than others since this is what it's all about. This movie potrays USO, unidentified sinking object (or underwater flying objects for UFO if you so wish). Paranormal events such as sightings of unidentified crafts have occured in air as well as in the sea. There is strong speculation that aliens, whether extradimensional or extraterrestrial are here on earth. There are tales from witnesses and experiencers that aliens are abducting humans for whatever reason or are here to deliver a message....Stop destroying Earth. There's a also a theory that perhaps these aliens could be God. All in all, there is no scientific proof for such a proposition. It remains an abyssal enigma. The truth is out there.  "},{"Title":"The real story is on the DVD","Date":"27 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The special edition on DVD is really the film An absolute must see Compare the two editions (on the same DVD) Thank you DVD "},{"Title":"Good, but not great","Date":"26 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  <Warning - some spoilers below...>Good points Impressive visuals, fast-paced plot twists and action scenes, and generally ahead of its timeBad points Some badly cliched characterisation and dialogue, and THAT endingThis is Cameron's first major venture into his on-going obsession with deep water and feisty female leads. It's incredibly impressive that visually and in special/visual effects terms nothing about this film has dated in the 12 years or so since it was first released.Unfortunately that's not so true of the plot and dialogue. There are places where it looks like a young director's early attempts at big screen film making. There are awkward clunky editing moments, and in spite of occasional flashes of brilliance the dialogue and the acting creak painfully in places. Michael Behn is brilliantly convincing as the deranged SEAL, but Ed Harris doesn't really shine (although he does his best with bad material) and Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio doesn't quite pull off the big switch from Queen Bitch of the Universe to fragile weepy sniffly Mrs Wifey. (Again, not entirely her fault, as it's the script that lets things down.)And the ending almost sinks the ship completely. It's not that the idea itself was bad - it could just have been handled so much better. By the time Deep Core surfaces, all the mystery and magic have drained away, and you're left feeling 'Huh?'. Cameron should really have farmed out these scenes to a better writer.Overall then, there are some definitive stand-out set pieces which make the film worth seeing. But there are also mediocre sections that don't quite hit the mark. The Director's Cut is the one to go for, as it fills out the plot and also includes the climactic scene with The Wave - one of the most visually striking images ever seen in cinema. At nearly three hours it's a long haul in places, but worth it for some of the surprises, twists and action scenes.If you're 15 at heart you'll absolutely love this film. If your tastes are more mature you'll be irritated by the outbreaks of schlok and the cardboard cutout romance elements.But even at its worst, Cameron's trademark epic style makes this film stand out from more everyday Hollywood efforts. It's a flawed work of genius - with more experience, and some extra help on the script, this could have matched 2001. As it is, it's a worthwhile, but not an outstanding, also-ran.On DVD, don't miss the 'making of' featurette, as it really puts the effort that went into this feature into context. "}{"Title":"My number 130 movie ( contains story + spoilers )","Date":"9 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Abyss is my number 130 movie.  The story  The crew of a diving station search for a submarine that is full of nuclear warheads. They get in contact with a kinda alien lifeform there. I do not like maybe a fifth of the movie´s runtime, but there are some parts that I actually love. The first one is when Bud Brigman ( Ed Harris ) dives to the submarine. And the second one is the most famous part of this film, when they see the &#132;water monster. That was great. Those two were not the only moment that I liked/loved, but those two are the only ones I remember at the moment.  I think &#132;Abyss was a good sci-fi-mystery-movie with great special effects, as you have them in every James Cameron film. This one is definitely not his best, there are 4 better ones ( the 4 big T´s  Titanic, True Lies, Terminator 1 & 2 ). Maybe you wonder why I did not mention Aliens, but I thought that that one was worse than this. And it is not the best Ed Harris movie, The Truman Show and The Rock were better. All in all, I rated Abyss 8/10, and recommend it to sci-fi fans.CU; Rinho  "},{"Title":"A Great original movie","Date":"31 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is one  movie that I can really recommend to others...It boasts great performances..an imaginative well thought out story..unfortunately the plot sometimes moved along so slowly that it was like walking around town with a big dump in your trousers...But it was a good movie none the less...If you're in it for the complete story like me then you should definitely check out James Cameron's Special Edition...Nearly three hours long..plus a twenty minute behind the scenes documentary...Plus the DVD Has two discs of specials..and two cuts of the movie...Check it out!!!! "},{"Title":"In inner-space no-one can hear you scream....","Date":"8 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Abyss was a watershed movie for me when I saw it back in 1990. It confirmed to me that there where other forms of movie to watch than shoot-em-up, cowboy & Injun, black hat, white hat movies out there. OK it has a science fictiony theme, but, the backdrop is human interest, character development and stunning, stunning cinematography. James Cameron showed his worth in this much better than the overblown Titanic he's best known for. All in all this movie is one of the best ways I know to pass a quiet evening, and, so far I've passed that evening dozens of times to date. Good job DVD's don't wear out. "},{"Title":"Different Kinds Of Gods","Date":"4 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Well, The Abyss is definetly more than just an action-movie. 8 Years before James Cameron directed Titanic, another water-movie, he made a film that has more than the usual that stands for thos Hollywood stuff - The Abyss is a religious movie. It deals not only with fighting, aliens, or submarines flying underwater - it's a film about salvation, redemption, and the seeking of a super-being, maybe samiliar to Stanley Kubrick' super-child from Space Odyssey. Just listen to what the characters say in the film, things such as When it comes to my men, it's between me and God. What I'm saying is that the film actually says that there is someone watching us and cecking us, and it's not in the sky - no, it's inside of us, deep inside of us, in the Abyss. I may sound like a christian redneck preacher, but I'm an atheist myself, and just find the point of the movie beautifole. It's goes further with the special edition, when you actually see the light souroundinbg the men of the Deepcore as they see the city coming towards them. I love this movie because it takes familiar religious symblos and puts them on a very well-made action pack. In the final shot, you see those two lovers standing on the water. Alan Silvestri's music just has to do something with why it sounds like angels. This movie is an outstanding cinematic work. Cameron is a genious, underestimaited for its plots and stories. His movies are not just excellnt. they are deep. Really. "},{"Title":"Great Movie - One of the Most Imaginative Ones Ever Filmed","Date":"26 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Great story, great writing (just the use of the word buggo rubs me wrong every time I see this movie), great acting and what visuals!! Computer animation used sparingly and to great effect. Some beautiful music that really communicates the icy depths most of the action of this film takes place in. Unbelievable skill went into the making of this movie which looks as fresh as the day it came out. James Cameron is one of the great storytellers of Hollywood. I have the DVD 2-Disc set and love it. Fox is doing a wonderful job in putting together special editions that are worth collecting. Crammed full of material it'll keep you busy for a week, the picture and sound quality are truly awesome. You can watch the original theatrical release and go What the. and then watch the director's cut and find relief. This ought to be part of every movie collection and is probably the most-often watched film in mine. "},{"Title":"Very impressed, but what about the ending","Date":"17 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I just saw this film in its extended version on TV and I have to say I was quite impressed by it. I thought the characters were actually quite believable and that even the plot had less holes than is usual for a big budget film (and especially one directed by James Cameron). Well o.k. Some of the dialogue was extremely cheesy but other than that the only thing which somehow annoyed me about this film was the ending. (AND IF YOU HAVEN´T SEEN THE FILM YET, YOU´D BETTER STOP READING NOW, RIGHT NOW, OR IT´LL SPOIL YOUR WATCHING THE FILM.) So, about that ending. Maybe I´m just an old pessimist but I would have vastly preferred the aliens to actually destroy the world with their monster-waves. Another good ending in my opinion would have been this The aliens actually decide to give the humans another chance and let the waves draw back, but than, not much later, the humans, who will never learn, start World War III anyway. I think that would have been much nearer the truth than that cheesy ending. But still I really liked the film. "},{"Title":"The best underwater scenes in a film ever.........","Date":"15 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The underwater scenes are amazing.  Make sure you see the special edition (28 minutes extra on the UK version), it expands the story and makes more sense.This film is excellent, although a warning the ending is a bit disappointing.  But don't be put off by this.A lesser known gem of a film, mention James Cameron and you get Titanic, Aliens, The Terminator or even True Lies, people forget The Abyss. Buy it or rent it today........ "},{"Title":"Sustained pressure leading to a fizzle","Date":"12 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a film that had more technical hurdles than anything I've ever heard of, at least before Cameron himself tackled Titanic.  If you've never seen the documentary on the production, you just won't believe it if I say anything about it.  You have to see it to believe it; it's available on the most recent DVD release.That said, here comes the actual opinion.  This film creates at least as much tension as was present in Terminator 2, with a tad more whimsy.  The sights presented to Bud after his presumably fatal plunge to the bottom of the abyss are unforgettable.  The claustrophobic atmosphere onboard the rig is perfectly presented.  Why, then, can I not say that I love this movie, and can only say that I REALLY LIKE this movie?  Fear of commitment?  No, dear reader.  It's the ENDING.*****MAJOR SPOILER ALERT. I BEG YOU, IF YOU HAVE NOT YET SEEN THIS FLICK, PLEASE, FOR THE LOVE OF ALL THAT IS HOLY, READ NO FURTHER. YOU HAVE BEEN WARNED.What the hell?  What should have been a glorious, almost orgasmic moment revealing the aliens and rescuing our heroes comes off as a hastily-written deus ex machina cop-out.  I know, I know about the alternate ending and how the theatrical ending supposedly suffered because of it.  The alternate ending is supposed to provide the aliens with a reason for giving us humans another chance.  So why did I STILL not like it?  I love everything else about this movie -- okay, I didn't like some of the more hokey dialogue. (Bud, I know you think you're alone...down there in that...cold...blackness...) And, yes, the cold war friction is practically non-existent today. Otherwise, this is a stellar, big-budget production that no subsequent underwater production has yet matched.  But that ENDING...it was so cheesy. It was just TOO happy and TOO tidy, and also the most obvious model in the entire picture.  You just hate to see runners stumble at the finish line like that.  It reminded me of the ending of Sphere where the artifact goes speeding off into the sky, but no one on the ship seems to care.  What should have been a truly climactic moment had all the impact of a goosefeather hitting a brick wall.Oh well...at least the underwater scenes were more believable than the ones in Leviathan or Sphere. "},{"Title":"One of the greatest science fiction movies ever made.","Date":"7 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  James Camerons' The Abyss is one of the most original, powerful human stories ever made. The film is set 2,000 feet below the oceans surface, in an environment where humans rely on technology to survive. Despite the film having action, hardware, and technology it is really about the human bonding that occurs when people encounter an alien species and are trapped in an environment where all the elements are against them.The friendship, the tragedy, the self sacrifice and the powerful love story of Bud and Lindsey is the true heart of the film. We learn about Bud and Lindseys' past, and how they react to one another when they have to stay on an oil drilling rig together. But when disaster strikes, and they are cut off from the surface, their frustrated relationship turns into an intense love story.The crew use submersibles, ROVs' and specialised diving equipment in a very casual manner. The effects created are totally believable combined with ground-breaking special effects (for the time) such as the pseudopod. The music brilliantly emphasizes the discovery and wonder in the alien life as well as the human love and sacrifice.The action in this film is incredible. The rig gets dragged across the ocean floor, submersibles chase and collide, hardware implodes, and men engage in hand to hand combat. Animals and men breathe fluid and bud descends on a deep journey into the unknown.No underwater movies have ever been as adventurous, suspenseful, and emotional as The Abyss is. The film leaves us with a great sense of awe and wonder. The special edition emphasizes  the powerful message about the human race and the importance of love. "},{"Title":"Watch the Directors Cut only and you're in for an amazing film.","Date":"4 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Directors Cut is the only version you should see, the TV cut movie just doesn't have the same impact, as it misses the mammoth reason why the aliens do what they do, a major plot line, without which the film is relegated to a run-of-the-mill alien flick. Fantastic performances and amazing direction and production, some of the underwater scenes are stunning and nothing ever looks faked or special-effected-out. This is a film not to be missed in it's full version. It looks stunning and grabs you from the moment it begins until the moment it ends. The DVD provides a fabulous amount of extras too. "}{"Title":"It goes deeper than you think...","Date":"4 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  first of all, a great movie. Good story, good characters and very good acting. And when you have seen how they made the movie you get even more respect for it. All the hours under water, filming, waiting, it is impressive...And the way the characters interact with the alien which in reality isn't even there is very cool... And the effects are good even today) "},{"Title":"Very very good. It's too bad the ending was too abrupt.","Date":"18 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Unfortunately the Fox studios cut-up this movie, and as a result the ending seems abrupt. The underwater action-sequences were terrific. The performances are strong, notably Ed Harris and Michael Biehn. Alan Silvestri's score is brilliant. See this one. I can't understand why it tanked at the box-office. "},{"Title":"See it!","Date":"2 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I vaguely remember seeing this film in the theatres but it wasn't until my friend loaned it to me on DVD that I came to see it for the wonderful film that it is.  I chose to see the Special Edition and loved it from the very start.  It's got a little bit of everything...action, drama, romance, and a stirring morality tale to boot!  It's hard to find movie nowadays that really stop and make you think.  Just don't forget to see the Special Edition Director's Cut.  I liked it much better than Aliens.  Check it out! "},{"Title":"Get the Special Edition Director's Cut","Date":"24 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Must see the Director's cut and the novelization by Orson Scott Card.  Both add much to the story.  Orson Scott Card refused to do the novelization unless the book and the movie matched as far as plot lines and segments. The actors in the movie, used Card's character bio's (in the preface chapters of the novel).  Overall probably the best novel/movie collaboration out there "},{"Title":"An excellent Movie... (Light Spoilers)","Date":"20 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Minor spoilers included.   I sat through the Special Edition of The Abyss tonight and was awed by the difference between the original and the new versions of this film.  28 minutes of footage certainly did make a difference in this case as the original release left so much to guess that it was almost incomprehensible.  The added back story, the additional scenes showing the waves, the added country song (though I am a confirmed Rock -n- Roll fan) all added up to make a movie that almost breaks the rule about the book being better.I can't understand how people can look at this film and say it was boring.  We have here a nutbag with a nuclear weapon at his disposal.  We have a deep sea crew trapped under water during a hurricane. We have the menace (hmmphh...) of an unknown entity out there.  We have an underwater chase and demolition derby with submersibles.  Oh, and for good measure, the habitat is about six inches from falling into a 2 1/2 mile deep trench.  I think that the set that find this movie boring are the type who prefer movies like Con Air and the like where there are no deeper issues to think about and everything is nice and cut & dry at the end.  Not that there is anything wrong with pure action movies, but you really shouldn't limit yourself.     The Abyss also violates the Chris Elliot Rule of Unwatchable Movies which states that any movie Chris Elliot is in is inherently bad and should be avoided at all costs. "},{"Title":"Down, Down, Into that Great Blue","Date":"1 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I watched the director's cut version on DVD right before I went to Sinai to do some SCUBA diving. Few days later I was diving in the Blue Hole at a depth of about 100ft with nothing but 3000ft of water right below me, I was thinking about The Abyss. I was thinking about how accuratly it had recreated the sensation of diving, the deep blue hue of the water, heavy breathing through the regulator, the harsh environment. You cannot do that unless you really go underwater, as Cameron did.  Looking into a bottomless abyss really make you think, it is nothing and yet it can be everything. The film dares to look there, you may not like the ending (I hadn't) but it will leave you amazed at the edge of your chair. Watching The Abyss is no replacement for a good SCUBA dive, but it's as close as you can get. 7.5 out of 10 for the plot, 9 out of 10 overall. "},{"Title":"excellent","Date":"16 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I really liked this movie. This is one of them films were if it isn't a classic it should be. The special effects were really cool. The music was nice. The acting and the plot was excellent. I recommend this movie to anyone who likes a classic science fiction. "},{"Title":" Nuclear sucks!","Date":"5 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I bought the new special edition DVD of The Abyss. I liked the DVD that showed how this film was made. I particularly liked finding out that it was filmed in an abandoned nuclear power building. The main theme of the movie is the madness surrounding nuclear weapons. All I could think about when I found out about where the film was made was Wouldn't it have been nice if they had abandoned the quest for the nuclear bomb and all things nuclear? Nuclear sucks!  Even though there have been societies that have lasted 2500 years without a single weapon being unearthed, it most certainly is not us. As much as I like the idea of other worldly life forms being highly actualized as the very benevolent creatures in The Abyss, I am sure that the odds are they will be just as destructive as us. I found the special effects in this movie to be ground breaking and I appreciated them even more knowing how hard it was to do them. I liked the Director's special edition version the best. I think The Abyss is a seminal film and if you are a James Cameron fan then Under Pressure Making The Abyss will show you a very interesting profile. "},{"Title":"Good flick, GREAT DVD","Date":"4 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I just got the DVD (special edition) version of this, and it is probably the best DVD buy. The director's cut is included, which makes this already decent movie better. What is really great is that the commentary comes out as sub-titles in the black area below the letterbox. I've got several other DVDs that insist on doing voice-overs, so you cannot enjoy the movie while reading the commentary. As for the story, I like it. It could be interpreted as saying Military = bad, but then, one of the military guys does do the right thing later on. Great special f/x, well ahead of its time, but doesn't rely on them to sell the story. And the hell they went through for the realism on the liquid system... Wow. (Learn about it on the DVD.) 8 stars from me. "},{"Title":"A Classic film... and an incredible DVD!","Date":"29 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a classic James Cameron film, along the lines of T2 and Aliens. This film can be classed under so many categories - Sci-fi, disaster flick, romance, action. As for which version is best, you have not seen this film unless you have watched the Special Edition. Not many films can be improved by adding new scenes, but this is a whole new experience. And any fan of the film cannot be without the DVD - this really shows off the potential of the format. "}{"Title":"Typically a perfect film from James Cameron in his Sci-fi-st","Date":"25 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What I liked about this film is simply the unique combination of science fiction and underwater-adventure directed by James Cameron only like he and a few others canto get you IN the movi e as if you were playing a role;all major characters are wellportrayed by Elisabeth Mastrantonio, Michael Biehn and Ed Harris Also , a little love story from on-the-rocks marriage to reunion by this adventure.Absolute fine special effects for the aquatic creatures and the whole surroundings.Two thumbs up!! "},{"Title":"Special FX","Date":"12 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie has good special FX, a good cast, but the plot could have been more. I like the scene where the water turns into one of the members of the crew. it is so awesome how it also reflects the images in the room. It is like something how they do the FX. "},{"Title":"It rocked!","Date":"15 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  At first when I saw it for the first time I thought, PLEASE get rid of Coffey! He's annoying me! But after I saw it again I realised his problem.... The movie was great, but I thought the beginning was a bit slow. And the sub fight was cool.That is until my fave actor dies! All in all, this was a hell movie and you should see it because it's a classic! "},{"Title":"Look underneath...","Date":"1 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is really a typical James Cameron film.  Great plot, special effects, scripts...but what makes the film is the relationship between Bud and Lindsey.  Look at most Cameron films and you will see a love story in there. An underrated classic.  See the Directors cut, though. "},{"Title":"Directors Cut is great, normal version is worth watching","Date":"26 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I've seen the Directors Cut of this movie first and I was amazed. The FX are great, even today, but the movie is from 1989!A few weeks later I bought the movie in London and when i showed it to my friends back in Germany I was shocked. The whole story was wrecked. Some of the very importent scenes were missing. I accidently bought the wrong version. Of course the FX are still great but the is movie not.I you want to enjoy the movie, get yourself the Directors Cut. This is probably one of the best works by James Cameron. "},{"Title":"A wonderful movie","Date":"13 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I just love this one!! It is an awesome movie for fans of those 'Aliens are the good ones period' films. It's one of my all-time favourites, and really, if you like 'X-Files' then you're definitely gonna like this one as well. The actors are great (Ed Harris, Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio!) but the plot might be a little too easy to guess. However, the beautiful way it is filmed can easily make up for that lil weak point. "},{"Title":"Spectacular but with unsatisfactory ending.","Date":"6 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  While not the greatest Cameron movie at all time it's still pretty good. Ed Harris and( the vastly under-rated ) Michael Biehn manage to hold their own in what is basically a visual spectacular movie. Credit to Cameron for fleshing out the character parts sufficiently so that the human side of the movie is not overwhelmed by effects. The special edition is by far the better version to see. At times very gripping (the nuclear sub interior scenes and also the scenes where the mini-sub is flooding are stand outs) and overall very well made but the ending is less than great. The concept of the ending ( I won't spoil it and give it away ) is o.k but the feel does not match the mood of the main portion of the movie. A little less Disneyesqueness and more grit would have seen a much more satisfying end to basically a very good movie.    "},{"Title":"Hold your breath","Date":"1 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I only watched the director's cut version, and I loved it. The movie is a mix-up of Titanic with 2001. Pay attention in the scene when Bud is taken to the underwater city, he's face looking the lights (at least at the director's cut version) looks like Dave in those final scenes in 2001. Prepare to hold your breath. "},{"Title":"Disappointing but good","Date":"25 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  My expectations were very high on this movie. Camerons other work was great and I guess I hoped too much. I thought it was going to be more of an actionmovie. Wrong. I also thought that the creatures under the water was going to be evil. Wrong again. But after all, even though it was something completely different from what I expected, it must be said that ''The Abyss'' is a very well-made movie. The actors were great and the special effects cool. This is the most filmic movie Cameron's ever made so far. ''Cinema art'' was something that ''The Terminator'' and ''Aliens'' had nothing of. This is more filmic. Even though it at some points got a bit predictable, and even though the movie itself was a bit too long I cant say that this is a bad movie. 3 ( maybe 3.5 ) out of 5 is my rating on this movie.  "},{"Title":"Get the director's cut!","Date":"7 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Director's Cut is actually one of James Cameron's best efforts. Storyline and acting are solid, FX are spectaular! Underwater drama between alien creatures, a deep sea drilling crew, and a crazed miliary guy - certainly worth a rental.Make sure you get The Director's Cut which adds lots of plausibility and depth the story.  "}{"Title":"Masterpiece!","Date":"31 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film is one of the most wonderful movies i have ever seen, and it is now ranked 3rd on my movie top-list (after Fucking Åmål and The Matrix). I saw the directors cut version, and taped it for sure ). The visual effects were great, and for being filmed -89, the effects was amazing!. I also think that the actors were very good, specially Ed Harris, that i haven't seen in a movie in a long time. Michael Biehn was also good as a lunatic. There were only one part that i didn't like, and that was the ending, a typical hollywood-ending, (like everything is going to be just fine for the rest of the time...). I'll think, or i don't think, i'll give, this film 9,5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"2001 under water","Date":"26 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Abyss remains James Cameron's most ambitious, creative and epic work in his current film-making career. He weaves a narrative that is both exciting and philosophical, a rare occurrence in modern day American cinema.The special effects do not flounder even today, 10 years after its creation, the direction is up to Cameron's usual high standard, of fluid tracking shots, steadicam action shots, and all the touches he is famous for. The photography is stunning, and the music by Silvestri is brilliant.Where The Abyss really succeeds though is in three main elements of acting, plot and script. All of the performances are so natural, as the viewer you immediately connect with them, and that relationship becomes more and more powerful with each subsequent viewing. The dialogue is amazing as well, with no 'stunted' lines that would plague Cameron's later efforts of True Lies and Titanic. The characters challenge each other in what they say, the movie is like a two and a half hour tennis match of dialogue being constantly rocked back and forth between the actors, which makes The Abyss utterly engaging. We really believe these guys live and work on a rig 2000 feet below the sea.The plot of The Abyss is on par with 2001 in several factors. It is no less epic for a start, both films ending with the beginning of a new chapter for humanity, and both films taking a cynical look at mankind which is ultimately redeemed. In The Abyss we are presented with the worst (the near outbreak of WWIII) and the best (Bud's disarming of the warhead, his love for Lindsay) of mankind.Bud's journey down the abyss is the most metaphorical incident Cameron has ever filmed, literally  as Conrad expressed, 'the journey to a heart of immense darkness'. The bleakness of humanity, the burden of our folly, completely encompasses Bud, but he ventures on regardless, and finds the shimmer of hope at the end of it. And then, through sheer willpower, and reliance on human instinct, he disarms the nuclear warhead, the symbol of the death of mankind. Bud's act redeems the human race.And ultimately, The Abyss ends on a high. Mankind has reached the point where we can no longer look after our own destiny (again a re-occurring theme of Kubrick), and so the aliens, the NTI's will do it for us. They will lead us into Utopia, a better way.The Abyss is an under-rated masterwork of cinema, and one that will stand the test of time, emerging as one of the greats. This is the film Cameron should be remembered for.  "},{"Title":"For people who haven't seen it. Loaded with spoilers.","Date":"1 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  First of all, it doesn't matter who you are. You must see this movie. It is one of my all time favorite movies (except for all the swearing). Plot Synopsis A nuclear submarine carrying lotsa' warheads is attacked. By whom is unknown (Oh Yeah. I'm perfectly sure the Russians attacked this sub like this.) Anyway, an oil drilling team (who happen to be the closest deep water station) are taken to investigate. But, in the sub, one of the guys sees something (that is sorta reflected on his helmet) that causes him to pass out. And, as luck would have it, a storm brews overhead which destroys the crane connecting the base to ship. Meanwhile, Lt. Coffey has developed Underwater Psychosis or something along those lines and goes insane. Lindsey Brigman (Bud's wife and the one who designed the base) sees one of the wierd ships from her sub and later one-on-one (these are very pretty). Her character his perfectly hateable at first (Oh, look. It's the Queen B***h of the Universe.), but later she gets much more loveable. Anyway, a tendril of water comes out of the pool and investigates the base. It copies Bud and Lindsey's faces. Lt. Coffey is convinced that these things are evil and loads an ROV with a nuclear warhead. He goes out in a sub to kill 'em. Bud and Lindsey get in a sub in order to stop him. They lose the ROV into the abyss (hence the film's title), and Coffey's sub is crushed by the water pressure (with him in it). A leak has sprung in the other sub! Water gushing in, Lindsey forces Bud to take the suit and carry her to the base after she drowns (supposedly, you can be revived). This almost made me cry (and I'm a pretty unshakable guy when it comes to movies). Back at the base, they all try to revive her, but to no avail. If it wasn't for Bud's last ditch effort, she would've died (in other words, she's saved). Now, in fear of a war with the NTI's, Bud chooses to go down and disable the bomb. They make him breathe this special oxygenated liquid so he can go really deep (to help with the pressure). Unfortunately, the wires at this level of lighting are practically the same color. Since it would be a pretty inglorious movie ending if he got the wrong wire, he chooses the right one. But, now he doesn't have enough liquid to survive the trip back up. He knew that before he left (no one else did, and they're the experts) but he Had to come. Rest of the movie can be a tear-fest if you're the cryee type of person. After the romantic final-conversation with his wife, Bud waits for his death on the brink of the abyss. But, (BIG spoiler time) he sees something (like an angel?) moving toward him. It takes him by the hand to it's underwater city (WHOAH! Now dat's impressive, Boss!). In there, they pressurize an area for him. Then they reveal to him that in a few minutes they plan to  wipe out the human race. Why? They show him pictures of war and self-induced suffering. But they don't. Why? Because they saw the goodness in the selflessness of Bud's bomb disarming. Thus the humans are saved. Bud types (on his arm-pad) to everybody in the base. He says that these are aliens that came to live in our oceans because it simulated their home-planet's atmosphere. They say that we must put aside our childish ways. And then they take their city up, pick up the base and the contact ship and out walks Bud who greets Lindsey again. Now, if you get this movie, Don't Rent. Buy! FOR THE LOVE OF MUFFINS, BUY!!! And when you do see it, Hold onto your pantyhose. Hey, if you see the movie you'll get it. "},{"Title":"Much above abysmal!","Date":"29 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  More than one scene in The Abyss seems like something out of your worst nightmare.  And while the movie ends on a too-happy note, The Abyss is just that a chance to delve into a world of darkness and unfamiliarity 17,000 feet below the ocean's surface.The first half of the film generates enormous suspense (especially the falling crane sequence.)  And perhaps the most frightening scene of all is Ed Harris's plunge to the bottom (controlled) while suffering from severe water pressure.  I can't imagine a more hellish fate than to willingly drop along a dark canyon wall underwater with your hands and head shaking from the pressure change.Ed Harris is a phenomenal actor, and his talents are nicely showcased here. The supporting cast is well rounded too.  In addition to the human element, we are treated to spectacular underwater footage crystal clear images of a murky blue world we know little of. However, there are some rather disjointed moments in The Abyss.  The two ships playing a violent underwater bumper car game for one.  How exactly did they survive so long without falling to pieces like that mammoth steel submarine that disintegrated on impact earlier? The whole psychotic Navy officer plot was equally odd. And that knife fight looked suspiciously like something out of a Mortal Kombat video game. Virgil's discovery shall we call it, seems totally...well, impossible.  I know this is a sci-fi/fantasy adventure, but we are not given any explanation whatsoever as to how that last scene actually happened.  Yes I know, we're supposed to use the ol' imagination, but I think even the writers didn't know what on earth--or sea--was going on. It was blown out of proportion in contrast to the rest of the movie. But after we look past those flaws, which didn't ruin the movie, we still have an intriguing look at the claustrophobic world on the ocean floor. The story between the two main characters is equally enthralling and ultimately heartbreaking in the we have one oxygen tank, two people scene.  I enjoyed this movie, however implausible it may be.   "},{"Title":"James Cameron´s best","Date":"22 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I´ve probably seen this movie 30 times and it seems as though I can´t get sick of it.  Some movies are only made for our entertainment and this is pure entertainment.  The only reason I don´t give this movie a 10 is the bad guy.  What is up with that carving-your-own-hand thing?  The struggle between good and evil is of course the main theme (in my opinion at least) and the good guys in this movie Save The Day!   "},{"Title":"when you're sick of Titanic . . .","Date":"21 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When you're sick of Titanic, try this one out.  This is James Cameron's other water adventure and would stand as his masterpiece if he hadn't made that other huge film.  Great special effects and drama off-set some lame dialogue and hollow characters.  This is a great sci-fi thriller (though the director's cut is far better and clears up important plot elements muddled by the theatrical version).  Forget about the Terminator, the Abyss is a great thriller without all the silliness (True Lies) or overblown violence (The Terminator). "},{"Title":"An incredible, unique Sci-Fi Thriller","Date":"17 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is an incredible sci-fi classic.  It is realistic and thought-provoking, yet comedic, too. The opening scene of a nuclear submarine crashing and sinking to over 2,000 feet underwater was stunning.  An underwater oil rig is assigned to look for survivors and dangerous radiation in the sub.  The scene where part of the crew of the rig, along with two navy SEALs is chilling, and realistic of what a recently sunk sub must be like.  More stunning is the scene where a crane sinking an abyss barely avoids pulling down the entire rig to the bottom of the abyss, over four miles down. But the plot thickens... entities begin to show up.  They are beautiful and graceful, like living machines, but not of steel... f flesh.  One takes on the form of a water tentacle that moves  gracefully through the rig. When it encounters some of the crew, it perfectly imitates their faces. The scene is, to say the least, breathtaking.  Eventually, a nuclear missile from the crashed sub is stolen and dropped into the abyss.  It's on a timer, and when it goes off, the explosion, even though miles underwater, will destroy everything for miles.  One of the crew (Ed Harris) has to  go into the abyss to defuse the bomb.  At the bottom, he discovers an incredible underwater city.  Running low on oxygen, he defuses the bomb and passes out, but is led to safety by the creatures of the underwater city.  In the last scene, the underwater city rises up to the surface, with the rig and an oil tanker that had been floating above on top.  The massive oil tanker is dwarfed in comparison to the breathtaking city. Despite the occasional overly-cutesy comments, and the predictable love sequence, this is probably the best aquatic sci-fi movie ever. "},{"Title":"Unwatchable unless it's the Special Edition.","Date":"18 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Years ago, I saw this film and was fairly impressed with it.  The action sequences were good(which is James Cameron's forte), and the special effects were good too.  But, there was something missing.  Meaning.  What was this 140 minute mass of footage all for?  They made us sit through a 140 minute film, without giving us any satisfaction or any points whatsoever!  At least James Cameron's Terminator series had points to them.  That all changed when James Cameron re-released a 3 hour cut of the film.  Watching that version, finally filled the missing pieces, and filled the missing link which the first version lacked.  It is called the point!  We now learn that the entire purpose of the NTI's presence is to flood the world with giant tidal waves, saying that the world is cruel and wicked enough that it deserves to be destroyed.  Then, the tidal waves hover in mid-air, and eventually, go back out to sea.  This is one of those films that reminds us that we aren't necessarily, as James Cameron put it, the biggest kid on the block.  There is something greater than us, and we should respect that and grow up a little.  This is, what James Cameron was trying to say with his film.  He had to cut scenes for time and pace, and cutting this scene was a big mistake.  It ruined the whole picture.  I'm not saying that the special edition of The Abyss is a monumental achievement.  But at least it actually makes some sense now.  James Cameron's other films can exist in both original and uncut versions, because they function well on their own. The Abyss desperately needed to be recut, because it just so happened that in order to maintain pace, they deleted the most vital scene in the movie! This is kind of like what happened to Ridley Scott's Blade Runner, when it was re-released in a director's cut format that actually made sense and was heightened to an art form.  The Abyss is not a milestone, but if you do decide to watch this, watch it in the special edition.  Who cares if it's 3 hours?  I'd rather sit through 3 hours of film than sitting through 140 minutes of meaningless junk!   "},{"Title":"Wonderful, beautiful, thrilling, emotional, inspiring, great,...; you name it.","Date":"20 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Having watched all other Cameron's films, I knew The Abyss wouldn't disappoint me. And it didn't. Beautiful underwater environment, great acting by Ed Harris and inspiring ending are only a few things that make watching this movie a wonderful experience. But it's not really surprising, since all of Cameron's films are firmly established as greatest cinematic achievements of all times. It is unfortunate that The Abyss was not that successful, mainly because of the horrible editing that totally ruined the film (I watched the Special Edition, of course). No matter how long, Cameron's movies are never boring. I had my eyes glued on the screen from the beginning to the very end and 3 hours passed by like a few minutes. To truly appreciate The Abyss, however, one has to watch it at least three times. Then all the subtle interactions among characters become obvious that make the film even better. I strongly recommend that everyone rents (or, better still, buys) The Abyss and watches it. "},{"Title":"Underwater Flying Object","Date":"20 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Abyss is an extremely entertaining movie that is a must see for sci-fi fans.  James Cameron (The Genius) pulls together what could have been a mess of a movie, and shaped it in to one of the best films of its genre.  Breathtaking photography, excellent acting and an above average storyline (see the special edition) makes The Abyss a truly epic film.  The movie does receive some criticism for its overall length.  A rating of 9 out of 10 was given.   "}{"Title":"A superb underwater adventure!","Date":"12 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I've only seen the 'special edition' of this film; it was one of the most enthralling movies I've seen for quite some time.  James Cameron has weaved a number of different storylines together to good effect, each one playing a significant part as the plot unravels.  It's clear that the underwater camera work was used to good effect in his later picture, Titanic.  There are so many parts to this film - although the moral ending is a bit cheesy and doesn't give you that much to think about, the film is completely gripping, thoroughly enjoyable, and keeps you wondering until the very end. Recommended.  "},{"Title":"Watch the Director's Cut - You'll Be Glad You Did","Date":"18 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  As a fan of early James Cameron films, I was excited to see The Abyss when it first came out. And I liked it - I really did. But something seemed to be missing; it felt incomplete. Then I saw the Special Edition on the Sci-Fi Channel, and I was mesmerized. What a difference! With less than half an hour's worth of extra footage, Cameron completely changed the face of his film, gave it more depth, more life, and more meaning. Some people might say that 3 hours is too much movie, but most, I'm sure, saw Titanic, Dances With Wolves, and The English Patient (incidentally, all Best Picture Oscar winners) anyway. I urge you to do the same with The Abyss. The cast - in particular, I felt, Ed Harris and Michael Biehn - was outstanding; this film actually helped to establish Ed Harris as a stalwart supporting player and thinking woman's heartthrob. The FX are spectacular, the action almost nonstop, and the moral clear-cut and simple. So take a trip back to before Jim Cameron was the self-proclaimed King of the World, and you'll see what I mean. "},{"Title":"One of the greatest...","Date":"17 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I first saw The Abyss on television and as of that moment I got hooked on Ed Harris. Such an actor as he is doesn´t appear every day, not even in Hollywood. The movie has it all, length (love movies over two hours), beautiful scenery, great acting and lots of excitement. I can easily say that The Abyss is one of the best movies ever, and it easily deserved the 10 points I gave it. See it, I bought it... "},{"Title":"Science Fiction At Its Best!!!","Date":"24 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw The Abyss for the first time when I was 14 years old and I remember being pulled into its story, its emotion, and its spectacle like never before.  At that age, if it doesn't have somebody die every 3 minutes or an explosion or funny joke every scene, I lose interest fast.  With The Abyss, I abondoned all criteria for viewing a film and let myself go because the film let me do that.I loved the story and the new twist on alien depiction.  I liked the characters, the conflict, and the sub-plots.  The special effects help tell the story rather than being the story.  The movie was action-packed and thrilling beyond belief.  The backstory and inner-conflict between Bud and Lindsey was compelling and very emotional.  The large, global conflict was original and thought-provoking.  The action scenes were fast-paced and extremely entertaining and often moving.  I remember crying at the end when I was 14 and I usually didn't get emotional when watching films at that age. I have seen it many times since and still often have tears come to my eyes. The Abyss is one of the most under-rated films ever made and everyone who loves movies needs to experience the emotion, the power, the action, the spectacle, and the drama of James Cameron's best work.  (Also look for a Director's Cut version with 30 extra minutes of footage). "},{"Title":"There is no better underwater action movie.","Date":"22 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"   From the opening scene where we see a nuclear submarine suffer a dark, cold watery demise you know you are in for a exceptional movie. The ensemble cast (especially Harris and Mastrantonio) are great.But then again we are used to that from James Cameron.A spectacular underwater sci-fi/action movie ( Cameron cunningly substitutes water for deep space with great results.) While the ending is a bit anti-climactic in my version ( I have never seen the directors cut.) It still manages to be a breath taking adventure that shouldn't be missed. "},{"Title":"An incredible journey to the depths","Date":"21 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Truly a brilliant movie.  I consider this to be Cameron's best movie of all time.  It picks you up and takes you for a wild ride.  A must see if you have not already. "},{"Title":"Fascinating film","Date":"8 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Special Edition of The Abyss is, in my opinion, at least equal to Titanic in overall quality.  I saw the original version first and loved it. When I saw the Special Edition, though, I realized that the other version was somewhat incomplete.  Characters are developed even more than in the original, and the climax makes a lot more sense in the Special Edition.  Also, the added scenes further develop the story without significantly slowing the pace.  I find it interesting that people talk about the irony of Cameron doing a love story in Titanic, because the romantic aspect concerning Bud and Lindsay in The Abyss is developed better and is much more believable than Jack and Rose's affair.  The special effects are also very well done, and Alan Silvestri's music (especially during the finale) is inspiring.  The entire cast and crew are to be commended for their hard work; from what I've heard and read, this was an extremely tough film to make.  The original version is very good, but the special edition is great.  "},{"Title":"Special Edition Considered Essential","Date":"22 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Special Edition of the Abyss is a far bigger story than the original cinema release.  Most of the characters are given a lot more depth, Bud and Lindey's marriage is made far more real and central, and the ultimate conclusion is truly awe-inspiring.But, as with Terminator 2, there is a shot missing from the SE that is in the  original cut.  Find it. "},{"Title":"James Cameron does again.","Date":"14 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Once again, James Cameron has done it again. As with Aliens and The Terminator, he has masterfully created a movie that is as entertaining as any other, and it runs almost three hours.  There is action, drama, comedy, and science fiction together with some of the most amazing special effects seen in a long time.  The acting is great, the story even better.  This movie is a must see for anybody, no matter what your taste. RANKING = 9 of 10 "},{"Title":"The first of the great underwater sci-fi's","Date":"3 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film is proof that an underwater sci-fi doesn't need a man eating monster for it to work.  In his field James Cameron is one of the best, he is the master in making effects fit the story, not making a story fit the effects. Both the theatrical version and the special edition work as great films and could almost be viewed as two separate films, but if you haven't seen either I suggest you see the original first and then see the special edition, that way you will enjoy both, if you don't when you finally see the original you will feel like the film is missing something. Anyway enough out of me, enjoy. "}{"Title":"Very exciting concept","Date":"2 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I first read the book and was very pleased, then saw the first theatre release and was disappointed because of the ending, then saw the Directors Cut and was as duly impressed as I was the book.  As a diving instructor, I would jump at the opportunity to experience the revolutionary breathing techniques shown (under proper supervision, of course).  I know of no diver who hasn't seen this movie and wasn't totally impressed.  Two thumbs up for the acting, storyline, content and special effects. It's one of those movies I watch again and again.  Definitely recommended!! "},{"Title":"Thank God for The Director's Cut because the original is almost ruined by the end.","Date":"4 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The most sophisticated of Cameron's films to date; the theatrical release of The Abyss suffers from one of the most notoriously bad endings that I have ever witnessed on screen.  Fortunately for fans of the film's preceding brilliance and potential, The Director's Cut manages to save the film and our faith in the director.  It's important to remember, I think, that the end of the film is more than just a weak ending. The Theatrical release's original sequences are among the worst ever filmed.  This fact cannot be overlooked in any serious estimation of this film's worth.  In any event, the film, in both guises, clearly outclasses Titanic and, for my money, best defines his talent as a filmmaker. "},{"Title":"Do an ABOUT FACE LADY!!!!!!","Date":"4 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is a great film.The effects are great.The story is very good.Michael Bein gives a wonderful as your favorite malfunctioning Seal.He is truly great in this role.The film needs more people to watch it more than once to fully grasp it. "},{"Title":"***1/2 out of ****.","Date":"30 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Abyss is by far the most original, intelligent, atmospheric pictures I've seen in a while.  The movie is patient, unlike Michael Bay's Armageddon which moved too fast for me.  James Cameron takes his time, developing his characters extraordinarily well.  The plot of the film, however is confusing.  I recently saw the special edition.  The cut scenes make the movie almost completely different.  The movie, as it is, is almost annoyingly subtle.  It focused less on the aliens, which it shouldn't have done, while going off and being about something else.  Overall, the movie had a great atmosphere without going too far into common action movie formulas.  A very good film although not great. "},{"Title":"The end is a little disappointing","Date":"29 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I liked this movie. It was suspenseful, until the end. I thought the aliens were a little corny. "},{"Title":"THE GREATEST MOVIE (If you watch the director's cut)","Date":"11 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The first time I saw the Abyss I saw the director's cut. It was a great emotional sci-fi drama about love life survival and the humanity of the time that the movie was made. The aliens in this movie are unlike any other. The drama is so emotional it literally puts you to tears. Watch the director's cut. The original version does the movie no justice.Movie rating. 10 out of 10 ********** "},{"Title":"best sci-fi movie ever","Date":"8 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I am talking about the Abyss special edition. This movie has it all, great special effects, a love story, incredibly suspenseful and touching moments, and a great story. I experienced such emotions watching this, like no other science fiction movie has ever come close to doing. James Cameron is the master of film. "},{"Title":"The Abyss, one of the greatest movie ever made in the history of time...","Date":"5 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Excellent, Suspense, Action.. it has it all...  Shot real for real, these scenes put on film make the Abyss one of the greats...The Abyss... the title says all you need to know about the movie. This film, done by well known and great James Cameron, should be known for two great things...  Technical pioneering of things to come and the man who did it.... People seem to over look the Abyss and sometimes even call it the most successful failure... that is one way to look at it. Ask yourself a question... without the Abyss, where would movies be today... and where would James Cameron... Pioneering new technologies in not only computer graphics and design for the future, but also for Engineering designs of the so called props used in the movie which are real equipment in todays world of diving technologies.The Abyss takes home the gold for the HARDEST MOVIE EVER created, attempted, and filmed in history.  With famous actors such as Ed Harris, Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio, Michael Biehn, and others, this movie creates a world of dark, tremendous pressure, with a love story that defies love within the realms of dryland.Anyone who hasn't seen this movie will be surprised at many things, and not even notice others... the fact this movie was shot over ten years ago, and still today holds its ground on action, suspense, tech., graphics, and even the actors dialog sounds like it could've been written today. The directors cut is amazing and puts some missing pieces together, and if you can, get a hold of the one hour making the Abyss called Under Pressure, and you will soon have great respect for this movie, its actors and director James Cameron.  "},{"Title":"What can I say that hasn't already been said?","Date":"22 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Like I said... awesome movie. Rent it, buy it, just see it. "},{"Title":"Atmospheric and brilliant","Date":"30 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Although statictically The Abyss is Cameron's worst film (it didn't even break even in the US), this film in my opinion is one of his best.  From the opening scene to the finale, you always have a sense of being underwater. The first few times I watched this movie, I coulnd't stop myself from shivering.  The special effects are very good for both its time and our time with no real flaws to them.  The characters all work well, and throughout the film you can't help but getting attached to them.  As most people will tell you, the director's cut is the best version, and I do not differ my opinion.  Watch this film in surround sound with the director's cut, and you will not be disappointed.  From its most tense moments such as Bud trying to see which wire to cut on a nuke, to the most action packed-Coffey chasing Bud and lyns around in subs, to the most scary and atmospheric-the amazingly good scene where the crew enter a sunken US sub, this film never fails to deliver.  This should have been the film Cameron was famous for.Rich "}{"Title":"Really cool","Date":"22 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  First off, Cameron, what more can you say? After his success with Aliens, James Cameron made Abyss.  The hardest movie in history to make.  Over 40% of it was actually shot under water and all the actors had to become certified swimmers.  Ed Harris actually almost drowned in one of the takes. An interesting twist between a love story, suspense, action, and aliens (not Aliens). A deep-sea oil rig crew is told that a top secret Navy Seals team has come to board them to investigate a downed nuclear sub-marine.  In the course of this, they encounter an underwater alien species.  One of the navy seals (Michael Beign) goes berserk from the pressure and thinks the aliens are potentially dangerous and the rest of the crew is against him.  Stealing one of the nuclear subs missles, he tries to destroy the alien race and jeopardizes the whole crew. In the directors cut, there is about a half hour of restored footage which shows why the aliens are there and how they plan to destroy the human race because of how they fight amongst each other.  The directors cut and the regular edition are basically the same movie but very different story lines.  The directors cut added a lot more background info but just wasn't as enjoyable as it had a different feel to it.  The original wasn't as informative but a lot more fun to watch. "},{"Title":"The director's cut is best","Date":"20 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Great movie.  I have the director's cut and haven't seen the other version in years so I can only comment on the director's cut.   Believable characters, believable plot.  In fact, an awe-inspiring hope for the future. This movie as well as Contact, and Close Encounters, show us the wonder and joy in finding alien life.  As well as the fear.  Beautifully woven story.I sometimes pop in this video for background and end up on the couch watching it. "},{"Title":"","Date":"9 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is one of the best treatments of We messed up and THEY save us  stories I have seen in a long time.  The sfx are used to enhance the story,  not prop it up.  If you get the chance, see the directors cut version.  It  has excellent additions that make the storyline even better. "},{"Title":"Prototype for many future crappy Sci-fi flicks","Date":"11 March 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Dear James Cameron, what a piece of crap this was. It started off OK. In fact it was very intriguing. Ed Harris is a very competent actor. The thrills were excellent. The sets were great. The film had this ominous and claustrophobic feel about it. A bunch of people confined in these small and closed spaces where death could be imminent. But everything fell apart after that phony alien made an appearance. It was a tough survival flick until then. The Abyss might have created the prototype for big budget sci-fi flicks like The Martian. Especially the bit where a bunch of people are in contact with some guy who is in grave danger. And they are guiding him or something and he snatches victory from the jaws of defeat. At this point they all jump around like a bunch of monkeys shouting and yelling as if someone invited them to an orgy. Jeez! Yes. I know it is supposed to be an allegory and all. But all this humanitarian crap was boring. I'll take Alien and Terminator over this, alright? Best Regards, Pimpin.(5/10) "},{"Title":"Worth The Plunge!!","Date":"13 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Spoilers AheadThe movie is evocative of Aliens because he gets great acting out of his ensemble. Do not believe me? watch one night in Falling Down and tell me that is the same actress. I am not a Jim Cameron fan, but he gets really good acting and Harris gives his best performance in any movie. The acting really holds up a deep fantasy that pushes the lines of credibility. Mastrantonio does good work here though she will grate on your nerves. How Bud could have been in love with this character as drawn is the first unreality that will annoy you. The underwater effects are excellent and make The Deep look like the boring, overrated Jaws wannabe it always was; please, there is a reason Bisset keeps taking her clothes off. There are many cringe worthy moments like the crane dragging that station anywhere. Yet, the cast does cause you to just go with it. The aliens are well drawn and appropriate for that depth in physical appearance. Their appearance is ambiguous at first, but again we see what we endured in a whole list of movies Close Encounters, Star Trek 4, The Motionless Picture the aliens do not have our level of awareness how their actions effect their surroundings. They really did not know turning off the power, Star Trek 4, would make that sub plow into the canyon wall. This is because the New Agers have to maintain benign aliens so they are just blissfully ignorant of the havoc they cause.I must warn you that when I saw this movie, in a huge theater, Lindsey's lines about,you have to look with better eyes than that, evoked loud giggling. The film is exciting, well acted and intense but it suffers from what I like to call P's from outer space. Please, as you ascend the evolutionary ladder on earth to creatures resemble these aliens or Alien? Creatures with this level of peacefulness would have been lunch on their indigenous planet. It also is what we always have to endure those peace loving saints who just happen to do huge damage to others, oops! The effects were breathtaking and stunning in 1989; they have aged quite a bit. The water tentacle, the star back then, looks cheesy today. If you watch this, do so for the acting and the cast. Cameron, like Aliens, gets a group that works so well you are sucked right into the movie. The points I am making will not matter that much to you. The worst scene is the fight between Michael Biehn's Coffey a SEAL team leader and Bud. If you know anything about how many men wash out just trying to be an ordinary SEAL much less a team leader, you will chuckle like the audience did. In real life, Coffey would have killed him in seconds, the big guy maybe another ten seconds for leverage. The special edition is far superior for the wave effect is excellent and should have been in the movie. It has a lot of unnecessary scenes that go with it but it is worth the wait. It really was done well. I recommend the movie with all of its flaws mainly for the great acting and it is hands down the best underwater movie ever made. Please, I like Into The Blue, but it is not even close and The Deep is a dreadful bore. It is intense, and moves well except for The Special Edition which drags a bit. "},{"Title":"One of my favorite movies","Date":"6 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" The USS Montana, a nuclear submarine runs straight into an underwater cliff after an encounter with what they believe was a new beyond state-of-the-art Russian submersible. The Navy dispatches a SEAL team (lead by Michael Biehn) to observe and report the situation. Meanwhile, A deep sea oil drilling platform run by the estranged Brigman's, Bud and Lindsey (Ed Harris and Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio)are called to help search the sub for any survivors. During their mission, they discover that they are not alone.This is one of James Cameron's best films. The way he combines drama, suspense, action and comedy blends so well together. While not in the same league as The Terminator or Aliens, The Abyss still manages to produce terrific performances, fantastic visual effects that still hold up to this day and a story that is tension-filled with great atmosphere. Ed Harris as Bud Brigman is fantastic, the ranges of emotion that he shows is so powerful and very realistic. Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio is also very good as Lindsay, she isn't used as a sex symbol like some movies would have done which I like. Her character is a strong woman who can defend herself, but still show that she is still human. Michael Biehn is equally fantastic as Lt. Coffey and should have gotten an Oscar nomination for this. The way he portrays this character is terrifying once he starts going crazy, his character is very memorable and helps bring tension to the chaos. The rest of the supporting cast do very well in their roles and are equally as memorable as the leads. Both versions either if it's the theatrical or special edition version are great. The only problem I had with this film is the treatment of The other navy seals(except for one) They aren't given any character development or personality. Either way, The Abyss is one of my favorite films of all time and if you haven't seen it, do yourself a favor and rent this film and give it a chance. You won't regret it. "},{"Title":"An underrated film if ever there was one","Date":"31 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" If you think about James Cameron movies, a film like The Abyss is not one that would pop into many people's brains. Maybe even less known than Cameron's film True Lies, The Abyss is suspense at its best and further demonstrates Cameron's knack for story and characters in cinema.After a submarine is brought down to the depths by an unknown force that turns out to be alien, an underwater drilling base is usurped by the Navy team led by Lt. Coffey (Michael Biehn) to investigate the disaster. The people in charge of the drilling base, Bud (Ed Harris) and Lindsey (Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio), ex-spouses, work together to stop Coffey from destroying the alien species and rekindle their love.While Avatar is believed to be the most insightful film that portrays Cameron for an artist, I believe it is this film that does that. This film has a message beyond Avatar's businesses are greedy and want to take things from the weak. The message here is about being kind to one another and even though no one can be nice to everyone, it reminds you that being loving or nice to one person makes all the difference. This is one of the few films where I think it actually made me feel sad at the parts I was supposed to and happy at the parts I was supposed to, thanks to the brilliant acting by the whole cast and the powerful directing and writing that Cameron put into the story.The Abyss is a completely underrated work of art that has a better message and is able to succeed without all of the fancy effects and action scenes that Cameron is normally known for. Yes, this film has action but it deals more with the character drama alongside the struggle and not the drama being a subplot to the main struggle. "},{"Title":"Great movie, right until the last 10 minutes...","Date":"11 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Abyss was a film that I heard a lot about on forums and saw plenty of ''if you like this, you may like...'' from Amazon, IMDb, Lovefilm, etc when looking at other films relating to the deep sea and sci-fi thrillers. So I thought I'll check it out.I found it quite entertaining for a while and interesting for the most parts. The characters were basic but understandable and you got to know the setting and situation they are in. The parts which drew you in the most were the scenes with the ''organisms'' (NTI's) flying around the base, it was mysterious and you were drawn closer as you become curious to know what they were.Much later in the film with the scene where Ed Harris jumps down into the trench to find the warhead, was when it started to get a bit absurd as he ventures into the extreme depths, but hey it's a sci-fi, so why complain right? It was actually gripping to see him go so deep. Although 5 minutes from that, the film took another route and that's when Cameron started waterboarding me with his typical ethics and morality vomit that his films are known for. I couldn't help but sulk at the end when we find out that the NTI's had been there the whole time and are going to flood all the land above due to humans destructive nature.The whole film right up to the scene where Ed Harris' character is communicating with the NTI's is a good movie, borderline great as it was entertaining, but when that scene started, it threw everything away which it had built. Suddenly I lost all interest and did not care. This film would have been an 8 from me, but due to Cameron failing to resist his classic urge to try and make the human race feel guilty, I had to sink it to a 6.Never the less, I still recommend this movie! "},{"Title":"Fiction - But no science","Date":"16 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I just watched The Abyss for the first time last night. Sure, it was glitzy with plenty of eye candy in the special effects department, but woefully lacking in the science department.First, we see the dinky crane which connects the ship to the deep-sea drilling rig and that presumably pulls the thing up off the ocean bed get yanked off the ship far too easily. Then after hitting bottom, it falls over the edge it suddenly gain mass and almost pulls the rig with it.But the diving stunts were the absolute worst. The make a big deal about the intense water pressure (they talk about how much decompression they have to go through to get back to the surface and and using mini-subs (Coffey buys it when his sub implodes due to the water pressure). Yet, for some miraculous reason they have a pool which connects directly to the outside. The air pressure necessary to keep that water from flooding the rig would turn everyone into mush). Oh yeah, and despite the intense water pressure, they can still swim around down there without the need of, well, anything as our star shows when he goes out through a hatch and swims over to the equipment bay, a distance of a hundred feet or so with no suit and just by holding his breath. Wow! Superman, eat your heart out.The only possible way to enjoy this movie is to turn off the your ability for logical thought.As for the characters. The only character I kinda like was Coffey (even if he was the homicidal nut job of the movie). I really didn't care much one way or the other about the others. "},{"Title":"Too big a concept even for Cameron to handle.","Date":"14 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" To sum up The Abyss in one sentence An undersea drilling team are conscripted to search for a sunken US Navy submarine, only they find that and so much more. First off the bat, JC doesn't do little films, so there is a lot more to this film than that.The rescue team is led by Ed Harris as Bud and includes many unique characters, but in truth none of them exceptionally memorable or even necessary. Upon being informed of their duties they are joined by a team of Navy Seals, this time led by Michael Beihn as Coffey.We realise shortly after that the drillers and the Seals aren't likely to co-exist peacefully for too long. Adding further fuel to the potential fire is the late inclusion of the designer of the underwater rig Lindsay, played by Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio, who also happens to be Ed Harris's soon to be ex-wife.After initial decompression the newly forged team investigate the sub, the USS Montana. They find that all crew are already dead, and during the search one of the team suffers convulsions and goes into a coma for some reason, outside the sub Lindsay sees some non-natural looking lights that freak her out a bit.Meanwhile above water a cyclone hits, the Seals have taken the diving gear to salvage things from the sub so the crew has no choice but to sit it out. Unfortunately the storm causes the flooding of a large area of the rig in which crew members are trapped and drown, and the loss of communication to the outside world. It also nearly drags the rig into a massive abyss near which the sub is located.But that isn't what the film is about, the key of The Abyss is when the crew eventually meet the inhabitants of the abyss, everything else is a sideshow. Once contact occurs, Coffey loses touch with reality thinking the alien beings are Russian enemies, and the crew must work out how to survive and somehow get to the surface once more. This all becomes more complicated when Coffey unleashes a nuclear weapon many, many times more powerful than the WW2 A-Bombs, which must be disarmed before anyone thinks about leaving.For the time the SFX in The Abyss were amazing, which for a Cameron directed film shouldn't surprise anyone after T2 and now Avatar. But as a film The Abyss is only so-so, there are so many converging plot lines that take things nowhere and if anything lead to a bunch of dead ends and unsatisfying conclusions that you only really remember the water tentacle FX and not much else.What The Abyss ends up as is an 80 hour build up leading to a 40 minute wrap up and a pretty dumb and hardly mindblowing conclusion, which is I think what Cameron was chasing.There are several interpersonal issues and conflicts raised over the duration but none of them seem important and indeed none of them are necessary to further the plot, they are simply included as Cameron felt that they must.Without giving much away (I think), in the finale the aliens show a montage of the bad things that humankind has done to itself and the Earth over the years. I know the aliens must be a very advanced race but did they already have Tivo in 1989? Really? Another point If nothing else this has some James Cameron standards that seem to pop up again and again in his films - A bad establishment guy that becomes the face of everything naughty about big corporations. (T2, Aliens, The Abyss, Avatar) - The seemingly obligatory Squad formation scene where the troops discuss plot events for viewers. (Aliens, Avatar, The Abyss) - The big fight between huge manned machines. (Aliens (of course), Avatar, The Abyss) Final Rating &#x96; 6 / 10. Unlike Avatar this is far more a technical achievement than an entertainment one. Too long and basically too little of anything to be memorable. Lucky he seems to have found form.If you liked this review (or even if you didn't) check out oneguyrambling.com "}{"Title":"An excellent film!!","Date":"1 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is by far one of the best films I have ever seen. Ed Harris does a fantastic job. Michael Biehn does a good job playing a psychotic marine. Each character you get to know very well and you miss them if they die.There are several times that I actually feel the emotions that the characters are feeling*spoilers beyond this point* *also profane language* When Lindsey (Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio) dies and Virgil (Ed Harris) is trying desperately to revive her, he says a great line Goddammit, you bitch! You never backed away from anything in your life! Now fight!. When he finally revives her, it is an intense emotional moment. I always get goosebumpsThe other scene that I love is at the end, when Virgil comes walking out of the alien craft and Lindsey and the rest of the Deep Core crew sees him, god that scene is powerful. I am filled with such joyOverall though, it has a great story and some awesome scenes. The effects are quite good.Any Sci-Fi fan would love this movie. Also, any fans of Michael Crichton's Sphere will love this film (and if you haven't read that book, if you liked this movie, the same applies) "},{"Title":"Excellent Film - but here's one more goof  that isn't listed","Date":"16 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Very interesting reading all the goofs listed for this excellent film - I'm watching it now and trying to spot them! ) One goof that I saw when I first watched this film and I don't believe is listed here is when Bud and Coffey are fighting at the pool. Bud whacks Coffey with a huge metal pipe - it may even supposed to be a solid bolt - but when it hits Coffey's back it bends about 45 degrees! In the next shot it's straight again! ) ) ) If only the editor had cut another 1/10th of a second off the bit where it's bent over Coffey's back, we wouldn't have seen it.Overall though, it's a brilliant film and very touching in places - worth seeing again and again. "},{"Title":"Two films -- one a masterpiece","Date":"15 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" There are two definitive versions of this film the theatrical release which was an outstanding work of science fiction. The Director's Cut is transcendent of being science fiction in any traditional sense. It is simply breathtaking in its scope and commentary on the human condition as the Cold War still raged (though who would know that it would soon be over).The key addition to the Director's Cut is what I would term The Deluge or the Day the Earth Stood Still ending. Brigman, thought to be dead is brought aboard a wondrous alien spacecraft, the likes of which have never been seen in film, and without words are shown the evils of humanity, just as the aliens threaten to destroy the planet with giant water waves. This is interspersed with TV interviews of Americans who are afraid of the escalation of war, but seem very powerless to stop it (a very common feeling in the Cold War era of the 70s and 80s). But, in seeing Brigman's final message to his wife, the aliens' judgment is stayed .... it is done with a great deal of drama without getting melodramatic, and with very little dialog. How this scene was permitted to be dropped from the theatrical release is mind boggling. This scene IS the film.The other scene ... the one that was not cut from the theatrical release (Lindsay's drowning) easily ranks among the great scenes in film history. I'm not sure how far fetched it was .... I could see professional divers scoffing and saying ludicrous. This is a great example of where the supporting cast is so critical to making something so unbelievable look so believable. James Cameron uses quick cuts among the crew to get very fast reactions of sadness, despair, concern that visually makes the reactions look believable instead of acted or forced. They are overshadowed by Ed Harris' hysterical rant, but they help provide the grounding that keeps the scene believable.The acting and writing are great, though several one liners are handed around to the various characters, Ed Harris and Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio give truly beautiful performances ... two people in love who really don't know how to balance everything, and end up walking away from each other until they are forced back together (in some ways, their characters' relationship was very indicative of the 1970s-1980s era as the divorce rate went up and people were finding it difficult to juggle marriage and career) .... it was a wholly believable relationship being portrayed. I have enjoyed Ed Harris in several films, and performances like this show why he is among the greatest working actors to never receive an Oscar .....Any fan of great story telling, compelling drama, or truly good applied science fiction must see the director's cut of this film. It is easily James Cameron's best work, with great works such as Terminator, Terminator 2, Aliens, and even his Titanic standing in the shadow of this work. The theatrical version would rank somewhere in the middle of his work. "},{"Title":"brilliant and underrated","Date":"19 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Obviously one of the greatest filmmakers of all time with such films as true lies, titanic, the terminator and aliens, Writer/director James Cameron gives us his most greatest film from my point of view, the abyss...Brilliant and underrated very much like his other film titanic.From my interpretation, the film shows that no matter how deep we go, don't loose hope. This is displayed in scenes such as when the character Lindsay talks about the 2 candles in the dark. We also have the suspenseful white knuckled sequences and the parts that just blow you away more than many films ever could.Out of all of Cameron's films, this shows off the best performances, best screenplay, story and directing out of all of them and is the most underrated. And the director's cut gives us more of that. "},{"Title":"Read the book then watch the special edition of the movie","Date":"24 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" When this movie came out I did something that I do not normally do - I read the book first (by Orson Scott Card if memory serves me). As previously stated, this is not something I normally do but this time it worked to my advantage. The original theatre release of the film was chopped so badly that the ending made no sense, and the start to the film throws the audience straight into a failed relationship between the two main protagonists with very little explanation. By reading the book first I was able to fully understand the film plot, and the subsequent release of the movie on video with the full ending made even more sense. The book also explains the character of the Navy SEAL commander giving insights into why he acts like he does and who he really is. I love this movie, especially the bit where Virgil is trying to revive a dead Lindsey with the lines 'don't give up bitch, you never gave up on anything in your life so don't start now!' "},{"Title":"Amazing film!  A modern classic.","Date":"3 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" OK here's the deal forget all about James Cameron in a Terminator or Titanic sense. Back in '89, he had some SERIOUS MOJO going on when he made The Abyss. This film is incredible, with excellent character detail, cool camera-work and masterful direction; the result of which successfully puts the audience thousands of feet beneath the ocean surface. As a science fiction film, the premise could have been explored in a more convincing way, it's almost as if Cameron bit off more than he could chew and tried to chop and edit and squeeze it all into a two hour format, so it's worth seeking out the Director's uncut version to really get the whole picture as it was intended. All else aside, see this film for the outstanding scene with Ed Harris and Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio... you will never forget it. Some of the best acting ever captured in modern film-making; it's almost better acting than the rest of the movie can handle. Bravo, Ed and Mary.Remember if at all possible, find the unedited, Director's cut. It's worth it. You're in for a treat! "},{"Title":"..a likable fairytale..","Date":"27 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Right off, I want to say I have not seen the director's cut, nor am I a sci-fi fan.....unless they blend believable, everyday plots. All those fantastic monsters and special effects have no appeal to me. I am way past the video-game generation. I do not expect certain directors-actors-actresses to deliver something similar to works they have done in the past.....give me a story I can relate to with good performances. The Abyss gave us the sinking of an atomic sub; some extra-terrestials who sank it; oil-companies' ships in a storm; the beneath-surface oil-crew; the perils of working underwater; and how the rescuers survived. That's a pretty plot !I have no idea what those commentators who disliked this movie were expecting - I just wanted to be entertained, watching an under-water story, although I don't risk going into the ocean over my ankles. It was all very believable to me - especially learning those dangerous stunts were actually performed by the cast makes the story even better, in retrospect. I'll watch, not join-in.......The entire cast did a remarkable job, except I thought Michael Biehn really was just a trifle too frenetic in his role - the first glance of him told you he was the heavy. Ed Harris was his usual, handsome self, delivering convincing acting - although I did wonder why he did all his swimming in tight jeans, when the fat guy was in his drawers. Use your imagination, ladies ! Mary Elizabath Mastrantonio was great - and, BTW, HAS made several very good films since then. James Cameron got it all together - yes, I think the high-tech stuff was right for today, having no idea the film was so old.And now we come to the fairytale - The water-babies were perfect. Wouldn't you want to believe there are more intelligent beings in our universe - who occasionally visit us - than we mere mortals are? How could you like ET and not like the water-babies - looked pretty similar to me ! They can help me with my troubles any time - I loved the ending of this movie lovers reconciled and giving us hope extra-terrestials aren't all out to get us. Although they destroyed the atomic sub and caused the deaths of the men on it, those warheads weren't there by accident. If THEY could control the oceans..........then maybe some that can stop earthquakes will give us a visit at a very opportune time......what a shame they weren't in the abyss to prevent the Indonesian tsunami...... loved this fairytale. "},{"Title":"A powerful and unique science fiction masterpiece","Date":"14 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" James Cameron's 'The Abyss' holds a sentimental place for me as one of the most beautifully conceived and composed science fiction films ever. The story of a group of oil rig workers thrust into an event that is bigger than anything they could ever have imagined themselves to be a part of is so easy to connect with because of the cast of characters. Instead of following high government officials or rich people in exotic locations, Cameron brings the action to a bunch of average, blue-collar workers who woke up one day to find themselves smack dab in the middle of both an international crisis and a intergalactic revelation.The film's plot is remarkably intricate when a US nuclear submarine mysteriously crashes, a crew of oil rig workers are called in to help with any survivors and secure the wreck as American and Russian forces are at a stand off above. What they discover is a species of alien life-form trying to establish contact. But when the leading military officer securing the submarine -- cut off from his superiors on the surface -- falls victim to a pressure related psychosis and retrieves a nuclear weapon from the submarine, the entire planet is put at jeopardy. With intense action, drama and suspense, the story builds layer upon layer to a stunning and unforgettable conclusion.The cinematography and landmark visual effects work is simply stunning to watch. The palette of colors used to paint the landscape of this film is like candy to the senses. The design of the submarines and dive-suits give an almost outer-space like feel to the film, and the design work on the famous 'pseudo-pod' that would later form the basis for the T-2000 in 'Terminator 2 Judgement Day' still ranks as one of the most amazing special effects creation to date.The depths of action to which the cast submerged themselves (pardon the puns) in order to achieve the incredible realism of the film is commendable. This film marked the first time that actors had to perform both action and dialog while in dive-suits, and the results are fantastic to watch. And with an extraordinary cast including Ed Harris, Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio, Michael Biehn and Leo Burmester, the audience is truly transported into the story.Of course, none of this would be possible without the fantastic imagination of James Cameron. While 'The Abyss' does not rank as one of his larger commercial successes, it certainly ranks as being likely his most elaborately crafted film. It is a delight to view and a non-stop, gripping thrill ride from beginning to end, and certainly solidifies Cameron's ranking as one of the most exciting writer/directors alive. "},{"Title":"Cameron's Classic","Date":"30 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I was only young when The Abyss came out and i watched it and wasn't to sure what to make of it, the start is a bit slow, i watched it a few years back and i really enjoyed it. At that time i didn't know who James Cameron was until i saw Terminator 2.Forget all about Cameron's other films that have guns blasting everywhere and car chases, this film is totally different, a submarine has crashed landed on the bottom of the ocean and its up to a team of oil workers to rescue it, what they find down there is beyond belief and a crew member going berserk.Ed Harris and Micheal Biehn star in this awesome spectacular sci-fi film that will have you bedazzled from start to finish. "},{"Title":"outstanding","Date":"23 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" The director's cut of this film is in essence one of the best science fiction films ever made. His follow up to Aliens is quite the accomplishment for acclaimed visionary James Cameron. Almost two years in the making, his fascination almost got the better of him. Assembling an astounding cast that included Ed Harris, Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio, Todd Graff and the always brilliant Michael Biehn as lt. Coffey. It's unfortunate that the theatrical release of this film was missing the substance that made it great. Balking at the initial runtime of the feature, the studio freaked but when he recut it for the special laserdisc edition (then later for DVD), the added sequences made an already great film even better. The wave effects propel the 'brink of world war' scenario as the nti's were simply trying to save mankind from itself and mass destruction. "}{"Title":"One of Cameron's best","Date":"28 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Abyss ranks as probably my favourite of James Cameron's films. I know many would claim that to be Titanic, but save for the sinking of the ship half of the film, that movie really held little of interest for me personally. The Abyss, however, in my opinion is a far superior story with its tale of the underwater crew and their run in with extraterrestrial life and how the different crew members react to that. There's a little bit of Close Encounters of The Third Kind in there if you think about, but Cameron's film veers far more into sci-fi territory than Spielberg's did. A personal favourite scene is when the pet rat is breathing underwater thanks to the new government project of breathable liquid. There's just so much imagination in the film that I can't help but love it. This is what Cameron needs to be making more of. "},{"Title":"Wow!","Date":"19 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Me and my friends wanted to go and see Back To The Future, Part III, but when we arrived at the movie theatre there was a discouraging queue. Having had bad experiences with this (sold out sign in front of our noses after having stood in line for 30 minutes) we decided to check out the other theatre in town to see what was playing there. It appeared to be The Abyss. Half of our group hadn't heard of it, but some (me included) had seen 1 or 2 teaser trailers (the one with the alien water column spy cam) and managed to persuade the rest to go in and see it. Three hours later we came out.....The only expression which comes near to make clear how impressed we were was Wow! (in the Keanu Reeves quotation)The storyline is ridiculous and if you take this kind of thing serious, then simply don't watch this. Depth records are crushed, aliens telling the world that they should stop their nuclear threats, and so on). But James Cameron manages to tell it with heart, pace and tension. The acting is great; the oil rig crew (led by an always amazing Ed Harris) is portrayed well, Michael Biehn gives you the creeps as psychopatic marine, and Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio fits her parts always perfectly. And the special effects are well worth the Oscar that was given for it. (hey, we're talking 1990 here)Sometime afterwards I learned how this movie was made and what kind of trouble Cameron and crew ran into while making it. Knowing that background it made me appreciate The Abyss even more, so I simply can't do anything else that give it a 10/10. Great Job James! You have probably created one of my top-5 all-time favorites. "},{"Title":"feel from the abyss","Date":"8 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" When i discovered the abyss, it was the first time i saw a James CAMERON's film  the story took me down into the abyss, and i watched the whole movie in an only one evening, included the making of, i went to bed past midnight, it was breath taking, i cried in the pivotal moment when Lindsey drowns, and Bud saved his wife, the music kicked my adrenaline rate, it is a must have movie in your collection!!!! Michael BIEHN was excellent in his part of a military person, the SFX were astounding, the Oscar for the pseudopod sequence is justified for ILM, the sound immerses you underwater. Mary Elizabeth MASTRANTONIO and Ed HARRIS were fitted for their parts. I rate the Abyss  excellent!!!!! "},{"Title":"Below the surface is a different world","Date":"12 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Warning, Will Robinson! This comment DOES contain spoilers.This is a story about underwater aliens. Wrong. This is a story about love, faith and humanity.I enjoyed this movie simply as an SF story first time around, but that was before I got married and had kids. The version I saw was the theatrical release, and it has to be said that the ending in that version looks incredibly contrived. As an aside the climax of the TR is reminiscent of 2001 in some ways, in that a lone figure is removed from their familiar world and placed in almost an alternative reality. That Brinkman is saved because he has a wife seems bizarre at first, but bear with me.I read the novelisation of this story too at the time of it's release, and I've just read the script (google for it) , so I can now fill in the blanks that were created by the editing for time.The Brigmans are separated when we first meet them, yet Bud still wears his ring, and indeed it saves his fingers from being crushed. When they are trapped together on the submersible with only one dive suit it's Lindsey who has faith in Bud, and volunteers to die in order to be saved. And when Bud brings her back to life, ignoring his colleagues' pleas to give up, it's he who in effect rekindles the marriage.If you've only seen the theatrical release then this part of the movie alone is worth the viewing, but the fact that Bud literally steps off then into the abyss, leaving even the little pocket of humanity on Deepcore behind, is a heart-stopping moment. Cameron captures this perfectly with the camera shot from the side.Contrast this plummet into the deep with Coffey's. What message do we take from this? If you are alone, you die alone. Bud dives into the Abyss alone, yet connected symbolically (and electronically) with his wife. When we realise he can't return, we're there with him and her, and at that moment he IS married. EDIT There's another element to this story that I've only just realised. Remember how the way Bud can plummet into the abyss to defuse the nuke is by using the liquid breathing system? How Monk the Navy SEAL says We all breathe liquid for nine months, Bud. Your body will remember.? Bud is taken into the 'mothership' through what I've just realised is a symbolic birth canal. When he pops the seals on his suit and coughs up all the breather fluid, he is effectively being reborn. The final symbolic element is the actual form of the 'mothership'. Take away the spires and what do you have? A placenta. Check Wikipedia if you don't believe me. I knew I recognised that from somewhere.It amounts to quite brilliant use of a number of elements to symbolise the need for us to be reborn in order to survive. This is a visual feast of symbolism that repays further viewing. I can understand critics feeling that they're being preached at, but this is a director using the tools at his command to tell a story. If you don't like the story you can still admire the skill of the storyteller.If you don't get this movie then never mind. If you do get it, welcome to the human race. "},{"Title":"Misunderstood Gem","Date":"30 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" If ya wanna see this movie the right way in it's best form, see the special edition. Believe me, without the extra scenes the original film is quite average. Fortunately, i saw the special edition first.A nuclear submarine is mysteriously sunk by unknown forces, provoking orders from a navy ship to a team of oil riggers to investigate the situation with the help of a group of Navy SEALs. A disastrous hurricane strikes, causing the rig to sink to the edge of a deep sea trench. What follows from here on in is a powerful insight into human nature and the strength of love surviving against the unknown in the abyss.WARNING Only people who have seen the movie read on.I'd heard about this film vaguely before i saw it from watching a special effects documentary from ILM, which contained some footage from the water tentacle scene. Ever since i saw that footage, this became one of my must see movies, mainly because i'm intrigued in the early stages of CGI. You can understand my joy then when it showed its special edition self on sky one about three years ago. I taped and watched it, and frankly i was disappointed. What seemed like a fantastically timed sci-fi thriller/adventure up to the point after the tentacle, turned out to mainly be about human survival until the last half hour, where it went back to.....aliens? This was definitely the act that killed the movie for me, as i was expecting so much more than aliens. The point after the water tentacle really kicked the film into high gear for me. I was thinking, uh oh, they've upset something big, now all hell's gonna break loose. The film really was just too good to be true in the end.Then i watched it again. Now knowing exactly what the film was about, i took it for what it was and now consider it one of James Cameron's finest. I embraced the end sequences and was just captivated by the sheer thrill and terror of the character acting and storytelling that was really about human behaviour in times of peril and in the fear and wonder of the unknown, plus how true love between two really can bring down walls, other than the full on sci-fi action i expected. Standout moments include Michael Beihn and Ed Harris' dual, the submersible chase, the scouring of the submarine, Mary Elizabeth's first encounter with the ET's, Ed Harris' descent into the trench (great display of the love between his and Mary's character) and the part that the original sorely missed, the special edition's extended Ed Harris ET encounter at the end, which i won't ruin for people who haven't seen the SE, but see this version and you won't regret it. But really, the finest scene in the film for me was the water tentacle. Executed with just the right pace and length, it really was the most captivating piece of cinema I'd ever seen, the way the alien tried to communicate, the pitch perfect acting to reflect everyone's amazement and realisation as to what they were dealing with. Plus u have the added bonus of the flawless effects work by ILM even by todays standards that give the sequence that added awe that's surprisingly rare in most modern effects films, and is a testament to the visual effects Oscar to this film's name.This film was made during the period where ILM started to win most of their Oscars for their experimentation into CGI (late 1980's to early 90's), which really went into full flow in Jurassic Park. But The Abyss is where it really started, and and it's quite obvious the technology in this film was in development to be later used to astonishing effect in T2. In both films by Cameron, the effects never get in the way of the character development and story. In fact, they enhance them by making the experience that more life like and exciting.The Abyss could have been so much more than what it ended up becoming in my opinion, but for what it is, it's a beautiful thing that deserves recognition not mainly for it's special effects, but for its heart and powerful story and premise into human survival and love. The science fiction element is more of a side story but it adds an ever present suspense that is broken in the last half hour of the film, and is replaced by generic, but well designed elements that aren't as good as the rest of the film, but concluded it well none the less. "},{"Title":"Okay movie.  Crappy ending.","Date":"20 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie starts off great. A crew of oil workers on a submersible drilling platform, led by Ed Harris, are reluctantly asked by the U.S. Navy to assist in a rescue operation involving a sunken nuclear submarine. So far so good. Then a violent hurricane cuts them off from the surface and the rest of the outside world leaving the survivors stranded underwater in their now damaged rig. Still good.Then this wet, otherworldly aqua-phallic thing shows up and this is where things start to go downhill. This movie would have been much better as a straight up action/adventure yarn but no, Mr. Jim had to crap it up with these Sci-Fi elements that in my opinion just don't work. Don't get me wrong, I really like Science Fiction, but it just didn't belong in this movie. The filmmakers tried too hard to give us a sense of wonder and all I got out of it was a sense of embarrassment. Especially when Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio spits out the line, It's the most beautiful thing I've ever seen!. She actually had to shut her eyes for that one.I dunno, maybe I'm being too hard on it. The cast is good. The production design and FX are first rate. I just wish it hadn't ended on such a cutesy/corny note. "},{"Title":"For me,one of the 2 best movies ever made!","Date":"19 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" That other guy on here who said it was the worst Cameron film must have seen a different movie than me. Maybe he saw the theatrical version. The theatrical version isn't very good. PLEASE, make sure to ONLY watch the extended directors cut. Without ruining it for people who haven't seen it yet, all I will say is there is 2 very emotional scenes back to back with Ed Harris and Mary Elizabeth that are one of the best scenes in movie history. Ed Harris performance in this film is the best of his career. Painstakingly directed under water, to say this is James worst film is insane. Cameron did an excellent job. Don't listen to that other guy. Watch it for yourself. He's probably just bi est to this genre of movie and is to big a man to enjoy drama and romance.---- Oh, and the other movie I consider the best ever is Dances With Wolves. "},{"Title":"Whow! what a undersea journey!!!!!!","Date":"7 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I have seen this movie many times now, and each time it succeeds to make my heart pound wildly against my ribcage. the suspense, the mystery, the paranoia! It gets me each time. The acting is simply top notch by all actors. Mary Elisabeth and Ed were as always fantastic, but amazingly all the other actors followed up their performance with a fantastic of their own. Especially, I want to mention That guy who played Lt. Coffey. I am sad to say I don't know his name, but his performance as the Seal who is loosing his mind, is one of the most chilling performances I have seen. Those eyes were incredible!!!Further, the lighting and camera use were fantastic. You really feel that you have joined them underseas. Okay, the ending is really far out there, but what the heck, IT WORKS!!!!! It is so incredibly cool when they.... Okay, i wont tell you. You have to see the movie your self to know. It is well worth the time and money. Run to your nearest video shop and rent it!!! "},{"Title":"not a total failure...","Date":"3 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Overall, not Cameron's best work. But not a total failure. I watched it out of respect for the director, and the talent that worked on it. The special effects, at the time, would have been no less than amazing, although now we see that kind of thing every other horror movie. An interesting trip under the sea, with a particularly focused interest on Biehn's character, and his conditions. Overall, a b-movie bonus.  "},{"Title":"One of the best sci-fi movies EVER!","Date":"24 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  James Cameron just doesn't know how to make a bad movie!  This movie is, without question, one of my favorite science fiction movies ever made.  The story is so well written and quite intriguing.  I absolutely love the idea of another species of intelligent life living on earth, but living in a place where we couldn't have previously seen them or noticed them...in the depths of the ocean.It's truly hard to believe that this film was made way back in 1989, because it looks so crisp and clear and looks better than a some movies released today.The cast in just superb across the board.  Ed Harris pulls off one of his best performances and probably my favorite.  Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio also pulls of one of her better performances.  Michael Biehn plays his part very well in his third outing with director James Cameron, I guess there's a reason Jim keeps using him in his films.  The only other cast members that I recognize from other films are Kimberly Scott (in her first role ever and doing an extraordinary job), Chris Elliot (very odd to see him in a non-comedic role, but it was cool to see him nonetheless), and Ken Jenkins (of TV's Scubs).  Despite the cast being relatively unfamiliar faces, they all did a fantastic job and deserve a great deal of credit for their work.I have to talk about the special effects in the film.  They are nothing less than spectacular.  Some of the blue screen effects are a little off, but I certainly won't hold that against the makers, everything else is just PERFECT!I would definitely recommend this film to everyone.  There is so much good stuff in this film, and I think it appeals to a wide variety of people.  It's got sci-fi, action, suspense, romance, comedy, ...everything!  I hope that you will give this film a chance if you haven't seen it already, and I hope that you enjoy it as much as I do.  Thanks for reading,-Chris "}{"Title":"Deep, cold and the haven of something mysterious.","Date":"22 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Having very good success with TERMINATOR(84)and ALIENS(86), writer/director James Cameron delivers a subtle chiller with Oscar winning F/X. Terrific cinematography and a story line that seems to have a pulse of its own. Civilian underwater oil-drilling divers are summoned to work by the navy to search for a nuclear submarine that has just dropped off the sonar screen. The divers are plagued by a mysterious force not knowing if it is friend of foe. Oh yes, there is the talk of a bomb with the timer already ticking. After viewing this three times I'm certain about calling this is a top notch thriller! Ed Harris leads a very interesting cast featuringsexy Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio, Michael Biehm and Kimberly Scott as Lisa 'One Night' Standing.  "},{"Title":"Was Cameron confused?","Date":"14 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Throughout the movie, and especially in the ending, I wondered why Cameron chose to include aliens.  It feels like two movies are being made here an underwater thriller and a cheesy, sci-fi/fantasy movie with a hackneyed political message.  If Cameron had made up his mind what he was trying to do in this movie it would have been a lot better.  In fact, the movie isn't even about the aliens at all until the ending.  It was as if Cameron had made the movie, then the studio took control and tacked on a ridiculously rushed, upbeat ending; much like RKO did for The Magnificent Ambersons.  I say this because in the later part of the beginning of the movie Cameron showcases all sorts of technology, paying great attention to detail.  However, in the end all of it gets thrown out the window.  One character explains an impossibility simply by saying something to the effect of Something must've happened!.  Watch this movie for the the middle of the movie, not for the _very_ beginning or the end. "},{"Title":"Lacking testosterone, well built-up characters (spoilers)","Date":"18 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  James (I'm the king of the world) Cameron has definitely made his mark as a financial director with mega-hits Terminator 2 and Titanic and a serious director with Terminator and Aliens--if you can call that serious. The Abyss is a really different film since it maintains suspense throughout even in some rather tedious parts but very few people are killed--I'm not counting drowning as killed.  Some can say it's a rehash of Close Encounters of the Third Kind.  Wrong!  CEot3K was too much a Disney movie in contrast.  This movie is about survival, the unknown, and all other special effects.  The aliens may seem a bit ridiculous but I can say they look better than some mutated prune waving a glowing finger around speaking like a Chipmunk on depressants. "},{"Title":"An Underrated Masterpiece","Date":"7 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is on of my Top 10 favorite movies of all time, I loved it from the first time, and it's only getting better. This is James Cameron on top, as he has been throught his whole carrer.The movie has everything, great story, great suspence, emotion, excitement, and superb action the whole cast. If this had been a little more successful at the boxoffice, Ed Harris would have gotten an Oscar nomination, and I thing Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio would have too.And this movie also offers something no other movie does, two versions, one high-octane roller-coaster thrill ride (Theatrical Cut) and one which adds dept and character, a version when you want to get touched by a movie (Special Edition). "},{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"27 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I've heard some people saying that the Special Edition (or Director's Cut as I would call it) doesn't add anything important to the film. I wonder have they even seen it?No matter is it original or Spec.Ed, this film has everything. Plot and story are quite unique. Acting goes over almost any other movie (not Requiem For A Dream), the characters are interesting. Special effects by ILM, Fantasy II, XFX, Dream Quest, Stetson Visual, Steve Johnson's XFX and The Design Settlers haven't got age a day. Music composed by Alan Silvestri is IMO the best score in his career. The few action scenes ar well done. And the NTIs remind me for some grown-up E.T.s. That's what this movie likely seems to be an R-rated underwater version of E.T. - The Extra Terrestrial. And a good one. For a long time Aliens was the best movie I'd ever seen. Not anymore. "},{"Title":"Absolutely wonderful, but stick to the theatrical version","Date":"21 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I can only agree with setanta-, the theatrical version is much better. Sometimes it's nicer not to get everything explained, and that's definitely the case with this movie. The special edition loses most of the feeling of mystery that is so prominent in the theatrical version, and instead tries - in a fairly lame attempt - to propagate for world peace.However I did enjoy the other additional scenes, most of them are found in the beginning of the movie and there are a few more along the way. These establish the characters a little bit more before the movie gets going. I didn't feel that they slowed the pace down at all (the movie is already pretty slow). On the other hand they didn't really add very much either, but I enjoyed seeing them. I would have preferred the special edition to include only these scenes and skip the whole world war deal that gives the movie a wider scope. That said, this is without doubt one of my favorite movies of all time. The atmosphere is incredible! It's almost thick enough to touch, and still unsurpassed in later movies. All actors do great performances, but the most outstanding are Ed Harris, Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio and Michael Biehn. The story is compelling and intelligent, and all the characters are really believable. My interest is kept up at 100% throughout the entire movie, something I have never experienced in other equally slow films. I'm sorry, but I just can't find a single negative point to make! It's a wonder this movie is so underrated. It is one of the few that actually deserves a full score.  "},{"Title":"Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio excels","Date":"24 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  OK, I'm a sci-fi fan. And I only saw the original version. But it was darn good. Yes there were some holes, like there always are. (Most notably how people seemed to not be overly bothered by wallowing in 30 degree water.) Ed Harris played his usual rugged persona well. Michael Biehn seemed the least believable, but I can't understand why. But the top award in this film goes undisputably to Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio. She was great. When she was the ice queen, she pulled that off. When she melted, that seemed natural. When she was dead, she LOOKED dead. The effects were pretty good. But why, whenever there are benevolent aliens, are they always accompanied by the Mormon Tabernacle Choir? I'm looking forward to seeing the long version. Grade A- "},{"Title":"My favorite love story","Date":"18 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I'm really pretty surprised that this movie doesn't receive a higher rating from the imdb users.Typically, I hate the love interest part of movies.  Most of the time, it's tacked on (ostensibly) to please the female portion of the audience, no matter how out-of-place it is.  A good example is in the horrible Stephen Seagal movie Under Siege where he manages to line up a silicone bimbo for a love interest by finding her in a cake on board a Navy ship that was out to sea!  In so many movies, and not just horrible movies like Seagal movies, when you see the male lead meet the love interest, you know it's time to go relieve yourself real quick or get some popcorn, because you've seen it 10,000 times before and it's just going to represent dead spots in the story that you wait to pass so you can get back to the story.  Action movies usually have a love interest and almost always they detract from the story. Only a few, such as Crimson Tide escape a love interest and it serves to keep the movie interesting throughout.  I think this is true for the female viewership as well when they are mature adults.  However 75% of box office receipts (or some huge figure like that) are from people under 18 years old. The girls want to see romance and the boys want to see some boobs, and the people selling this product know that full well.The Abyss, on the other hand, has the love story somewhat central to the plot, and even though it's a science fiction movie with a LOT of action, it works, and it's beautiful.  In the movie, we both Ed Harris and Mary Mastrantonio's characters as real, respectable people.  Intelligent people, capable people, honorable people.  They're both extremely strong-willed and both are successful.  She's highly educated and an engineer, he's a doer, a leader of people, a guy who works where the rubber meets the road getting things done and coming through under pressure.  They're in the process of a divorce.And what they find through the course of the movie, by losing each other in the most dramatic and poignant of ways, is just how much they mean to each other.  Nothing hackneyed, nothing trite or silly or melodramatic (in my view).  The realities of the situation force both of them to watch the other take enormous unavoidable risks and because of that, it's driven home to each of them how much they really love each other, and how trivial the differences that are keeping them apart really are in the face of their feelings for each other.  I've never seen it done like this before, and I've never responded more strongly to a love story element in a movie than I did to this one.  I *respected* both characters.  I believed they were in love. And the way they held their inner turmoil together instead of going into melodramatic histrionics like in most movies just made it that much more real and poignant for me.Beyond the love story element, I think that this is one of the very best action movies I've ever seen, and I feel it's James Cameron's best movie to date by a wide margin.  I really love the fact that the physics of what they are doing actually work, there is very little about this movie that's unrealistic from a scientific point of view, even though such an underwater vehicle doesn't really exist.  I'm a stickler for scientific accuracy and this movie never once made me feel patronized.  Although the underwater civilization is not necessarily realistic, there is a sharp dividing line between the fantastical and the tangible, and the tangible human science and endeavor is done intelligently and believably.The entire supporting cast was fantastic, although I wish they hadn't put the black lady in a cowboy hat listening to C&W, that was a little retarded and unnecessary.  She did a good job, too, but they should have just made her one of the crew and not some weird-ass reverse stereotype.  The psychotic Navy Seal and the whole conflict with him was riveting, as well.I think this is a smart, dramatic, powerful, and immensely satisfying movie and it's in my personal top 10 of all time.  If you haven't seen the director's cut, I recommend you do.  "},{"Title":"Great job everyone","Date":"28 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  One of Camerons best three pictures. (the others are Terminator and Aliens) With full perfection, Cameron takes time to tell his story and let us know his characters, wonderfully played by an outstanding cast. Only the ending sends this movie down in the abyss. Ed Harris, Mary Elizabeth Masterantonio and everyone else is powerful and convincing in their performances. But it´s Michael Biehn as the crazyeyed lutenant Coffey that steals every scene he is in and outshines the rest of the cast. He should of won that Oscar he was considered for. "},{"Title":"Rent or buy the DVD version!","Date":"28 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  While the video version of this movie is great and highly entertaining, the DVD version with the added hour of footage if even better!  With the added time and footage, you finally know exactly what is going on, and several of the dialog portions now make sense, for example, near the end when the ship captain turns to the Military commander and says I guess that puts you out of a job, with the added footage that makes sense.  Before, it was a nice line, and if you didn't listen to it, didn't matter.  It also explains the storm that wasn't expected, yet suddenly came up. If you've seent eh video and enjoyed it, you MUST see the DVD version, it will be even better! "}{"Title":"Science fiction extraordinare!","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The only thing this movie lacks is a villain that you can despise.  I'm not saying this is bad, just not necessary.  There is so much happening in this movie, the fore most being good science fiction.  The relationship between Lindsey and Virgil runs deeper than the ocean they're trapped under.  The scene where she comes up with the idea of drowning, have Virgil drag her back to the base and revive her is one of my all time favorite movie sequences.  The diving sequence ain't bad either.  This movie kept you guessing and hoping and on the edge of your seat.  You don't have to be a sci-fi buff to love The Abyss. "},{"Title":"A Cameron original","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Cameron (director) is always very strong in telling a fanastic tale with carefully chosen caracters. I think no movie ever is shot 40% under water. And no one ever will, because of the now possible computer generated effects. Cameron wanted everything built real time and in original size, so they built the complete station in a tank of a never finished nuclear power plant.The wonders the movie brings, the situations the cast creates, shortly said it's a ride!!! Be prepared for a Cameron original. This movie is a must see for all SF freaks out there and people that appreciate strong actors that are more important then the beautiful environment they're in. "},{"Title":"Special Edition makes it better","Date":"8 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Special Edition makes it better, it explains what are aliens doing there and what is their purpose in that movie and explains little more about the relationships between the main characters. I still don`t understand why directors let their films to be raped(cut shorter). Most of the movies that are been cut that way have lost a lot(ex. Terminator2, LEON, Can`t Hardly Wait etc. etc. .....).And sometimes the scenes that are cut out have very important part in the whole movie and so if it's cut out the whole story is changed and there`s nothing left of the original idea. I hope who ever makes those decisions would come to his senses and stop it. I don`t mind watching a 3hour GOOD movie. SO STOP CUTTING !!!  "},{"Title":"The Director's Cut of The Abyss is fantastic.","Date":"19 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Using some of the most convincing underwater special effects I've ever seen, the directors cut (with 28 mins. of new footage) tells a heart stopping and heart breaking story of love, heroism, loyalty and obsessions under the deep blue sea. The originally available edition was very good but the director's cut is FANTASTIC, fleshing out both the story and motivations of the characters.      "},{"Title":"An excellent sci-fi underwater epic.","Date":"6 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The DVD Special Edition is truly amazing. Both the Theatrical and Special Edition of the film along with a couple of hours of extras.The film is an epic underwater adventure exploring both human relationships and the great unchartered depths of the ocean. The story and effects are excellent. It combines disaster movie with a tense thriller, love story, action movie with even underwater car chase using submersible's !.You cannot help but be impressed by the actors and crew when you've watched the Making of documentary. Superb. "},{"Title":"Outstanding Movie !","Date":"27 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I've always had a special feeling about this movie which I saw when I was about 11 Years old.... Now that it is re-released on DVD I decided to purchase it because of the nostalgia and the include special edition. I really was surprised on how well the special effects still looked after all that time. The theme and story is really great and never gets corny. The special editions ads alot of scenes (28 Minutes worth of extra scenes) but it never gets boring. If you have cash to spare, buy this !! If you don't, rent it !!!! "},{"Title":"One of the exciting stories ever told","Date":"9 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is why I have such a respect for imagination and creativity. James Cameron reportedly came up with the idea for this movie during a boring biology class, penning down his thoughts in a short story fashion, and then later making movie history by writing and directing The Abyss. Some of the best special effects I have ever seen to-date, and definitely some of the best under-water cinematography.  The full story (almost 3 hours long on the special DVD version) is worth the watch, and is engrossing from beginning to end.  This is definitely my favourite film of all time.  It is hard to believe the film is over 10 years old and can still be so convincing and heart-touching.  My respect goes out to Ed Harris who went through hell to portray his part--he deserves an OSCAR for it.  Marie Elizabeth was also fantastic--the best death to life scene I have ever seen.  Get the DVD today! "},{"Title":"Abyss-mal","Date":"18 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I expected The Abyss to be a pretty entertaining movie, especially since I have enjoyed other James Cameron movies (with the notable exception of Titanic). A friend of mine had also recommended the film to me. So my regard for it was high enough that I selected it as the first film I would view on my new DVD player.Unfortunately, my excitement over the DVD's superior picture and sound quality didn't last long.  It was soon overtaken by boredom and annoyance over the movie's plodding, insipid plot and awful acting performances. About an hour into the movie, my friends and I looked at each other, bewildered wasn't this supposed to be a *good* movie? Or at least entertaining? We also kicked ourselves for selecting the director's cut, which promised to drag on for 20 minutes longer than the theatrical version.I have seen worse movies than The Abyss, but not many. My main problem with this film is that it is boring. I thought this movie would have some good action/suspense sequences and a lot of cool special effects. It doesn't. Failing that, a movie should have an interesting plot and good acting. The first hour of this movie contains very little plot development and quite a bit of unconvincing acting on top of a poorly written script.In the remainder of the movie, the story picks up somewhat, though it never becomes enthralling, and builds to an unexciting, saccharine-sweet groaner of an ending.The most entertaining part of the evening I watched The Abyss came after the film's merciful end. I think each of us was wondering who would say it first -- finally, my friend did Abyss-mal! he said. I couldn't agree more.  "},{"Title":"Not Water Tight","Date":"29 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The AbyssDIRECTION &#144; A good job aided by special effects.ACTING g% Not the strongest part of this movie!EDITING/SPECIAL EFFECTS &#131;% Underwater scenes are brought to life with stunning effects that seem plastic (water) for some reason. PLOT U% Not what you will be paying your money for.STRONG WORDS AND VIOLENCE ETC p% Enough there to classify it as a modern movie (joke).MUSIC g% Will you be concentrating on this when the effects are so much better?SOUND `% Underwater sound bubbling away.HOOKABILITY `% You will want to see the special effects no doubt!.LASTABILITY q% Will they (special effects) meet up to expectations if the plot is floored?OVERALL u% Well worth watching if someone is paying for it!  "},{"Title":"THE GREATEST SCI-FI FILM EVER MADE!!!","Date":"14 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I am referring to the Special Edition.  The theatrically released version was only slightly better than mediocre.  The studio made Jim Cameron cut over one half hour from his final cut, and this nearly makes the final third of the film unwatchable.  As great drama requires, this film has a theme. Its theme is separation.  THE ABYSS refers as much to the relationship between the characters played by Ed Harris and Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio as it does to the huge trench which is the center of the action throughout the last half of the film.  THE ABYSS also refers to the us vs. them mentality of world conflict, which is a major point in the Special Edition. "}{"Title":"The Abyss - Love and War in Underspace","Date":"20 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Abyss is the most thought-provoking, imaginative, and beautiful science fiction film that I've ever seen. Master filmmaker and craftsman James Cameron brings us another thoughtful sci-fi epic behind The Terminator (1984) and Aliens (1986), two films that played brilliantly with Cold War-era paranoia and here, he brings us something that could possibly be the director's most introspective piece.1989 was quite a year in terms of undersea sci-fi flicks, with Leviathan and DeepStar Six taking full advantage of the Alien syndrome, and while The Abyss had aliens on its mind, these particular extraterrestrials come to us with a message and a purpose.The film begins with the sinking of an American nuclear submarine that was brought down under mysterious circumstances. The navy commandeers a civilian drilling rig to enter the sub and search for survivors. But this ragtag group of blue-collar workers, led by Bud Brigman (Ed Harris) and his ex-wife Lindsey (Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio), are plagued by a Navy SEAL team's insane leader, Lt. Coffey (Michael Biehn), and a series of bizarre underwater occurrences that could prove that they're not alone on the ocean floor.The Abyss boasts one of the most compelling science fiction stories of any sci-fi film in the past 20 years. It was James Cameron's third and most powerful film, but it wasn't his best, at least according to his hardcore audience and certain critics, despite its groundbreaking computer animation effects and story.Even though my review is based on the 1992 special edition, one cannot help but wonder why THIS is not the version that was released in theaters back in 1989. But of course, overzealous executives played heavily into the film's troublesome release, and erased the most significant subplot of the story, with regards to the extraterrestrial visitors that plague the protagonists.Now upon the revelation of this information, one might be tempted to recall The Day the Earth Stood Still, and what it stood for back in 1951 when it was released. Desperate times, like today in 2004, call for a movie like this to be viewed by a public that is disillusioned with itself and its overseers in Washington, D.C.The Abyss is a radical call for peace, in that both of these films tell stories of otherworldly visitors who descend from the heavens (in this case, underspace) to tell humans to cease their violent, self-destructive ways.Not since The Day the Earth Stood Still has there been an anti-war science fiction film that is this groundbreaking, powerful and bold. I'm sure that Cameron ran into his fair share of individuals who claimed that he was a communist or a propagandist for making a movie that calls for peace rather than conflict.And perhaps The Abyss is the most political and out-right vocal of Cameron's films; it is arguably the best of a crop of sci-fi films in a very long time that are tailor-made for essential viewing.10/10 "},{"Title":"too long and too much hype - kinda sucked!","Date":"29 April 2010","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" When a submarine is mysteriously destroyed the U.S. hire excavators to go down and investigate and also on a secret mission they are to remove a missile head to prevent the Russians from getting it. While under water the military tries to take control but the rigger captain is not gonna let him. They investigate the sub and its all a mystery until they soon realize that they are not alone under water and ultimately find a whole alien race living in the deepest regions of the abyss.I had watched this a couple times and all I had remembered was the long snake like figure made entirely of water. I must admit, the movie isn't exciting. It has beautiful scenes but story wise it was just slow and painfully boring...Hollywood hype.Cameron has made a few good movies, but I think of him as one of those directors that has so much money and such a big budget that the heart and talent is gone from his direction, his crew of C.G.I. artists, cinematographers and editors are where the talent is. None the less he did have some beautiful shots here. Silvestri's music was horrible, way too over the top and dramatic and also lacking heart. I want the music to be present, but never too obvious, It is background and should accompany the scene and not be a part of it. Acting wise I liked a lot of the actors here. Ed Harris isn't great, but hes mediocre enough to work. Michael Biehn did a great job here he can do so many different styles and here he does a wonderful jerk. I also though Todd Graff really shined.The aliens were a bit too cute for my liking and it sucks too that the movie didn't feature them much. All of the action, what little there was, was done by the humans. There was a beautiful message about people killing people and how humans were destroying each other, a beautiful touch with the waves making people stop and think for a minute. I hated the cheesy ending and how things all turned out nice and perfect - happy ending usually ruin movies for me, there needs to be some major casualties and some mystery at the end. I didn't like it but I give it 3/10 stars. Avoid the DVD extended special edition its way too long. "},{"Title":"Another illogical fx extravaganza....","Date":"16 October 1999","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If you liked Armageddon and Independence Day, you'll probably like this; you may even love it. I didn't like any of these three movies, but, as they say, de gustibus....As others have noted, this movie is somewhat schizophrenic, with elements of the James Bond action flic and dallying with other intelligent life a la Close Encounters or Contact. It has also scenes reminiscent of The Poseidon Adventure and 2001 A Space Odyssey. But the plot holes and logical/science absurdities can't be attributed to the fractured nature of the storyline.Above all, I can't stand deus ex machina (or is that deus ex oceanus) endings...ugh.  "},{"Title":"What a load of rubbish!","Date":"20 December 2009","Score":"11 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film was on Film 4 last night (UK). I sat through an hour and a half before its soporific effect caused me to switch off and find something interesting to do. Very poor story line, though the special effects were very good - and expensive, but a turnip is still a turnip, no matter how many carrots they give you with it! The pressure effects of working at depth were completely ignored, and it was frequently quite hard to know where the actors were actually supposed to be.A far cry from Alien or Titanic. I'm not surprised it did badly at the box office. It has cult status - a cult is not enough to make up a minority and most of the cult seem to have written comments on this website! "},{"Title":"Under the Sea","Date":"2 July 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" After creating two of the most instantly recognisable science- fiction films in the 80's (Aliens and Terminator), Cameron ended the decade by embarking on a unique and original project with an underseas setting. Whilst it may not live up to some of his other action masterpieces, The Abyss remains a great adventure through it's focus on suspense and unique underwater environments.Similar to the Terminator films, The Abyss is focused on reflecting Cold War fears of complete annihilation of the human race. It is set in the midst of the cold war and the story of an oil rig crew, searching underwater for a crashed nuclear submarine and investigate the causes of the crash. To do this they must work in harsh conditions with the regular pressures of submarine work, passing hurricanes and the threat of Russians causing increasing pressure and insanity amongst the crew. Whilst on their mission they begin to realise they may not be alone there and encounter a mysterious alien species who seem to be able to control the water around them.Whilst the story is interesting at points, the film is problematic in handling it as the script is constantly trying to push the story in different directions. At times the film is very dark, with one storyline going in to the growing madness and paranoia of one of the Navy SEAL's as he is on the verge of attacking the other crew members. Then at other points it grows very soppy with the aliens friendly presence and the way they're used in the film being more reminiscent of something like ET. Particularly its ending (which I won't spoil here) does go in to gag levels of cheesiness. But whilst the films writing may be scattered at points the visuals never fail to disappoint. Whilst the film is well known for its revolutionary effects in using the first 3 dimensional CG character, what's truly impressive is the films breathtaking underwater setting. James Cameron and the crew spared no expense to create realistic underwater environments, buying a 7 million gallon tank at an abandoned plant and filling it with water. At times this way of filming led to an extremely troubled production including the likes of algae infestation and even lead actor Ed Harris almost drowning, presumably in an attempt to take method acting to the next level. But the results of this are astounding with the lighting and use of colour creating a real sense of how this submarine crew are cut off from the rest of the world. Its style is also a nice step away from the usual Hollywood blockbusters with the film favouring a slow tension building scene than the usual fast paced action movies. For example, in one of the film's best sequences Bud has to descend into the Abyss and has to deal with the pressures that such a dive would bring with depleting oxygen and difficulties in keeping consciousness. Sequences like this are both visually spectacular and more successful in putting us in the perspective of our characters and experience the same pressures they do. Whilst it's writing has its weaknesses, the visuals are truly something spectacular and deliver on creating some great moments of tense atmosphere. Beyond this the ambition and technical brilliance of the effects used in the film are truly astonishing creating the most realistic underwater environment put to screen. "},{"Title":"Klassik","Date":"20 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Movies that depict Extraterrestrial Biological Entities as benevolent, or multi-faction interest in Terra and it's indigenous life forms is something I greatly enjoy. I mean to suggest that it is insane to expect any advanced civilization to be free of the debate between state versus individual liberty and our Goddess given inalienable right.While this show's underwater EBEs are entirely one dimensional characters, the idea that they are living underwater where we have yet to truly explore is... or at least it 'was' amazing when it was first released. Even now, about a quarter tuns Mayan Calendar, 360 days later, the closest Hollywood foray into the field was SeaQuest and that was still almost two decades ago.All those who have a similar taste as me and highly value classic comedies instead of tragedy, and a romance shares center stage with another other science fiction plot or two. They will greatly enjoy the movie as I do. It is one of those movies I watched yearly when I was younger.Despite my favor for the show, I limited it to 8/10 simply because of the ending. It showcases the stereotypical silent stoic EBE that is 'horrified' at our nuclear weapons. That is just a bunch of statist propaganda that completely ignores the circumstantial evidence that suggests the EBE's have an entirely different view.That is the EBEs' are marvelling at how the public has abundantly allowed the statists to cease control of Nikola Tesla's working diagrams for power generators and relays for wireless transmission of power.. That is through air, earth, or water.Ask a pilot how much easier it would be to fly without the process of carrying fuel with the... Not to mention safer. "},{"Title":"technological marvel","Date":"26 March 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" American nuclear submarine USS Montana has a mysterious encounter and sinks 80 miles off of Cuba. The navy can't get there before an incoming hurricane and asks divers of a nearby underwater oil rig to the rescue. Lt. Hiram Coffey (Michael Biehn) leads the SEAL team with a secret mission. Bud Brigman (Ed Harris) leads the oil workers. Lindsey Brigman (Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio) is his designer soon-to-be-divorced wife angry that the navy is hijacking her experimental underwater rig. She encounters glowing otherworldly creatures which disrupts their electrical systems. They are unable to disconnect the cable from the underwater rig to the explorer ship above and the rig is throw into chaos.As a story, James Cameron's love of the underwater technology does get into the way sometimes. He spends a little too much time with the underwater maneuvers which takes away some of the tension. Looking back at the technical aspects, Cameron is taking a lot of risk and pushing the boundaries. The water tentacle is a giant step forward. All the underwater work with projections on the surfaces and the underwater creatures are terrific. The sets and the water action scenes are also terrific. It was reportedly a harrowing movie shoot and the constant close-quarters water work was probably the big problem. "},{"Title":"Benthic.","Date":"14 March 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Well, it's expensive but not a total loss. The title is subtly and aptly suggestive.You get abyssal Cold War animosity, abyssal disaster movie, abyssal the wonder of outer space creatures. Maybe I should explain that pun. Abyssal = A bissle, meaning little bit of in German/Yiddish. It's terrible. Don't bother saying so. On the other hand, that's no reason to smirk. Do I smirk at your puns? No. No, I don't.I don't really think it's worth getting into in any detail. I can't begin to enumerate the flaws. I'll just say that the feminist sensibility versus the male patriarchy crap is overdone, even for 1989. Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio is called a bitch and told don't get your panties in a twist. It's unfair. She's only doing her job at this underwater equivalent of Grand Central Station in New York, lacking only the Oyster Bar. And they talk about her and her anger and spite as if they were discussing my ex wife, whereas she's the sole possessor of any common sense aboard this steel-encased asylum.Enough about characterological flaws. The special effects are fine. They must have been extremely good because they distracted me to the point at which I'd completely lost track of how many submarine vehicles there were, who was in each, and which ones had sea water rushing through them.An American submarine has imploded and sunk to the bottom where, you'll be surprised to find, it sits precariously on the edge of a precipice that perches over plumbless depths. Their mission Disarm all the MIRVs aboard the boomer.Well, that's a tough enough assignment right there, and a power of near catastrophes befall the gang led by Ed Harris. It isn't helped when Mastrantonio, alone and vulnerable in a diving suit, is surveilled by pink-and-blue gelatinous creatures, rather like shape-shifting jellyfish, only like no jellyfish that ever existed.. Once she gets over the shock of finding one of these fluid organisms watching her from behind -- and it only takes her a few seconds -- she smiles at it because it's so pretty and reaches out to caress it with a fingertip. Would you do that? Well, you might, if you heard the inspiring, awestruck ooohs and aahhs of the chorus on the soundtrack, bespeaking not just wonder but a kind of numinosity.It's a commercial pastiche with scenes and plot devices ripped off shamelessly from, oh, Jaws, Close Encounters, and Destionation Tokyo. It should go about hooded and masked, tinkling a little bell, and crying, Unclean, unclean. "},{"Title":"Melodramatic Mankind Meets Aquatic Angels","Date":"16 April 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Movie Almost Sinks from the Overacting and Overcooked Human Interactions. Director James Cameron does not know how to Subtly Portray Character Predictions and is Forever Melodramatic and Hammers each Situation with Hyperbolic Dialog and Emoting to the Extreme.But then there are the Impressive Visuals and Creative Artistry of a Vision and a Place that Movie Audiences had yet to Explore. Deep Underwater where only Angels, or what We might call Angels, Exist.The Film is Exciting, and moves quite Rapidly considering its Bloated Length and Filled to the Brim Plots. But it is Blended well and the Good Far Outweighs the Bad. For Every Cringe Inducing, Barely Tolerable Scene (like the resuscitation), there are others that take the Breath Away and Replace it with a Liquidity that is Certainly Unusual.So the Shallow and Stereotypical Military Types and Oil Rig Workers can go about Their Clichéd Machinations. It is the Wondrous World of the Unknown that Manifests Itself here for Entertainment, with a bit of Philosophy for Your Consideration. "},{"Title":"Awesome Movie - Extended Version","Date":"30 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I really do not usually do this but I was just watching this and I wanted to take a second and say this could easily be Ed Harris' best acting role, He is an amazing actor and it really shows and all this time I always said Needful things was his best, but Ill give it up to this one instead. Everyone is awesome in this film and its one I have always liked but it really moved me a little bit today and I wanted to say if you haven't watched it yet, you should. The film is amazing for being from the early 90's its really well done, No wonder Cameron is the best and has the best movies. This one really holds up for being 20 years old. "}{"Title":"Reasonably Good Underwater Sci-Fi.","Date":"27 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" James Cameron directs this ambitious, visually sumptuous but long adventure about a deep-sea oil rig crew who encounter mysterious occurrences that lead to the discovery of aliens, who are friendly, but who also want to be left alone it seems...Ed Harris and Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio are compelling and believable as embattled employee/employer & husband/wife, who are at continual odds, but over the course of this story, become closer and closer, as both come close to death, and are also threatened by a crewman who goes crazy(Michael Bien) a plot point that goes on too long, as does this film, though it does come together eventually, there are some lulls in the pace of the film that hurt, but it is still worth watching, with spectacular end sequence(restored Director's Cut version). "},{"Title":"I Love this film","Date":"7 June 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Greetings from Lithuania.That's one of the first films created of one of my favorite directors J.Cameron. And what a great this film is. It has great special effects (Oscar award), good acting, especially from Ed Harris and Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio, and Michael Biehn is good as always. I'm not gonna repeat the story, a lot of You already know what it is about, just gonna say, that i saw this film about 5 times i thing, and it GETS my every time. It's not as good as Aliens or T2, but those movies will never gonna be remaked if you know what i mean. And The Abbys has i thing the first digitally created creature in a movie history, and it still looks great! I own a DVD of this film, with an alternative ending and i won't going to spoil it, i just wanna to say that i like this alternative ending a lot - it gives a movie much more deeper feeling. Overall, this is a real classic, a real must see movie for any sci-fi adventure lover and for people who likes GOOD movies.9,5 /10 - Great! "},{"Title":"The Abyss","Date":"14 August 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" It's hard to believe 20 years ago James Cameron has already created a wonderland of aliens under the deepest ocean! Before watching this film, I shunned any spoilers just to completely dive into it. But I didn't expect the film would blow my minds away and it was really a great 3 hours ride.There is miracles underneath the deep sea. Within an area no human beings could ever reach, until our hero, Bud, in order to dismantle the nuclear bomb, commits the suicidal mission (I think the plot is a little bit make-believe, and I doubt the plausibility of diving at such depth), anyway all is to create the chance to meet the deep-sea aliens and exhibit in the latter part of the film with its not-out-of-date special effects. The mysterious deep-sea environment also attributes to a charming attraction towards the audience.James Cameron is an obstinate filmmaker, I admire his talent and persistent pursuit of visual wonders on screen, as well as his strong anti-war protestation, even this time the ending is too preachy and unconvincing, only if aliens consider human beings as the utmost species among all the living creatures.The performances are strong from two leads (Ed & Mary, also bravo for their stunt underwater performances), as for Michael Biehn's sole villain character, it is a little bit pity that it should have more exertion, as he was a superstar at 1980s!I gave AVATAR 9/10, and this one I give 8/10 as it is a decent work even it has obvious flaws, I esteem the courage and insight of the whole team because it was extremely difficult to make this kind of sci-fi film 20 years ago. So what worst could it be?http//xingshizuomeng.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Abyss is a small chink in Cameron's armor because of character issues","Date":"15 March 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Filmmaker James Cameron's constant yen to explore the unknown has taken us to the future, the depths of space and now the deepest caverns of the ocean. The Abyss is an underwater survival story with a science-fiction bend. It is a trip into the depths of what we know exists on this planet but can't truly fathom. (I think that's two unintended puns already, sorry.) Then it throws in an extra-terrestrial element, which to be honest, probably doesn't need to be there. The Abyss is about a team of oil drillers hired by the military to investigate a sunken nuclear submarine. When a hurricane strikes their surface crew, their underwater station is nearly destroyed, tension between the drillers led by Virgil (Ed Harris) and the military men led by Lt. Coffey (Terminator star Michael Biehn) grows. This is then escalated by Lindsey (Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio), Virgil's wife, who discovers an iridescent sea creature is among them.What makes Abyss pale in comparison to Cameron's prior achievements of the 1980s is simply its non-chalant approach to character. Cameron simply tries to compensate for his idea-driven script by dialing up the romantic tension between Virgil and Lindsey whose marriage is days away from ending when they embark on the mission. We would see '90s films such as Armageddon try and emulate this model for romance in a survival film and Cameron himself would get it right in his 1997 blockbuster, Titanic. This time around, however, it's painfully forced and essentially ineffective.As a concept survival thriller a la a Michael Crichton novel, Abyss is solid and entertaining. Maybe not the full two and a half hours, but most of the way through. The situations are well thought out, logical and suspenseful. A couple scenes later on take hacks at the credibility of the story and some character motivation overall is questionable, particularly Biehn's character, but as a how do we logic our way out of drowning movie, it's spot-on. Harris commands Cameron's team leader role and with some exception Mastroantonio does her part as the strong female character he strives to have in his films.The reason I don't think the science-fiction element had to be part of this film was that it didn't really exist other than jumpstart the conflict, escalate the conflict and bail the characters out in the grand finale. In other words, it was a cop-out for the script and an excuse for Cameron to pioneer some visual effects. Maybe you can't blame him in the E.T- obsessed '80s for including it, but looking at Abyss among the sci-fi greats, which includes some of Cameron's other films, it doesn't compare favorably. Yet, Cameron manages to do what he does best, use great visuals and write stories that compel and resonate so easily with his audience.~Steven CVisit my site at http//moviemusereviews.com "},{"Title":"A good film with a horrible ending","Date":"18 January 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I liked the film until the ending. The plot was a bit confusing at first, but as the film developed, it turned out to be quite good. The aliens who could harness the power of the seawater were quite interesting and somewhat mysterious. I especially liked the navy SEALs who tried to arm the warhead on the underwater rig. Lindsey Brigman was a bit annoying at times, but nothing too bad.Had the film ended when Bud cut the wires to the warhead on the bottom of the abyss, I'd give it 9/10, but the ending ruined it. When the aliens took the shape of the water, it was mysterious, when they looked like little green men, it just looked like a cliché. Finally, when the alien city rose to the surface, it couldn't have been more of a Hollywood-style happy ending, which I've grown quite tired of over the years. It just felt to me like the ending was a last minute addition to the plot to make it less dramatic. "},{"Title":"Just another Hollywood blockbuster.","Date":"4 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I just watched the director's cut and i have seen the theater version years ago. I don't get it really, why people give this movie so good reviews. This is pure Hollywood entertainment with great special effects and dull storyline. First of all it takes about a half an hour before the movie even gets started after the first sequence. Typical blah blah about oilworkers who have to go to save the world and main characters ex-wife which is not an ex just yet. And would you guess they will be together again in the end of the movie! You get the feeling here that after Terminator Cameron has wanted to try something else like shooting an action movie under the water. Well, it's a nice idea but the movie's story is not very interesting in the first place. The first half of the movie actually works pretty OK(after the half an hour start). Cameron mixes some scifi themes here which seems like a good idea at first but in the end of the movie it seems like a scriptwriter has got a little out of hand. It would have been nice if Cameron would have had the courage to leave something for the audience and maybe not to explain everything in the end. There is some nice mystery feeling when Lindsey first time sees the Alien and you get sucked very well in to the mood. And it actually works until the ridiculous ending where Bud Brighman is brought to the Alien's spaceship and they'll explain to him why they deciced to save the world. Movie loses it's credibility at once. Terminator works because the whole story is more like black comedy and there is some irony in it and Aliens 2 is just great action movie. Here you get the whole movie in under the seas just moving around, almost divorced couple finding each other again and kind aliens saving the world because they think that love is worth saving. And of course clumsy dialog and stupid oilworkes telling stupid jokes from time to time so things don't get too serious. "},{"Title":"Great but with a stupid ending","Date":"22 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Abyss is a fantastic film with some stunning acting (particularly from Ed Harris and Michael Biehn) but the story takes a huge left turn at the last 20 or so minutes and it starts to resemble the most cheesy of science fiction films. Well worth the purchase if you are ready for a story-oriented film but can tolerate a non-sensical ending "},{"Title":"Scuba divers encounter E.T.","Date":"12 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Underwater salvage crew takes on a government job and runs afoul of a hurricane, damaged equipment, and a rogue Navy Seal. Then they meet spacemen. I saw the cut version so to me this was just an average sci-fi adventure with lots of tension and your standard high voltage dialogue. Adequate, but no big deal. "},{"Title":"What appalling trash!","Date":"29 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  For those time is too valuable to waste on this film, I offer the following summary.   This will be a SPOILER if you unaware of normal Hollywood conventions, otherwise I hope not.(1) Military men are evil.  Everyone else is quite nice, though they don't always show it at first.(2) We should spend more time being nice to each other.(3) The only people who ever die are either evil or unimportant.(4) Disasters at sea happen because people are far too stupid to take extremely basic safety precautions like providing a reliable way for two connected vessels to separate.(5) A leading woman will always start being tough and aggressive, but in a crisis her feminimity will come to the surface, making her more attractive to other beings and promoting marital relations.(6) We should stamp out discrimination.  All dangerous missions should have at least one black and one woman on board. The easiest way to achieve this is to combine them into one person, and avoid allowing them to advance the plot in any essential way.I suppose this film must be for people who like special-effects and a predictably happy ending.    "},{"Title":"Warning a long movie!","Date":"29 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A truly awesome film, wonderful everything.The only gripe I had was with it's length, at 173 minutes the SE of this film makes one sitting very hard on ones behind. However if you do endure, you will be treated to a dazzeling array of special effects. Highly original story also.Highly recomended from moi ) "}{"Title":"A cross between the spectacular and the plain dumb.","Date":"15 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  ** and 1/2 stars out of ****  (171 minute version)I've always felt The Abyss was a rather overrated sci-fi drama/adventure.  For one thing, it moves at a far slower pace than one would ever expect from director James Cameron, who helmed the exciting actioner Aliens.  With The Abyss, he tries to mix action with profound themes, and though the result is not a bad film by a long shot, it still is quite flawed.Ed Harris plays Virgil Bud Brigman, head of an oil drilling team underwater.  He and his men are informed by the U.S. military that a nuclear submarine has sunk somewhere nearby, and they would like Brigman and his men to help retrieve any survivors.A Navy Seal Team and Brigman's ex-wife (Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio) arrive to help in the recovery, but soon things begin to go wrong.  Not only are there not any survivors, it seems the Navy Seals have been ordered to bring back one warhead.  The drilling habitat also encounters a disaster, killing several people, with the oxygen leaking rather quickly.  At the same time, it seems that some sort of nonterrestrial intelligence is lurking nearby, waiting to make some sort of contact, but the threat of war could possibly break any means of peace with this newly discovered race.First and foremost, The Abyss would like to be an action/thriller and a sci-fi piece.  It's not always a successful combination nor does it always work individually.  As a matter of fact, director Brian De Palma did a much better job incorporating these elements in his own sci-fi opus Mission to Mars (a vastly underrated film).  Sure, there are some exciting, slam-bang action scenes, but not nearly as many as you would expect from Cameron, plus the fact that this is a film that runs nearly 3 hours doesn't help the pacing, either.  At some spots, the film almost feels sluggish.Cameron's own script is ambitious, perhaps more so than most of his other films (that's saying a lot), but he's more successful with romance in this film than anything else.  Ed Harris and Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio truly have a lot of strong chemistry together and the love that begins to grow back between them is heartfelt.  Both deliver strong performances, which is better than can be said of most everybody else.  Michael Biehn has the tendency to play a military man, but I find it quite hard to believe that a Navy Seal (who should have been properly tested) would crack underneath the sea.  But Cameron isn't exactly well-known for penning brilliant dialogue, and The Abyss has its fair share of lackluster conversations between characters.  Perhaps Cameron should leave the dialogue up to somebody else to figure out.The special effects are appropriately spectacular, and why shouldn't they be.  At 70 million dollars (most expensive film at its time) the effects should be ground-breaking.  That is to say, of course, that not every visual in the film works.  There is an occasional scene that features a rather fake-looking effect, but that's a minor complaint.  Then there's the ending, which in some ways, is the best and worst part of the film.  Those sci-fi fans waiting for a grand finale full of profound themes and great special effects will enjoy it, but it might disappoint those who were just hoping for the film to keep a survivalist tone.  To be honest, I'm rather split by this.  I liked the ending in the fact that it is moderately thought-provoking and even grandiose, but it does interfere with the tone the film kept before the finale, or could it rather be that everything before the conclusion was what damaged the mood and tone.  Either way, it's a flaw that, while not by any means detrimental to the film as a whole, will cause at least some disappointment. "},{"Title":"Good, but flawed, film","Date":"12 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Abyss is not one of Cameron's best films. It's a good film, but I think it lacks the pace and suspense of films like Terminator, Terminator 2, and, in particular, the brilliant Aliens. While it is certainly a great idea to set the film almost entirely under water, which means claustrophobic scenes, I just don't think the pace picked up enough to make it a really good movie. And the ending, I don't even want to think about it, it just gets too ridiculous. But, this _is_ a Cameron-film, and as almost all other Cameron-films, The Abyss is entertaining, so, while I am disappointed, I've given it a 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Exciting Special Effects and one of my Top 10 favorites.","Date":"20 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Rating 4**** stars out of fiveThe Abyss was a wonderful sptacular movie released in 1989, About a world underwater like space. Here there is sea monsters and action. A compelling film which has Ed Harris as our lead. The special effects are awsome. This as got to be one of the greatest film of all time. Like Jaws and Alien mixed together makes the Abyss a great and wonderful susepnse movie never to be missed. Better than the rip-off's made the same year- DeepStar Six and Leviathan. Avoid those ones.  "},{"Title":"Disappointing but good","Date":"10 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  My expectations were very high on this movie. Camerons other work was great and I guess I hoped too much. I thought it was going to be more of an actionmovie. Wrong. I also thought that the creatures under the water was going to be evil. Wrong again. But after all, even though it was something completely different from what I expected, it must be said that ''The Abyss'' is a very well-made movie. The actors were great and the special effects cool. This is the most filmic movie Cameron's ever made so far. ''Cinema art'' was something that ''The Terminator'' and ''Aliens'' had nothing of. This is more filmic. Even though it at some points got a bit predictable, and even though the movie itself was a bit too long I cant say that this is a bad movie. 3 ( maybe 3.5 ) out of 5 is my rating on this movie.  "},{"Title":"Cameron's best?","Date":"18 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is my personal favorite of Cameron's. It showcases all his strengths and is 100% his child (unlike Aliens). His love for scuba diving gave birth to this unique deep sea adventure that manages to blend several genres, is loaded with seminal scenes and even has a Spielberg-like sense of wonder infused to it.If you bother to read up on the production of this film, you'll realize this was perhaps the single most difficult movie ever made. Huge underwater sets, remote controlled model submersibles, custom built scuba gear, life-size bio-luminescent puppets, ground-breaking CGI, the list goes on and on. The amount of work and attention to detail that went into this film is just crazy and it shows on every frame. 25+ years later, the quality of the production in the Abyss is a sight to behold. I cannot think of another movie that was considered an effects marvel back in the day and still holds up that well after all these years. Just looking at the bio-luminescent aliens in the Abyss puts Cameron's own work on Avatar to shame. What's more, the Abyss is filled with great action and is ideal for repeated viewings, despite its rather long run time. The final part of the film, where the mysteries of the abyss are revealed, will make your jaw drop and incorporates some stupendous sci-fi imagery, complemented by Alan Silvestri's majestic score (his finest work).The very best in deep sea adventures. Oh, and stick to the original version of the movie, strange as it sounds, it is a lot better than the director's cut. "},{"Title":"Wasn't really impressed...","Date":"24 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" So why wasn't I impressed? Weren't there any strong points to the film? Of course there were. Everything from a technical stand-point was top-notch! As per usual for a Cameron film. The claustrophobic feel was genuine, you could really feel the depth (the abyss) in this film, all the diving robots and technical wizardry was impressive, the underwater photography (thanks to FOR YOUR EYES ONLY alumnus Al Giddings) was grade-A stuff. And the alien stuff was obviously ground-breaking for its time - it no doubt paved the way for the T-1000 in T2 two year later. Oh and I loved that huge tidal wave coming up on the Golden Gate Bridge and then stopping dead in its tracks. For 1989 this must have been amazing stuff to see. Like the parting of the Red Sea in 1956's The Ten Commandments. OK, OK, nothing will ever be THAT ground-breaking. And the acting in the film was good as well.So that out of the way, where is the problem with the film? There are two main gripes that I have - the story and the run-time. At almost 3 hours this film is waaaaay too long. If this were about a historic event (like TITANIC) then a 3-hour runtime would be acceptable. But I'm sorry - with this film we're 1 hour into the film and I still have no clue where the story is going. 1 hour and a half and I still have no clue what's going on. I'm looking at the eye-candy (all the technical stuff) but the plot is not clear. I'm not really invested in the story. For example, what's with the Michael Biehn character? What's causing him to grow increasingly paranoid? I know he was obsessed with the Russians. But once he sees the water alien why is he still obsessing? Why does he want to detonate the bomb on the ocean floor? He just comes across as an extremely bad 1-dimensional villain whose job is to simply look evil. With no explanation to what his motivations are. Or maybe they're just unclear to me. Whatever.I guess the real problem is that as I'm watching the film I really want to know where the story is going. This helps to better engage with the story. But it seemed like there was no real direction to this story. We see a submarine go down at the beginning of the film and then we see a rescue team assembled to go down for a search and rescue/recovery operation. Once they get down there the film really slows down to a crawl and for the duration of the film we are simply supposed to be sitting there in awe of Cameron's amazing wizardry on display. We see various diving machines moving to and fro, we see a storm wreaking havoc on our crew, we see Ed Harris and Mastrantonio bicker for the duration between each other. Not that I minded the bickering but I would have really wanted the story to move ahead. Instead we see the crew move from one hatch to another, from one compartment to another, using various technical diving jargon, and so on and so forth. And while the sets and all the tech stuff looks impressive it's merely just a stage for our performers to walk on. Back and forth. Ad nauseum. Because the story is not really going anywhere. I almost prayed for that water alien to attack them -- anything to pick up the pace. But no such luck. I guess that's where Biehn's SEAL character comes in - to give us the obligatory bad guy (but whose motivations are unclear). It really is a shame because by the end of the movie you feel cheated. I just sat there for 3 hours for what? Just to find out that the aliens are watching us. And warning us. Could this have not been told in less than 2 hours? Did we even need the Biehn character's story? Oh well... I feel that the film was a severe miss in the entertainment department. Cameron wanted to demonstrate all his wizardry to us for 3 hours and just sprinkle some story here and there. It's obvious that the story is about the aliens. Yet we only see the aliens for no more than a combined 5 minutes out of an entire 3-hour runtime. The rest is a showcase of the beautiful sets, the gadgets, and the underwater photography. Really aside from 3 scenes - the alien scenes, the scene where Harris has to first drown and then revive Mastrantonio, and his descent into the abyss (a tense moment) - the film is really a chore to sit through. It almost feels like a National Geographic documentary than a suspenseful and riveting Cameron film.I recall that his TERMINATOR films had me hooked from the get-go. In ALIENS once the first alien attack happens I'm hooked immediately. Same with all of Cameron's films. He is able to hook you and transport you into the world that he creates. But he is able to do this with a a story that we care about and so we are able to stay in that world of his. Here in THE ABYSS again I love the world that he created but when nothing exciting happens for long periods of time you're taken out of that world and end up thinking Hey, what's for dinner? I'm not into alien movies to begin with - unless they're attacking us... hehe - so this wasn't exactly my cup of tea. But then on the other hand if that's what the movie is about and that's the selling point of the special effects then show us those damn aliens already!! Stop wasting my time with mindless underwater shenanigans for 3 hours. If I want that I'll watch National Geographic. Get to it already!!I say it's a wasted opportunity. As Siskel or Ebert might say, THUMBS DOWN. "},{"Title":"DVD is a waste of time","Date":"14 July 2000","Score":"10 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I don't understand why the producers of the DVD spent so much money creating a product which highlights the fact that the movie's only appealing quality is that it features many expensive and (mostly) ineffective special effects. Someone should inform the people responsible for this mess that a successful movie requires a story with a point rather than just a string of special effects strung together.  Yeah! James Cameron!  You've done it again!   "},{"Title":"Good film from Cameron, still the weakest among his classics","Date":"29 September 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Abyss is a 1989 science fiction film, which can be characterized as an well made typical Hollywood blockbuster. If we could classify by genre, it would be a film in the underwater Alien encounter genre. It has many typical elements of a James Cameron film, such as a fairly cartoonish set of main and secondary characters and a typical love story.The film is the set in the present day (late 1980′s) when a nuclear submarine is intercepted and sunk by an unknown underwater object. A team of hard working divers is sent to investigate. Cameron said that he had the idea of the film's story since he was in high school, which was a story of a group of scientists working in a underwater laboratory. He changed to a group of commercial blue collar diving workers to increase the film's commercial appeal. This group of divers eventually discovers that it was a non-human intelligent lifeform that caused the accident.The special effects were the best in the world at the time the film was made, in the 1989, and they are among the main attraction of the film. The characters are also interesting, though they are a bit simple. "},{"Title":"Well done movie, I just found it kind of boring and slow moving.","Date":"28 April 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie had a very good cast, great special effects, and looks very good. I just found for the most part that it was kind of boring to me as well. In this movie you can see what makes James Cameron a very good director as he always has good special effects for his movies, he gets the most out of his cast (I always thought he brought the best out of Arnold), and his movies usually have a lot of impact (see the movie Aliens). However, this film also showcases some of his bad tendencies as well. His bizarre obsession with the ocean, the fact he lingers to long with certain scenes (that scene where Ed Harris was trying to revive that girl went on way to long), and the fact he kind of over does it sometimes. The story has a super digging rig at the bottom of the sea, some people need to get on said rig to find some sort of ship or sub at the bottom of the sea. The team leader seems okay at first, but you will find out he is slowly losing it. The person in charge of the rig and the one who designed it are ex husband and wife and that makes for some friction as she does not care for the fact the military is taking over the rig. Well everything begins to unravel with the appearance of some strange thing as this causes the leader of the military guys to totally flip and lots of water and things crashing underwater to follow. The movie had potential, perhaps a more condensed plot would have helped or something, as it is I found the movie to contain both a lot of good and bad. "},{"Title":"There's Something In The Water.","Date":"3 July 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Gosh; I get really cheesed-off with these tight-arsed 'experts' each trying to out-expert each other, in order to prove that they know more, are more necessary, or more loyal, or more dedicated, or some damn thing associated with the big project, adventure, mission, whatever. So, we have a seemingly endless round of belligerent, theatrical, hammy histrionics, until somebody finally, grudgingly concedes a point and the story can proceed.Hollywood calls it drama. I call it bunk.Quite a decent cast become immersed in this cheesy hokum. Unfortunately, it also includes one of the most irritating actresses to vex the screen Mary Minestroni or something. She has these beady, black, rat-like eyes by which she stares at everyone with needless emphasis. These, along with her pasty complexion, and jutting, bony features lend her a 'living-dead' appearance. I'm sure she's cold to the touch.Well, things go wrong big time. There's a storm turns up (yawn). There's a bunch of sinister marines or other, led by a psychopath (something wrong with the recruitment programme). There's the inevitable flooding down below. The systems stop working. Surprise, surprise; they can't communicate with the surface (they never can). There's even a nuclear bomb - whoopee!And, if that lot isn't enough to satiate your adventure needs, there's some aliens down in the deeps. But they're a really nice crowd. Despite raining all manner of scrap iron onto their facilities and trying to nuke them out of existence, they're just a benign and playful bunch with a comic turn in watersports.Effects are impressive, But the rest of the movie is anything but. It's more like a children's fairy story mistakenly aimed at adults. The makers have created a 'Close Encounters' under water; unfortunately it's as childish as 'ET'. "}{"Title":"Pretty cool","Date":"16 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I was so interested in seeing The Abyss, especially after all the screams of the special effects. It looked like an exciting and like a great adventure of a story. It is over all, it does really have the most amazing effects for 1989, it has this water worm like creature that tries to communicate with the team, it was so cool to look at. Not to mention, it was kind of a scary story, being trapped underneath all this water with people whom you don't know who to trust and not trust with these creatures.Basically a submarine has mysteriously disappeared in the ocean, so a civilian team, including an ex married couple, goes down to find them. But something goes terribly wrong and they get trapped into the darkness and the deepest of waters where they discover a new world of creatures and sights to be seen. But one villain may ruin their chances of surviving when he plans to destroy the under water world.Over all, I think this was a pretty exciting picture, not to mention just how groundbreaking the effects were for the time and still to this day. The acting is alright, it does get a little over dramatic at times. But I can see where this movie was going and understood it, it was a fun movie that I wouldn't mind taking another peek at.7/10 "},{"Title":"Intriguing if slow moving","Date":"12 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" THE ABYSS is the slightly soggy tale of divers who come across an alien craft at the bottom of the ocean, and the impact of first contact. A first-rate cast led by Ed Harris keeps this lengthy sci-fi epic afloat. Ocean adventures can be a hard sell (think WATERWORLD) but THE ABYSS is greatly helped by its first-rate special effects and compelling cast. The ultimate encounter with the aliens makes the long wait worthwhile, although I can agree with those who have suggested the film has enough adventure even without the alien subplot. While it is no masterpiece, THE ABYSS stands head and shoulders above some other water-logged flicks like the similarly themed SPHERE, also about a mysterious underwater artifact. THE ABYSS has several highly dramatic moments, especially a drowning sequence mid-film that is not intended for the very young or the squeamish. "},{"Title":"Tightening up the narrative might have helped...","Date":"20 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Elaborate, involved underwater sci-fi has deep sea oil-rig crew enlisted by the Navy to investigate mysterious sinking of nuclear sub, leading them to wondrous lifeforce at the bottom of the ocean. Technically marvelous, good-looking picture provides a grand glimpse into the imagination of James Cameron, though it's unfortunate many of the dramatic people-to-people moments don't come off(and a sub-plot involving Michael Biehn is torturous). Performances for the most part are satisfactory, including Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio(who does her best with an insulting role as a bitch who softens up on the journey), and Cameron makes good usage of the Linda Ronstadt chestnut Willin'. This review is based upon the original theatrical release in 1989, not the director's cut(which runs an extra 28 minutes) "},{"Title":"obviously better than Titanic","Date":"13 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" James Cameron seems to be obsessed with larger-than-life stories. The Abyss and Titanic both showed this; The Abyss was more interesting, as it did not use a historical event for a love story. In this case, a bunch of people are on a submarine stuck under water due to a hurricane. Then, they all discover something beyond their wildest imaginations in the ocean. Unfortunately, some people on the submarine don't like what they've discovered and devise some sinister plans.Ed Harris and Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio do a good job as Virgil Bud Brigman and his wife Lindsey, who are leading the expedition. Cameron may have directed his best movie ever with The Abyss. So watch it; it's not abysmal at all. "},{"Title":"Under water sci-fi thats confusing from start to finish.","Date":"19 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I finally managed to watch this film from start to finish last night, and i was bored witless all the way through. It seemed very slow until the alien lifeform as the strange water arrived. Micheal Biehns fight with Ed Harris also seemed confusing. In my opinion when Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonios character would not have been revived that long after taking in so much water!I also read that the breathing with liquid scene was actually real and the mice really did experience it, which led to some versions of the film being cut due to veterinary complaints.The ending with the aliens just seemed cheap and rushed to me, and reminded me of the simpsons episode where they think there's an alien but it turns out to be Mr Burns on medication!All in all one very long winded and confusing under water sci-fi farce! "},{"Title":"Fine 1989 sci-fi underwater movie, a bit overrated for my tastes.","Date":"4 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I was able to get the DVD of The Abyss from my local library. Excellent DVD with good sound and image. Most of the movie takes place underwater, with a group of men and two women attempting to investigate the sinking of a nuclear warhead carrying submarine. The prospects are made most exciting by virtue of the sunken sub being right on the edge of a very deep abyss, 25,000 feet or so. Ed Harris has the lead role and handles it very well. The lady with the unpronounceable name plays his wife. It is a bit long and some parts drag, but overall it is a thriller that held my attention all the way through, and the pay-off was very feel-good. SPOILERS follow, for my recollection, don't read further. This is the movie where a strange life form exists deep in the abyss. They have learned to control water, and in one scene a shaft of sea water enters the submerged vessel to examine the occupants. In another, much later, this life form is upset over all the fighting and strife on Earth, create giant 1000-foot tidal waves that simultaneously threaten to wipe out all the major cities, but at Harris' urging make them disappear into the sea. This is after Harris descends against all known odds to the 25,000 foot level to disarm a nuclear weapon that a rogue Navy Seal had sent down to destroy this deep life form. With no chance to return to the surface, this life form rescues Harris, and eventually returns him to his awaiting wife and cronies.  "},{"Title":"A very silly movie","Date":"18 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I have not worked out why people like this movie.It is plainly stupid.First rule in watching this movie, don't watch it with an Engineer. Because the first thing they will point out is that if the deep see mining platform was built correctly they just have to blow the explosive bolts on the connection to the surface and there would no problem. Secondly they would wonder what idiot designed the doors that automatically close when they get wet with no manual override, and no manual closing method.The aliens are from a very high technology race, but are pretty stupid as they keep causing humans electrical systems to malfunction.Then of course there is the psychotic soldier. I mean seriously, the military use screening techniques to get people like him out of the army.Then there is a obvious film making. Such as giving CPR, but that doesn't work, then suddenly she comes back alive. Gee, that was a surprise (Yawn).This is a crude obvious movie that really goes no where interesting. "},{"Title":"Not bad.(Not good but not bad either).","Date":"15 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A pretty average film. Great is patches, poor to mediocre in others. Compliments all round on the visuals & some stunning cinematography. The main problem I had was the same problem I have with all submarine films. Nobody ever gets on with each other. It's as if a job on a submarine is the natural route for any miserable, argumentative sod & everyone with a gripe against the world. Sadly all the other cliches that come with 'Saving the World' films are here including the Crown turd of them all - 'The Pointless romance with an unnecessary & over emphasized previous history'. What made this one worse was that I never knew exactly what hat the female lead was wearing. She started as some super bitch who struck fear into all men & ended up like Dale Winton, as far opposite from that as you could get. The version I watched wasn't far off three hours, & though I kept interested through 75% of it there were times I lost the will to live & consequently couldn't keep up with exactly what the Biehn character was up to, partly through lack of interest. Given that I don't enjoy Sci-Fi this was still one of the better films I've seen in the genre.A high 5/10. "},{"Title":"James Cameron's Real Folly","Date":"20 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" In the summer of 1996 the big news in Hollywood was the new film project being directed by James Cameron, the man responsible for such successful movies as the Arnold Schwarzenegger science fiction thriller THE TERMINATOR and the state of the art horror extravaganza ALIENS. Reports from the set did not bode well for Cameron's latest endeavor, an enormously expensive production fictionally recounting the last days of of the famed luxury liner Titanic, which sank in the North Atlantic on April 15, 1912. A notorious perfectionist with an obsessive love for gadgetry, Cameron drove his cast and crew to near exhaustion in in his aim to create the last word in epic entertainment. A mock replica of the original boat was built nearly to scale and Cameron even traveled to the North Atlantic sea bed to visit the original Titanic's resting place. Descending in specially made submersibles, Cameron got as close as any civilian ever would to the underwater grave site After countless delays and extended post-production on the movie's complicated special effects, TITANIC opened to enthusiastic critical acclaim and incredible commercial success ; many had predicted that the picture would fall flat on it's face. With an expenditure of 2 hundred million dollars, arguably the most expensive movie ever made, TITANIC was an unstoppable box office dynamo. James Cameron was being labeled as the 90's answer to legendary producer David O. Selznick, and TITANIC was Cameron's GONE WITH THE WIND. What had once been labeled Cameron's Folley while in production was now perceived as a commercial masterpiece. Amid all the brouhaha, something was being forgotten. Nearly a decade earlier, Cameron had embarked on another movie project that was incredibly costly, that challenged to the limit the talents of its technical crew and proved to be possibly the worst experience of their professional careers for the unfortunate cast members. THE ABYSS , released in the summer of 1989, was a spectacular science fiction thriller that possessed all the technical know -how and up to the minute advances in special effects available at the time. The story of a missing U.S. nuclear submarine, its pursuit by civilian and Navy Seal divers and strange encounters in the ocean deep would seem to be a surefire , edge- of -the-seat thriller, but something goes very wrong with Mr. Cameron's sea opus. Instead of a minute by minute, nail biting suspense yarn, Cameron's screenplay throws too many genres into the mix. The picture opens with a harrowing you are there inside the sub sequence that immediately grabs the viewers' attention ; for a time the plot keeps one involved but soon too many distractions get in the way and the movie becomes annoyingly unfocused. A major subplot responsible for much of this is the edgy relationship between Virgil Bud Brigman, the foreman of a huge underwater oil- drilling platform and his soon to be divorced wife ( Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio ) who happens to be the designer of the oil rig and is called on to visit the rig in a state of emergency. Add to this the inclusion of a truly sinister bunch of Navy Seals to help the oil riggers look for the mysteriously missing submarine and you have a film that seems to move in fits and starts, never achieving a sustained pace. In between scenes of domestic quarreling between Harris and Mastrantonio there are a few brilliant set pieces  the surveillance of an underwater structure and the sudden panic of one of the divers who has lost communication with his crew ; the toppling of the oil rig's crane into the watery deep and its perilous descent to the ocean floor , the one truly great sequence in this movie where Cameron's immense talent for combining editing and sound comes into full play; and Ed Harris's final , eerie descent into the murky depths, the only time in the film where the other characters stop shouting and the film quiets down to an almost contemplative state, with the viewer waiting for the big story payoff. When that so-called payoff happens it is a bitter disappointment ; rarely have I seen a picture where all that had gone on before is so totally laid to waste at movie's end. It's as if Cameron was at a loss as to how to end his movie ; in what seems like a desperate cover-up, he turns up the loudness quotient on Alan Silvestri's already portentous music score and combines elements from two Spielberg classics, Close Encounters Of The Third Kind  and E.T. At this point the poor actors have little else to do but look as though they've been on the Road to Damascus, but the bolt of lightning they've been hit with is bogus and the ending of this movie is a sham. THE ABYSS is included in the film history books as a cinematic landmark because it introduced the pioneering liquid effects that would be perfected in Cameron's next feature, TERMINATOR 2 JUDGEMENT DAY. To look at THE ABYSS now after more than a decade after its original release is to wonder it amazement at the blind determination and audacity of a gifted filmmaker who can make wrong choices and spend profligate amounts of money to so little effect, and yet as fate would have it make another picture just as fraught with problems but with the right chemistry produce one of the great entertainments of all time. THE ABYSS is James Cameron's real folly. "},{"Title":"Disappointing science fiction flick with no outstanding things","Date":"26 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I found the `The Abyss' (of which I saw the extended cut) quite disappointing, particularly from James Cameron who directed the sci-fi classics of `Aliens' and `The Terminator'. The plot's &#133; just okay. A mobile oil-rig is commissioned to retrieve nuclear arms by the army after a nuclear sub crashes nearby. To add to the problems the Russians are tense about the US interfering in their affairs, while a huge storm builds up that will severely hamper their efforts. However who or what is interfering in their salvage attempts &#150; and do we care? Not too much to be honest.First problem I had with `The Abyss' was the characters. They were staid. Ed Harris plays Virgil Brigman, the leader of the wandering oil thing. Oh look who comes along for the ride &#150; it's Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio (who?) as his hard-nosed estranged wife Linsey! Watch as they snipe but secretly reveal their love for one another. Yawn. Their characters are so predictable it's almost a cure for insomnia. Michael Biehn undersells himself here as the Lieutenant in charge of the salvage operation, creating a fairly one dimensional shift-eyed paranoid naval man. The rest of the cast are the usual mundane mix of eclectics that such movies force on us &#150; a man with a pet rate, a large hefty woman who wears a cowboy hat, etc. Not a one of them actually makes an impression on you the way the Marines did in Cameron's `Aliens' movie, and their performances are equally dismissive.There's the script. Besides the weak character development, there's not too much going on here. Not all that much happens and what does transpire is fairly uninteresting. The best element is the rising world tension between the USSR and US that goes on in the background while our valiant heroes struggle with their situation. The foreground plot consists of the crew trying to bring back the bomb and having their rig fall about the place a bit. There's too little filling here, and the sandwiched dialogue in between isn't strong enough to leave you remotely satisfied. The third party, revealed later on, are fairly bland, being the usual pontificating diaphanous beings that science fiction movies seem to think we want to see (If I have to listen to one more preachy moralistic alien dispensing wisdom to mankind I'll have a fit &#150; think of something else please).The directing isn't too bad, and what saves the movie from swimming around in the bargain box. I felt the claustrophobia was a theme that could have been heightened more, but the set is developed well enough to give us the `water' feeling we expect. The water scenes are generally well done, with nice attention to lighting. The action feels generally pan it fairly well, although occasionally the special effects come across as rusty. The sound design is pretty good, even if accompanied by a tepid soundtrack.`The Abyss' isn't a bad movie &#150; it's just not a very good one. It's got no selling features, other than being a big popcorn movie with a bit more intelligence than `Armageddon' and a bit more boredom as well. I've seen it once, but nothing would make me really need to see it again. Disappointing from a man who can do much better &#150; 5.5/10. "}{"Title":"Up then down","Date":"8 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Abyss is good as drama and suspense and as an action movie.  The crew in a rig at the ocean's bottom has noticed the crash of a U.S. submarine carrying nuclear weapons, and it is joined by a U.S. military salvage team.  The radar blip through which the crash had been detected is mysterious, unexplainable, and more unusual events occur, aggravating the claustrophobic intensity.  Fear of the unknown, a nice love story, and good effects--I won't limit this to special because some of it is just good action sequences etc.The problem is the ending.  It is just bad, without regard to what one thinks about special effects.  This is not a spoiler technically, but I hope it does not spoil it for you, knowing you will be watching a suspenseful movie.  Otherwise, I really like it. "},{"Title":"So awful I turned it off after 20 minutes","Date":"11 September 2015","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I was only able to manage watching 20 painful minutes of The Abyss before turning it off. The dialog by today's standards was just horrific. I've watched a number of sci-fi movies from this era and none of them damaged my soul quite like this. The introduction of Lindsey Brigman was very clichéd. Yes Cameron we get it... she's the sassy intellectually gifted woman and the chief engineer aboard the submarine. With her status she's in charge of a bunch of male navy SEALS and surprise, surprise, they don't respect her.Briman's leader status is unbelievable and even her mere presence on a United States submarine is a joke in itself. Although women have been allowed to serve in the Navy for many years now, no woman ever went on a voyage in a US submarine until 26 YEARS after this movie was made! "},{"Title":"Sci-fi without Sci (Spoiler Warning!!!)","Date":"21 January 2003","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Well, I found that movie just a Sci-fi without Sci (and logic). I agree sometimes we have to believe what is shown, but this time... People swimming in light suits (or even WITHOUT) that deep? A guy going down as far as 5km and able to move and breath (not even to mention that his helmet is not broken immediately while.... his robot IS broken by the pressure as well as the sub of the evil Navy Seal). No logic in all that at all. And why are those Aliens for (except from saving lives of the characters)? Stanislaw Lem said once Science fiction IS science fiction if one cannot remove the science fiction elements without damage to the plot. In this case one could easily do so as the aliens are mere ornaments. Besides, movie is quite dull and far too long as for thriller without much surprises.Oh, quite thoughtless decision of drowning of the main female character why not take a deep breath and let Ed Harris drag her to the platform? Seems like quite better chance to survive (even when drowned on the way) than drowning in the damaged sub...As a plus quite nice special effects. "},{"Title":"Deep within the darkest waters of the ocean, greatness is the Abyss.","Date":"22 August 2000","Score":"7 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is one of the best movies ever made.  Top 2.  Never has a movie been made with such an incredible plot, excellent special effects, perfect casting, and a beautiful love story.  This movie is pure genius.  Masterful in story, sweeping in scope, this movie takes the audience through despair, love, hate, desperation, and true courage.  Using special effects to support the story, rather than special effects BEING the story, the producers made an epic that outshines all others. "},{"Title":"There's a hair in my movie","Date":"18 January 2013","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is a tough one. The movie holds you almost to the end in a gripping fight between good and evil. I don't want to give out any spoilers. So, I will be brief. Have you ever had a wonderful dinner at a restaurant and then they bring in a dessert, if you have room in your tummy, and it is a, let's say, beautiful, mouth-watering, delicious tasting creation. As you eat it, every bite causes you to pause to seal in your memory the sensation. Then, it breaks! You find a hair in your mouth, or worse yet, a fingernail! UGH!! Such repulsion. THAT is the sensation one gets when, after an edge-sitting, nail-biting movie, you come to the last 10 minutes or so and find you are have someone else's hair or nail in your mouth. Just note that Hollywood was really stupid to put their politically motivated morals which no terrorist or anti-American-of-old nation would ever consider. In fact, the ending was childish. The end. "},{"Title":"Three worlds","Date":"17 November 2012","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I like Cameron as a worker. I shudder when he makes what he thinks as art.The film helps explain a good deal, it is in three layers, three worlds that each of them reveals something about the man, his ethos.The first layer is above water, a bunch of bureaucrat navy types decide on the narrative, some hoopla about avoiding world destruction. Everything we'll see of that story from that point on will be dumb and mechanistic, as if decided by that commission. The second world is the first below water, it is an underwater mining rig, we see a lot of hydraulics and machinery, the people are bluecollar types, the 'director' of the enterprise has marital problems as Cameron did at the time. This is Cameron's natural working space, a practical man who grew artistically in Corman's factory. The emphasis here is on getting a (cinematic) job done, the film delivers this with finely-tuned 'disaster movie' dynamics. It is a thrill ride as good as any part of Aliens, it is mechanistic but perfectly tuned, the parts fit, Cameron is adeptly in command. So far so good, unspectacular but efficient.The third layer is deep in the abyss, the 'director' takes takes a hopeless leap - sure to kill him - but instead is salvaged by miraculous creatures of the imagination, who supposedly have a city down there and quietly monitor humanity. Everything here amazes; deep , organic clarity in the architecture of both the arabesque city and alien creatures, the way the camera navigates by swimming inside, the textures of diaphanous light. The room where the meeting takes place and the creatures project mind-images on liquid screens is one of the most cinematic occasions I know. I cherish the film for just this scene.None of this is originally Cameron's. It is by a man who probably changed modern sci-fi as much as Jules Verne in his time, his name is Moebius. You will know him chiefly through Alien and the Blade Runner, his influence is more far-reaching than that.So this is it, three layers, bureaucrat story, efficient mechanics, a leap towards deep visual imagination. The problem with Cameron is that he is excellent in his work, since his days of rigging contraptions in Corman's movie factory. With each success of these machines their size grew, their narrative cogs grew bigger and bigger, the destruction that it was possible for him to create grew. With so much success, so did Cameron's desire to 'educate' with something constructive, since his machines were always geared for war.Like Spielberg, the more destruction he shows, the more he feels compelled to stress out 'humane' aspects in his work. So here we have something huge, the imagery in the end of tsunamis arrested in their course amaze, incidentally linking us back to the palpitating liquid walls of Moebius. But all the resolutions and message are contrived, artificially humane.Cameron would grow in this direction, extending his engineer's reach from effects and machines to entire computer-generated environments, pushing his desire to 'give back' with a series of documentaries and epically hamfisted 'messages' in his films. "},{"Title":"One of my favorite movies, but I can't actually say its good","Date":"13 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I love this movie - Or rather, I love the Director's Cut, because it goes so overboard with subplots upon subplots, building up to B-movie shots of mile high waves suspended above the worlds shorelines, with 100s of extras running in fear. It has communist paranoia, hurricanes, underwater adventure thrills, a largely unknown and extra-size ensemble cast (though I love Ed Harris), submarines, nuclear warheads, divorcés trapped in a small space, and yes, aliens. Its like 70s disaster flick meets Armageddon meets the day the earth stood still meets the hunt for red October. Its just awesome.The special effects are quite good, and while much of the story is implausible, it is thoroughly entertaining and there are even a few classic moments, such as when ed harris has to save the world by cutting the right wire, but can't tell which is which because he is relying on the yellow green light of glowsticks.It all builds to a peak of hysteria that leaves me in hysterics every time. So i can't decide how to rate it and went for the low rating to judge its artistic merit rather than entertainment value, which is 10/10. "},{"Title":"The Abyss","Date":"19 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" From Titanic, True Lies, Aliens and Terminator director James Cameron, this is a pretty good sci-fi water film with some fantastic effects and three good actors. Basically Ed Harris as Virgil 'Bud' Brigman has a crew, including wife Lindsey Brigman (Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio) and Lt. Hiram Coffey (Michael Biehn) looking for the wreckage of a submarine. In fact what they find in this dark and deep pit of the ocean (the abyss) is intelligent life, like aliens. I think the film really gets interesting when the ship starts to sink. After that you have drowning, trying to revive, deep DEEP diving and the great ending on top of the alien/sea creature ship. This film deservedly won Best Visual Effects at the Oscars, and three years later so did Terminator 2 with the T-1000 (looks the same as the water creature). It was nominated the Oscars for Best Art Direction-Set Decoration, Best Cinematography and Best Sound. Good! "},{"Title":"Loony fun","Date":"14 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" A pretty effective Cameron sci-fi thriller. Everything is very convincing, particularly the rig crew and their Nostromo-like relationships. The escalation of tension and the different escapades that are undertaken to resolve the situations are well-handled, ratcheting up the sense of desperation without becoming too far-fetched.All this changes though in the final act of the film, a sequence which rivals 2001 in its pretensions but doesn't really know what to do with it. It doesn't really matter what version you watch. For once watching either the Theatrical or Director's cut does constitute a considerable change in the nature of the film... but it doesn't have much impact on the general feel of the movie or its ending.By the end I was prepared to believe anything - that's because it was so very silly but enjoyable nonetheless. 5/10 "},{"Title":"HUGE RIP-OFF!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"25 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a HUGE rip-off of the other late 80's sea-monster movies. Although a lot of people said that movies like DEEPSTAR SIX ripped this off. But, actually, deepstar six was made in 1988, then released in 1989, making people think that movie ripped this off. Just because this was a bigger-budget movie than the other 80's sea monster flicks, why should that mean it's better? Personally, I don't see anything better here!!!! "}{"Title":"Worthy but has far too many weaknesses that outweigh the strengths","Date":"16 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When a nuclear submarine loses power it crashes into an underwater cliff and sinks to the bottom of the sea.  A civilian deep sea salvage crew are brought in to try and recover the nuclear weapons.  However they are accompanied by a Navy SEALS team who appear to have other information.  When it becomes clear that something else is with them, the SEALS and the crew respond in very different ways.When I first saw this I loved it and ate up the director's cut even more so.  However with time I have grown to see it for what it is &#150; an underwater Close Encounters with some good bits but plenty of weaknesses.  The plot is nothing special at all really &#150; it is just like any other Close Encounters clone and we never doubt that the aliens are anything but friendly.  It also has quite a slow pace for the majority of the film.  However the effects are great &#150; whether it be the underwater rig itself or the alien city, visually there's little to fault.  The morphing effect looks old today &#150; but in 1989 this was the absolute state of art stuff.The action is good but takes it's time coming.  The second half of the film is better when everything starts going wrong &#150; but the ending is poor in both versions.  In the original the ending isn't well explained and it happens for seemingly no reason.  In the director's cut more time is given to the tidal wave stuff, but it only serves to give us the usual `give humanity a chance to change' message that we've all seen plenty of times before.Of the cast I've always liked Ed Harris and maybe he's the reason I liked the film.  He is good but then when isn't he?  Mastrantonio had this when she was becoming a bigger star but her character is weird.  Everyone keeps calling her a bitch but yet she seems perfectly reasonable for the whole film.  Biehn is good as the military type &#150; can he do anything else? &#150; and the support cast are a mixed bunch who actually do pretty well.Overall it is a good try and has much to commend but really it is a Encounters clone with a slow pace and no real surprises for anyone. "},{"Title":"Most boring blockbuster of 1989.","Date":"8 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" * 1/2 out of ****As some other viewers have noted before, 1989 was one of the better years for summer blockbuster. Batman was pretty good, Lethal Weapon 2 was even better than its predecessor, and Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade achieved escapist perfection. The Abyss, though, is another matter and a movie I've always considered among the most overrated I've seen.On the one hand, we've got this great premise. An oil drilling team headed by Ed Harris has been enlisted to participate in a search and rescue operation involving a downed nuclear submarine. They're teamed up with Navy Seals (one of whom, in particular, is supremely paranoid), but when disaster strikes from above, they've got to work together to survive in the underwater habitat, but the Seals seem unwilling to correspond. To make matters interesting, strange lights deep in the nearby abyss indicate the possibility of alien life. Question is, are they friendly or hostile?Better question, do I even care? I've seen both the theatrical and director's edition of the film and the latter is certainly not an improvement over the former. James Cameron's always been a self-indulgent filmmaker, but he often makes good use of the running time. But rather than actually paying focus to the intriguing situation the characters find themselves in, Cameron chooses to play the premise as an underwater survival flick.This means he places action above characters and plot. I can't even begin to mention how frustrating it is that for all the wondrous possibilities of the premise, we instead have to waste time with repeated standoffs between the oil drillers and the Navy Seals. I might have found such moments tense if I even gave a rat's ass about the characters, but aside from Harris ad Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio, everyone in the cast is a clichéd loser, Michael Biehn playing the predictable unpredictable psycho and some other guy who's obviously there for comic relief but only makes good on maybe two chuckles.As a love story, Harris and Mastratonio have a strong rapport that keeps parts of the movie afloat, but once again, too much of the movie's attention is shifted to those standoffs. It's only in the last forty minutes the pace finally picks up when the characters I cared about most have to face some pretty challenging decisions.Harris' odyssey into the alien world is visually spectacular, but I kept thinking, shouldn't the movie have done this earlier? Shouldn't it have explored this alien civilization with more detail and attention? Instead, we get a half-assed war is bad message and a deus ex machina climax. Most people I know agree it's rather cheesy that the hero is saved by the aliens, but I find the extra conclusion in the director's edition just as weak, when the movie turns into a possible end of the world flick. Wasn't this whole film about oil drillers and Navy Seals trying to survive in an underwater habitat just about fifteen minutes before? When it finally gets to the material I'm interested in, Cameron takes it in a direction that's out-of-balance with much of what came before it.If you're fans of Ed Harris and Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio, it might be worth checking out, but it disappointed much on virtually every other level. "},{"Title":"don't know how this rating has got so high","Date":"21 January 2006","Score":"10 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I have rated this movie with awful. Although the effects are quite o.k. for a movie from 1989. However the story is really not good. When a US submarine sinks, maybe at that time the Russian were interested in the heads of the missiles. However the interference of aliens is very sf. Too much and overdone. The story gets worse and worse after half an hour, and the first half hour is really boring, because you might think that a great story will begin. Don't see this movie, if you don't want to waste time.Normally I don't comment, however when I saw the rating I looked forward to this movie, and maybe with more expectations then it is really worth. "},{"Title":"A wet and wild mess.","Date":"24 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Abyss is one of those trite big budget Hollywood ripoffs with big bucks spent on a lot of production effort, a couple of big name actors, and lots and lots of hype. The film delivers one situation after another manufactured in a sort of make-it-up-as-you-go way with the obvious purpose of creating action and suspense. The sci-fi aspect of the film is silly, the action part pales next to any water park, and the human story is nonexistent. Full of plot holes and obvious nonsequiturs, The Abyss sinks in a fathomless mess. "},{"Title":"A Sorry Film Whose Only Asset Is Great Visual Effects","Date":"1 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Abyss is one of those films that is a pure disappointment.  James Cameron's screenplay is dull and irritating.  The characters are cardboard cutouts and this sinks the film into an abyss that few films ever experience.  However, the special effects are impressive and would pave the way for much better material for Cameron (Terminator 2 and Titanic).  Overall this film is a 145-minute project that is all wet.  2.5 out of 5 stars.   "},{"Title":"Water, water, everywhere, and... absolutely nothing else","Date":"21 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" First of all, I don't care too much for water... especially not as a plot item in movies. The whole drowning/submerged thing has just been used too much, and I can't help but think about how the appropriate reaction next time I see something where a character is about to drown is to calmly, perhaps in a British accent, point out to the character(not...expecting a response, I'm, in spite of how I'm occasionally perceived, not, in fact, a crazy person) Well, just stay on land.. It's actually rather simple and easy. Same goes for sharks. Yes, I really don't find H2O scary... and I hold little, if any, appreciation of it. But what I do like is James Cameron's direction and the actor Michael Biehn(in particular when the two are combined). Therefore, I gave this a try. I'm not sure if I didn't like it because my viewing was based on the wrong reasons... I should have gotten a hold of the original version instead of the Special Edition Director's Cut... the theme was too lame... or the overall thing was just so dull and the end was way too preachy(but if I had to guess, I'd go with the last possibility). The plot is boring and very, very old. It's been done to death, and it had in '89, too. Something happens to a bunch of people, someone else is sent to investigate. James adds nothing new to this idea. Instead he just expects the audience to sit through stuff we've seen tons of times before, while offering nothing in return but some nice visuals. Half of this thing is spent Under The Sea, which can only really impress people who *really* love underwater-shots, I imagine. I didn't really care. I think this was about 45 minutes in before I stopped paying attention. The film clearly didn't deserve it, so why waste my time on it? The characters are not particularly interesting or well-written. Most of them and their backgrounds are clichés. The acting is OK. The special effects are well-done. The ending was really, really preachy. This really has nothing to offer but something to look at, and that really doesn't do that much for me, not for being 2 and a half hours long. In conclusion either the guy got really lucky on the good pieces he's helmed(Terminator 1&2 and Aliens) or he just had no idea where to take this one. The moral is like something a five-year-old child would say to his parents(and was better when it was in a far superior feature almost forty years before this). Ridiculous. One would have expected something more profound than that from the man who made aforementioned titles. Little to no action, un-engaging adventure, silly sci-fi, poor thriller and no real drama. I don't particularly recommend this to anyone, save for diving lovers and *huge* fans of Cameron. I doubt anyone else will find it worth watching. 5/10 "},{"Title":"James Cameron's Worst Film (Save Piranha II)","Date":"5 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"   I'm a huge fan on James Cameron. I really like Ed Harris. The Abyss, however, was a stinker from a mile away. Right from the beginning, the film is ridiculous, and FAR too long. By the end of the film we are sitting, just waiting for this gosh-darned thing to get done with itself and move on, so we can watch Terminator and remind ourselves of how well Cameron's films USUALLY are. The end (though I won't ruin it) was ridiculous, and left my jaw slacked, just wondering how a great director like James Cameron could have made a film so worthless as The Abyss!1/5 stars-John Ulmer "}]