[{"Title":"Very underrated movie; Jurgen Prochnow, wow!","Date":"1 July 2007","Score":"20 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Most critics wrote this movie off simply because it was a supernatural or horror film. I didn't have high hopes for it myself, but I watched it because I like the actor Jurgen Prochnow. And I was pleasantly surprised. The movie itself looks good; a lot of films of this type look cheap and flimsy, but not this one. The story was cohesive, suspenseful, eerie and had some truly skillful acting. There is the always good Michael Biehn as the husband and the two young actors Manny Jacobs and John Taylor are standouts. Even Demi Moore, an actress I normally find irritating, comes off well here. She played a pregnant woman and was pregnant herself, which certainly added a dimension to the nervous Abby. But it is Jurgen Prochnow who truly makes an impression; his eyes, his face, his voice are so expressive of the character. I won't reveal more, but let's just say a lot of actors have played this role, and this is one of the most believable interpretations of it that I've ever seen. Rent this movie! "},{"Title":" An extraordinarily gripping movie","Date":"15 April 2001","Score":"25 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I've come to this movie late, and have no idea how I missed it on its release as it's the sort of film I like to watch.  In fact, it was far better than most movies of this genre, and not only was I gripped by the clever weaving together of the various complex threads of the plot, I was also very moved, particularly by the ending.  Demi Moore was better than usual as the pregnant Abby, but it was certainly Jurgen Prochnow's performance as the strange boarder that Abby and her husband take into their home, that turned this into such an extraordinarily gripping and ultimately uplifting movie.  Try and catch it.  "},{"Title":"Supernatural mystery  with an excellent  performance by Demi Moore.","Date":"25 January 2007","Score":"16 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The picture concerns a pregnant woman (an actually pregnant Demi Moore) living with his husband (Michael Biehn). She realizes the strange boarder (Jurgen Prochnow) at her home and the fantastic goings-on happening are united to the ¨Book of Revelation¨ and some prophecies connected to her unborn son . She gets drawn into a cobweb of mysterious events . Nowadays, she only can stop the destruction of the world like is said in ¨The commentaries of the Apocalypse of Saint John¨. Around the world emerges various signs from Biblic omens . A Vatican emissary priest (Peter Friedman)is dedicated to investigate the bizarre deeds .It's a spiritual triller skillfully narrated with bit action but quite entertaining . Strikingly designed with little exterior scenarios , being exception the freeze village and African outdoors . This polished film provides chills , supernatural events and thrills in lively mystery . It's rich and dark though sometimes confusing . The film belongs to supernatural prophecy sub-genre (along with  ¨The omen¨, ¨The Body¨ , among others) . Good main and support cast , even Ellen DeGeneres filmed a small role, but it was cut from the film before release . Esoteric music and excessive use of synthesizer by composer Jack Nitzsche (Starman , Jewel of Nile, Razor's edge). Colorful cinematography full of shades and lights by excellent Spanish cameraman Juan Ruiz Anchia (Close range, House of game , River runs black) . The motion picture was well directed by Carl Schulz (usual television picture director) . It's one of the most unusual supernatural movie from the 80s and certainly one of the most unsettling . "},{"Title":"Entertaining slick supernatural thriller.","Date":"27 August 2008","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Abby Quinn (Demi Moore) is a polite, caring, young woman. Which she's married to a hard-working lawyer (Michael Biehn) and Abby is also expecting her first child. But then an mysterious stranger by the name of David (Jurgen Prochnow) comes to rent their studio apartment. But Abby slowly realized that David isn't what he seems to be and David is actually an avenging angel bringing seven signs of the Apocalyspe to come.Directed by Carl Schultz made an intriguing supernatural thriller with strong performances by Moore and especially Prochnow. This slick looking production has an terrific, haunting music score by Oscar-WinnerJack Nitzsche (One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest, Stand by Me, Starman) and great looking cinematography by Juan Ruiz Anchia (Glengarry Glen Ross, The Jungle Book, Spartan).The original DVD has an sharp anamorphic Widescreen (2.351) transfer (also in Pan & Scan) and an good Dolby 2.0 Surround Sound. This film was an box office disappointment in the spring of 1988. But it somewhat went on to be a Cult Classic. The Seventh Sign is slow-moving at times but it's occasionally eerie and unexpectedly touching as well. The Seventh Sign may not be the greatest supernatural thriller of all time but it's certainly better and smarter than most. Panavision. (****/*****). "},{"Title":"Well-made, intelligent thriller","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"19 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The Seventh Sign is an intelligent and atmospheric horror film, although religious thriller would probably be a more apt description. It is has many creepy moments, and what's interesting is that the fear caused by the film is God-inspired, unlike so many films in the genre. This is a movie that has a thoroughly disturbing tone, the same level of pervading dread that made The Exorcist, The Omen, and the underrated Roman Polanski film, The Ninth Gate so successful. The acting and writing are solid; there are good performances from Demi Moore and Michael Biehn. Peter Friedman is excellent as a tortured priest. If you're in the mood for a thought-provoking thriller, check out The Seventh Sign. "},{"Title":"Do not Pay Attention to the Flaws and You Will Enjoy the Film","Date":"17 December 2015","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" In Haiti, the sea and the life-form die; in the Middle East, a town is frozen. These are signs of the Apocalypse and the Vatican is investigating, but Father Lucci (Peter Friedman) advises that these omens are hoax or technologically explained. In California, the housewife Abby Quinn (Demi Moore) is pregnant and the delivery is scheduled to February, 29 in a leap year. Her husband, the lawyer Russell Quinn (Michael Biehn), is defending a weird case of the teenager Jimmy Szaragosa (John Taylor) that killed his parents telling that he was following the Word of God. Meanwhile Abby rents a garage apartment to the mysterious David Bannon (Jürgen Prochnow). The hopeless Abby has strange nightmares and soon she finds that around the world there are signs of the Apocalypse in accordance with the Book of Revelation. She learns also that David Bannon is Jesus that has returned; Father Lucci is the Pilate's porter Cartaphilus that was doomed to wander on Earth for the eternity; and she is a woman that tried to help Jesus. Further, she is the Seventh Sign and the Apocalypse will happen when her baby is stillborn. What can she do to save her unborn son and mankind?The Seventh Sign is an original film about Apocalypse, with a complex story. There are flaws that should have been explained, such as Abby let a stranger in her house when she was alone, but it seems that she has already discussed with him the rental. Invinting him for dinner is part of etiquette and politeness with the tenant. Curiosity killed the cat and explains her behavior snooping around his apartment. There are many other criticism to this film, but if the viewer do not pay attention to the flaws, he or she will find an enjoyable supernatural movie. My vote is seven.Title (Brazil) A Sétima Profecia (The Seventh Prophecy) "},{"Title":"Could have been better","Date":"9 September 2001","Score":"11 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The first scene in the film is a super one. In the middle of a small Haitian village, through the impenetrable crowds of people, walks a man who is clearly out of place with everything else. He walks toward the sea and stops before a beach. In his hands he holds a scroll and a seal. He breaks the seal, drops it on the surf, and walks away, leaving a small boy to watch as the sea begins to boil and the fish wash up on the shore. It is clear what is happening the first sign of the apocalypse.Thus begins The Seventh Sign, a supernatural thriller that only partially works, and should be better than it is. Demi Moore is a pregnant woman who begins to believe that the boarder in the apartment next door may have some bizarre, end-of-the-world plans for her baby. The boarder is the aforementioned stranger with the seal, as played menacingly by Jurgen Prochnow. The strength of this film is the sense of impending doom that pervades throughout. The film is stylish, and very effective in managing an apocalyptic tone.The main flaw of the movie, however, is that the supporting characters are so much more interesting than the featured couple. Prochnow's boarder is very creepy, and we realize that this man means business (although his role and his motives are never really made clear). The Father Lucci character is a fascinating one, and when we hear of his true identity, we are further gripped, although at the end he is made into a routine maniacal villain, and his fate is never told. This movie might have worked better if the Moore character were not so bland. She is put forth as a woman destined to save the world, yet she comes across as a talking head who is endlessly impressed by Prochnow's cryptic stories. She never really comes across as anything interesting. Her husband is the typical disbelieving clod who refuses to accept what his wife is saying, even when all hell is breaking loose around their ears.Despite the flaws, I enjoyed The Seventh Sign and would willingly watch it again. There are several powerful moments, and other scenes that are memorable, like the opening shot. I would recommend it, but I'm not sure if I'd do so as a serious movie or as silly weekend fare.  "},{"Title":"Cradle Of Souls.","Date":"27 November 2013","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Carl Schultz directed this supernatural thriller that stars Demi Moore and Michael Biehn as Abby & Russell Quinn, a married couple expecting their first child who rent out an apartment to raise extra money for their expanding family. The man who rents it calls himself David Bannon(played by Jurgen Prochnow), who proves to be quiet and mysterious, which gets Abby curious, especially when the Vatican assigns an investigator who is looking into signs of the imminent apocalypse, which seems to have something to do with Mr. Bannon, and Abby's unborn child... Though this film has some interesting philosophical ideas about spiritual matters, it's a shame it comes in such an otherwise uninspired and obvious thriller, which is too familiar with superior films like Rosemary's Baby or even The Omen to succeed. A shame. "},{"Title":"The world is ending.......all over the place though","Date":"12 September 2011","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Another one of those apocalyptic end of the world movies with symbolic signs from the bible. While this has what is an interesting plot, it is done in a way that leaves a lot of holes - the main one being is why Demi Moore's character of Abby is chosen to be one of the signs in what could be the end of the world.Moore gives a decent performance in this but it isn't enough to really make this film remarkable or very engaging, perhaps because the suspense is a bit lacking, though the visual effects were pretty good and the scenes of destruction really created that mood of a world coming down on itself. However, the plot sort of goes into territory that makes it seem a bit too surreal for its own benefit and not enough backstory is really given into the biblical references in my opinion to make it really connect strongly enough to it.I think the film forgets that sometimes more quiet scenes or a lead up to the climax is often where you pull the punches emotionally with a film and I could sort of see the ending coming in a way with how it turned out. But the message of the film - if they are trying to give one didn't sink in as strongly as it could have - perhaps because it relies on the frailty and flaws of humanity - it isn't properly explored as it could have been. "},{"Title":"Good acting and a refreshingly un-tested ending","Date":"5 July 2003","Score":"16 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Unlike many others, I thoroughly enjoy this movie, it has many inconsistencies and it is no fair representation of The Book of Revelations or Christian mythology. However, the acting is good on most parts and the story in itself is thrilling. The best part is the end, though! My guess is that the producers did not use a test audience or they would have chosen a much sweeter and uninteresting ending. "}{"Title":"Beautifully done supernatural chiller","Date":"22 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Let me say this right off the bat I'm not usually a fan of religious films. Although The Seventh Sign has heavy undertones, I can't help but love it for being a really well crafted, atmospheric thriller that let's it's fantastic cast go to some truly tough emotional places, that would still be captivating in a film without religious roots. Demi Moore, who I've always loved a lot, plays Abbey Quinn, a tortured girl whose pregnancy only brings forth dark memories from her past and troubles her more. As ominous biblical signs intrude on her benign everyday life, a charismatic, intense stranger (Jurgen Prochnow) rents a room from her, and right away we know he ties into the phenomena somehow. Prochnow rarely gets a chance to play outside of the Soviet terrorist psychopath prototype, but here he brings sincerity, depth and a warm heart to a role that isn't easy to play without lookin like a preachy moron. Michael Biehn give a fiercely touching turn as Abbey's husband, a realist who finds himself out of his element with the supernatural elements that begin to creep into his life. Biehn has a scene at the end that he just nails, and is a highlight of his career. All religious paraphernalia aside though, the themes presented, about sacrifice, love, and finding the one tiny ray of hope in a world cluttered with scum and degenerates are concepts that can be universally applied to any story, be it Christian or not. It's a moody, exciting, heartfelt film that's well worth checking out. "},{"Title":"Weak pseudo-horror","Date":"22 April 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" THE SEVENTH SIGN is one in a string of end of the world style apocalyptic thrillers that plough the Bible for their inspiration. Unfortunately, this is one of the more insipid entries in that particular sub-genre, and it's a film that fails to make much of its premise; it's very much weak sauce throughout, and it pretty much fails both as a horror and a thriller.As a horror film, this is anything but. There are a couple of would-be supernatural situations but it's routine for the most part and there is no sense of menace or foreboding at any stage. As a thriller, it's routine and dull, lacking the kind of tension that a decent suspense flick calls for.The problems with this one are myriad, but the writing is the worst offender; it has an interesting background, but the diverse plot elements feel jumbled and uncertain. Demi Moore doesn't help, giving a wishy-washy and unsympathetic turn in the lead role, and the one genuinely interesting actor in the cast - Michael Biehn - is wasted in a boring part. In all respects, THE SEVENTH SIGN is a forgettable little movie, perhaps not the worst I've seen but lacking any elements to make it the least bit memorable. "},{"Title":"Creative take on the Apocalypse","Date":"12 March 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Released in 1988, The Seventh Sign is a creative take on the Bible's end-of-the-world prophecies Apocalyptic judgments seem to be occurring all over the world as an unbelieving California couple (Demi Moore and Michael Biehn) are preparing for their first child. A mysterious stranger rents an apartment from them and Demi slowly discovers that she and her baby are the focal point of the end or possibly humanity's second chance.Jesus Christ Himself is one of the main characters and this is one of the best depictions of Christ in film, if not THE best. He's by far the most interesting character in the movie (I'd tell you the actor playing the role but I don't want to give away who the Messiah is as the movie keeps it kinda discreet, not that it's too hard to figure out). I just wish they gave JC more screen time and dialogue since he's so intriguing; it would have made for a much more compelling picture. As it is, the film focuses on Demi and she's just not that interesting a character.I enjoy movies that make you reflect and try to figure out. This is such a film. Some have criticized that the story is nonsensical, but it's all there clear as a bell if you reflect on it.One reviewer criticizes that the film lacks substance, yet the story deals with nothing less than the salvation of humanity via sacrifice, faith, hope and love; plus Jesus Christ Himself is a major character. I think this qualifies as substance.If you're having trouble figuring the story out ask yourself this question Why is Jesus Christ attracted like a magnet to Demi and her baby? Once you have that figured out the story makes perfect sense.I'd also like to point out that the film is expertly made on practically every level. This ain't no low-budget fare.People seem to have trouble categorizing The Seventh Sign because it's so unique. I would say it's a mystery/horror film, but not horror in the sense of a slasher flick; Seventh Sign is more classy than that. Although there are loads of dead bodies & blood, there's hardly any cussing and no youths getting naked.As far as Biblical eschatology goes, the story gets it fairly accurate up to a point but then takes a creative turn. If such creative license with Christian prophecy offends you then stay away. Regardless, keep in mind that the main message of the film is completely Biblical, i.e. salvation only comes via the spilling of blood and faith, hope & love.Unfortunately the film has a bit of a tedious vibe despite the numerous intriguing aspects, which is a major flaw considering it only runs about 90 minutes. Again, they should have given JC more screen time and dialogue as he is definitely the most interesting character. Because of this tedious vibe I give the film an overall strong 5/10 or C+ (if I was in a better mood I'd give it a 6/10 Stars or B-). In other words, although The Seventh Sign has some undeniably great elements, overall it's neither great nor horrible; it's somewhere in between. Regardless, it's very worthwhile if the subject matter piques your interest.GRADE C+ "},{"Title":"spooky biblical mystery","Date":"26 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" In Haiti, David Bannon (Jürgen Prochnow) breaks a seal and there's a sea life die-off. In the Middle East, terrorists escape into a town formerly Sodom which is then frozen. Father Lucci (Peter Friedman) is certain of the supernatural but he assures the Vatican that they are explainable. Abby Quinn (Demi Moore) is non-religious and had attempted suicide. She is sure that this pregnancy will take after previous failures but her husband Russell (Michael Biehn) is more concerned. Russell is a lawyer defending mentally-slow Jimmy Szaragosa who killed his parents following the word of God because they're siblings. David rents a room from the Quinns. Young Avi is convinced of impending doom.There is not much action. The leads aren't actually doing much. It's not really a thriller or even a horror. What I like is the spooky mystery. It's piecing together this simple story. Often Apocalypse is something epic. This makes it something much smaller and personal. The ending is touching and poetic. "},{"Title":"End of times not a grocery list","Date":"5 January 2016","Score":"10 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The seventh sign A cute little horror film. A good film to learn more about the book of Revelations and to reunite with Christianity and its teaching's. In the movie, John Heard who plays a reverend says that the end of times is not a grocery list. And, the movie represents the end of times as a grocery list that needs to be ticked off each time a sign is shown. What makes it a good film is the use of flashbacks that define who the characters are such as Abby Quinn (Demi More) who is the reincarnation of Seraphia, David Bannon (Jurgen Prochnow) representing Jesus. In addition, the ending is not expected. When Abby is shot, and falls to the ground, the viewer doesn't expect Jimmy Szaragosa (John Taylor) to be killed thus making the Apocalypse inevitable. When rushed to the hospital, Abby sacrifices herself to save her child in order to save the world. As the Apocalypse is beginning, Abby was rushed to the hospital as if nothing was truly happening in the outside world. Indeed, a hard core of sceptics I may say. Finally, when Abby is confronted with the choice of self sacrifice she accepts it. I believe that during all the centuries after the death of Jesus, she must of had an unappeased soul. She had now the choice to redeem herself. When, in a flashback, she sees and says she would not die for this man, the feeling of guilt over the centuries was a heavy burden and this time confronts her past. To conclude,soon or later, we all have to deal with our dragons. How we will deal with them is a mystery until confronted with. "},{"Title":"Great Religious Thriller","Date":"27 October 2015","Score":"11 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Around the world, the signs of the apocalypse -- as outlined in the Book of Revelation -- seem to be coming to pass in the wake of a mysterious wanderer. Father Lucci, the Vatican Emissary assigned to investigate, dismisses the occurrences as natural, but Abby Quinn, a young American woman, has reason to fear they're real -- and that the unfolding events may spell disaster for her unborn child.This is a fantastic thriller that uses some pseudo-biblical foundations. A bit like The Prophecy, and much like Ninth Gate... it may spark an interest in the Bible. Is it all accurate? Well, maybe not. But still makes for a great story.This also happens to be one of the better Demi Moore films ever made. I do not think she was ever quite A-list, but more of a solid B-list, and often defined by her husband. But in this film she really gives her all. "},{"Title":"Will you die for him?","Date":"28 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Supernatural thriller about the apocalypse. Demi Moore is married to Michael Biehn and they're expecting a baby. Mysterious drifter Jürgen Prochnow shows up and rents a room from them. Meanwhile, all around the world various natural disasters are occurring which seem to signal that the End Times are nigh. The Vatican sends a priest (Peter Friedman) to investigate but he seems to have an agenda of his own.The incorporation of the Wandering Jew legend into the story is the best part. Moore's character makes several leaps of logic to service the plot and there are more than a few contrivances, especially towards the end. The subplot about a young man with down syndrome sentenced to be executed for murdering his incestuous parents opens the movie up to ridicule. They really should have rethought that part. It's an entertaining movie but, with a couple of changes, it could have been a very good one. Still, worth recommending you check it out. "},{"Title":"This is a bad sign! The Seventh Sign started out interesting, but dies off like the Apocalypse.","Date":"19 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The end of the world has come, and it's in the form of the Seventh Sign. Directed by Carl Schultz, the movie reference to the seven seals described in the Book of Revelation, the final book of the New Testament of the Bible. Sadly, I wish I was watching Ingmar Bergman 1957's Seventh Seal, 1976's Omen or 1968's Rosemary Baby, instead of this. This movie didn't had the large budget, or the eerie presence in its script to pull off the Day of Reckoning vibe. The seven seals in this film seem weak for the most part as you as the audience see only small bits of its power; from small earthquake that only the camera can feel. To the oddly cut, the scene of one river turning red, but other rivers nearby are alright to drink. To how oddly, the seal boiled the ocean around Haiti to the point, it kills the fishes, but not human beings feet or knee deep in the tide. It's not creepy at all. Where is the scary fire and brimstone!? It's disappointing, because the movie has no mention of the opening of the first four seals which calls for the Four Horsemen, each with their own specific mission to attack the world. Where are they, in the movie? How come, they weren't mention? The movie takes too much in creative license in the Seven Seals that it no way, felt accurate or solid. The movie kinda drop the plot line half way through the film, as the letters from stop being open, and things just happen to happen. Anyways, none of those events, really matter to the main plot, only serving as background to the real meat of the story. Doing the opposite of what Demi Moore's similar character in 1996's 'If this walls could talk' does, a pregnant wife, Abby Quinn (Demi Moore) pursuits to save her unborn child from being abortion by God's plans. Yes, the seventh sign is really about the morals of abortion. The movie really felt like they, the producers were trying so hard to fit, two different type of movies into one. How in the dogma hell, did you get that, from the interpretation of the bible's Seventh Seal? I don't see seven angelic trumpeters who in turn cue the seven bowl judgments as a metaphor to abortion. If such creative license with Christian prophecy offends you then stay away from this movie, as it doesn't make lick of any sense. Honestly, this movie doesn't know the different between the Seventh Seal and that of the Guf. If the movie was call the 'Guf' based off, Jewish mythology. This abortion plot would make more sense, because in the film and in the myth, The Guf is the Chamber of souls, where souls of the tree of life fall into. When heaven ran out of souls, the world starts to die, as there is bodies in which has no souls to put into. The movie makes it even more confusing, as Abby is haunted by the memories of not saving for Jesus during the Crucifixion. Yes, Abby is doom to have miscarriages throughout her life, because she didn't die for Jesus. Awful jarred preachy message, there. How does, one giving one's life to Jesus, save the world, anyways? You're still going to run out of souls & people are still going to die. Somehow, it did in this movie. In the end, she doesn't really give in to Jesus, anyways, but God and Jesus is like, let's put this apocalypse on hold, because the mother was willing to trade deaths with her unborn child. If the movie is saying that, then the whole Guf running out plot doesn't make sense. Honestly, how do you run out of souls, if reincarnation can happen in this world? It would seem like abortion would be more welcome, if reincarnation tend to give souls, bodies after bodies, time after time. It's not like she give away her soul to somebody who didn't had a soul, anyways, because a soul is what makes you, you. She just put her soul in a new body. To be truthful, the whole idea of God's judgment day ending the world is dumb, in the first place since God giving human, free will is an illusion joke. Needed to say, the cheesy faux-apocalyptic is too pad out to make sense. The movie pacing is awful. Lots of oddly place drawn out boring exposition scenes like the meteorologist scene, or the young Jew that Abbey befriend chatting with a Christian priest scene. It would be cut out. Then, there is the nudity that wasn't needed to the point, because it made no sense. If she wanted to save her child, why was she going to kill herself? Without spoiling too much of it, there is a few semi-good twist and turns, here, involving both Demi Moore's Abby Quinn's character and that of Jürgen Prochnow's David Bannon. Surprising, most of the acting in this movie is pretty good, but deeply limited. The one actor that stood out is Jürgen Prochnow who can play mysterious roles, very well. His performance is brilliant. The thing that stop the acting from being great was the exposition. The delivery of those lines are just out of place. The score music by Jack Nitzsche was alright. Nothing too worth noting. It did combines some orchestral themes with the sounds of Gregorian monks like chanting. It makes certain scenes, watchable. Sadly the production suck. Depending if you're watching this on VCR or DVD, its color saturation in this transfer is muted and drab. This reflection both how dated of the film is and the seemingly independent, low budget television-oriented production, it had. Overall It plays out like a Lifetime TV lecture drama about the power of faith, than a thriller. If they kept it closer to a horror movie, than a preachy movie. It might be more entertaining. "},{"Title":"Another film about the end of the world","Date":"12 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" When it comes to religious horror films where a female takes the lead role; there are two contenders, namely The Exorcist and Rosemary's Baby. The Seventh Sign is bound to be compared to those two masterpieces often, and it will lose out every time. This Demi Moore vehicle isn't essentially a bad film; but it doesn't have a lot going for it, and serves as merely just another addition to already overpopulated horror sub-genre. This film sets its scope broader than the likes of The Exorcist, and rather than making a personal battle the centre of the piece, we follow the fate of the entire world. The Seventh Sign takes its plot from the idea of the seven signs of the apocalypse from the book of Revelations. As strange events begin to happen around the globe, the church is acting very strangely by trying to pass them off with scientific reasons. For one woman, however, the signs are very real; as the seventh sign will be the birth of her child. As the world draws nearer to oblivion, only a heavily pregnant Demi Moore and some dorky kid with huge glasses can save the day...The plot isn't a bad base for a horror film, despite being unoriginal, but the way that the film is set out really lets it down. There isn't much suspense in The Seventh Sign, and as the plot is spoon-fed to the audience; it's easy to know what's going on all the time...which makes watching it a bit pointless. I could have pretty much guessed the ending before seeing the film. The way that it takes in ideas from the bible is good, however, as it gives the plot some kind of credibility; and the way that it veers away from demons and black magic ensures this further. But then again, the fact that it tries to keep the plot grounded in reality makes the film more boring than it should have been...and going out on a limb more often may have ultimately helped Carl Schultz's film. Demi Moore takes the lead role, and it's easy to believe that this film was made just for her. Not because she fits the role so well or anything; just because the entire piece feels like an excuse to have her on screen. Michael Biehn stars opposite and gives one of his trademark forgettable performances in a movie that I won't be remembering for long. The Seventh Sign does have its moments...just not many. Only see this if you have literally seen everything else. "},{"Title":"The omens","Date":"17 May 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The seventh sign borrows a lot from Rosemary's baby and the omen (it actually blends the two stories).Even its title recalls Bergman' s the seventh seal .Nevertheless,it begins well enough,with all the omens scattered on the whole earth,and in parallel ,a -seemingly- distinct plot with Moore's husband trying to save a poor boy (who killed his parents who were brother and sister)from death penalty.This time,both Christian and Jewish religions are called to the rescue (even the Wandering Jew is involved),which makes the lines sometimes unintentionally funny (Have you ever been to Sunday school? But they taught me that God was love!).The best scene IMHO ,is the short dialog between priest John Heard -who does not seem to take things seriously ,too bad he was not given a more important part because his laid-back acting is priceless-and the young Jew.Demi Moore probably registered the same desire as ex-husband Bruce Willis saving the world.She does not save the movie for all that. "}{"Title":"Quiet Classic","Date":"7 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Other than perhaps Ghost, Demi Moore at her best. The underrated Michail Biehn plays her husband, and is equally on top of his game. Jurgen Prochnow appears to be creepy at the outset, but proves to be anything but. This is a great flick for an evening of no interruptions, as it starts a bit vague but quickly picks up speed, and must be followed closely to get the full effect. The ending is one of the finest that the motion picture industry has ever had to offer, but again, close attention must be paid in order to fully appreciate. Next time your plans get cancelled or the weather is going to turn nasty, rent this one and pull up a couch. "},{"Title":"unexpectedly memorable and moving","Date":"25 September 2009","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" OK, let me just say that it's a long time since I've seen this film, and it's the sort of thing that irritates by being so often horribly written, directed, acted, implausible and vacuously melodramatic (as for the supposedly underrated 'Ninth Gate', that really felt like an overblown film- and poorly cast, too). Furthermore, I'm an atheist. Yet I've never forgotten The Seventh Seal. I will never, ever forget the implacable, murderously sad face of 'The Lamb' visiting Earth in Lion mode. There must be something about strange weather, tectonic events and red rivers that is hard-wired in humans to evoke dread and fascination, because I have also never forgotten feeling both of those things, watching the results of the breaking of the biscuit-shaped seals. Well, red rivers = war, and that's happening now, so maybe these images got under my skin because they were topical. We're expected to side-line these sorts of considerations though, with our view obscured by Demi Moore and biblically referenced mystery plot stuff. Moore i can easily glance past, and the bible i know almost nothing about (have only seen the Angers Tapestries for an education in Revelations and apocalypse), so was able to watch the film in something approaching freedom, even with the aforementioned preconceptions about the genre. Demi does an OK job as always, no real problem there. The naked pregnant thing is no big deal; those who are disturbed by that should get a life. The plot moves along efficiently. we do want to know what happens next..so far so good. Things come to a denouement; will The World prevail or will Armageddon complete itself? Nothing so exceptional there... but just one or two things did very much move me; the notions of the greatness of love and sacrifice- in this context nicely morphed to counter patriarchal tropes- and the Guf. For someone who has always thought of all unborn children as pre-existing, waiting only to be summoned to this mortal coil, the idea of the Guf is heart-clenchingly sweet and beautiful. All in all, all I can say is just have a look -). Despite your well-reasoned and fair reservations, there is something in this film that you might find unforgettable, and as others have mentioned, moving. "},{"Title":"the seventh sigh","Date":"2 February 2008","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" one word boring.the young demi looks good, but she's pregnant (- point for that =D) the movie is not scary at all...the first scenes looked little crappy, i could render better clouds with my laptop, and after effects. but that was then... and now is now. some movies do not get old well... this is one of them.not worth renting or buying... get something better instead like the exorcist, ...next =Doh the drama part in the beginning just and simply suxor =D "},{"Title":"Unreedeemable without help","Date":"1 September 2007","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This story, which is most definitely based on the prophetic last book of the New Testament, that of Revelation, holds some entertainment value but remains sadly and irresponsibly inaccurate.It tells the tale of the Seven Signs that are to herald the end of the age and the judgment of all humanity by the Almighty God. For Hollywood however, director Carl Schultz tones down the Biblical prophecies and humanises the plot to gain a wider audience.For unbelievers, The Seventh Sign may well intrigue or perhaps bore you, depending on taste. Tragically though, this movie will leave many believing a very wrong doctrine that mankind can save himself.Sunday, March 22, 1992 - Video "},{"Title":"Unoriginal and lilting","Date":"9 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This movie sadly, was made in 1988, after a long line of The Exorcist and The Oman wannabe movies parroted and exhausted every possible the end of days cliché in the book. The creators, obviously, have thought that repeating them once more was worth a shot, and created a movie that tries very hard to be a the end of days movie for all tastes - a bit of horror, a sniff of creepy-signs-are-accumulating, a whiff of The Omen, A smidgen of the messenger of God (with a fashionable 80's do), and so on. Nothing is being followed through in a convincing manner.It tries to be original in one respect - into the Seven Seals them - a purely Christian-mythology them - it tries to mix a little fake-Jewish tradition. It doesn't mix well, and the Jewish aspect remains at the level of the soundtrack and, anyway, is completely forgotten half-way into the movie. Michael Biehn is annoyingly over-acting is usual, if that's any consolation. "},{"Title":"another end of  the world movie,but nothing new or compelling.","Date":"6 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" ho-hum.another one of those all signs point to the end of the world movies.as these types of movie go,this film is much too lacking in substance to be compelling viewing.think the Omen(the original)lite.very lite.there are a few variations on the theme,true,but the movie fails to make a lasting impression(or any impression)the actors put in good performances,and bear no responsibility for the film's failure.credit that to the lacklustre script which is simply has no depth.as well as the direction,which ,ironically has no direction.the original The Omen,set the Standard for this genre and has yet to be nor will likely ever be surpassed.as for the Seventh Sign, it is a good diversion,but will quickly be forgotten after viewing.a good rule of thumb about this type of movie is that it should stick with and make you question things.this movie does neither. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Prochnow the saving grace.","Date":"12 December 2004","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Without doubt,this film is entirely Prochnows own.I feel that without his presence,it would have been nothing more than a thin washed out concept. Prochnow brings a unique character portrayal that helps define an otherwise weak and misguided film full of colourful bending of biblical script. Moore is at her most naive and unscathed during this period of her career and this lends itself to not only the character,but her on screen allure. Sadly,Moore was never truly destined it seems to follow a film path which would include such work.i love this kind of suspense/thriller and feel its an early prelude to Shyamalan's work of the present day,but lacking the critical pace and twist that elevates such films into the topten. "},{"Title":"Great ending to an okay film","Date":"15 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Seventh Sign is all right if slightly dull entry.**SPOILERS**Nearly eight months pregnant, Abby Quinn, (Demi Moore) and her husband Russell, (Michael Biehn) are concerned that it could be like their failed pregnancies in the past. Trying to get past it, David Bannon, (Jurgen Prochnow) offers to move into an apartment building they are renting out, and his quietness really disturbs them. As they are still deciding on what to make of him, Father Lucci, (Peter Friedman) from the Vatican discovers that a series of strange and violent phenomena around the world are signs of the Apocalypse written about hundreds of years ago meant to signal the end of the world. Realizing it has a connection with his appearance and the sudden change in the worse for her pregnancy, she races to uncover the final signs of the Apocalypse before she gets further involved.The Good News When this one came up some good stuff, it wasn't that bad at all. The last half house of the film, with the final signs of the Apocalypse coming true, is the film's best feature as it's just one big long action scene. Starting with the rather nice falling hail scene, as it begins in the middle of the day with a huge swarm flying down and breaking nearly everything in sight, including cars, glass, small businesses on the sidewalk and more, leaving it with a great spectacle-like feeling. That's just merely the start of the fun, as there's the glorious revelation scene that is a wonderful reversal on everything and giving it some great surprise, a great battle in the church amidst a furious windstorm that lasts for much of the remainder of the film and then the greatness of the final moments, where the gunfight in the prison's execution war gives it some much needed bloodshed as well as well as the structure-damaging earthquake that follows, which brings more action and stunt work than it should for such a simple story. It's what makes the ending so good. The other part to this that works is the really strong story. Having the film go from a pre-natal horror about the baby to mixing in an end-of-the-world style storyline finish is really nice and surprising, never really feeling out-of-place through the inventive use of the ancient scripture used to help it along, and overall it feels very natural and could actually happen, the epitome of a great story, and these two angles are the only things that work here.The Bad News This one here wasn't completely terrible, and did only have one main flaw to it. That would be the incredibly long and mostly dull beginning to this one. While it's not completely terrible during this portion, the beginning to this one gets really tiresome quickly. Mainly this is due to the fact that it seems like a pre-natal drama more than a horror film, since it's mostly about their pregnancy and the complications that keep happening from her visions and everything else that's going on, and that's not the single most entertaining feature to ever come along. What this does is set up for later, but for those that prefer more energy to come from their films, this one is sorely lacking in the beginning because it's not entirely fun to watch a couple argue about their pregnancy over and over again and then shift focus to include brief scenes, such as her shopping for clothes or furniture by herself, which just make them stand out even more how dull they are. The inclusion of the mysterious stranger signals the start of it all, but this soon leads nowhere since nothing is brought up with it. Then it switches over to the Apocalyptic storyline while still keeping one foot in the baby stuff, and it just takes forever to get going. If something were to happen beyond the rather weak visions and dreams, then it wouldn't be as bad but that's all we're given in this, and it can make for some really dull stuff at times. Otherwise, this one wasn't that bad.The Final Verdict A rather dull experience that gets better at the end, this one here is actually half-bad if willing to give it a chance. There's a really appreciative audience for this one, and they'll be the ones who enjoy the slow-build this one has, while those who prefer more energetic fare should heed caution with it.Rated R Graphic Language and Violence "},{"Title":"Part Occult Serial, Part Lifetime TV fluff","Date":"18 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I first saw this movie on edited cable, and it was entertaining despite the fact that Demi Moore was the star(and pregnant!!!) Later on when I saw the unedited version, I found only three differences a few S words, a bit more focus on the graphic hospital scenes, and Demi Moore appears totally naked (and pregnant!!!!) The story was obviously copied from the Omen, which was copied from Rosemary's baby, so it's no surprise. But its more mild and uplifting than both those films, with the baby's role being that of a messiah instead of the antichrist.Peter Friedman appears as the wandering priest, who we later learn has a very strange past and a disturbing agenda of his own. Michael Biehn is the sensitive husband and lawyer (a definite Lifetime TV character) a departure from his usual roles where he is either a smart commando (see Navy Seals, The Terminator, Aliens) or an evil one (The Abyss). Jurgen Prochnow is quite charming as The Boarder, who makes a very impressive entry at the opening of the film on a small Carribean Island.I actually admire Demi Moore for her commitment to the cinema, she's shaved her head for GI Jane, gotten obtrusive breast implants for Striptease, and even allowed her pregnancy to be turned into a weird fictional story, going so far as to allow herself to be filmed naked and pregnant (which she did again for the cover of Vanity Fair during her second pregnancy a few years later).  But Demi's acting abilities aren't nearly as great as her 8 figure movie salaries would suggest, and this film is definite proof. But most girls I know who like television for women and men who like a mild thriller to watch on the sunday afternoon movie have reacted positively to this film, so don't be afraid to see it. "},{"Title":"Good But Barely above average Supernatural Thriller WARNING!!!!! SPOILERS!!!","Date":"1 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  good but barely above average supernatural thriller is suspenseful and at times engrossing but the story gets a bit muddled and confusing at times and the pace is at times uneven but this never does get boring and it's well made the dialog is fairly good as well with an effective finale and likable characters. the acting is great Demi Moore gives a pretty good performance here and is likable i always thought she was a good actress she is quite pretty too at times though i thought she was acting but overall she came through Michael Biehn is truly an underrated actor this man gave an effortless performance and took it too a whole new level he was charming and very likable man does this guy rule or what! Jurgen Prochow is VERY creepy and did a great job did anyone else find him creepy? Lee Garlington does good but isn't on screen enough Peter Friedman does what he has to do very well as does John Taylor anyway worth the watch **1/2 out of 5 "}{"Title":"must see movie","Date":"11 July 2008","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This movie is so good! It is about the signs of the bible that foretell the coming of the end. It's well written, the actors are excellent, and the message is important. The ending is so beautiful. Happy and sad, magic and sorrow, so prophetic! Everyone should know about this stuff from the bible. It's a good watch for anyone regardless of your level faith, but it's a very important message to get out to the world. Christians will enjoy seeing the bible portrayed with such potential actuality. Those without as much faith will enjoy the storyline as well as the amazing ending. Please do yourself a favor and rent this some time. I just loved it!!!!!!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"A solid film with an uplifting message","Date":"20 February 1999","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie develops three themes that later come together in the climax of the movie. The first is that of the troubled pregnancy of Abby Quinn (Demi Moore) and their seemingly unrelated decision to rent a room to a boarder. Ms. Moore is the star of the movie and plays her role convincingly. The second theme involves Russell Quinn's fight to save the life of a convicted murder (John Taylor) plus keeping his wife as calm as possible during her pregnancy. The last theme is that of the mysterious boarder, played well by Jurgen Prochnow, who shows up in the oddest places. The movie is capably acted by everyone involved and offers some supernatural thrills without going overboard. The ending is sad and yet uplifting which makes the movie a winner. This is a must for viewers who like to collect small movies that most people have never heard of. "},{"Title":"One of the best I've seen","Date":"24 October 1999","Score":"7 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This film is one to experience. It is one of those great films that keeps your attention from beginning to end. Demi Moore did an excellent acting job here. The entire premise of the film is very believable and engaging, even if you are not religious. As others have said, the ending is quite remarkable to say the least. I always know a film is good if it keeps me thinking after the movie is over. This one did.     "},{"Title":"fairly average movie with a surprisingly good Demi Moore.","Date":"17 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The movie Seventh Sign didn't do much for me and wasn't my kind of flick but that doesn't mean it's bad-which it isn't. There are some movies that one doesn't like because their bad movies and others that just aren't for everyone. The latter was the case here, for me. The Seventh Sign wasn't bad as much as confusing, dark and rather unremarkable. It's also just not the type of movie just anyone can like although it does hold one's attention nicely.As another reviewer mentioned there are a lot of better thrillers out there though I'm not sure this IS Really a straight thriller. I consider this somewhere between a thriller, a drama and a science fiction. Although this movie wasn't to my taste, I don't consider it bad as much as not for me. And to give the movie credit, it isn't a typical Hollywood by the numbers type movie and it doesn't enfold in a Hollywood way. And it really does succeed at keeping the viewer engaged.But the biggest plus of this movie is surprisingly Demi Moore. I say surprisingly because I'm not a major fan of hers. But, although, I really didn't like this a whole lot, it maybe worth seeing if your a Demi Moore fan because this features Demi in her early days before she started playing such commercial roles and she is surprisingly good in this-not her usual role at all. Demi was at her best before she started taking such commercial roles and in this movie, even though I don't think the movie's a 9 or 10, Demi is at her best. The film isn't splashy or heavily commercial and neither is Moore's performance so the acting was a plus even though I am not a big fan of the movie itself. "},{"Title":"Both tasteless and intriguing...","Date":"23 November 2006","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Pregnant woman in the present day comes to believe the fate of the world may actually hinge on her unborn baby. Religious propaganda with suspense-thriller aspirations is mostly overwrought, but has enough chutzpah and magnetic performances to nearly make it worthwhile. Demi Moore is very good in a leading role that, if played too broadly, might've lapsed into camp or cliché; Moore is surrounded by frenzy, and yet she keeps a convincingly cool head and an open mind (though the director undermines her appeal with a possible suicide sequence--featuring Demi nude--that is rather tacky). The movie is ultimately thought-provoking and entertaining, though the screenwriters fail to follow through with their own set-up, rewriting God's Word in the process! **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"A rare 10","Date":"17 March 1999","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  One of the best films to have been released! Its power is overwhelming. Its range of emotion cover the entire spectrum...with heavy doses of well filmed action, and horror. This film will have your pulse pounding in your ears! GET THIS FILM "},{"Title":"Awesome","Date":"4 June 2000","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  A fantastic film worth watching over and over again.  Demi Moore's best performance.  Jurgen Prochnow (David Bannon) performance is remarkable and unmatched.  I love Apocalyptic films and this one is up there with The Omen in my opinion.  Best quote of the film David Bannon speaking to Avi Remember it all, write it down, tell it; so people will use the chance she has given them. A great last line for any movie.  Watch this movie hundreds of times and I guarantee you will never get tired of it.  After viewing for the first time I suggest all people take David's advice and stay close to God no matter what your religion is. "},{"Title":"This movie is a weak attempt by simple minds to push anti death penalty ethics of the Hollywood establishment.","Date":"26 June 2006","Score":"4 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The movie confuses religious ethics and ideals so much that it fails to create coherent argument against the death penalty on any level. By presenting the lawful execution of a convicted murder as the catalyst for the apocalyptic end of mankind the movie elevates a parent killer to the status of martyr for Christ. Somehow, according to the plot, god is outraged that society has chosen to rid it's self of a fanatic who killed his own parents by starting them on fire while they slept defenselessly in their beds. Yet this same god has no indignation for the acts of the killer. The lead character, an nonreligious pregnant suicidal woman, ultimately gives her own life in a defiant but implausible attempt to unsuccessfully save this convicted killer. In other threads of the underdeveloped plot Jesus comes back as a powerless and frustrated vagabond to symbolically unleash the wrath of God. The modern lackluster incarnation of Christ not just dehumanizes him but mocks the messianic ideal of all religions as well. He is unable to affect humanity for good and unemotionally skates the edges of life waiting for mankind to destroy it's self. Meanwhile, with little help from Jesus the mentally unstable pregnant woman finds herself with the ability to reincarnate herself into her newly born soulless child which somehow saves all of mankind from the wrath of the almighty. I also interpreted that as a statement in support of abortion on some levels. This movie which attempts to weave many religious themes into a thriller fails to make any religious point that I could clearly interpret except to mock people's beliefs. It raises many questions that it never even attempts to answer. It disregards the religious values of its audience while attempting to portray an asinine version of their fulfillment. Silly "},{"Title":"The ominous lurker, again, again and again...boooring.","Date":"13 January 2004","Score":"5 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Dull Demi, going thru the motions.  Ditto Prochnow.  Ominous portents that elicit yawns.  Michael Biehn trying to be dynamic, which ain't his shtick.To quote Buffy Summers, If the apocalypse comes...beep me.Going back to sleep now. "},{"Title":"Pronchow is haunting....","Date":"9 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  As a Christian, I can make the claim that this film is miserably innacurate as far as the end of times and the Book of Revelations go. However, I have to admit that as a Christain, I was moved as Jurgen Pronchow's haunting depiction of Christ.The story is about a pregnant wife (Moore) and her husband (Biehn) being selected by God to carry on a mission to prevent the end of the world. Pronchow plays the Boarder, who must carry out the task of breaking each seal at the scene of each deadly plague. It turns out that he is actually Christ, the Son of God. His performance is brilliant. The compassion he shows for people is very clear, and it is also clear that he doesn't want to see the world suffer with all of these plauges... It is just something that must happen due to the sin of the world. While Robert Powell was the greatest Christ, from Jesus of Nazareth, Pronchow is a close second. His haunting eyes, Divine presense, and the sympathy and compassion  (and at the same time, authority) that he demonstrates is excellent.While the film itself wasn't too great, with huge plot holes and inconsistencies, Pronchow's performance is certainly worth watching. Though I might pass on, it contains nudity and violence...You might want to catch the edited version on TBS....**1/2 out of **** "}{"Title":"Interesting underrated film","Date":"8 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This interesting film is about a pregnant woman, her husband, an angel and a murderer who are all tied together by a certain cause.  Demi Moore is pretty good as is the rest of the cast.  The end is a tear-jerker. Rent it "},{"Title":"Spiritually Moving","Date":"24 August 2000","Score":"3 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This rendition of biblical prophesy touches the spirit within you.  It illuminates your love for Christ while giving you an understanding of those who do not know him but, the goodness in them will motivate them to search out his love with a true and clean heart.   "},{"Title":"It Started Off Well","Date":"18 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  THE SEVENTH SIGN has a great opening hook as the Israeli defence force come across a terrorist base . This is the type of hook that is a must when writing a script , it grabs the reader / audience and the introduction of David Bannon as he rents a room from Abby and Russell Quinnn telegraphs the point that this is a man who`s not who he says he is . However after the great opening third I found the rest of the movie confusing and uninvolving with a large number of plotholes and isn`t all that different from umpteen other supernatural thrillers that I`ve seen  "}]