[{"Title":"A 'Sleeper' Of A Modern-Day Noir","Date":"16 December 2005","Score":"28 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":" This is one of those sleeper films, a good one that is not very well- known.....but should be. I really liked this modern-day film noir when I first saw it over a decade ago and the three additional times since.The movie has all the features of a good noir, most of all a feeling of impending doom throughout, which a good noir exhibits. You know some bad things are going to happen, but you just don't know what and when. That uneasy mood runs throughout the film.Add some tough characters, great cinematography (nice colors, too, in this case) and even a good blues music score and you have an interesting film. The story here revolves around a ruthless American businessman trying to buy up an entire block of the businesses in one area in Britain. There's humor in here too with a goofy Polish jazz band, which looked and sounded just awful, and just enough action throughout to keep from getting too talky. Tommy Lee Jones, Melanie Griffith, Sting and Sean Bean star and all are fascinating to watch. "},{"Title":"Coolest Brit film of the decade.","Date":"30 August 1999","Score":"19 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":"  I have seen this film a few times since it came out more than ten years ago. I think it is seriously underrated. It has a great Jazz soundtrack written by Mike Figgis, the director (who went on to make Leaving Las Vegas). A brilliant cast Sean Bean, Melanie Griffith, Tommy Lee Jones and Sting. It has a film noir feel throughout that fits the post-industrial Newcastle setting very well (lots of great location shots BTW). Last of all, the beautifully paced editing, which is just icing on the cake.I can't help but notice that this film is not polling too well at the moment (averaging 6.5 out of 10.0), perhaps it's the slightly anti-American subtext?While I didn't notice any direct references to this film in Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels (apart from Sting doing an above average acting job in both of them). I think they would make a great double feature.Worth it for the soundtrack alone  9/10. "},{"Title":"A movie in the best film noir tradition...","Date":"24 January 2002","Score":"14 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":"  I really enjoyed this movie. I'm a big fan of film, but more than that, I'm a fan of actors. Strong acting, as far as I'm concerned, can redeem even the worst of movies (under the right circumstances) - and it's wonderful when the film itself is already good. Such is the case with Stormy Monday, the directorial debut of Mike Figgis (who would later have great success with Leaving Las Vegas). The casting seems somewhat unusual, but in the end is quite effective. I have never been a big fan of either Melanie Griffith or Sting, and by contrast, have always enjoyed Tommy Lee Jones and Sean Bean, so I was unsure of what to expect. But all four impressed me greatly with their performances. This is a film which requires the use of one's senses - we see the hopeful expressions on Griffith's and Bean's faces when they meet for the first time; we hear the frustration in the voice of Jones' crooked businessman when he can't seem to get his way, and the resolve in the voice of Sting's jazz club owner when he refuses to give in to Jones. The cinematography (by the excellent Roger Deakins) is classic film noir, and when combined with the wonderful jazz soundtrack, creates a moody atmosphere not often seen in 80's cinema. Overall, this is a success - dark, atmospheric, and absorbing, an actor's showcase and a film enthusiast's smorgasbord. There should be more like this one!    "},{"Title":"New British Cinema at its best!","Date":"9 September 2002","Score":"14 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":"  Like Mike Hodges' in his crime classic Get Carter (1971) starring Michael Caine, British director Mike Figgis takes another disturbing view on the dark city of Newcastle-upon-Tyne in this modern British jazz and crime drama. In Stormy Monday, pop singer Sting plays a jazz club owner who is threatened by American business man Tommy Lee Jones who wants to take his club with violent oppression. Unfortunately Sting's close friend Sean Bean falls in love with Jones' girlfriend Melanie Griffith...Even if you know this kind of plot from many other crime thrillers and serie noire dramas, this movie is well-balanced, thrilling, fascinating and fast-pacing. The actors are great, the pictures of the city of Newcastle, though photographed in rather neon-like 1980's glamour style, nearly as dark and menacing as in Get Carter, and the superb jazz sound track (mainly composed by Figgis himself) adds much atmosphere to the story - and even Sting plays a great double bass solo on stage! Watch this great modern crime movie, as it's a good example of the rise of modern British cinema in the 1980's. I wish they would make such movies here in Germany...  "},{"Title":"Sting, Sean, and Tommy Lee In Newcastle for Profit","Date":"12 December 2005","Score":"13 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":" Cosmo (Tommy Lee Jones) is an American businessman with lots of connections, most under the table, who arrives in Newcastle on Tyne to seal deals. The celebration of America Week in England announces the malling of Great Britain as American monies of dubious sources invaded while the Thatcher government turned its head. Into this cesspool, Kate (Melanie Griffith) a local waitress and formerly an escort for Cosmo is recruited to play nice to business associates he sends her way. Rolling over the small business owners like Finney (Sting) a jazz club owner, Cosmo has no qualms about getting what he wants whether by legit or illegitimate means.A sub-storyline to the economic takeover by Cosmo is the love story between Kate and Brendan (Sean Bean), an Irish laborer who cleans toilets in Finney's club, but over hears the plans of two London seedy types who discuss how to make sure Finney sells the Kit Kat Klub to Cosmo. After informing Finney of their intentions, Brendan's loyalty is rewarded by his elevation to a go-for babysitting a progressive jazz band, the Krakow Jazz Ensemble who need to be picked up at the airport for a weekend gig. While Brendan carts the band around town, he falls in love with Kate. During their time together, Kate and Brendan are jumped and beaten by the roughs who surround Cosmo. The drama is predictable until a surprise twist and unexpected negotiation change the dynamic, and saves the film.The story line entwine to provide worthwhile entertainment for an hour and forty minutes, and the actors all provide solid performances. The soundtrack is a nice mix of 80s Brit sounds and cerebral jazz tunes with Sting doing a solo bass bit mid-film although he does not sing. Tommy Lee Jones is wonderful with an evil yet subtle humor to his business dealings and the sight of a young, buff and naked Sean Bean is delightful.A good afternoon film for a rainy day, if only for the performances by actors not usually cast together, and for director, Mike Figgis, an underrated early film worth checking out. "},{"Title":"An atmospheric film noir with engaging characters","Date":"23 September 2002","Score":"14 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":"  Stormy Monday has a fairly routine plot, with a few odd twists to it.  What makes it special?  Three things.The atmosphere of the movie makes you feel as if you're having a nice evening out on the town, making your way from pub to pub.  You can almost taste the beer, and smell the smoke.  Most of the story is shot on location in the old Newcastle city center.  If you're in the right mood for something like this, then it's perfect.Secondly, the characters are interesting and engaging, yet enigmatic. You want to know more about them.  None fit the typical Hollywood stereotype.  Sting, Sean Bean, Melanie Griffith, and Tommy Lee Jones (a relatively obscure actor then) are all in top form.Third, if you enjoy jazz, then this is a must-see.  In that regard, it is comparable to The Cotton Club, Round Midnight, or Bird.  The visiting Polish jazz band reminds me of the struggling young musicians in Leningrad Cowboys Go America.  This was clearly made by someone who appreciates good music.This movie, released in the late 1980s, may be hard to find.  But it's worth it.   "},{"Title":"Chilly and Atmospheric","Date":"23 October 1998","Score":"17 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":"  A beautifully shot film noir with natural, affecting performances and interesting characters who don't reveal everything in the first half hour. The great strength of the film is that it takes its time to slowly unravel, creating a mood of unrest and doom.  The love story works but doesn't overpower the rest of the narrative.  An enjoyable and sadly overlooked late-80s gem...maybe Figgis's recent success with Leaving Las Vegas will bring some attention to this earlier work. "},{"Title":"Overwhelming film noir atmosphere","Date":"4 January 2000","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":"  I consider myself lucky I found it on the TV, even if I had lost a bit of the beginning. I will definitely rent it again. This film has an excellent atmosphere and absorbs you instantly. A great soundtrack compliments excellent performances by the four leads. The plot may be a little weak, but it is the feeling of the movie that plays a primary role. I even liked the love story inside, which is very unlike me. I see it is quite underrated here in IMDB, but for me it is a solid 9. Mike Figgis is an extremely talented director and this is a good example of his qualifications. Strongly recommended! "},{"Title":"tempests & teapots","Date":"24 July 2008","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":" The mist, the neon, the reflections- Roger Deakins could make snot shine. What a great looking movie.And that's it. There's almost nothing else to distinguish Stormy Monday, which marches to its inexorable conclusion with measured indifference. Coincidences rule the day, while little things like character and consistency are passed over in favor of atmosphere and (perfunctory) symbolism.Figgis can maintain a tone, but style alone just leaves me detached. The script is so tight, the story seems artificial; it succeeds mainly in assuring that none of the characters are worth giving a damn about. It's all breath, no blood.In art, such aloofness has probably always been fashionable. It's also terribly juvenile, like a teenager who thinks that cigarette smoking makes him look grown-up. Stormy Monday is a poster child for going through the motions. "},{"Title":"deceptively paced thriller","Date":"15 October 2000","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":"  Don't be deceived by the apparently slow pace of this film. Things are happening, but it's only later that you realise it, when the consequences of those early sequences start hitting and hitting hard. A well crafted film, set in Newcastle England, in which the lives of an out of work drifter, a tough prosperous night club owner, an American waitress and a hard-dealing New York businessman slowly intertwine until they're set on a collision course. All this to a seductive jazz soundtrack that just has to be heard over the hi-fi. "}{"Title":"narcissistic neo-noir","Date":"5 January 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":" These days a romantic thriller usually means sex, violence, and lots of neon lights, but underneath the typically sultry mood of this latter-day film noir there's a cool intelligence at work. Writer director Mike Figgis combines several strands of plot which otherwise have little in common, involving a moody nightclub owner, a dangerous American entrepreneur, his part-time mistress, and her new, younger boyfriend, all of them in an industrial British seaport dressed up for a hands-across-the-water civic promotion. A movie so self-absorbed with mood and imagery shouldn't work as well as this, but what sets the film apart from other neo-noir facsimiles is the unusual trans-Atlantic blend of talent and the emphasis on cross-cultural confusion, best expressed by a free-jazz rendition (by the Krakow Jazz Ensemble) of the Star Spangled Banner. The atmospheric visual style isn't enough to camouflage the shortcomings of the script, but Figgis maintains the drama at an admirably low-key level, and the location photography in the city of Newcastle takes excellent advantage of an appropriately gritty urban environment. "},{"Title":"Goooo, Patriots, World Champions, and the Jazz is great too","Date":"4 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":"  Sean Bean, what a dish!!!!  In his younger years, but the acting is still first rate as he shows his naive but darker side getting in trouble with Sting, his new boss.  The girl, who isn't such a good actress anyhow, plays her ditzy self but the love scenes are fine.  Who wouldn't respond to this guy?Tommy Lee Jones, my good ol' boy from Texas, plays a real mean guy beautifully who gets screwed by the dumb ol' boys from Newcastle, England.  You'll really enjoy the pictures of the politicians in town, same there as here corrupt.Oh, yes, and dumb as well.  Tippi Hedren's daughter plays a high-priced whore, doing the bidding of her 'master'....and rescued by Bean Supreme. see if for the fantastic music, and the Krakow Poland jazz band.  Silly car chases, but that means they don't have to pay a good writer for that period. "},{"Title":"A tale of two Figgi","Date":"29 January 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":"  I'm not sure if the screenwriter Figgis and the director Figgis ever met or were even in the same room together for any length of time for this movie. The script, scene-by-scene, is no great effort and does not deserve the intense and captivating directing job given to it.I enjoyed the romance story - Melanie Griffith is not my favorite actress, but she didn't annoy me which is, I guess, saying something. Sean Bean is really good playing an understated cleaning guy, he works well with Sting's Sociopath-with-a-Heart.The movie loses me with all the gangster stuff. There are major holes in the plot and character inconsistencies that we are supposed to believe are rich thug eccentricities, but it just doesn't fly. I enjoyed the America in England bit - a little depressing to see the kind of malling that has paved over large parts of the U.S. already. But the best scenes have to do with the Polish jazz band, a great bunch of guys whose artistic potential in this movie was never realized.I just wish a lot more importance could have been given to character development, so that once the scene between Griffith and Bean on the roof comes along we can appreciate it more. "},{"Title":"highly recommended for fans","Date":"28 February 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":"  Believe it or not, i saw this movie when it first came out on video around a decade ago.  While i remember Sting and TL Jones, i had NO idea that Sean Bean was is in it!  Since Ive now joined the loyal club devoted to him, i was happy to find it on DVD.  Must say first that this movie has held up extremely well to the test of time.  Other than we notice how young the actors look, the plot has not aged.  TL Jones as usual gives a masterful performance as the bad guy, but with a plaintive twist as one who just cant believe he cant get what he wants.  Sting gives a restrained but polished performance (why i watched it all those years ago), and Mr. Bean is fantastic as the naive but determinedly loyal employee who has a heart.  I would recommend this to all fans of his. The setting is gritty enough for the plot to be believable and is somewhat film noir. Other than a slightly weak start, it holds yr attention and builds to a tense finale successfully. The only thing i didnt like was the american week radio schtick... dont know, but somehow found it embarrassing. The DVD features are no great shakes, but then considering the age of the film, i wasnt expecting even a trailer (which you do get). "},{"Title":"The Ownership of the Club","Date":"4 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":" Mike Figgis interests me. He's made three films that I consider quite worthwhile Timecode, Innocence, and Liebstraum.The others aren't bad, just not worth the energy if you consider them as films. But I don't.I consider them visual backdrop for his music. He's sometimes a musician first and a filmmaker second. There are other filmmakers who score their own movies, but this guy&#151; is actually pretty darn good jazz musician&#151; has a musical imagination which sometimes you can seeThis makes even this ordinary event interesting in a way. Here's the story Sting plays a jazz club owner threatened by an oafish American played by Tommy Lee. Two creatures caught up in the wake are a janitor working for Sting and a prostitute working for Jones. Not much happens visually. Not much happens storywise or even characterwise.And the thing has been criticized for poor editing. But look more closely and see that the editing has the timing of the jazz riffs that often accompany the scenes and in any case defines the chunking metrics of space we see.Ted's Evaluation -- 2 of 3 Has some interesting elements. "},{"Title":"Brit and Polish","Date":"5 October 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":"  I love this film! It's not a masterpiece by any stretch, but I give it an A for its  Atmosphere, its sense of place. Also, it represents for me the perfect Ronald- Reagan-era vacation from the ironic excesses of the 90s lurking just around the  bend.Perhaps you can't quite believe that Kate is gonna fall off an escalator and land  on top of Brendan there, with his face buried in the help-wanted ads. But you  CAN believe Finney knows the local boys he's dealing with just before hebreaks Tony's arm during that confrontation in his office. You catch the scent of  the bus fumes and the salt air and cigar smoke and fog as Finney and Cosmocross that sooty old bridge, literally and figuratively. You feel the old island  shuddering and trying to shift its CG under the crass and relentless onslaught of  Yankee kitsch (love the sound of the DJ's voice doing the American accent!)  and the sinister shuffling that leads to the bright flash of light and the loud noise  and the flames in the night and the rain and... "},{"Title":"Sean Bean is the reason to see this movie -- he steals it outright.","Date":"8 August 2004","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":"  Sean Bean continually proves he is the best thing in any movie he is in, period. As Brendan, and the most unknown actor in this flick, he turns in the only real performance in the film. You believe ever nuance of his character, a jazz buff, who is just trying to establish himself in Newcastle, England. He is the love interest of Melanie Griffith, and her partner in this story of a corrupt businessman, Tommy Lee Jones, and a tough nightclub owner, Sting. BEAN IS THE ONLY ONE WORTH WATCHING. Oddly enough, he is the newcomer in this film, but when he is on screen you are there, every second. Griffith, had the good sense to request him to play opposite her in the film, but the story is odd at best, but the young and perfectly stunning Sean Bean make this film worth the viewing. If memory serves me correctly, there was an actor's strike in America, and that is why this film has two big name U.S. stars. But they do not shine at all in comparison to the scene stealer in it, Sean Bean. Sean takes the movie completely away from the major stars in it, not by overacting, but merely by acting brilliantly and subtly. The man can break your heart and does, and his stillness on screen speaks volumes louder than all the characterizations, of the other actors.  "},{"Title":"A must-see for fans of Mike Figgis, Sean Bean, or Sting","Date":"8 May 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":" This is one of those films that lets you fill in the blanks and causes you to concentrate on each scene so as not to miss a nuance or clue. I found that the second viewing was more than twice as entertaining! I have now seen it four times; each time very enjoyable. Sean Bean was an unknown to me when I first saw the film, but has now become just about my favorite actorThe Polish element? Melanie's character is half Polish, and, as well, the band slated to play in Sting's club has an accident so the Cracow Jazz Ensemble (or some such), all Poles, steps in instead, among which is Andrej, a sympathetic band manager, the only one who speaks English. Andrej is destined to play a critical role in the film, but rather than provide a spoiler here, see the film to understand what this means. Violence plays a large part in the proceedings, as is obvious from the above description. This is a well-plotted film that put Mike Figgis on the map. Doesn't hurt that he not only wrote and directed it, but also composed the music for it, an effectively moody jazz score.Overall rating 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Atmosphere alone gives this movie a good score","Date":"22 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":" I enjoyed this 90-minute movie. Although its plot was pretty basic and the acting not the best, I really loved the setting and imagery of a late 80s northern English seaport. You feel the decay of English manufacturing and a sense of being adrift and lonely; the American/English angle was well-done and fits the Reagan-Thatcher years. The soundtrack also matches the mood, at first being smooth, then irritated, and then chaotic. The couple were easy to root for, especially Sean Bean - who I'd like to have a little more backstory for.Normally, a movie like this would get 5 or 6 out of 10, but that well- done atmosphere makes this good. "},{"Title":"Conflict, Romance & Violence","Date":"7 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":" First-time director Mike Figgis wrote the script and composed the score for this wonderfully atmospheric thriller that's set in his hometown of Newcastle-upon-Tyne. The action takes place predominantly in the Quayside area where the large number of restaurants, bars and clubs ensure that the nightlife is always vibrant, even at a time when the northeast of England is experiencing a period of economic decline. The events that take place in this environment involve conflict, romance and violence and four diverse characters whose paths cross and lead to a series of surprising consequences.Newcastle's annual America Week is a colourful celebration of all things American (with flags, majorettes and a giant inflatable Pepsi bottle in the middle of one of the city's roundabouts) and also, significantly, it acts as a vehicle for attracting much-needed investment into the area. Brendan (Sean Bean) is a young jazz fan who's in need of a job and so, when he sees that there's a vacancy for a cleaner at a local jazz club, he applies immediately. Finney (Sting), who's the owner of The Key Club is surprised at Brendan's interest in the job and takes him on as a cleaner and driver.Cosmo (Tommy Lee Jones) is a Texan businessman with big plans for redeveloping the Quayside and to this end, wants to persuade Finney to sell his club. The local council are keen to support the project and Cosmo has a track record of using whatever method of persuasion is most effective to achieve his aims. His relationship with Kate (Melanie Griffith) is based on her effectiveness in using her charms to win over the support of men in influential positions to ensure that when important decisions are made, they go Cosmo's way.Brendan and Kate accidentally walk into each other in a shopping mall and by coincidence, meet again in Weegee's Café where Kate works as a waitress. When Brendan's eating his meal, he overhears two men at a nearby table discussing their plan to visit Finney to threaten him or even possibly kill him. Brendan arranges to meet Kate after she finishes work and they go to Hopper's Bar together. Brendan tells Finney what he overheard at Weegee's and so, when two vicious thugs visit the club owner and begin to threaten him, the way that he deals with the situation comes as a major surprise to them and also acts as a form of education for the naïve Brendan. Brendan and Kate fall in love and find themselves caught up in the middle of the struggle between Cosmo and Finney which inevitably ends in further violence and tragedy.The exquisite visual style of this movie with its noirish lighting etc contributes significantly to its mood which is often melancholic, unsettling and haunting and many of the shots are beautifully set up. One such example is the view through the window of Hopper's Bar at about closing time which is strongly evocative of Edward Hopper's Nighthawks (1942). The presence of a café that's decorated with pictures by tabloid photographer Arthur Weegee Fellig is also inspired as it adds character to the place and acknowledges the talent of the man who provided the inspiration for Joe Pesci's character in The Public Eye (1992).Some fine performances ensure that all four of the main characters in Stormy Monday make a strong impression. Cosmo is actually a gangster involved in a money-laundering exercise and Tommy Lee Jones is convincingly ruthless as the forceful criminal who totally underestimates Finney. Sting is suitably low-key in his portrayal of the laconic club owner and Sean Bean makes the unassuming Brendan a likable person with a lot to learn. Kate is deeply troubled, doesn't sleep well and wants to get away from her past. Melanie Griffith does extraordinarily well in this role projecting Kate's unusual mixture of toughness and vulnerability in a way that's both powerful and sympathetic.Bizarrely, for reasons explained in the story, an avant-garde group of Polish musicians called The Krakow Jazz Ensemble find themselves featured in the America Week celebrations. They provide some of the film's most humorous moments which ironically add to the poignancy of what happens in the movie's climax. More predictably though, the Otis Redding and B.B.King tracks featured are sensational and a perfect fit for this immensely enjoyable romantic thriller. "}{"Title":"seen several times","Date":"20 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":" i only wanted to respond to the one review about the jazz score. stormy Monday was t-bone walker's big hit. bb king recorded it among others. so figges' film was noir blues and r&b based. this while i wait for mark twain audio book to download. but a great film. ah i now realize that i must write more. Griffith's is great here. sting does a good job. but what is very interesting is figges moves. now i do not know what he did before, but this definitely foreshadows las vegas with cage who has gone on to make fine movies with no soul. but las vegas was incredibly dark and sad. anyway Monday could well be an elmore leonard crime novel/screenplay set in england. but really i only wanted to reply about the musical component. now i have 10 lines. "},{"Title":"OK but not GREAT","Date":"4 December 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":" A better than average film noir set in Newcastle england which gives a fairly inaccurate portrayal of organised crime and the club scene in Newcastle (although i did read a statistic that there were over 400 firearms incidents in Newcastle in 1992 which is staggering considering the whole of england could fit into Texas Newcastle itself is probably the size of a tiny new york suburb and england has extremely tough gun licencing laws) the rain soaked streets and neon lights look fantastic the plot is somewhat of a no brainer the ending left me scratching my head a bit fantastic cast it has to be said but i think the over done the the American influence its like the whole film is a big party celebrating tommy lee Jones presence which is kind of unfair given his performance here pretty much stinks. sting is a fantastic actor and obviously Sean bean i a fantastic actor both from Newcastle however both speak with a fairly none descript northern accent there are no geordie accents (Newcastle accents that people from Newcastle are famous for) in the film which left me feeling a bit short changed to be honest.on an interesting side note there was a 6 part British TV series which kind of a sequel to stormy Monday called FINNEY (1994) which had none of the original cast but was actually really quite good somewhat of a pre SOPRANOS TV crime saga about organised crime and Newcastle's club scene featuring David morrisey (from TV's ONE SUMMER) taking the role of FINNEY (played in stormy Monday by sting). "},{"Title":"Well paced, realistic, drama","Date":"5 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":"  Many dramas of this genre sink into cliches and stereotypes.  Stormy Monday is a refreshing change!A good performance by Sting! "},{"Title":"Noir from Figgis","Date":"19 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":" I like to watch movies around this year (1988.) cause then noir movies were more represented then today. Actually I don't remember the last time I saw some new made noir movie. Well, Figgis made Stormy Monday in 1988. and this movie has lots of pluses from my point of view today. Great actors, excellent music and of course slow happening of the movie.Tommy Lee Jones and Sting were superb. From Tommy I always expect that, but Sting surprised me as Finney, owner of the Key club. He is really confident and cool in his role. Really a must see for all Sting fans. Griffith and Bean are solid in their roles.My only negative things were love story of Griffith and Bean, which is a little bit fast and not very convincing, and the ending. I would end this movie on a different way (maybe with few more scenes right after Andrej's death), but that is only my opinion.But put all the negative things aside and you get truly great film noir with all its qualities. Really good experience for me and I recommend it to everyone who likes this kind of movies. "},{"Title":"Okay, but nothing really to write home about","Date":"29 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":" Not much to say that wasn't said below, but I guess I need ten lines. Kudos to the cinematographer photographing the setting, Newcastle-upon-Tyne. This film was near the height of Melanie Griffith's career, and I have to say that the short, reddish, hairstyle is not particularly flattering to her. But it is always nice to hear her soft dulcet voice, musically feminine, even when she's being tough. Sting's acting was just fine, which makes me think that it isn't that hard, since so many non-actors are able to do decent work at it. I am unfamiliar with Sean Bean, who seemed to be the main character. I found this film to be okay, but nothing really to write home about. "},{"Title":"Interesting but flawed.","Date":"24 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":" This is quite an atmospheric noir-thriller that moves at its own sedate pace, telling a story that could probably be told in a fraction of the time it takes here. That isn't intended as a criticism it's a shame more films don't take time to take a look around and soak up the atmosphere a little instead of dashing toward its conclusion.An incredibly skinny Sean Bean plays Brendan, an unemployed youngster who finds employment at a jazz club run by Finney (Sting). Finney is being pressured by thugs in the employ of American businessman Cosmo (Tommy Lee Jones) into selling his clubs so that the properties can be redeveloped. Getting this redevelopment accomplished requires the greasing of a few palms &#150; and other bodily parts &#150; which is where American waitress (and part-time hooker) Kate (Melanie Griffiths) enters the story. The lives of all four characters converge over a short period of time as the two businessmen clash and Brendan and Kate strike up a relationship.Perhaps the film's main drawback is the way in which it relies too heavily on coincidence to get things moving Brendan repeatedly running into Kate,for example, then sitting at the next table to a couple of heavies planning to 'hit' his new boss, Finney, etc. As we all know life doesn't work like that &#150; and, when it does occur so smoothly in a film, it tends to jar.Actually, I'm wrong &#150; that's not the main drawback at all. The film's biggest flaw comes in a couple of the performances. Jones is as good as he always is, and Griffiths is passable, if nothing special, but the other two &#150; Bean and Sting - are pretty woeful. I've never been a fan of Bean, although I can't really pinpoint why. His performances are always workmanlike and uninspiring, but there are worse actors around who don't irritate me the way Bean does. It would be interesting to see how I felt about him if he ever delivered a performance worth writing positively about &#150; but then, that's probably not something I have to worry about. As for Sting, if his singing was as bad as his acting he'd still be playing the Geordie pub scene. I mean, I love the guy's music, but he's a Geordie who can't do the accent. It's no wonder his acting career stalled so long ago&#133; "},{"Title":"Mediocre music and story.","Date":"1 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":" I always make it a point to see every movie involving jazz, mainly to see how they mess it up, and to see if there's some good music in the thing. This movie starred a man whom I consider to be worst jazz singer in the history of the world, Sting, and thank God he doesn't sing a note in the whole flick. He does try to make some noise on the acoustic bass, and shows that he should stick to electric bass and rock music. There's a horrible English band with one of the worst tenor sax players I've ever heard, honking away at both the club and the American Week party. It sounded like they were trying to sound bad on purpose, and the Maitre'D is shown in one scene trying to tell them to quiet down! The Polish Jazz Band sounded better, with an excellent sax player, but they played some terrible free jazz piece in the last scene that made me want to vomit. The whole Polish angle of the story seemed out of place, and the look of the movie was too glitzy to qualify it as film noir. Sting acted okay, but looks too scrawny to be a tough, English club owner. "},{"Title":"the plot didn't make sense","Date":"23 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":"  The movie did have some good photography, but the plot didn't make sense.  T L Jones was never explained (why he was so powerful).  Of course, we saw the film (cut) on TV. "}]