[{"Title":"The way that action movies should be made.","Date":"10 June 2004","Score":"31 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Shoot To Kill (GB title Deadly Pursuit) is a lively, fairly intelligent action film which benefits from good character development. Many post-1980 action films suffer because they are empty spectacles, full of boring stock characters and visually impressive/emotionally redundant stunts. However, this one is different. There are eight main characters (all of them well-realized) as well as a fundamentally exciting plot, sharp dialogue, and a spectacular mountain setting.FBI agent Warren Stanton (Sidney Poitier) is desperate to track down a dangerous jewel thief following a botched hostage situation. He suspects that the thief has joined a five-man hiking party in the rugged wilderness near Spokane. Unfortunately, there is no way of contacting the hiking guide Sarah (Kirstie Alley) to warn her that a dangerous killer is among her group. Instead, Stanton has to put his trust in another mountain guide, rough and tough Jonathan Knox (Tom Berenger). The unlikely pair pursue the hiking group, hoping to reach them before the killer strikes again.The film moves at a good pace. Interest is generated on several different fronts the volatile relationship between Stanton and Knox; the intriguing guessing-game as to which member of the hiking party is actually the jewel thief/killer; the race-against-time tension (as soon as the hikers have entered Canada, the killer could dispose of them at any time). There is spectacular action, but it is not emphasised to such an overwhelming degree that other story threads are lost. Shoot To Kill is a very commendable action film and it is a pity that more films in the genre are not up to the same standard. "},{"Title":"A triumph!","Date":"29 July 2002","Score":"18 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"   I would just like to start off this review by giving Sidney Poitier the recognition he deserves. He is most definitely one of the most distinguished and talented actors of our generation and a role model for all aspiring actors! Now, on with the review. I first saw this movie during a vacation to the beach with my friend and his family. I had seen several other Poitier efforts such as In the Heat of the Night and Guess Who's Coming to Dinner?,and I stumbled upon this thriller while watching television on one of the nights that it rained. I stopped at TBS and I'm certainly glad that I did! This movie is one of best Poitier movies I've ever viewed! This film incorporates comedy into a genre the usually takes itself a little too seriously. The movie has an overall seriousness about it, but there are a few cheeky moments between Poitier and Berenger. Some of these comedic moments include a scene where Berenger and Poitier are in an ice tunnel during a snow storm. Berenger is laying on top of Poitier to keep him from freezing to death. Poitier asks something like  What are you queer or something?! and Berenger says something like What's the matter? Haven't you ever heard about us mountain boys? Another funny moment comes when Poitier is trying to scale a wall even though he is exhausted. Berenger is at the top trying to convince him to go back. The look on Poitier's face is more than enough to inspire a chuckle.   The performances, the direction, and the cinematography are all well done in this film. The beautiful mountain landscapes inspire sort of a wistful feeling that can often be distracting. I'll also give a thumbs up to the sound effects department of this film. The sound of the rope snapping when Berenger was plummeting from the cable extending across the gorge was enough to make me wince with agony. This movie was executed well and my only complaint was that the villain's identity was revealed earlier than I thought it should have been. All in all I think it was a solid effort that I think anyone who is a fan of suspense films will enjoy. Your best bet as far as renting this movie is to go to a hole-in-the-wall movie rental store that never throws any movie away because, as other reviews have said, it is very hard to find. You may get lucky once in a blue moon and catch it on TBS or TNT, but the edited for TV versions are never as good as the uncut versions. If none of the mom and pop movie rental outlets still carry it, go to blockbuster and demand that they order this movie for you! This movie is a definite must-see for any fan of the suspense genre! FINAL SCORE 9/10 "},{"Title":"A Lot To Like.....Except The Ending","Date":"16 April 2006","Score":"18 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" It wasn't until my fourth viewing of this film (and first on widescreen DVD) that (1) I finally remembered who the killer was as soon as I saw him and (2) lost a little regard for this otherwise very entertaining thriller because of the implausible ending.It's a different kind of adventure story/crime thriller in that the beginning and ending scenes are both in big cities and the long middle part is in the Northwest wilderness. There is some great mountain scenery to enjoy as we tag along with two groups one which has the killer and his hostage (a slim Kirstie Alley!) and another with an FBI man (Sidney Poitier) and his guide (Tom Berenger), who is the hostage's boyfriend.I had no problems with any of this story until the last 20 minutes when both parties reached Vancouver. Then, all credibility went out the window as Berenger is allowed to be side-by-side with Poitier as the latter and the killer shoot it out in various parts of the city. It gets worse as it goes on with Poitier a dead duck a couple of times but he never dies. Only Superman could have survived what he did, but he's the good guy  so he makes it in the end. A little restraint in that ending would have kept this movie just great.Still, if you can put up with the ending the film still offers a lot of suspense, a lot of mystery, interesting action and scenery.....in other words, a lot to like. "},{"Title":"Perfect Poitier and Believable Berenger","Date":"17 October 2002","Score":"16 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Sidney Poitier, who was 61 at the time, and Tom Berenger both do exceptional jobs in this movie. Poitier as an FBI agent and Berenger is a mountain guide. Great scenery in Washington state includes Pugent Sound. This is one of the best movies I have ever seen let alone quite possibly the best in this genre. A good blend of action with the chase of the killer from city to mountains to city along with mental clue teasers. If you like movies like Along Came a Spider, Manhunter, or U.S. Marshals you will enjoy this movie. Well paced with good supporting cast, sets, and music. The killer is not revealed until late in the movie so the suspense is excellent through out it. I hope this comes out on DVD soon. "},{"Title":"Excellent action-adventure flick","Date":"6 September 2006","Score":"13 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Sidney Poitier's return to movies (after a 10 year absence) was this wilderness action flick which is fun all the way.FBI Agent Warren Stantin (Poitier) trails a nasty serial killer to the wilderness and enlists the aid of an experienced mountain guide Jonathan Knox (Tom Berenger). The killer has hitched a ride with 4 other campers who are being led through the mountains by Knox's girlfriend (Kirstie Alley).Well written script, first rate action sequences and solid acting by Berenger and Poitier make Shoot to Kill an excellent action-adventure yarn that's sure to please most. The opening 50 minutes or so are airtight and then it loses a bit of steam but on the whole it's damn good overall. "},{"Title":"Some Inconvenient Allies","Date":"14 January 2008","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" After an eleven year absence from the screen, Sidney Poitier chose to return in an action/adventure film where he plays an FBI agent in search of a killer.He's got good reason to want this guy bad. His quarry is ruthless and kills without mercy. Poitier loses a hostage and the ransom he's asked for. But some good detective work has traced the man to a remote part of the Pacific Northwest.Where the perpetrator has killed again and joined a party of dry fly fishermen being guided by Kirstie Alley into the rugged mountains. No place for a city kid like Poitier, says mountaineer/hermit Tom Berenger who has the prerequisite skills to get the job done. These two are forced into an alliance of inconvenience.The best thing I liked about Shoot To Kill is the guessing game we play for the identity of the perpetrator. Any one of the five men in Kirstie Alley's party could have been the killer. Look at the cast list and you'll recognize a few names who've played some pretty loathsome villains in the past. The identity is revealed suddenly and quite shockingly.What I didn't like with Shoot To Kill is the fact that the final confrontation with the perpetrator is in big city Vancouver where he's escaped with Alley. He needed her in the woods, not any longer, she should have wound up dead. And Berenger and Poitier should have confronted him in the woods.That script decision made the climax a rather ordinary one that you see in a whole lot of police chase films. Still all the players do fine here, my favorite being Kirstie Alley as the woods smart guide. "},{"Title":"The trek in the mountains","Date":"25 April 2006","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" After a diamond dealer's home is attacked by a man who wants the precious stones, the robber takes the dealer's wife hostage in a violent confrontation with the police and FBI in San Francisco. The agent in charge, Warren Stantin, gives the diamonds to the, almost invisible, man, who flees by boat taking the loot with him. The only way to beat the FBI and the people that are following him is to head north to Canada.Thus begins this action thriller that uses the Canadian Rockies as the backdrop for setting this story about a determined FBI enforcer following a deadly assassin who has left a trail of killings as he goes into the mountains. Stantin is told the only way to find his man is by engaging Jonathan Knox, a man who knows the area, to guide him. Knox, who is reluctant, at first, realizes the man might be part of a group his girlfriend, Sarah, is taking on an extended trek of the mountains.Stantin and Knox begin to fight as they have different ideas about what to do, but they end up bonding, as they understand what is at stake. This pair endures some of the worst weather conditions in their quest for the assassin, and in finding the diamonds that the outlaw wants to sell to an unscrupulous man in Vancouver.Roger Spottiswoode directed this action filled movie with sure hand. The screen play is by Harv Zimmel and Daniel Petrie, two men who know how to involve the viewer. Michael Chapman photographed the great outdoors with an eye on the dangerous aspects of the chase.Sidney Poitier is seen as Warren Stantin, an FBI agent that is restless in his pursue of the killer. This was Mr. Poitier's return to the movies after quite a number of years not being in front of a camera. Tom Berenger plays Knox, an outdoors man who is more at home in the mountains than among people.The surprise of the story is that we don't have a clue up to the middle of the film about who the real killer is. By positioning him among the group that Sarah is taking on a mountain expedition, adds a great deal of suspense to the story. The ending leaves a lot to be desired, but that's only a minor complaint about this action packed film. "},{"Title":"The first 45min sets it up nicely","Date":"27 June 2004","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  It think whoever wrote the script for this movie had the first half all planned out, but then didn't know where to go afterwards. The first 40 minutes or so is riveting, one of the greatest openings to a film you'll ever likely to see because it keeps you guessing, there's decoys thrown in and it throws up one big question, which one of the fishermen is the bad guy? I guessed wrong. Once his identity is revealed it all becomes a bit stock standard, other users have said that the bad guy question was answered too soon and i tend too agree, another 20 minutes or so would've helped, the fishermen tour is a fun part of the movie. Despite it's slight decline in power at this point the directing and cinematography remain first class. The characters are believable, realistic, give good feedback and are easy to relate to. Character development in Shoot to Kill isn't matched by many others, simply first class. The script is laugh out loud witty at times and Poitier and Berenger gel well, but the acting does have it's poorer moments, as does the script. A couple of plot holes don't help. But look past some minor flaws and the movie is great, the curiously catchy soundtrack adds to the movies feel, and the scenery is documentary spectacular and also gives a good sense of it's intimidation. Definitely a must watch for thriller fans. Everyone I've shown it too loved it, and everyone I know who's seen it loved it. Highly underrated, yet highly enjoyable.  "},{"Title":"Very good eighties cop thriller","Date":"29 June 2007","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Deadly Pursuit certainly has it's fair share of problems, but as an entertaining little action thriller; it stands up well to criticism, as while some of the dialogue, situations and character drawings don't exactly ring true; the film moves quickly and director Roger Spottiswoode does a good job of ensuring that the film is easy viewing and never becomes boring. Deadly Pursuit is something of a film of two halves; it starts off as a gritty cop thriller, and then mutates into a survivalist themed chase movie. The plot is fairly standard at first, as we witness a man being caught robbing a diamond store. The plot thickens when, after some interrogation from the arresting officers, it turns out that the thief actually owns the store! We then learn that he's stealing the diamonds to pay a kidnapper for the release of his wife. FBI agent Warren Stantin manages to chase the kidnapper down, but he gets away with the diamonds and flees into a forest near Canada; thus meaning that Agent Stantin must chase the killer into the woods, with the help of a rugged local who knows the area.The film does have a number of problems - sometimes, for example, it seems to just jump from one scene to the next without much in the way of a connection. This does keep things moving, but the film can feel a bit disjointed because of it. Still, the plot flows fairly well and enough different angles are created to keep things interesting. The film features a decent cast, headed up by Sidney Poitier. Poitier's character changes a lot through the film, and while the actor sometimes looks a bit silly, he does seem to manage this well. He is joined by Tom Berenger, who also gives a decent performance in his role, while the rest of the cast is filled out by the likes of Clancy Brown, Kirstie Alley and Andrew Robinson. Perhaps the best thing about this movie is the fact that we don't know who the killer is for so long, which builds suspense - and mystery, and the film also carries off a nice twist little twist with the choice of actors surrounding the killer. Overall, I can't really say that Deadly Pursuit is one of the best films of its type - but it's certainly a very good thriller and I recommend watching it! "},{"Title":" You  may  be  a  real  hot  shot  in  the  city,  but out  here,  I'm  in  charge ","Date":"28 June 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Police in every nation have, over the decades accumulated hundreds of stories concerning the chasing of criminals. Sometimes in the city, sometimes in the country and then there are times when the bad guys try to jump jurisdiction by crossing the boarder. This is one such movie called  Shoot to Kill.  The story is of Steve (Clancy Brown) a very intelligent, very crafty diabolic killer who begins with a B & E, armed assault, robbery, kidnapping and graduates to outright Murder. To combat him the F.B.I. assigns a senior and experienced agent named Warren Stantin (Sidney Poitier). The two meet with a robbery, murder where Steve takes his loot and kills his victim and makes good his escape. Stantin vows he will eventually apprehend him. A short time later, Steve emerges by infiltrating a troop of hikers into the U.S. Canadian mountains, where Steve is once again pursued by Stantin who is helped by Jonathan Knox, (Tom Berenger) a stubborned, but very experienced mountain guide who is determined to save his girlfriend (Kirstie Alley) from the clutches of the killer. In it's cast are several well known actors who have also played heavies, like Richard Masur and Andrew Robinson and make it difficult to identify the real killer. The movie is filled with action, adventure and some light moments between the principals. All in all, it's a good film and one is thankful for allowing Mr. Poitier to return to center stage before the camera. **** "}{"Title":"Better than you might think","Date":"27 June 2000","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  A rare action movie that manages to rise above its formula, Shoot to Kill delivers mystery, exciting action, and beautiful cinematography.Tom Berenger has done many action/thriller movies, but Sidney Poitier steps out for a change of pace in this movie.  Its formula is double-fish-out-of-water buddy picture, and it stays pretty close to the formula throughout the movie.  Poitier plays an FBI agent who blew an arrest and wound up with a dead civilian, and has tracked the (unseen) thief/killer into the Pacific Northwest.  Berenger plays a tracker, whose girlfriend runs a trail guide business.  The girlfriend (Kirstie Alley in an outdoor role!) has taken her latest group of travelers out into the woods, and Poitier believes that the killer is among them.  If that's not bad enough, a deadly storm looks like it's coming on.The real fun in this movie is in the first half, where you see all of the men in Kirstie Alley's group.  All of them are recognizable character actors, and most of them have played villains in other movies before.  So which one of them is the killer?  I guessed wrong the first time.Unfortunately, this gets revealed about halfway through, and the movie returns to the formula.  However, the excellent performances and lush cinematography elevate it beyond the norm.  I thought Poitier did a great job as the city-based FBI agent, and Alley was surprisingly good as the trail guide.It's too bad this movie is so hard to find.  It's definitely worth a watch -- or two! "},{"Title":"An Amazing Adventure in the Wilderness! Totally Underrated!","Date":"24 May 2003","Score":"11 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Its too bad they don't make this movie anymore...it has three great actors (Tom Berenger,Kirstie Alley, and Sidney Potier)..whats better than an FBI agent and an expert mountain man trying to hunt down an expert killer/theif in the mountains/wilderness..as they try to survive various obsticles of nature...  "},{"Title":"A must-see.","Date":"25 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" One of the great 80's action/adventure epics; a pleasant surprise I never expected to be so well put together because the only other films by the director I had seen were The 6th Day and Tomorrow Never Dies, which were nothing to write home about. Poitier and Berenger play well of one another, and Poitier in particular has rarely ever been funnier from what I can recall. This was his big comeback after not appearing in a film since A Piece of the Action, which came out all the way back in '77. Thankfully, he chose the right material to come back with and make him relevant again. This is a skillfully crafted and carefully paced thriller with plenty of suspense to keep you on your toes, especially in the first half hour or so, which plays like a much darker version of Poitier's Sergeant Tibbs flicks. The way it starts off almost brutally dark and transitions into a sort of buddy comedy works better than one might expect. The action was well shot, the photography was solid, and overall, I'd say any big action fan, old or young, owes it to themselves to check out this gem. I know I had a total blast with it. "},{"Title":"Solid action-thriller starring Sidney....PWAAAT-EE-AY!","Date":"11 September 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" First, if you haven't seen it, and are planning to, DON'T look at the back of the Region 1 DVD cover! It gives something away that is supposed to be a mystery until about 40 minutes into the movie! This movie is cool in that it's one of those suspense thrillers that limits the number of protagonists and does away with all but superficial sub-plots in favour of fast-paced, exciting chase sequences. As one reviewer said, it grabs and doesn't let go.We begin in the city. Sidney Poitier plays Warren Stanton, an FBI, or G man, called in by the local cops to investigate a suspicious diamond theft - the owner of the store apparently stole his OWN diamonds. It only takes a stern gaze from Stanton for the store owner's resolve to break, and he spills the beans a man has kidnapped his wife, and is holding her to ransom while the owner goes and gets the diamonds.Stanton intervenes, and tries in vain to negotiate the woman's release with disastrous consequences, and the man makes his escape. We know immediately this guy is dangerous, that's evident from the way he executes the maid, but what we soon learn is that he is extremely smart as well. Except for one huge mistake, which ultimately cost him his life even though he makes said mistake about 20 minutes into the movie...but anyway...nitpicking! I'll talk about the mistake in a sec.The man escapes into the Pacific Northwest wilderness, hooking up with a troop of holiday fisherman being led through the rockies by a guide, Sarah (Kirstie Alley). Cut off from outside communication, there is no way to warn Sarah or her fishermen that a dangerous killer walks among the group.Stanton, in the meantime, enlists the aid of Sarah's boyfriend Johnathan Knox (Tom Berenger), a rugged mountain man type, to lead him into the wilderness in pursuit of Sarah, who (unknowingly at first) is harboring a psycho.Interestingly, the Australian release title of this film, Deadly Pursuit, was more fitting i thought. Now, the mistake the killer has escaped, basically...he's in the woods, he's killed a fisherman for his clothes, he is gonna join the fishing guys and Sarah and basically hijack the adventure holiday to get himself over the border into Canada. Now, why on Earth would he shoot the fisherman in the left eye (being the EXACT SAME way he executed the diamond-guy's wife) thus tipping the authorities to the fact that it's the same guy responsible. For the smart guy he's made out to be, it seems a bit far-fetched that he would leave such an obvious signature. Maybe a bit of lazy writing which I can kind of forgive, given that the rest of the film is so good. Or maybe I'm way off and it's just that this killer is a bit of an idiot and egotist who WANTED Stanton to know it was him. Either way, it's a great chase/adventure through the mountain wilderness, with some great photography and several key stunt sequences that really work. Stanton's fish-out-of-water stuff provides some comic relief, like the moose scene, and the what the hell are these? - Battery powered, heated socks, the latest thing! The music is also good, fitting to the action and the pace of the film. Kirstie Alley is good as the tough mountain chick, who is pretty good at looking after herself, and shows that she's not all talk once the kidnapper reveals himself to her. Tom Berenger plays another tough guy role here with enthusiasm. He's a rugged character, tough as nails and you feel his commitment to finding Sarah at all costs. You want him to get his hands on the kidnapper-guy, because you just know he'd kick the sh*t out of him in three seconds, gun or no gun! Anyway...that wouldn't be as exciting a movie I suppose! So a couple of things stretch believability...but they are minor unless you are really opposed to that kind of thing...in which case maybe don't hire action-thrillers? The only one that's a bit strange is having the 50-something Sidney Poitier take like 6 gunshot wounds to the torso (and I'm talking, like, a 9mm here, not a .22 or a pellet gun) and yet is still able to wrestle a 30-something, uninjured man over the side of a ferry and then proceed to hand-fight him underwater and finally kill him, all while holding your breath (you'd wanna hope one of those bullets didn't puncture a lung!) and once he's disposed of, get yourself back on board only to collapse just in time for some paramedics to put a stretcher under you...okay...but anyway, like I said, this is an ACTION-THRILLER...not a documentary or hard-hitting war drama, so I can forgive some minor plot discrepancies and liberties here and there, because, all in all, this is just a damn good film! It's worth mentioning that the script is co-written by Daniel Petrie Jr - a great mind of the action genre.It's great in that for the first 40 minutes or so, you as an audience member do not know who the killer is among the band of fisherman. Once you do know, it's like the gloves come off and this film kicks into high gear for the final thrilling chase sequence as the killer makes his desperate dash for the border, Stanton and Knox only a step behind... In having a tricky reveal like that, you kind of limit your audience as far as replay value is concerned, so I can sort of understand why this movie is kind of forgotten today. Once you know the twist why bother watching it again? I say for the performances, the setting, the adventure...I've seen this movie probably 20 times growing up and again just last night, and I can still say I enjoy it immensely. "},{"Title":"Great little discussed thriller.","Date":"17 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Shoot to Kill starts late one night in San Francisco as diamond merchant Mr. Berger (Milton Selzer) sets the alarm off in his jewellery shop & the police show up, still in his pyjama's with a couple of pounds of diamonds it's clear that he's being forced to act against his will & when questioned by special FBI agent Warren Stantin (Sidney Poitier) he admits that an armed man has his wife as a hostage. The local police & Stantin try to negotiate the release of Mrs. Berger (Janet Rotblatt) but the plan only ends up getting her killed & the killer escaping with the diamonds. The next day & the killer is trying to cross the border into Canada through a small town called Bishop Falls but is spooked when he sees a large police presence & decides to kill a member of a hiking group & take his place so he can cross the border on foot. Meanwhile Stantin learns of the man's death which was in the same unique manner Mrs. Berger was killed & sets off after his man through the tricky & rough mountainous terrain...Directed by Roger Spottiswoode & known under the better title of Deadly Pursuit here in the UK I thought this was a great action thriller which doesn't often get mentioned. The script by Harv Zimmel, Michael Burton & Daniel Petrie Jr. takes itself pretty seriously although there are one or two light hearted moments surrounding agent Stantin's 'fish out of water' type situation even if the scene where he confronts a Grizzly Bear & scares it off by flapping his arms in the air is a little too silly. The film moves along at a nice pace & mixes the genres of thriller, action & whodunit very effectively. The character's are good & I liked the way that despite working together agent Stantin & his guide didn't suddenly become the best of friends & have long deep, meaningful conversations about their lives as in say Lethal Weapon (1987) because that's just so clichéd. In fact there isn't that much dialogue spoken in the film & poor Kirstie Alley barely says a word! Shoot to Kill starts off as a whodunit mystery but about half way through it reveals the killer & it changes in tone & becomes a taught thriller & I actually rather liked this abrupt & unexpected change in direction it took. A good solid throughly entertaining thriller with a decent cast that's worth a look but won't have much replay value as once you know the killer the films twist won't have any impact & the entire first half will lose it's effectiveness.Director Spottiswoode does a good job here, the isolated forest locations are well used & the film has a nice tension to it especially during it's first half when we don't know who the killer is. There are some good action scenes including chases, a car chase, some shoot outs & people hanging over cliffs on rope although when John hits that cliff face the force & impact would have broken just about every bone in his body. The violence & body count are relatively low as is the profanity but that makes a nice chance.Technically the film is fine with nice location shooting, it was shot largely in Canada with the opening sequence shot in San Fransico. It's well made & I would have imagined it had a decent budget coming from the Disney owned Touchstone Pictures. The acting is good & there's a pretty impressive cast here.Shoot to Kill, I much prefer the title Deadly Pursuit, is a neat little action thriller with a good concept that's not predictable has unusual relationships between the character's & is well worth a watch. "},{"Title":"How's the weather up there!","Date":"5 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" ***SPOILERS*** After a ten year absence Sidney Poitier is back in front of the cameras as big time FBI Agent Warren Stantin with a new pair of thermal underwear as he searches in the great American North-West not for Bigfoot but for a killer whom he let escape or slip out of his fingers after a kidnap murderer back in San Francisco. In what looks like a re-make of the 1958 film the Defient Ones but as good guys and not being handcuffed together Poitier as Agent Stantin and his partner rugged mountain man Jonathon Knox played by a very fit and in tip top shape, for what's expected of him in the movie,Tom Berenger are out looking for an escaped murderer and kidnapper Steve-no last name given in the credits-played by Clancy Brown who hooked up with a group of people out to climb the mountains and enjoy the wonders of nature.With the movie being filmed in the politically correct 1980's the fact that Stantin is black as well as the boss and Knox is white and a bit of a redneck race was almost totally absent in the two mens relationships but replaced with Stantin being a big time city FBI man and Knox being an almost hermit like mountain or country boy. This caused a lot of tension between the two who earned each others respect by saving each others lives by the time the movie ended.****SPOILERS**** After Steve murderer all the hikers he was with he took their guide Sarah Rennell, Christie Alley, not just hostage but to help him find his way to Canada where he plans to spend the some $3,000,000.00 in diamonds that he stole back in SF. As we soon found out Sarah is Knox's girlfriend that makes his tracking down Steve a very personal matter. The movie end up in Vancouver Canada with both our hero's after getting a shave shower and new clean set of clothes, the old ones stunk like hell, finally tracking down the elusive Steve that results in a wild car chase as well as shoot out on a ferry that ends almost at the bottom of Vancouver Bay. With Knox again saving, for the second time, Stantin life who was about to go under for the third time. "},{"Title":"Top notch thriller","Date":"1 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Shoot To Kill (also known as Deadly Pursuit) is notable for signalling the cinematic return of Sydney Poitier, who was absent for a little while preceding this one. It's also a knockout thriller featuring a genuinely frightening antagonist, gorgeous pacific northwest wilderness cinematography, and a taut, well drawn plot. Poitier plays FBI agent Warren Stantin, who tracks a heinous jewel thieving murderer from the big city out to a rural patch. Then, the criminal disappears into the mountains, disguising himself in plain sight amongst a group of hikers touring the wilderness. Stantin enlists the help of rugged outdoorsman Jonathan Knox (Tom Berenger), whose girlfriend (Kirstie Alley) happens to be leading the hikers with the killer in their midst. And so the two embark on a bicker laden trip into the vast mountain ranges to track the party, before the killer starts turning on them. Berenger's belligerent, anti social demeanour towards Poitier provides amusing camaraderie as they both discover that between the survival know how and the criminal profiling, they both need each other. There's solid work from Richard Masur, Andrew Robinson and Clancy Brown as well. It's all shot in the British Columbia area as well and we get to see some truly stunning photography, including an end sequence not only filmed but actually set in Vancouver (lol its adorable that Americans think the seabus is a huge ferry). A lean, mean thriller with a lot of natural beauty to behold, and a cast that elevates that slightly generic narrative into a flick that holds our attention with its resolve and cunning thrills. "},{"Title":"One of those personal favorites.","Date":"9 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" A terrific thriller adventure flick with lots of fine acting by Sydney Poitier, Tom Berenger, Kirstie Alley and the whole bunch playing the survivalists. The film is roughly divided into three geographical sections 'heist' (prelude), 'survival trip' (the main course) and 'finale in Vancouver' (aftermath). All parts are suspenseful (and comical at moments), but the different settings really add to the colour of the movie.The group dynamics when Alley's characters teams up with a crew (one of them is the baddie, but who?) work great, and Berenger and Poitier have good chemistry as well. Of course, the film works best when you see it for the first time (and you still don't know who the baddie is), but I'm always looking forward to seeing it once in a while on the BBC. It's one of those re-runs that never bores, and I must have seen it at least four or five times by now.9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A Desperately Dangerous Manhunt","Date":"27 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" The first 16 minutes of this brilliant chase movie are so intense that it's hard to imagine that what follows could be anything but an anti-climax. The fact that it isn't comes as quite a surprise and testifies to the sheer quality of this highly entertaining adventure thriller. With its combination of well executed stunts, chases and action sequences as well as suspense, humour and stunning locations, it's perfectly understandable why Shoot To Kill (aka Deadly Pursuit) achieved so much critical and commercial success at the time of its release and also why it still remains so enjoyable to watch many years later.After a San Francisco jeweller breaks into his own store in the middle of the night and removes a collection of diamonds, the FBI discover that his wife is being held hostage and that the diamonds are the ransom that the kidnapper has demanded. Tense negotiations follow but eventually the kidnapper escapes with the diamonds after shooting the jeweller's wife and housemaid. Experienced FBI agent Warren Stantin (Sidney Poitier), who'd been in charge of the negotiations, blames himself for what happened and so becomes determined to hunt down the mysterious killer.The killer's trail leads to Washington State where it becomes clear that he'd killed a tourist and using his victim's identity, had joined a small group of men who'd set off on a fishing trip. Their trek across some exceptionally hazardous mountains and woods was being led by a local guide called Sarah Renell (Kirstie Alley) and Stantin quickly recognises that the only way he'll be able to continue his mission will be to have his own guide and the obvious choice for the role is Sarah's boyfriend and skilled mountain guide, Jon Knox (Tom Berenger). Knox is a surly tough-guy who only accepts the job very reluctantly because he doubts the ability of the older city-dweller to cope with the conditions or keep up the pace needed to have a reasonable chance of rescuing Sarah from the attentions of the dangerous psychopath.Predictably, Stantin and Knox's partnership becomes very strained on their journey as they're confronted with some very dangerous situations such as having to cross an incredibly deep gorge in a rope-bridge basket, climbing up sheer rock faces and having to set up camp in deep snow. The climax to the men's journey comes when they arrive at Vancouver, where the killer had gone to meet a diamond broker (who's a fence) and also where they find that the dynamic between them changes dramatically.Sidney Poitier is exceptional in his role as a man who's very professional and determined in his work and also copes well with a whole series of challenges. Similarly, Tom Berenger is well cast as the rugged guide who learns during the journey that both men possess different strengths and is also surprised when ultimately, they develop a good deal of mutual respect.Shoot To Kill is well-directed with the required levels of tension, humour and pace being perfectly balanced to guarantee the best results and the cinematography is magnificent throughout. "},{"Title":"Quite good, but felt like a TV movie.","Date":"2 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" DEADLY PURSUITI had never heard of this film until I saw it for sale on DVD. I am a sucker for an 80s film, so thought I would get it and give it a go.The movie is about a thief and murderer on the run. An FBI agent and a local guide is chasing him and it is a race against time through mountains and forests to save the hostage that the murderer has.It is a typical thriller. The guess work was there from the off set. I loved the way the film started. There was no introducing characters or extra added story. It dived right in there with a hostage situation and a couple of murders. It was a fast paced start to the film which got me hooked right away.The group of tourists that were on the guide around the mountains was well done too. It did keep me guessing and wondering who the killer was. It did a god job at hiding it too because the person I thought it was turned out to be innocent. I never would have guessed who it was. I did think they revealed the killer a little bit too soon though, they could have stretched it out a little bit more for suspense.The whole film felt like a TV movie. I couldn't imagine this being in the cinema. If anything it could have been an extended episode of a crime show from the 80s.The acting was terrible. Tom Berenger did an OK job, but there were moments when I thought he just didn't pull off his emotions right. Sidney Poitier was OK, but seeing him deliver his lines was comical. He just looked uncomfortable in the role and it didn't seem very natural. Kirsty Alley was probably the best actress in the movie. She was the victim and played it well.Overall this is a good movie, but it wasn't anything special. This movie has been made quite a lot of times before and the story will be used again and again.I will give this film 6 out of 10.Everybody else up here acts like they've never seen a black man before. Why should the bear be different?For more reviews, please like my Facebook pagehttps//www.facebook.com/pages/Ordinary-Person-Movie- Reviews/456572047728204?ref=hl "}{"Title":"Sidney Poitier and Tom Berenger pursue a murderer into the mountain wilds","Date":"16 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Shoot to Kill is an adventure-pursuit-crime story, done in a workmanlike and reasonably entertaining and professional way. It's mainly action. It lacks theme. For awhile it is a mystery because we do not know the identity of the murderer. The movie also is a thriller, presenting a variety of dangerous situations. All of this is melded together to keep us glued to the screen for 105 minutes.The movie is likable. The star power of Poitier helps, but so does the general situation of pursuit into mountains, snow and the wilds.The movie felt like it went on too long, piling one climax on another. This kind of pursuit story that covers distance almost always hits a point where the action slows down or else is contrived at times. This is no exception. The dialog is not especially sharp. On the other hand, the situation of the tenderfoot Poitier coping with obstacles of nature has possibilities that the movie manages to exploit. We are given one obstacle after another, from mountain cliffs to bear.A killer who kills needlessly and without remorse, merely to make a point about his superiority, escapes into a fishing party led by Kirstie Alley. FBI agent Sidney Poitier allies with Alley's woodsman companion, Tom Berenger, to track them and capture the man.We follow two sub-stories a good deal of the way. The main one is the Poitier-Berenger story, but the Alley story also gets about even play. Toward the end, these two paths merge.There was no attempt in the script to make the story more than it was or raise it to any kind of mythic or even metaphoric status. The story stayed unpretentious although contrived in places. Poitier and Berenger were cut off from external help, for example, not exactly realistic.It holds one's attention and has entertainment value. The scenery is quite nice. The challenges faced by Poitier and Berenger are reasonably engaging. Overall, the picture is about average, and average means it's not bad for what it is. "},{"Title":"Pursue this adventure thriller","Date":"8 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" In my opinion, Deadly Pursuit is quite a slick movie, but more an adventure and in part, thriller. It's one of those movies, which in it's start, immediately leaves you wondering what's going on, and what's to ensue, when a lone car comes speeding down a rain swept city street. A great night shot. I love those movies. When a very clever psychotic, (Clancy Brown, always reliable as a good performer) escapes hot shot FBI cop profiler, Poitier (marking a solid comeback) and his men after a negotiation, goes to s..t, he makes it his personal, mission to capture this madman, who have two aged hostages plus a maid and heir dog. The killer has taken off with these diamonds, so guilt stricken Poitier needs a guide, loner Berenger, the wilderness, his really own karmic environment. Berenger, not a real people person, who too could use a shower or too, is loathe at first to take Poitier, but really he has no choice. And with his survival skills in the great outdoors lacking here, our inept Poitier becomes the pain in Berenger's arse. Poitier's ineptness is what's funny too, some scenes, involving a horse. But too, Berenger's short fuse, adds more laughs, especially in one scene, involving a stubborn Poitier. Berenger's love (Kirsty Alley) Sarah, is leading a party of men on a hunting expedition, one man escaping the hell of a divorce, another one being the jewel stealing psycho. When too in a chinwag, Brown, keeps asking another of his fellow party, some questions, as if to maintain his guise of normalcy, where if this guy was among you, you wouldn't think for a second, he's weird or dangerous. But these stone cold psycho's are so good at pulling off their act of Mr good and wholesome, they themselves deserve an Oscar. Soon the other men of party are all killed, some of them falling into the river, one of them told by Brown, that he's a cop, before this poor explorer buys it. Now we have a cosey scene with just Brown and Sarah, which is really an inhospitable one. Sarah is a fighter and has an independence about her. She has balls too, as when offered one of the diamonds, she throws it in the river. The film is in the adventure, where Berenger and Poitier, tackle obstacles, one big one, trying to cross a ravine, from one cliff to another where it's means was tampered with, so our two have to do it the hard way using their own ropes and pegs. They encounter a bit of a hiccup, and Berenger goes flying hard against the face of a big rock, (I can still feel it and hear that slap) then manages to climb back up, which really got me exhausted as it did our actors. Another thrilling scene has them chased by a big grizzly, and you'll love how this situation is dealt with. I also loved it when the blizzard hit, that had me thinking, Are these two scenes part of the same environment. They dig a burrow furiously, under the snow, amidst the wild blizzard. Poitier is so cold that Berenger has to warm him up. Another funny moment. The next day, a fist punches through the snow, where we have a warmish sun of relief. Then we near towards a climax with some things I couldn't buy. 1. Like how they just happened to track Alley and co down when coming onto a mountain road. And 2. Just outside the police station, how they happened to overhear a report that leads to a location, where Alley and her captor were. The climax was powerful, I must say, where it's great to see our Sidney back in action. But despite some flaws, Deadly Pursuit is a good 88' movie I've viewed many times, with beautiful outdoorsy locations, that almost makes you want to take up, being an explorer. But if part of a troupe, you certainly wouldn't want to be in one, killer Brown is part of. "},{"Title":"Tough thriller delivers the goods","Date":"6 April 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" A slick and efficient wilderness thriller utilising a few great actors to strong effect, DEADLY PURSUIT is one of my favourite crime films of the 1980s. The story is simplicity in itself, a classic odd-couple pairing as inner-city FBI agent Sidney Poitier is forced to team up with a survivalist type to track down a ruthless murderer. This is the type of film that you don't really watch for the intricacies of the storyline, as it's kept very simple and straightforward, but to enjoy great outdoor photography, a sharp script and commanding performances.Poitier returned from a decade-long break from acting for his role here, and he couldn't have picked a better part he plays a commendable guy, extremely hard-bitten and intelligent and yet not without humour too &#x96; witness the very funny scenes involving a moose and a horse. Tom Berenger, in comparison, is taciturn and unfriendly and watching the two butt heads makes for a lot of fun.As the villain of the piece, Clancy Brown gives a towering performance that builds on his breakout part as the Kurgan in HIGHLANDER. He's hulking and frightening, a vicious psychopath who leaves a trail of bodies in his wake and doesn't think twice about bumping off defenceless old women. It's truly an intimidating turn, delivered in classic Brown style, and adds to the film immeasurably. Kirstie Alley is thrown into the mix to equalise the gender balance a little and doesn't have a lot to work with, but to be fair the film isn't about her.For a thriller, there are plenty of suspense scenes, some of them truly nail-biting &#x96; witness the set-piece involving the cable car. Okay, so the film does lose points slightly for moving away from the wilderness locations for the climax &#x96; it would have done a lot better by staying in the mountains &#x96; but such things are merely minor detractions and don't spoil the flow too much. This no-frills adventure/thriller hybrid is right on the money. "},{"Title":"A first-class thriller","Date":"30 July 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" I enjoyed this film very much upon first viewing and I've must have watched it hundreds of times since and never get bored! Deadly Pursuit is a nail-biting, intelligently thought out action thriller made all the more stronger with its excellent cast and mountainous settings. It is certainly a welcome return for the legendary Sidney Poitier after a decade away from the screen.The intrigue regarding which of the five members of Kirstie Alley's (as Sarah) hiking group is a deranged jewel thief and killer is there in abundance; perhaps all have something to hide, you just don't know! This point is heightened thanks to the casting of actors well known for portraying bad guys, namely Andrew Robinson and Clancy Brown. When we do find out who the killer is, the cat-and-mouse game reaches new heights.Deadly Pursuit is a simple title for a simple film, but it does move along at a good pace, and adds full-on tension and interest to keep the viewer entertained; for example the turbulent yet vital relationship between Poitier's Stanton and Tom Berenger's Knox, two very different individuals coming together for one and the same purpose; the sometimes humorous moments (Stantin's struggles with a horse, a scene where he and Knox have to shelter from a snowstorm as well as their encounter with a grizzly bear), mixed with great action that doesn't go over-the-top as proved with other similar movies.Sidney Poitier and Tom Berenger are a pleasure to watch together. Despite their character's sometimes volatile relationship, the two actors do share a certain chemistry, while Kirstie Alley performs well despite limitations to her character.I enjoyed Deadly Pursuit to the full. Roger Spottiswoode directs a well crafted action thriller that can be watched again and again. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Highly enjoyable action-comedy","Date":"8 February 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" The evergreen Sydney Poitier stars with Tom Berenger (in an unaccustomed good guy role) in this highly enjoyable 80's action-comedy from Roger Spottiswoode.One thing really assures this film will work, and that's the great script from Harv Zimmel, Michael Burton and Daniel Petrie Jr., which is professionally handled by Spottiswoode. He develops the clever, intriguing plot well, carefully building the tension while maintaining enough credibility and keeping the viewer at arms length, totally hooked.There's plenty of action which manages to be both very exciting and atmospheric, with some fantastic British Colombian scenery superbly captured by Michael Chapman, yet it never becomes gratuitous. Humour is added very adeptly and is effective in alleviating some of the pressure, whilst balancing the whole film nicely.It was great to see Poitier returning to the silver screen after a decade long dry spell, and he is most suitable as FBI guy Stanton. Berenger's mountain man Knox is sufficiently rugged, Kirstie Alley brings plenty of spunk to her role as a tough mountain guide, and John Scott has composed a most enjoyable score.Released in the United States as Shoot to Kill.Thursday, April 20, 1995 - T.V. "},{"Title":"17/7/1999 !","Date":"16 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" There is one great sure truth about movies, not only that it last for ever, but also that our memories last with it. Therefore, whatever how many years passed by .. when you watch a certain movie you recall all of your happy (or unhappy) memories which are connected with the first watching' time, with all of its thoughts and feelings.As for (Shoot to Kill) I was 21 year old at the time when I first watch it. At the time I've just ended my fourth and final year in faculty of arts, waiting for the result of my exams, so my friend (he was my neighbor too) who was waiting for his as well but at the faculty of law. Both of us were movies' freak and maybe you'll understand how crazy we were when I tell you that we raced once to finish watching all the movies in one video store near our homes !!, I remember that he saw more horror movies than I did, but I surpassed at watching the action and the musical ones. Anyway it was the glorious glory's days, we were watching movies at our national TV like (Hot To Trot), (Romancing The Stone), (Other People Money) there were all good, so at the theaters too like (X Files The Film) ; although we were disappointed with it but we're having each other and ready to watch more movies, better or worse. Through the video we've enjoyed a lot of nice ones and how we got our own dictionary out of the movies' dialogue.. to hang a phone call saying (I'll Be Back !) from (Terminator), or to end a hot conversation peacefully (opinions are like asses, everybody got one !) from (The Dead Pool), or to be naughty sometimes (Hubba Hubba !) from (Payback) and so on..In 14/7/1999 I saw (Contact) by (Robert Zemeckis) and my friend just finished (Shoot To Kill), so we recommended every one's movie to each other to discuss it later as usual in our discussion zone  The Gym !.I went to read its cover to discover that it's an action thriller that got (Sidney Poitier) as the lead and (Roger Spottiswoode) as a director, so I rented it enthusiastically. And when I watched it, I just fell in love with it. (Shoot to Kill) was sharp, so solid and more beautiful than most of the above. It's the good old school at its best and that's ladies and gentlemen my favorite kind of action, not the awful grisly comic books graphic novels video games kind of rhythm, violent and idiocy (YES, Sin City, Sin Movies !). I see that this good movie got it all. Firstly the fine screenplay, especially when it cared not only about making good action thriller time with no flaws at all, but also when it showed the comparison of two clever men and how everyone, in his own world and by his environment's rules, is a real hero. Actually it said that the work of any police officer in the city is as hard as the mountain climber's work in the woods ! Or that the world is one giant jungle therefore you must know how to survive but everyone by their special talents. Look at the great (Poitier) so clumsy in the jungle with many wicked details and witty expressions while (Berenger) was the MAN. But then in the city, it's totally the opposite, where (Poitier) was the master of his civilized yet the same brutal wood, and (Berenger) turned into the naive one who discovered finally the truth about (Poitier) to tell him during the car chase You're a MAD MAN!.Furthermore, that strong music, that wonderful cinematography, and that perfect editing; remember the armlet's scene at the beginning .. That was unforgettable piece of work as a lesson in how to build a thrill in one short scene. And naturally the proficient direction. This movie delivers greatly particularly at the last 15 minutes; I simply adore this climatic sequence.I loved it to the extent that I watched it for a second time right after the first one immediately ! You can find it in my list for the best 100 non-Egyptian movies ever. And still a fine enjoyment to watch that one from the 1980s, thanks mainly to the iconic presence of (Poitier) as an action star here (try to believe that this graceful elegant was 61 years old at the time !!). I didn't find till now an explanation for his 11 years of absence as a movie star from 1977 to 1988 ?! But whatever, he came back to make (Little Nikita - 1988) and (Shoot To Kill &#x96; 1988) and really what a huge difference between them both as one is half good and one too good !.So after watching the movie, at the title's date, I remember so joyfully that in the next afternoon I've met my friend at the very zone of us, and when I asked him smiling You FBI guys Do This Kind Of S**t a Lot ? I had him and me answering in the same time imitating Poitier  Every Damn Day !. Although it's a line which maybe we've heard in other movies or even TV shows before, but when it has Poitier's performance.. It becomes CLASSIC. "},{"Title":"Interesting and exciting film.","Date":"20 July 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  I enjoyed this film a lot and I thought the acting was superb. Poitier, Berenger and Alley all did them self proud. The film begins with Poitier(a Cop)goes to investigate a robbery which turns out to be a man desperately trying to save his wife from a man who is holding her hostage in their house. Poitier intervenes and the wife ends up dead with a bullet through her eye. Shortly afterwards the killer joins a tour group hiking through a mountain range. Kirstie Alley is the group Leader. The identification of the killer is kept secret until he murders the other members of the group and takes Kirstie Alley hostage. While that is taking place Poitier joins Berenger Alley's partner and a grumpy, sarcastic excuse of a person and they try to track down the killer and save Alley. The film concludes a city with the killer still on the loose with a terrified Alley and Berenger and Poitier closing in.......... Watch it if you like a good thriller.  "},{"Title":"Good old-fashioned action movie.","Date":"2 June 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  No big explosives. No expensive car chases. No repetition. Shoot to Kill has the qualities that make it a good old-fashioned action movie that is good from beginning to end. Sidney Poitier plays Detective Warren Stantin, a cop who is on the trail of a kidnapper with a package full of diamonds. His adversary is a dangerous killer without limits. He kidnapped a diamond dealers wife, and when Warren showed up on the case, he shot his hostage and ran with the diamonds. Before Stantin and the other Washington cops could stop Warren when he fled upstate, he joined up with a hiking crew that headed into the mountains, lead by their guide, Sarah Renell (Kirstie Ally). We don't yet know who among the group is the elusive killer (unless you are familiar with the actor's name), as we had not seen his face during the introduction. He kills off the rest of the hikers and kidnaps Sarah, forcing her to guide him through the forrest. Warren can't just get up and go tracking through the mountains on his own. He's a city cop with too many city habits, and couldn't survive too well on his own as he will soon realize. He is faced with dangerous climbs up steep mountains, plummeted with pounds of snowfall, and is even forced to confront a grizzly bear. Even if Warren, as he says, came face to face with the Mafia, KKK, and KGB, he is still no match for a hike through these woods.So, he hires John Knox (Tom Berenger), an expert woodsman, who doesn't take likely to his new partner. Sarah is his wife, and he'd just assume go on his own and take care of things his own way. At least he changes his mind when Warren becomes less of a city slicker novice and more of a guy who can pull his own weight, even helping Knox out of a few near-death dilemmas. Just watching these two fight their way through nature lends some pretty good action sequences, and some very funny moments between Berenger and Poitier.The story presents two perspectives part of the time we are watching Warren and John make their way desperately through the mountains; the other time is spent watching the hikers or, pretty soon, just Sarah and her kidnapper. And she's no dumb hostage, either. Her leverage is her expertise of the forrest, and without her, the kidnapper would be helpless. There's nothing too flashy about this movie. No big budget explosions and other ploys that filmmakers use to draw attention to their action films. This is just a good old-fashioned, simple action movie with great sequences, great actors, and a tremendous view of the mountains of Washington and Canada. It's a pretty good movie.  "},{"Title":"True edge of your seat thriller!","Date":"28 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  This is possibly Sidney Poitier's best movie.  It's a fast paced, who done it which finds an FBI agent (Sidney Poitier) out of his element while trying to find the killer.  This is a very well done movie, from beginning to end (acting, writing, directing...). "},{"Title":"I believe this is a very suspenseful and well acted movie.","Date":"17 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  I have seen this movie @ 20 times and I never get tired of it. The suspense is terrific. If you haven't seen it trying to guess who the killer is can be very tough. Enjoyed the scene with the bear and the scene on the ferry. It is just that good. "}{"Title":"aka DEADLY PURSUIT in the UK. WARNING POSSIBLE SPOILERS!!","Date":"29 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Retitled DEADLY PURSUIT in the UK after the US title struck a nerve politically, Sidney Poitier's return to the big screen plays like a rural version of LETHAL WEAPON and at times is an assured thriller which opens brilliantly. Thoughtful and suspenseful at times with a real sense of logistic applied in it's script.Poitier plays a veteran lawman who is assigned to a case involving an ageing jeweller who is caught trying to steal his own diamonds. Poitier asks to speak with his wife who is the co-owner of the shop, but he discovers that a killer has taken up residence in their house and is holding a maid and the wife hostage. The killer kills the maid when he tells Poitier 'I'm sending the maid out with a message' by blowing her through the back with a shotgun'. The initial chase leads Poitier to a quayside where he meets the killer for the first time, but the killer escapes having killed the wife.Poitier heads into the mountains where he thinks the killer has gone and meets a reluctant mountaineer (Tom Berenger) who has to help him....Good interplay between Poitier's Glover to Berenger's Gibson and a memorable adventure from start to finish. "},{"Title":"Outstanding acting, directing, scenery, story line...","Date":"18 December 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Have watched this movie at least 10 times in VHS, and never get tired of it. Sydney, Tom, and Kristie are all great.  The scenery in the mountains and crossing the gorge is spectacular.  Can't wait until it is out in DVD and can play on my 61 TV, with the volume cranked up on my Bose Surround Speaker system... "},{"Title":"Worth seeing","Date":"27 May 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  One of the most under-rated action thillers of the 1980's. A bit obscure so you may have trouble finding it in a rental store if you live in smaller community. I like the screenplay, and direction very much, though they are not without their flaws. I would say the best part of this movie is the ambiguity of the identity of the killer, and the red herrings given early on. Michael Chapman's cinematography is breathtaking as always. I also enjoyed John Scott's score as well. I recommend people should see it at least once. "},{"Title":"Shoot To Kill - A review in seven snide remarks","Date":"15 June 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Explication, complication, tons of screenwriter clichefication. Mmmm! Ham and corn, my favorite. The only thing missing is the saccharine. One way to put it would be to say that Sidney Poitier anchors this cast of B movie actors and TV celebs. But Poitier is pretty good. It's the screenplay that's the real anchor. Someone is going to die but it ain't gonna be the A or B stars.No chase scene is complete without at least 3 different false endings. You can drive your testicles straight up into your rib cage by diving into the water like that.Did I mention there's a storm coming in? "},{"Title":"Did you see the Moose...","Date":"12 February 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" A man is discovered breaking into his own jewellery shop in the dead of night.Questioned closely, it's learned that his wife is being held hostage by an extortionist who demands the diamonds in the shop's safe.The extortionist manages to escape FBI agent Warren Stantin, who subsequently chases him into the forests of Northern America.Stantin recruits the help of a reluctant local Jonathon Knox, who has the skills necessary to track down the criminal.The only problem is that Stantin has no experience in the wilderness...From the amazing opening ten minutes, this film is a real oddity, a bona-fide classic movie that has long been forgotten, and is shown on BBC 1 every year at a silly hour.It's so strange that this film was/has/is overlooked, because it has so many qualities to it.One moment it's a tense, almost mystical psycho thriller, and then we are thrown into the middle of a party, with the director throwing in as many bad guys as possible from pass movies, to try and fool the audience.And then after moments of sheer intense, we are treated to some very funny moments of comedy, The Moose scene, the scene with the ear, and Poitiers getting used to the elements.All very funny, and all specific to the movie.The two leads put in great performances and never let up the hokey chemistry they have, and while the film does lose a little edge in the final third, it has a great two acts to more than make up for it.An excellent movie, and one I hope Hollywood doesn't re-boot. "},{"Title":"Middle chunk makes it worthwhile","Date":"1 February 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Shoot To Kill is a movie that's just always walking tightrope above a swamp of grey mediocrity but never falls in. The plot is completely generic, but at least there's one interesting element to it finding out the identity of the killer. It's not handled all that well, you don't exactly get to puzzle it together, but it does keep you interested for a while. The actors are mostly chosen from the boring half of the B-list (Kirstie Alley, Tom Berenger, sigh), but at least they had the decency to put them in the shadow of the great Sidney Poitier. Even the misplaced comedy scenes make sense when he's around, what a screen presence. The best part of this movie is inarguably the part that takes place in the woods, which is lucky because that's more than half of the movie. Why do they ever leave anyway, how do you make a movie with scenery this great end around a freakin' harbour? Shoot To Kill is flawed at best, but it did entertain me I guess. "},{"Title":"Solid late 80s actioner.","Date":"5 November 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" There were a host of film's in the 1980s that were once viewed and quickly forgotten. Yet years down the line, and although still quintessentially 1980s, are rather quite entertaining on revisits. One such film is Shoot To Kill, though pretty much everyone in the Western World knows it as Deadly Pursuit. The story basically sees Sidney Poitier's fish out of water cop Warren Stantin forced to track a wanted killer out in the mountains and forests of Washington. Recruiting a reluctant gruff and grumpy Jonathan Knox (Tom Berenger) as guide, they are on the trail of a hiking tour party led by Jonathan's tough girlfriend Sarah Renell (Kirstie Alley);a hiking party that naturally contains the wanted nut case. Cue squabbling and bickering between the two men as they get into various scrapes with Stantin desperate to prove he is up to the task of this arduous and obsessive mountain pursuit.Adding interest to proceedings is the mystery element of just who is the bad guy amongst Sarah's party, something that rightly or wrongly is revealed at the mid-point of the piece. With a roll call that contains Clancy Brown, Andy Robinson, Richard Masur and Frederick Coffin, the makers have cheekily lined up actors previously known for bad guy rolls. Once the film reveals its hand it ups in pace and although the ending is never in doubt, the adventurous fun and tidy set pieces steer it safely home to its above average finale. There's a nice touch with Poitier and Berenger that harks to role reversal racism from our Sidney, and the observant will spot during one of his speeches that he is referencing previous roles he has played. Thoroughly well played as expected by the cast and nicely shot up in West Vancouver, Deadly Pursuit, as 80s as it is, is a solid and enjoyable time filler. 6.5/10 "},{"Title":"Really great action movie","Date":"30 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Shoot to kill all so know as deadly pursuit is one of the best action movies of the 1980's and of all time.The plot for this movie is great and the plot is about how a criminal who killed some people and stole some diamonds ran away up state and he joined up with a hiking group to escape to Canada meanwhile a F.B.I agent (Sidney Poitier) found out he was up there so he hires a man (Tom Berenger) that knows the woods to help him catch the criminalI have only seen Sidney Poitier in 2 movies this movie and Little Nikita and even though i have only seen him in those 2 movies i think that he is one of the best actors of all time.And i was so surprised to find out that Sidney Poitier was 61 in this movie he does not look 61 in this movie at all i thought he was like 48.There is a great supporting cast in this movie with great actors like Kirstie Alley,Clancy Brown and Richard Masur.Over all if u like Action movies i highly recommend that u watch this movie and i know that u will love it.Over all this movie is great and my rating for this movie is 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Shoot to Kill Hits it's Mark!!","Date":"28 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  WARNING MINOR PLOT SPOILERS!! I first heard about Shoot to Kill on a late night showing of a classic Sidney Poitier movie. I knew Poitier was an excellent actor and expected a fairly good movie. It exceeded my expectations with a great story, changing settings (urban to wilderness to urban), and very believable characters (i.e. Sidney's obsession, Steve's evil, Knox's mountaineer skills...). Shoot to Kill is definately a classic thriller worth seeing! "},{"Title":"A smart and very solid thriller.","Date":"3 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Shoot to Kill may appear to be another one of those films that relies mostly on the friendship of the two main characters in an action movie. Lethal Weapon and The French Connection make the two best examples. Unlike those two movies, Shoot to Kill presents the buddy system in a different way. SPOILER ALERT Sidney Poiter marks his return to acting in this film after nearly spending ten years directing.  Poiter plays Warren Stantin, a veteran FBI agent from the San Fransisco area who holds only himself responsible for letting a clever jewel thief, Steve (Clancy Brown) already has killed two people, get away.  Stantin knows very well that the thief has a small stash of diamonds with him and is trying to get into Canada through the mountains in the state of Washington.Once Stantin arrives in Washington, he discovers that the thief/murderer has killed a fisherman and blends in as a member of small band of men that's being led through the wilderness.The only person that can help Stantin catch  the thief is Jonathan Knox (Tom Berenger), a mountain guide who seems to knows how to adapt to the wild.  Knox isn't willing to help Stantin, but he finds out right away that the other tour guide, Sarah (Kirstie Alley), his girlfriend is leading that party that the killer is in.  Knox has no choice, but to help Stantin to find Steve in time before he gets into Canada.That scene alone sets up the second half of the movie as Stantin and Knox make their way through the woods to find the party.  Along the way, Knox finds the other members of the band lying on the edge of the river and sees that they're all dead.  He is shocked and sees that Sarah is in absolute danger of being killed.  In another scene, Knox and Stantin are moving up a mountain during a nasty winter storm.  Stantin falls to the snow because he has a cramp in his leg.  Immeadietaly, Knox comes back to help and furiously digs out snow to set up camp for the night.  Even though they don't get along, they do form a strong bond and become friends.  There's one scene where Knox and Stantin are being chased by an angry brown bear. Knox stumbles and falls on the side of a rock, cheek first while Stantin somehow, starts making weird noises to scare the bear away (which he does).  How he does it had me laughing there for a minute or two.Once Knox and Stantin have caught up with Sarah and Steve in Vancouver, there's a good foot chase scene followed by a solid car chase through the busy streets of Vancouver.  It ends at the dock where two ferries are about to leave, most of the city cops who followed Stantin's endless pursuit of Steve, get on one while Knox and Stantin see Steve and Sarah on the other ferry.The final duel that Stantin and Steve is interesting once they jump into the bay and Stantin shoots Steve, twice and kills him.Poiter and Berenger give good performances in their roles.  Alley and Brown also give very solid supporting performances.  The cinematography by Michael Chapman is breath taking as is the tense and slick musical score composed by John Scott.Overall, Shoot to Kill hits the target and is a smart and very solid thriller.      "}{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"3 November 2008","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" The idea behind this film was a good one. Too bad it wasn't written well. Casting Sidney Poitier as the FBI agent was a good idea, and he did an outstanding job. Tom Berenger, on the other hand, only knows one emotion in most of his movies, anger. Kirstie Alley's character could have been a great one, and even showed some possibilities once, but the writer really let us down by making her role mostly a helpless female. This was completely inconsistent with the strongly independent character she was supposed to be. I don't care for Alley's acting anyway. The movie should have ended about fifteen minutes sooner than it did. The director milked the cow dry before the unbelievable final action. I will keep this in my collection only as an example of Poitier's performances. "},{"Title":"Terrific!","Date":"21 September 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Terrific! One of my absolute favorite films. Good acting, spectacular cinematography, suspenseful soundtrack. I can watch this movie over and over. "},{"Title":"Signature Killer","Date":"7 July 2003","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  As pointed out in a great review above, Poitier is underrated. He is in fact a great actor. He was underappreciated in A Good Day to Die as well as others. This movie is exceptional. It keeps you guessing halfway into the movie as to the identity of the murderer. I agree with the other reviewer that it would have been better had they kept it secret a little longer, but we both agree that it doesn't deter from the great film that it turned out to be. The acting, director, music, sets, special effects, stunts, and everything else is exceptional. It surprises me why such a great movie done in the beautiful Seattle area turned out to be a Sleeper. The shots in the mountains and around Pugent Sound are great. This is one of my all time favorite action/mysteries. If you like Sidney Poitier and/or Tom Berenger you will love it. If you love movies like Along Came a Spider and Kiss the Girls or any of the Hitchcock movies you should love it as well. "},{"Title":"Exciting only when Berenger enters the picture","Date":"31 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  I watched this film not too long after viewing Tom Berenger's Last of the Dogmen. He fits nicely into these outdoorsy-type movies. Anyway, the beginning of Shoot to Kill is all violence, intrigue & Sidney (Poitier) & the city. He's after a killer/thief with no conscience. Sidney ends up chasing him thru the mountains in all kinds of weather while the killer picks off some hikers one-by-one. Kirstie Alley is the guide, Tom Berenger is her boyfriend. (Why he'd allow her to guide 5 men out into the wilderness alone is sheer stupidity!) The film only becomes exciting when Berenger rushes out of that gorgeous cabin expecting to go find Kirstie on his own. He & Sidney don't get along till they bring down the killer at the very end after sooooooo much traveling thru soooooo much different types of terrain!I'd recommend this one. Beautiful scenery once again in a Berenger film.Point to Ponder In the scene where Berenger goes for the basket on the 'high wire', why doesn't he ever go back for it after he falls off the wire & slams into the cliff-face? It seems he just abandons the whole idea & we never find out why? Since the large stick preventing the basket from sliding back to where the two men are at falls away, wouldn't it then be easier to just pull it towards them?  "},{"Title":"decent but unbelievable","Date":"3 May 2004","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  nice scenery, good performances, but the total lack of logic makes it average at best.  Forgetting all the procedural annoyances like the FBI sending one guy to go hiking after a mass murderer instead of the standard army of helicopters, planes, dogs, whatever I have one major pet peeve.Mr Mountain Man Berenger goes trekking off into snow country wearing jeans ! LOL.  After they made a big deal about outfitting the FBI guy properly.  Wading into a river, being able to dig a huge snow cave in the middle of a storm with no shovels, climbing a big rock formation in heavy hiking boots (what happened to the backpacks in that scene anyway).And Kirstie Allie and her big butt as a hiking guide ?!?  I've seen those women, they are lean mean walking machines.Oh, and another thing - after an hour plus of them hiking, which took days supposedly, they come out on a highway !!!  Like they couldn't have just waited for them.The whole thing was just silly.  5/10. "},{"Title":"Shoot to Kill","Date":"1 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Routine thriller, but it's sure nice to see Poitier back on screen again. He stars as an F.B.I. agent saddled with a mountain man guide (Berenger) to track down a killer.   "},{"Title":"After 10 years, Shoot to Kill provides a fine acting comeback for Sidney Poitier","Date":"18 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" After 24 years of missed chances, I finally got to see Shoot to Kill on YouTube. Having previously spent the last 10 years directing only, Sidney Poitier was back on screen doing this mostly excellent thriller as his FBI character pursues a diamond thief and killer through the Canadian mountains with cabin dweller Tom Berenger in tow as he's trying to save the villain's potential next victim Berenger's girlfriend Kirstie Alley. While there are many exciting chases, there's also some good humorous sequences too like those concerning Poitier's attempt to mount a horse or his encounter with a moose or his and Berenger's close call with a bear. This was as good a comeback for the man known for playing Mr. Tibbs, so on that note, Shoot to Kill is highly recommended. P.S. Berenger is another I'd like to cite as a native of my birthtown of Chicago, Ill. "},{"Title":"Straightforward actioner/buddy movie","Date":"4 October 2004","Score":"5 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" I had to write a review of this film after reading another comment saying that this is Sidney Poitier's best movie. Poitier had just returned from over a decade's break in film acting and he is clearly creaky here. 11 of his films are mentioned in Wikipedia and they don't include this. 5 of his films are on the AFI's list of top 100 inspiring movies, again, not including this. Berenger and Poitier, rube and city slicker set out to hunt down a dangerous psychopath before he crosses the border to Canada. Some of the attempts at comedy in this film clearly fail and Berenger and Poitier's bonding was cringeworthy and awkward (not helped by a completely bland script). Kirstie Alley (as the hostage) was underused, and almost entirely ignored when she was on screen. Some attempt at suspense is made, for example when you're meant to try and guess which of 5 men on a fishing trip is the murderer (all of them are type-cast villains). I understand that this is the entire appeal to most fans out there. I guessed who it was and I wasn't really trying hard.If you're a Berenger fan, and want some action, watch the Sniper (1993), you even get to see Billy Zane strutting his stuff. "},{"Title":"Deadly Pursuit","Date":"18 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" With a great leading actor, a good supporting cast, and director Roger Spottiswoode (Turner & Hooch, Tomorrow Never Dies) involved, I thought, I can't see anything that would be bad about. Basically a man has stolen diamonds from his own jewellery shop, and then the man finds out a mad mad demands the diamonds in exchange for his kidnapped wife. The mad man manages to escape, but FBI agent Warren Stantin (Sidney Poitier) with wilderness experienced and skilled Jonathan Knox (Tom Berenger) as he runs through the Northern American forest. In this forest is a group of hikers, including Knox's girlfriend Sarah Renell (Kirstie Alley), Norman (Richard Masur), Harvey (Hellraiser's Andrew Robinson), and the revealed diamond thief, Steve (Clancy Brown). Also starring Kevin Scannell as Ben, Frederick Coffin as Ralph, Michael MacRae as Fournier, Robert Lesser as Agent Minelli, Les Lannom as Sheriff Dave Arnett, Frank C. Turner as Austin Crilley and Walter Marsh as Sam Baker. Poitier is a good lead, and Brown is a not too bad villain, I think it is the scaling outdoor sequences involving vast forest, rigid rocks and rushing rivers that are most watchable about this quite alright action thriller. Worth watching! "},{"Title":"One Of The Better Thrillers Of The Decade","Date":"2 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  The phrase  Thriller from the 1980s  usually conjures up images of explosions , car chases , and a very high body count , not to mention catchphrases like  I`ll be back  , but DEADLY PURSUIT  ( As it`s known in the UK ) is a far more intelligent thriller . Part buddy movie with a slightly redneck tracker teamed up with a black FBI agent , part whodunnit ( I guessed wrong as to who the criminal was , it`s revealed about half way through ) this remains a highly involving chase thriller , not to mention a very underrated one  "}]