[{"Title":"Great feel good teen chick flick","Date":"24 October 2006","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" I first watched it in 89 when I was a preteen. Just saw it again on DVD and still think it's pretty awesome. DVD picture quality isn't the greatest but all that teen angst is awesome and Justine Bateman still rocks. Was a bit surprised to see Julia Roberts who I had no recollection of but Liam Neeson is probably the reason I ended up living in Europe. That accent!!I'd definitely recommend it if you just want to kick back, relax. Watch some big 80s hair and funny girl band stuff. The other cast members are pretty cool too although not as memorable. Couldn't get over Julia Roberts in this movie dressed similarly to the way she was dressed in Pretty Woman.I loved it and definitely recommend it for feel good flash backs. "},{"Title":"Guilty Pleasure","Date":"10 June 2003","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  Justine Bateman was probably the primary pull, or point of interest for me - from 'Family Ties'.  I saw this movie when I was younger (high school perhaps).  I even made several attempts to locate/purchase the soundtrack. To this day, I still sing their version of 'Iko Iko'. I had no clue who Julia Roberts was at this time - but her character did stick with me. This movie is fun to go back and watch now, with all of its cast who have gone on to further their careers. "},{"Title":"Nostalgia factors huge into my review....","Date":"26 May 2003","Score":"13 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  I haven't seen this in ages but I can tell you, as a teen I watched it over and over and over.  I'm not sure how it would hold up to new viewers, though.  It's a really fun film about a girl band trying to make it and facing all the dilemmas that can pop up when a bands just starting to get a feel for themselves and their music.  Each member has a unique personality that really meshes in a fun way.  I hope they issue this one out on DVD at some point because I'll be first in line to purchase. "},{"Title":"Great '80s Comedy!","Date":"26 August 2005","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" So this is not one of the best movies from the '80s, but it made a big impact on me because of Julia Roberts. I thought she was so cool, and I copied a lot of my fashion styles after her character in the movie (big hair and all). Being a child of the '80s I've been slowly collecting many of the classic comedies, and this one has been on my list for a while. So when I discovered last month that it was finally coming out on DVD and at a great price, I pre-ordered my copy. It has some really good moments and good one-liners, like when Julia Roberts' character, Daryle is told by one of the preppy guys she's seeing You're different from the other girls, she responds I can work really hard to be the same, or when Daryle is explaining to Billy that getting married is a natural thing, Billy responds Dying is natural too, but you don't see people rushing to do that. So if you want to take a trip back to the '80s or if you're a Julia Roberts fan, this movie is for you. "},{"Title":"teenage rock and roll","Date":"23 February 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" Satisfaction is a teenage graduation music adventure come to life! Its about love and friendship. Music and trusting in your closest friends! After graduation and a fast escape from city life a rock and roll band of friends Jennie Lee, Mooch, Nickie, Billy, and Daryle(Julia Roberts) visit the coast for the summer. They find an upscale bar and stay with its owner(liam Neeson) for the summer. They stay in his boat shed and make it a temporary home of their own! They are all confused about life and what they should be doing for the summer and why they are even there, but the music never stops and the girls sing, dance and party their summer away. The Girls fall in and out of love, The music rocks but the singing never dies it just moves on! The summer seems to have flown by and not everyone wants to leave! Separating stinks, but the girls head for home. "},{"Title":"entertaining rock fluff","Date":"29 July 2003","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  You have to like rock music to enjoy this flick.  Don't watch it expecting to gain deep understanding of the female psyche behind power pop bands. Ignore the trappings that Hollywood just had to add to the story. Bateman does a fine job.  Phillips was ok.  I found Roberts totally forgettable. It's too bad that this movie was considered a failure because it didn't catapult Bateman to (fellow Family Ties) Fox's level of fame.  It's fine as what it is, a fun bit of rock fluff.  And now I rewatch it every few years to relive my youth. "},{"Title":" A solid 3","Date":"13 May 2004","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  Some people will calls this film a chick flick, I prefer to say it is geared for a teenage women audience.  With this in mind I fould it awful.  Too sappy, predictable and reminds me of the low budget Bartell Drive inn movies.  The all girl band headed out too the beach is toooo predictable.  Their characters at best get across as cardbord.  The tough girl etc.  Even for an escapist movie, where the viewer turn his or her brain off, this film's script is too thin.  I watched this with my wife late night, and could not care less for the conclusion.  I left not really wanting to know about what happens too the band, or their love interest.  For a film I found soaps have better wrighting.  This film probably was done quick, on the cheap and it shows.   Stay away unless your only other choice is Isthar at the video store.  3 Out of 10  "},{"Title":"Not a good film by any stretch of the imagination","Date":"26 May 1999","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  Not a good film by any stretch of the imagination.  The storyline is a shocker and the acting is, at times, quite bad.  However, seeing Julia Roberts and Liam Neeson in early roles before they were big stars makes it worthwhile. The one redeeming feature about this mess is the dog! He is so cute!  But Justine Bateman is just awful, can't sing, can't act and can't talk properly.  It's no wonder her big stardom has been confined to Family Ties. "},{"Title":"Forgettable Early Roberts Role","Date":"11 April 2004","Score":"10 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" Julia Roberts made her first credited film appearance in this late 80's girl band movie. Four girls and a token guy, a geeky one at that, travel to a beach coast roadhouse to be the summer house band. When the owner takes a liking to them, they could be headed for Europe where his friend can set the girls up. Are you kidding me? These girls don't sound good enough for that kind of opportunity. The girl band is headed by Family Ties girl Justine Bateman on lead vocals; Britta Phillips is on lead guitar; Julia Roberts is on bass; Trini Alvarado is on drums. They all seem to have been cast with big hair in mind, popular in the late 80's. Scott Coffey is the token male on keyboards. The girls are all different clichéd types Phillips is the simpleton stoner with an over-abundance of brainless comments; Roberts is the slut girl supposedly; Alvarado is the tough girl that falls for geeky Coffey! Of course that would never happen in real life. Bateman's character isn't fleshed out enough for us to know how to identify with her. She comes off as street savvy, but then melts into Liam Neeson's arms. He plays the club owner where the girls stay for the summer, and he is far too old for someone of Bateman's ilk, as portrayed in this movie. I didn't really believe he was ever that interested in her. The subplot about the guy gang is ludicrous and serves no purpose. The 80's synthesizer bridging music is annoying at times. Deborah Harry, of Blondie fame, has a cameo as sort of an acquaintance of Neeson's. The film has a couple of funny moments, but is mostly forgettable. Watch it only if you have nothing better to do, like washing your big hair. * of 4 stars. "},{"Title":"People seem to watch this show to hate it","Date":"5 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" And curse the covering of songs, the plot and everything. Let's not forget that this is one of the few 80s movies where the characters are seem to be singing and not have the songs in the background. OK, the songs aren't 80s songs (well neither were the songs from Dirty Dancing, Fame, or Footloose), the vocals people say are terrible (urm can you guys sing yourself? And how can you take a swipe at Britta Phillips who took the lead in Mr. Big Stuff)...The plot is weak but so are the plots of Footloose and well Dirty Dancing. Love pairing? What's wrong with Nesson and Bateman? Everyone who criticises this movie seems to think they know it all and can direct movies or choose the right songs. "}{"Title":"quite brainless but fun","Date":"23 December 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" Yes, the movie treats things like stealing and drugs too lighthearted. Nothing the girls do has any severe consequence on them or others. But this movie doesn't even attempt to have depth. It's just about leaning back, enjoying some good music and Liam Neeson's Irish accent. I enjoyed watching it more than I would have expected from IMDb's average rating, and I got to like all of the main characters. After all, the quality of this movie is still much higher than more recent teenage comedies in the likes of American Pie which only make jokes about sex or disgusting things. It's not the kind of movie I would watch many times, but I recommend everyone to watch it once who likes to see a teenage comedy without American Pie humour. "},{"Title":"crazy enough to dream about","Date":"2 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" to make a band...that's been a dream of mine since i'm able to dream!!! and the love story between Nick and Mooch is very sweet. I'm a lot like her so guess what i'm dreaming about - the same thing to happen to me! anyway, the film is totally awesome - watch it. by the way i have to say that the songs were very cool i mean, satisfaction, mr. Big stuff, and so on.... besides they're really good - they're playing well if they had a CD , i would buy it.so that's from me hope u follow my advice and watch it - it's really good "},{"Title":"A bubblegum movie that makes bubblegum seem like a bad idea","Date":"5 August 2001","Score":"11 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" The rock-loving teens in this movie don't seem to know anything about making music. We get no information about their musical backgrounds, and their idea of jamming is to feign a version of Iko Iko while driving in their stolen van (I say 'feign' because the sound of their unison vocals is distinctly studio-enhanced). There's one guy in the otherwise all-girl band, and they make him sleep behind a sheet--out of modesty?--and yet the girls themselves are sexually active and think nothing of having sex in that van until the damn thing just about topples over. The movie wants to have it both ways be a modern look at streetwise teens and yet also be an old-fashioned musical. Justine Bateman works hard in the leading role, but she seems to suffocate under the plastic handling; newcomer Julia Roberts shows off a nice sense of sarcastic humor, but the movie is an underachiever, with oldies-rock tunes given '80s makeovers that wouldn't pass muster on Star Search. ** from **** "},{"Title":"Pretty good","Date":"12 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" I do not understand the low ratings by IMDb reviewers and the critics. The entire premise is about a young musical group that goes to try out for a summer gig. They get it and things take off from there. The music are good covers of older tunes, the vocals are decent, and it is pretty funny is spots. Liam Neeson does his usual decent job, Justine Bateman is actually very good, the rest of the band members do a nice job within their characters and are fairly talented. Julia Roberts appears in what I believe is her third movie and is okay. Justine and the older, almost has been Neeson (after his wife's death) do hook up, although nothing is really shown, but it fades toward the end of the film. He lets her go and she lets him go. A poignant ending to the show. The band keeps on playing when they return home. The guard dog scenes are really good and the dog ends up going with the band when they leave Neeson' place. I really enjoyed this movie. "},{"Title":"A very fun movie.","Date":"1 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  I think Satisfaction is a good movie. I would recommend it to anyone, especially if they are in a band. They could really sympathise with the people in this movie. It's an excellent movie filled with fun, and drama. "},{"Title":"A feel-good chick-flick  one to enjoy with a glass of wine and a slice of pizza","Date":"12 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" Justine Bateman, Julia Roberts and Liam Neeson star in this undemanding, feel-good frolic about an (almost) all-girl rock band 'Mystery' band and their adventures and heartbreak. Really enjoyable - but not critically brilliant. Perfect for a night of escapism with the girls! And jolly soundtrack. If you liked 'Mystic Pizza' you'll love 'Satisfaction'! Bateman's character Jennie Lee fronts a rock band, playing lots of well-known cover versions, including the rolling stones song of the film's title... They spend a summer by the sea, playing at a club owned by Liam Neeson's songwriter-fallen-on-hard-times. Bateman and Neeson's characters get briefly romantically entwined and Julia Roberts' character is looking for a man with some money! Harmless sex'n'drugs'n'rock'n'roll adventure (with a bit of romance). There's not much to it, but if you were young in the eighties, it'll make you smile. "},{"Title":"Fun Music Movie","Date":"23 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" I'm a sucker for all music/group oriented movies since I played in a band since I was 14. I am now 55 and don't play anymore but I dream. This one is definitely not in the class of The Commitments but it is MUSIC and it is FUN.My wife did not believe me that that was Julia Roberts in the movie but I checked IMDb and proved it. Justine Bateman may have been a ditz in Family Ties but does a credible job as the band leader in this movie.The other attraction is the beach venue. I live on the east coast and Myrtle Beach South Carolina is the home of Beach Music including  The Shag "},{"Title":"I was pleasantly amazed at Justine Bateman's talents","Date":"22 February 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  Come a long way since Family Ties to this movie where her abilities in winning a crowd with her musical motion that rivals that of almost any in the rock/wiggle world today.The rest of the cast is excellent, Julia Roberts is a ray of sunshine, and Liam is superior as usual, but the Big Ticket is Justine.  I found myself wanting to get her next rock video, and not even knowing if she had one. If you are debating which coming of age girl movie, which music movie, which overcoming love flick to view . . . this is the premier choice.  I thoroughly enjoyed this one from start to credits.The ONLY sad point about this movie is that it is only available on VHS -- not DVD.  -(  Enjoy "},{"Title":"Great 80s Movie!!!","Date":"27 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" If you grew up in the states, in the 80s, than you will love this movie. It is cheesy, but that is the point. I have to say it may be different to watch for the first time post millennium. However, watching it again after several years, it is still awesome. The music is great (again maintain perspective here, it is a fun, not serious, 80s movie) and I wish they had a soundtrack. Seeing Malory from Family ties (lead singer) and Julia Roberts as a younger actress brings back so many memories!Great movie to watch with girlfriends on a Friday night or with your big/little sister to go back in time for an hour and a half. "},{"Title":"WHAT A GIRL ROCK BAND SHOULD BE!","Date":"4 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  SATISFACTION is quite possibly the best girl band makes it big film ever. It definitly set the standard for films of a later generation, i.e. Spice World.  The Spice Girls could definitly take a lesson or two from the girls of Mystery, which includes Family Ties starlet Justine Bateman and Academy Award Winner Julia Roberts.  These girls have it all, and Bateman sure can play a mean cowbell in their cover of Knock On Wood.  A must see, you're sure to get plenty of SATISFACTION! "}{"Title":"Not THAT Bad!","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  I have always had a soft spot for this movie. I have watched it a few times on TV, and was surprised to still see it in print on video.  I must say I enjoyed it a lot more on video because there are no commercials!  There seems to be a real mixed bag of opinions on this movie.  To sum it up, it's light entertainment, and a fun movie.  The music, the situations the girls get themselves into make it a movie that will cheer you up if you are feeling down.  I gave this '80s classic an 8, just because of the sheer fun of the movie and the cool characters within it. "},{"Title":"Blech!","Date":"24 April 2004","Score":"10 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  One thing I would like to do before I die is find out who it was that told Justine Bateman she could sing and slap that person into a coma. If this stunningly mediocre attempt at a teen comedy didn't actually kill the subgenre it at least delivered it a mortal wound.  It looks like it was filmed through a dung lens and sounds like it was written by a team of gently retarded clams.  And what Hollywood studio cretin thought Liam Neeson and Justine Bateman would be a good romantic pair?  I've seen more sparks coming from a thoroughly wet sparkler!Lets see, in Satisfaction we've got the usual group of teen girl stereotypes with Julia Roberts in her first credited roll as Daryle, (the Loose Girl), Trini Alvarado as Mooch (the Tough Girl) and Britta Phillips as Billy (the Crazy Girl).  Throw them into a retreaded plot from Where The Boys Are and set it all on the ugliest beach on either coast and you've got a good idea what this mess is like.Or better yet, just hit yourself in the face with a cookie sheet for 92 minutes.  Gah! "},{"Title":"If you're a rocker/dreamer punk of any age, you will dig this flick.","Date":"10 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" I was a Pawn. In the mid-sixties the Pawns would set up in Dickie Simak's garage, raise the garage door, and rehearse. Slowly, near the end of the 20 foot driveway, neighborhood kids would linger while passing. Some unabashedly came right on over and attended. We dreamt of driving our gig van around Hawaii during the days, and performing at all the cool clubs at night. Well, it didn't happen. Watching Girls of Summer (Satisfaction) brought back those feelings and that excitement. In addition, the mere presence of Debbie Harry, the coolest punk chick riding the New Wave, was enough to cement that feeling. Forget about the acting. Forget about the side plot. We're playing rock and roll for audiences and going somewhere. Lies, by the Knickerbockers was among the covers played, and done quite well. (The Pawns covered it too when it was just released). If you've ever dreamed of getting a band together, you'll like this movie. It's fun. "},{"Title":"Julia","Date":"28 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  Julia being in this movie makes it worth watching,but if are not a fan of one of the main actors/actresses then don't bother. I admit I am a fan of Miss Roberts and would eventually like to see all her movies( with the exception possibly of Firehouse), but truly this movies really isn't worth much unless your are a fan of the stars. "},{"Title":"Not rocket science, but a fun movie...","Date":"24 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  This definitely won't win any prizes for plot or acting, but it's a nice fun little movie that's good for a night when you don't want to have to think too much. I'm a girl who plays guitar, so I spent most of the movie trying to figure out what kind of guitar Billie was playing (Jenny had a Fender Telemaster...choice!) One of the best things is seeing Julia Roberts before she made it...it's very amusing. Also, the relationship between the drummer and keyboard player is pretty cute.  "},{"Title":"I can't get no","Date":"18 March 2009","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" Call me a glutton for punishment. I've now seen this wretched rock fantasy three times, and think I can safely call it a day after this. Bluntly, there is nothing remotely believable about Satisfaction. For starters, why would a group of rockin', freshly graduated from high school in 1988 girls spend their day playing old R&B numbers? I can buy them performing the titular Stones number, and C'mon Everybody is virtually impossible to ruin, but the cowbell-driven take on Knock on Wood is awful and the reggae-rific version of Mr. Big Stuff is a joke (and that joke just isn't funny anymore). Only some very powerful psychotropics could possibly convince anyone that Justine Bateman's Liam Neeson accompanied rendition of Dedicated to the One I Love is the future of rock and roll. And please--when was the last time an all-covers band was mooted for a European tour? Has that ever happened? I guess it's nice that Elvis Costello collects a royalty check every time Satisfaction plays on TV (the girls butcher Mystery Dance mid-movie), but that's not much compensation for what is otherwise a thoroughly awful film. Awful, awful, awful! "},{"Title":"Must Have Seemed Like A Good idea At The Time","Date":"18 March 2009","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" If you've always suspected that combining elements from Times Square (1980), Josie and the Pussycats (2001), and Summer of '42 (1971) would be an extremely bad idea, look no further than Satisfaction for confirmation. Although Times Square fans (the film from which Satisfaction steals the most) will frequently cringe during the viewing experience, the fusion of these three films is not a totally bad idea. It did give Trini Alvarado, eight years later, a chance to play the tough girl Nicky Marotta part, the character she played against in Times Square. Although she plays her less like Robin Johnson did and more like Tara Reid's Cybil in Girl (1998). An underrated actress, Alvarado carries too much baggage (nice girl type-casting and too sweet a face) into this role to even begin to sell it. A much better idea that might have saved the film would have been for her and co-star Justin Bateman to switch parts. Bateman is capable of looking mean and is really too limited as an actress for a part with the degree of dimensionality of Jennie Lee. I've never quite grasped the popularity of Julia Roberts but for her mega-fans Satisfaction is a must see. The script doesn't give her much to work with but it is an opportunity to see her when she was this young. Of course there is some retrospective perverse amusement to be had at the idea of Roberts and Liam Neeson playing second banana's to the talent challenged Bateman, Britta Phillips' career rocketed forward from this film with 65 episodes as the voice of the title character in Jem and the Holograms. Nice voice, excellent casting choice, and a cute performance; she and Chris Nash at least manage to give a fair amount of authenticity to the production. Director Joan Freeman of Streetwalkin' (1985) fame has never done another feature; after these casting decisions it is not hard to figure out why. Maybe she is just another innocent victim of an Aaron Spelling production, she clearly was not a budding Allan Moyle. Likewise Screenwriter Charles Purpura; although his script is no worse than a lot of stuff currently getting feature treatment and the outdated slang no doubt sounded less lame in 1988. Although full of terrible music (covers of classic rock tunes performed slightly worse than when arranged for your high school band's halftime show) the film did connect with its primary target audience, discontented teenage girls who were not so disillusioned that they could not still get off on an identification jag with a group of squeaky clean girl rockers. Those looking for a more real growing up is painful  experience should stick with Times Square and the more recent Pretty Persuasion. Then again, what do I know? I'm only a child.Comment | Permalink "},{"Title":"Had no idea bad could be this bad","Date":"19 April 2002","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  Think of everything that could be wrong with a film, triple these things, cover them with a coat of raw sewage then set them on fire and you will have a piece of charbroiled pigslop called Satisfaction. Tepid, low rent comedy dealing with 4 simpering teen rocker wannabe girls and their dorked out boyfriend. I figure the actors had a better time making this bilge than anybody could ever have watching it. If Jagger were dead and watching this drivel could very well have led to his demise he'd be permanently spinning in his expensive English casket. Gad! "},{"Title":"WARNING This Movie May Cause Paralysis, Nose Bleeds and Suicidal Thoughts","Date":"17 August 2009","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" I was pretty sure, when I saw that Liam, Julia and Justine Bateman in a movie together, it was going to be somewhat decent. Well much to my chagrin. This movie was like a two way portal, ala some violent mirror in which I saw myself poking my eyes out with icepicks through the television screen to stop the pain.Justine was just awful at singing, the Benny Hill, fast forward scene at the beach just made me cringe from head to toe and every concert scene was just.....well, can you guess the remorseful, disgusting feelings I have towards this movie.I sat through this, I climbed this treacherous journey from the base camp to the pinnacle on a mountain from hell, so you don't have too. Take it from me, and where I came from. This movie will make you feel like a new asshole. It will give you a disease you never know existed. Please resist and refrain from watching this movie. I BEG YOU ALL. "},{"Title":"The Vidiot Reviews...","Date":"16 November 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" SatisfactionThe difference between male and female rock-stars is that women form meaningful relationships with their groupies.However, the songstress in this drama has developed feelings for a nightclub owner.The minute high school is over Jennie (Justine Bateman) and her band The Mystery (Julia Roberts, Britta Phillips, Trini Alvarado) head to Florida in a stolen van to audition for Martin Falcon (Liam Neeson), a bar owner in need of performers for the summer.While they get the position, over the summer the band starts to drift apart as some members fall in love with locals and others overdose on drugs.Everything calumniates when the owners of the stole van show up.Produced by Aaron Spelling, Satisfaction has all of the earmarks of the successful television show creator but for some reason those elements do not elevate this mediocre musical misadventure.Interestingly enough, all-girl house bands boast the lowest bar tabs.Red Lightvidiotreviews.blogspot.ca "}{"Title":"Awful film!","Date":"8 June 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" I am pretty sure some other user comments have made jokes about this movie using the movie's title, so I won't even try. Anyway, this is one of a few attempts American TV network NBC made in the theatrical film department. Watching this movie, you'll get a good idea why they abandoned this avenue after just a few movies. For starters, even on the DVD this movie doesn't resemble a theatrical movie, but a made-for-TV movie. (The fact Aaron Spelling produced the movie probably explains a lot of this.) The script is terrible - I'm not sure if there is footage missing, but it sure feels like it with subjects being brought up then abandoned. As for the direction, the lowest point is when the movie is sped up to resemble Keystone Kops shorts. But what irked me the most about the movie was the characters. The acting is unbelievably bad by all the leads, and none of the band members (except maybe for the lone male member of the band) is likable in any way. And when they sing songs... ouch! I can't picture worse covers to classic rock tunes as those showcased in this movie. The movie doesn't even give viewers who are nostalgic for the '80s any... well, I said I wouldn't make jokes with the title. "},{"Title":"For the genre, quite well done","Date":"21 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  As a female musician myself, i was drawn to the subject matter of this movie. Perhaps that's why i liked it more than some would. This movie does not pretend to be a blockbuster. I found it entertaining and interesting and thought that for the genre it was in, it was quite well done. Bad reviews might come from those who prefer car crashes and serial killers. In that sense, this was refreshing. "},{"Title":"Refreshing and fun","Date":"17 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  The other reviewer was right, it's not rocket science. But all movies don't need to be, in order to stay in your head. Perhaps because i'm a female musician myself, i enjoyed it a little more. It's so hard to find this subject matter. But even for non-musicians, Satisfaction is one of those movies that doesn't tax you with gratuitous sex and violence. It's just about some chicks who want to follow a dream, and how the dream doesn't always work out like you plan (Do any of them?). Justine Bateman shows her talents in areas other than being Michael J. Fox's TV sister. It's definitely worth renting. "},{"Title":"Not a classic","Date":"21 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  Satisfaction is a movie about five teenagers who have a band called Mystery.Justine Bateman plays the leading singer of the band called Jennie Lee.Justine is best known as Mallory from Family Ties.Satisfaction from 1988 doesn't make any movie history, it's just an enjoyable movie.And there's a great opportunity to see what Liam Neeson did before Schindler's List and what Julia Roberts did before Pretty Woman. "},{"Title":"Satisfaction is Anything But *1/2","Date":"25 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" The best part of this awful film is when the ending credits are rolling and you hear the band playing and singing the title song.Trouble is that the film is anything but good. 4 teenage girls and a young guy embark on a summer of fun when they land a job playing as a band at a beach resort. One girl is an orphan, but nothing is said about the other teens' parents. They just hop in a van and go.We have what could fall into a beach blanket movie with singing,gaiety, an attempted suicide and a romance between Justine Bateman and Liam Neeson, a widowed song writer who shall we say has a lot on his mind.Of course, Neeson likes the band so much that he wants them to defer school and go rock in Europe.I added the extra 1/2 star since the film did end correctly, that is, that school comes first. Unfortunately, this film comes in last. "},{"Title":"Once in a While a Bit of Nostalgia Suits the Palate","Date":"2 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" SATISFACTION is not a great movie by any shakes, but taken for what it was meant to be - a slightly naive tale of a girls' band that has a summer of adventure, love and opportunity for the big time nut opts instead to become just a group of life-long friends - it is a well done bit of pastiche. Thanks to the simple script by Charles Purpura and to the sensitive direction of Joan Freeman the little story works well.The interesting aspect of the film is the cast. The band consists of leader Justine Bateman with Trini Alvarado, Britta Phillips, Scott Coffey as the token male, Deborah Harry and yes, the movie debut of Julia Roberts! Liam Neeson serves as the love interest for Justine Bateman's character and Michael DeLorenzo has a small part, too. The music is fun and the cast commits to the idea of the film well. Strange to see a film from 1988 with the established stars disappearing and the 'newcomers' taking flight. Grady Harp "},{"Title":"Totally Unsatisfying.","Date":"14 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  Michael J. Fox's successful jump from Family Ties to the big screen made Justine Bateman a marketable commodity as well in this small and really totally unimpressive quick-flick. Bateman is the head of a small rock band that gets a gig in a bar in California and naturally Bateman falls in love with a then-unknown Liam Neeson. The typical things occur as this is little more than another long music video from the 1980s. Julia Roberts is also along for the ride as one of the girls in Bateman's band. Watching Neeson and Roberts in this mess is really interesting, but they were not stars yet and in the end Satisfaction cannot boost past the dreaded bomb status. Turkey (0 stars out of 5).  "},{"Title":"80's Camp At Its Best","Date":"2 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  I've always loved this silly romp of a film, and thought that no one else knew of it's existence! I first discovered my, now ratty looking, copy on the rental shelves of my parents convenience store when I was 13, and I still love it to this day. Perhaps my opinion is a bit biased, because I basically own every 80's teen buddy movie (I had a huge black and white Breakfast Club poster hanging in my dorm room this year, and received quite a bit of teasing for it). Maybe my dated tastes don't belong in this ultra modern world, but how could anyone not love these types of movies?  Trini Alvadrado's and Britta Phillip's performances really impressed me, Scott Coffey was just plain adorable, Liam Neeson was a great casting choice (very dry and sarcastic in his opening scenes, he really should keep making comedies), and personally, I found Julia Roberts far more amusing in this film than anything else she's famous for! Justine Bateman's acting was a bit melodramatic at times, but it's an otherwise small flaw in this hidden gem. I used to perform quite a bit growing up, and no other movie has allowed me to indulge in my adolescent rock and roll fantasies quite like this one. A 7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"A curiosity.","Date":"20 June 2001","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  Mainly watched to see Liam Neeson before Schindlers List and Rob Roy, and Julia Roberts before everything she ever did. They're young. They're good, in a mediocre film about a girl band and the trials and tribulations within it. Would I have watched this film without Liam and Julia? No. And neither will you if you don't have an interest in these two fine actors. The movie itself is so-so bordering on bad, but still- I couldn't help watching because of the pre-star stars.    "},{"Title":"Not Bad Like Mean People Say","Date":"3 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" This movie is fantastic. It features the Eighties' bad taste, bad ass Justine Bateman, the rest of Julia Roberts and horrible classic rock songs. I'm told I have to make this review 10 lines long so I'm going to write a bunch of words now. But I've already said what had to be said about this swell movie. It's fine. The reviewers who badmouthed it simply have messed up and hurtful priorities. That's got to be 10 lines. But I'm told it isn't. So I'm still writing words. How much do you really need to know about what people think about a movie? It's not that big of a commitment just to watch it and make up your own mind, for crying out loud. This has got to be 10 lines. Oh, thank god! "}{"Title":"This movie is the proof of evil","Date":"4 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" Ben Affleck plays a janitor who lost his right hand in Vietnam and is ridulously amazing in this innovative film. This why we all love this movie. Having Tina Yothers play Kramer from Kramer vs. Kramer was brilliant. Some people don't like Eddie Murphy, but you have to admit he's talented after watching this movie. Some people argue that having a bulemic as your lead is bad because their acting is always sarcastic and vain, I disagree. Watch this movie while very high and you might actually have a chat with Jesus. We need more movies like this because the social commentary is in tune with God. This is a 4 star movie and shows why people from t.v. shows should be huge stars. This movie is basically an enema for the soul. Have fun people and remember to always rock & roll. "},{"Title":"Justine Bateman smiles)","Date":"14 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  The band is slightly better than terrible, but it was hard to take my eyes off Justine.Two things I liked about this movie, the relationship the girl had with the dog, and the love story between Justine and Liam Neeson.Probably the only movie that will ever be made where Justine Bateman gets higher billing and a bigger role than Julia Roberts, but she deserved it, and Julia was horrible.  Wonder what ever became of Julia Roberts?The plot was lousy, and most of the acting was amateurish.  But because of Justine Bateman's smile, I gave two more stars than I would otherwise, 6/10. "}]