[{"Title":"The more things change, the more they stay the same.","Date":"8 September 2001","Score":"390 out of 468 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  They Live. Where to begin? Yes, it is goofy. Yes the production value is very low. Yes the action is standard. The guns never empty. The fights are poorly choreographed at times. But that, my friends, is not the point.This film was an attack on the Regan era. An attack on the rampant consumerism of the 80's. But open your mind. Saying that it's just an attack on the 80's is merely shutting your eyes. Telling yourself that things have gotten better. Sorry to disapoint you, but they haven't.Rowdy Roddy Piper puts on some sunglasses. The world changes. Billboards now say Obey or Sleep. Or Marry and Reproduce. Magazines no longer have articles or advertisements. They are blank white pages with said phrases upon them. Money now are white pieces of paper that say This is Your God. Boy oh boy are they right.So watch They Live. Grab some beer and score some corn. Enjoy the cheese. Enjoy the great one-liners. But also pay attention to the lines that sum up the truth. Remember the point of the film. Then go outside. Re-enter the corporate world outside your door. You won't need special glasses to see the truth. "},{"Title":"Highly Underrated","Date":"14 January 2005","Score":"196 out of 271 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I have to say something here. This movie is actually very good. It was a mixture of sci-fi and political and sociological imagery. I thought the fact that the turncoat working with the aliens that were brainwashing the public was employed in the media was a brilliant way of showing how the media moguls consider us to be sheeple and use their power to persuade any way they see fit. This movie was actually quite well down, considering it did not have a blockbuster budget.I would rather watch this than waste my time on the Matrix, which I think is a complete waste of time. The main plot of the movie was Nada discovering a worldwide conspiracy that used subliminal messages to herd the sheep. Is this not a metaphor of what we see ever day? The media, commercials, billboards, etc, use subliminal messaging to encourage the actions of the public at large.John Carpenter did a wonderful job. Roddy Piper's acting abilities were definitely above average, which is a lot more that I will ever to be able to say about anything Keanu Reeves has ever done. As usual, Keith David turned in a great performance. The reason this a cult classic is because it is a very good movie that requires the watcher to think. "},{"Title":"Clever and fun, with plenty of Carpenter weirdness","Date":"14 February 2005","Score":"142 out of 168 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" WARNING The author of this review loves challenging films.They Live is based on a pulp sci-fi story about aliens who live among us and manipulate us through subliminal advertising, other mind control techniques, and sometimes, guns and bulldozers. Like most Carpenter films, its artistic, fun, intelligent and does not take itself too seriously.As usual, Carpenter's casting is brilliant. Roddy Piper plays the good-hearted but not very bright construction worker who is both the hero and protagonist of the film. Keith David, whose character is just a little bit brighter, is his unwilling sidekick. Piper's character sees some strange goings-on in a local church, hears some weird paranoid ramblings from a street preacher, and becomes especially curious when the church is raided by 30-40 police officers and the vagrant camp where he lives is bulldozed one night. Soon after, he finds a pair of sunglasses in the now abandoned church, that literally changes his view of the world around him. The fight scene between David and Piper, while straight out of TV wrestling, is one of the most jarring and bizarre scenes in the movie - it goes on for a very long time - which nicely and subtly points out its significance in moving the plot forward. When Piper finally gets the sunglasses on David's face, he is vindicated and the last shred of doubt about his sanity disappears. From that point forward, they are both committed to saving the world from the alien menace. Further description of the plot would approach a spoiler so I won't go any further. Both of the main characters succeed in dominating the screen, to the point that it is hard to even notice the contributions of the rest of the cast. Both actors are surprisingly good, though understandably typecast (these are, after all, two very big guys) but - who the hell is Keith David? look him up here on IMDb.com and I'm sure you'll be as surprised at I was. He's quite an accomplished character actor. Raymond St Jacques, for all of his five or so minutes of screen time, makes a lasting impression, and Meg Foster is perfect for her ambiguity. Overall, the character development in this film is quite excellent despite the difficulty of pulling it off in a decidedly B sci-fi genre.From an artistic and technical point of view, the film must be judged against Carpenter's other works. Carpenter has practically created his own film genre, and each of his films bears his mark very clearly. Carpenter's camera work is remarkable for its unremarkableness. He chooses not to use gimmicks and allows his cameras to tell the story without embellishing it. Like his version of The Thing, this technique fits very well in this film, as it helps the viewer suspend disbelief in what would otherwise seem as ludicrous as an episode of the X-Files. Carpenter often makes his own soundtracks. Of these, the soundtrack for this film is very good, but terribly repetitive and, after a while, a bit grating. Nevertheless, its goofy redundancy helps to lend a comic edge to the film. Is there a point?I would argue that there is. Carpenter is always more interested in fun than poignancy, but he doesn't shy away from recognizing the value of the material he brings to the screen. Of all of his films, They Live is one of the most overtly political - as it carries some very clever messages about capitalism, conformity, poverty and the horror that everyday life can be for some people. This is all done, however, with a good sense of humor and an almost teenage sense of rebelliousness, all very typically Carpenter. A great film for B-movie fans, intelligent sci-fi fans and those who enjoy film as an art form. "},{"Title":"Clever sci-fi film with current cultural relevance","Date":"14 December 2004","Score":"138 out of 167 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" An unemployed man in the 80s (of the WWF variety, complete with Mel-mullet) shows up in the big city looking for work, American Dream intact. He finds a Hooverville-like (perhaps Reaganville!) community that takes him in and finds work in construction. He notices that several of the providers are ostensibly up to no good and hold meetings at the local church. He stumbles upon a secret door and finds a stash of...80s sunglasses! After the community is destroyed by the police, our baffled working-class hero pops on a pair of the glasses, which allows him see the world as it really is, and wake up out of his sleeeepy false consciousness! Was Carpenter reading up on his Marx? Maybe! Either way, this sci-fi/action flick is fantastic, cheesy, and clever. They Live was obviously influenced by the excess of the 80s, but doesn't come across as dated and actually seems very relevant to the current cultural climate in the US. There are various flaws (namely, the creepy-in-a-bad-way Meg Foster and her character), but overall this is an excellent, amusing, and entertaining film. My Rating 9.5/10 "},{"Title":"elite, parasitic subsociety exploits American working class--reflects real American society?","Date":"25 June 2004","Score":"134 out of 166 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie is not so much about aliens who are hiding among us, but instead it taps into the deeply submerged suspicion held by most of us that we are being manipulated and taken advantage of by the elite of American society, by our leaders, by the rich, etc. Also, we sometimes feel that we are manipulated and programmed (in a subtle way) to respect hierarchical authority ( e.g., the OBEY subliminal command from the movie). Some leftist thinkers might say that human societies are in a way being parasitized by the elite of their societies, and that the elite operate as a parasitic sub-society, living off of the lower classes. America might be said to be operated more in such a fashion (i.e., parasitized by the elite) than are the countries of western Europe. Obvious examples of this parasitic behavior are the golden handshakes and backscratching exchanged between corporate CEO's and the Boards of Directors of their companies. But it is far more pervasive than just that._They_Live_ uses the invisible alien elite as a proxy for our suspicions about how we are all being exploited by the elite of our real-life society, and how these elite are subtly programming us to accept this exploitation.So, the major theme of the movie is not, as another poster correctly pointed out, about being manipulated to be good little consumers in a crassly commercial world. No, it is far more profound than that. Instead, it is more about how the working class Americans in _They Live_ are being exploited by the elite upper crust, who, in the movie, happen to be aliens, but who, in the real world, are a subsociety that use their collective power to exploit the rest of us.Unfortunately, this movie sometimes has an unintentionally comic air to it. Still, the exploration of that theme is so rare in pop culture, and that theme is so profound, and reaches so far into what American society is, was, and is becoming, that this movie is a Must-See for anyone with an interest in politics and sociology. "},{"Title":"One of the Coolest and Underrated Films of the Late 1980's.","Date":"2 September 2005","Score":"76 out of 97 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" John Nada (Roddy Piper) comes to L.A. to search for a Job. On the same working place, when he finds a job. John meets Frank (Keith David), Frank asks John to come along. Where Frank stays with poor people and a place to rest. Once he gets there, John watches television and sees some subliminal reporting by a scientist. The scientist is trying to get an important message on television by using frequency. John knows, there is something unusual going on at a house nearby. After a small band of cops are beating these poor people trying to find, where does that frequency is coming from. The next day, John goes to the house nearby and he finds one thing an open box. That box was hidden in the wall and when John open that box. He finds nothing but sunglasses. When he takes one of them, John sees a whole different world. A Bizarre look of L.A. in black & white with images full of subliminal advertising messages are visible though special glasses. Then he notice the only purpose of these glasses are the civilians are mixed with aliens population amongst them! Directed by John Carpenter (Assault on Precient 13, Ghosts of Mars, The Thing-1982) made a extremely well made film mixed with action/sci-fi elements and a refreshing scene of humor. Piper is good here, he has some memorable scenes with some funny dialogue. The film's best line from Piper is I come here to chew bubble gum and kick ass but i'm all out of bubble gum. There is also an unforgettable scene with Piper and David, when Piper asks David to put the glasses on. When David refuses to put them on. Piper and David get into a very funny fistfight scene that turned into a classic scene. The film might have a few flaws, only depending a matter of personal taste. The Alien Make-Up effects are extremely awful but intentionally funny. The film ends with a great pay-off. The film is hilarious at times and always fun to watch. Since this film like most Carpenter's works become a Cult Classic.DVD has an sharp anamorphic Widescreen (2.351) transfer and an good-Dolby Surround 2.0 Sound. Too Bad, Universal didn't release a Special Edition of this landmark independent film. The DVD from Europe, Carpenter and Piper recorded an running commentary track for this film in a two disc special edition. When in the U.S. get out Special Edition ? DVD doesn't have no features. This is a amusing satiric sci-fi adventure. Underrated to be sure, the film ages well despite awful alien make-up. Based on a Short Story by Ray Faraday Nelson titled Three O'Clock in the Morning. Screenwriter Frank Armitage is actually director Carpenter. Panavision. (****/*****). "},{"Title":"Extremely Underrated Thriller","Date":"24 January 2001","Score":"85 out of 118 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"    They Live is one of the most original and underrated sci-fi action movies i've ever seen. Eventhough the acting isn't spectacular, and by the end turns into a down right urban action movie, They Live is one of the most entertaining ever.  The plot is quite simple, Nada(Roddy Piper) a homeless drifter stumbles upon a pair of sunglasses through which you can see the world for what it really is, a communist type environment controlled by aliens, and then joins up with his buddy Frank(Keith David) to stop them. In the middle of all this there a lot of great one liners, a lot of harebrained action and one of the longest, and best, fist fights ever filmed.   The way John Carpenter directs really makes the film work. Everything seems downbeat and realistic. The acting of ex-pro wrestler Roddy Piper is better than expected but not too spectacular and Keith David isn't at all convincing. But none of that matters, the real reason to see this movie is just to be entertained and on that level is suceeds. My Rating is 8/10 "},{"Title":"Good for a night of not-so-serious movies","Date":"25 February 2005","Score":"80 out of 114 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film has a commentary as relevant today as in the 80s. Upper class people are actually aliens corrupting America. And the only way to see them is to wear special sunglasses that our hero, Nada, stumbles upon. This film has some cool ideas the way all magazines and signs have subliminal messages, the paranoia, and the B-movie-on-purpose-so-it-feels-like-a-B-movie feel. It also has some really great cheesy one liners which I don't wish to spoil. Let it be known though, by the end of the movie you might just see a little of Ash from Evil Dead in Nada. The film also has a fight scene around the middle that is particularly funny to watch because it keeps going forever.Definitely a fun flick to watch if you are light hearted and can enjoy the B-movie vibe it gives off. "},{"Title":"Really good movie; Intelligent, deep, funny, entertaining...","Date":"16 January 2006","Score":"71 out of 101 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" ... And of course very well made, because it's from Carpenter from his good ole days (actually I haven't seen his recent films, from the nineties or so, so I cannot say how good his days are now; They might be good also). The plot is bravely stupid (if you look the surface), but also secretly intelligent and deep, just the same thing as in very many scifi, horror, and even action movies You have to look at them with open eyes to get the messages. I think this movie is much more interesting, and much more realistic and intellectual, than let's say some french art movie (Farthenheit 951 or something). This is real art. It's from this world, not from some artificial art movie marshmallow fantasy-world. Of course it's very funny film also. You may see the main actor (he's some pro-wrestler?) as some kind of a walking joke. But actually he is perfect for this role. He is like some mythological hero, just like Schwarzenegger or so. He is a symbol. The movie is filled with really good jokes and one-liners that you'll never forget. For example, when the main character comes to a bank, in his intent to kill some aliens, he shouts I'm here to chew bubblegum and kick ass! And I'm all outta bubblegum... And another comment from him, after he has had a ten-minute long fight with somebody Ain't love great! This is a great cult movie. I'm sure there are many people who watch this regularly, with or without friends, and remember all (at least the good) lines. Perfect entertainment. Recommended. "},{"Title":"Classic from my youth","Date":"15 June 2005","Score":"53 out of 66 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I remember first seeing They Live when I was 10 and I totally fell in love with this film. How could a ten year old not? There's wrestlers, aliens and a plot to take over the world. My friends and I quoted this film for weeks on end with the Bubble gum and kicking @$$ line being a favourite among all. The only real complaint that I have about the film is that the aliens when finally revealed are far too human. They basically look like a skeleton with bug eyes. Not a whole lot of energy seemed to go into their design. While They Live will never be remembered as a film that redefined the way films were made, it still to this day holds a place in my heart as one of the films that just defines your youth. It is fun, action packed and has just enough cool storyline to keep you interested from start to finish. "}{"Title":"The world needs a wake-up call, gentlemen. We're gonna phone it in","Date":"25 January 2011","Score":"20 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I know a person who lives his life as though the world is conspiring to oppress him. In fact, I don't think there's a single conspiracy theory to which he doesn't subscribe. It's no surprise that he recommended 'They Live (1988)' as one of his favourites, and, I must admit, it is a rip-roaring film with an intriguing premise. Robust drifter George Nada (pro-wrestler Roddy Piper) discovers a pair of sunglasses that reveals the world for how it actually is billboards and magazines sparkle with Orwellian phrases, and many people are actually grotesque extraterrestrial beings bent on enslaving humanity. Nada begins to resist the status quo, recruiting a reluctant co-worker (Keith David) into the true nature of reality, but only after a gratuitous but hilariously intense fist-fight that lasts a good five minutes.'They Live' was apparently a response to the Yuppie subculture that was prevalent throughout the 1980s; that is, young middle-class businessmen obsessed with wealth, status, and materialism. The Yuppies have gotten a raw deal in popular culture The Narrator in 'Fight Club (1999)' was a disenchanted consumerist seeking to feel human again, and Bret Easton Ellis' novel American Psycho (certainly one of the more disturbing books I've ever read) was an altogether unflattering depiction of stereotypical yuppie Patrick Bateman (superbly played by Christian Bale in the tamer 2000 film adaptation). 'They Live' subscribes to a working-class fantasy in which all wealthy people are either aliens &#x96; here, Carpenter takes an uproarious dig at Siskel and Ebert &#x96; or humans who have betrayed their species for the good life. "},{"Title":"Realistic to what's really going on on this prison planet!","Date":"25 October 2004","Score":"16 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Wake Up! Wake Up! THEY LIVE is the most revealing movie about what's really going on on this planet that was ever made before the original Matrix (the follow-on's were way off track). Open your eyes and look around you! See what they don't want you to see! The gov't leaders and other corrupt individuals causing the terror attacks, the filthy rich elite with their evil bloody hands controlling money and power with evil intentions and the billion dollar fraudulant psychiatric industry and the evil brainwashing and destroying minds by drugging everyone with mind-altering, experimental psychiatric drugs from newborn infants to adults (School shootings, child suicides and other irrational and senseless killings).DON'T SLEEP! DON'T OBEY! QUESTION AUTHORITY! BE CREATIVE! WAKE UP! THEY'RE HERE! THINK FOR YOURSELF!!! "},{"Title":"a brilliantly over-the-top science-fiction/action/satire hybrid; one of the best of 1988","Date":"8 August 2006","Score":"19 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" There's a part of me that, while watching They Live for the first time, thinks 'this is just B-sci fi trash that only attempts shallowly for social and political satire, not to be taken seriously'. But there's another part that outweighs that, which finds this and other John Carpenter films to not meant be taken TOO seriously anyway, all in the (accepted) disbelief that must be taken to really enjoy and admire his work. But as far as being a sort of B-movie goes- and They Live, despite having a bigger budget and more special effects than most, has that spirit in its bones like an old comic book from the 50s- this is probably one of the best I've seen from the past twenty years. Like Carpenter's Big Trouble in Little China, it doesn't kid itself what it is for its audience- a hilarious take on subject matter that is not taken for granted. It's an intelligent, hilarious, and extremely entertaining movie, where the subject matter is not very nuanced and (as in Dawn of the Dead) in your face and right up there without question. It's like a 1950s sci-fi piece about invaders from other planets seeking us out for domination, only shifted in the 1980s (and still relevant for today more than ever) and given both realistic grounding and just a pure hard-boiled action film. It has the danger of being cheesy, dismissible material, but somehow it all works much better than expected.For a film like this as well you need a star, who in this case was a WWF superstar, who has much more on-screen machismo and a strong enough presence with some good acting skills. Roddy Piper fits so well into this role it shows the potential that unfortunately hasn't been tapped by most filmmakers. Carpenter sets up the story perfectly well with its ambiguity- it's all from Nada's point of view. (His name is never given, but hey for this story who needs it anyway?) He's a drifter who gets construction work, but by the slums he lives in he sees a church doing strange things, and after an out-of-the-blue incredibly violent police raid, Nada soon finds a pair of sunglasses left behind. He puts it on and his world goes completely awry; many people are aliens, subliminal messages saying terms like 'Obey', and if you're spotted SWAT teams fly in. He draws in the help of his reluctant-to-the-point-of-fighting friend Frank (Keith David, always good but very impressive in his typical tough-guy way) to seek out the source of all of these 'signals' given off by the visitors.Again, this could all be pretty hokey in the wrong hands. But Carpenter trusts the material to the point where he takes it seriously on one side and not on the other. There's a kind of attitude about the film, as with others in his work, that reflect of course cynicism and outrage at the system, but all in the guise of something much more sinister at work. As the best sci-fi gets at criticism of society as it is, the underlying current in They Live does get some very good jabs in. Perhaps what I mean by this divide in serious and not (and yet both sides working well) is when Piper puts on the glasses the first time and almost bugs out at what is all around him. This is a very funny section of the film- possibly the funniest- but it's filmed unpretentiously and the direction is always very concisely with bits of imagination (those black and white inserts, obvious, but always fun). And at the core of this being a satire on the controls of society and breaking off from it (or just not being on it to start with) is not skimping on what some would expect- loaded with guns, violence, action that isn't compounded by excess weight.Featuring a fight sequence that ranks as one of the most intense and amusing in recent memory, perfectly chum-like dialog, one of Carpenter's very best musical scores, and an ending that packs it all in, They Live is a great escapist movie with a message that actually hits. It's also an prime example of a talented filmmaker having something to say through a genre; a tale of suppressed and controlled society with originality, cool, and subversive tact. It'd probably make a neat party movie, too. "},{"Title":"A masterpiece that perfectly blends action-packed fun and chilling suspense","Date":"19 June 2010","Score":"17 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" There are two kinds of movies really Ones that entertain us and ones that make us think. There is a place for both of these and both are important. It's always nice to be able to kick back and be entertained for a couple hours, but sometimes people want a bit more in their movie experience. Is it possible to make a film that does both? John Carpenter is known best for his Horror films like 'Halloween' and 'Christine.' But he's also done a handful of Action films, some that are more than just car chases, gun fights, and things being blown up. Not that 'Escape From New York' is a really cerebral experience, but it definitely has more going on than action and more to say than other movies of the genre. His last movie of the 1980s is by far his most political and 20+ years later it's still quite relevant and has held up really well.Pros A chilling concept. Strong performances. Intelligent script. Carpenter and Howarth compose another memorable score. Exciting pace. Suspenseful and unpredictable. Has a real eerie feel to it. Fantastic make-up effects. Some good and still relevant social commentary. Some good humor in the mix.Cons The visual effects look dated. Concept could have been taken further.Final thoughts That John Carpenter, he sure knows how to thrill his audience. OK so maybe some of his films in the 90s aren't as fabulous as what he did before, but he hasn't totally lost it and this film is truly one of his greatest. It's both fun to watch and good at giving one the creeps. It's not easy to blend the two, but Carpenter does it beautifully here.My rating 5/5 "},{"Title":"The film for the ages.","Date":"29 May 2011","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Released in November of 1988, director John Carpenter's They Live may be the film of its generation. Well, if it's not then it's pretty close. John Carpenter is mostly known for the box office smash hit Halloween (1978) and as great as that film is (it's my favorite film), They Live is proof that the horror master had more to offer, along with a lot of other gems like Escape From New York (1981), The Thing (1982), Big Trouble In Little China (1986), In The Mouth Of Madness (1995), Escape From L.A. (1996) and Vampires (1998), They Live ranks on the list of his best films. Carpenter's films usually suffer from low production values and above average performances from his actors but when you look past that, his films really are very deep and well made and this film is no exception. What makes Carpenter so unique is that he really understood where Hollywood was heading during the late 70s and most of the 80s and for a short period of time he got his taste of Hollywood. He then realized that it simply only cares about making money and he spent the rest of his career as a true independent, not following any rules and making movies the way that he wanted to.Carpenter was riding on the success of Halloween, which was in its day the highest grossing independent film ever made. Escape From New York was another hit movie and by this time he was getting major studio offerings. He then directed his first big studio picture The Thing. This film was expected to be a commercial hit but unfortunately, the film was a disaster and was even considered one of the most hated films by critics and audiences alike. Although The Thing has found a cult audience over the years, it was the film that launched a series of commercial failures from the director.Carpenter was feeling angry and frustrated with the way the studio system was heading so he decided to make a film that expressed this anger which is where They Live comes in. This film may be one of the bravest movies in its day. During the 1980s, we were being told to do nothing but consume. This film is a study of the world being corrupt by the media and how it tells us to simply not care and just make tons of money. The middle class are portrayed as villains in the film and that being rich and successful is the only way to be happy while poor working class people are being treated as useless. We all believe that fame and fortune is what makes us somebody but Carpenter wasn't about to become a sell out and instead he dealt with his anger by making this film and when you look at it now you can't help but think what an honest direction that was to go in.But this movie isn't just for deep thinkers, it is also a kick ass sci-fi action movie and it's a lot of fun too. Sure, the movie is goofy at times and very B movie material but to me that's a positive aspect, I think that was the perfect way to portray the story. I would put this movie up there with A Clockwork Orange (1971) even, as pretentious as that sounds. "},{"Title":"One of the Best John Carpenter's Films","Date":"21 May 2011","Score":"20 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The unemployed construction worker George Nada (Roddy Piper) drifts to Los Angeles and finds a job. Nada is a man that believes on the American Dream and expects to have his big chance someday. He befriends the worker Frank Armitage (Keith David) that is a conformist and invites Nada to camp in the homeless settlement where he lives. Nada observes that the television has weird interferences from a pirate transmission of a man that belongs to an underground movement and notes a strange movement of people in the church on the other side of the settlement. Nada sneaks around the church and finds a box with pairs of sunglasses. When he wears the glasses, he discovers that the average people is being dominated and subdue by subliminal messages and several persons are aliens indeed. Further, the elites are corroborating with the invaders, receiving financial support in return. Nada forces Frank to wear the sunglasses and together they seek other humans aware of the situation to organize a resistance against the powerful aliens from Andromeda and their associates.They Live is a B-movie by John Carpenter and one of his best films. Years before the red-pill of Matrix, a simple worker finds the real world wearing a pair of very special sunglasses. Nada learns that the fight of classes in the American society is supported by aliens, in a sharp social and political critic to the neo-liberalism of Ronald Reagan that affected the lower classes. I do not recall how many times I have watched this film. I am a big fan of John Carpenter and in my opinion, this great director, writer and musician deserves an Oscar for his magnificent filmography. My vote is eight.Title (Brazil) Eles Vivem (They Live)Note On 15 July 2013, I saw this movie again on DVD.On 22 August 2015, I saw this film again. "},{"Title":"An underrated masterpiece.","Date":"12 August 2013","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film is a total masterpiece under many points of view. It encompasses a mix between drama, political plot and conspiracy related to control the masses. Is an old film but the contents are evergreen, because the power of the almighty people is still dominating the crowds minds and is greatly clear in the movie with the imperative orders that are everywhere.Another part that astonished me is that the Obey written usually seen in the movie became the graffiti tag of one of the most famous and important street graffiti artist that inspired an affirmed fresh clothing brand now famous in the whole world.This movie is highly recommended for the comic side too, especially the final part. John Carpenter did a real masterpiece here, this film should be in the Top 250 films for sure. "},{"Title":"My favorite John Carpenter movie!","Date":"1 August 2012","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" THEY LIVE (1988) is one of those 80s movies that eluded me as I was growing up. The two adjectives that you hear most about 80s movies are 'dated' and 'trivial'. But a funny thing has happened to movies in the 00s. Most movies now are really indistinguishable from each other, no matter what the genre. Summer movies are big on special effects, with no story or good characters. Non-summer movies are either boring Indie flicks or dull mainstream bids to win Oscars. And every other movie is now a remake or a reboot! But in the 80s, it seemed like a movie could be about almost ANYTHING and still be entertaining! Even a lot of bad ones are getting re-discovered as cult classics! Go figure.They Live is another 80s movie that has managed to reach the level of cult status, but that's not surprising given the source...John Carpenter! Who is fast moving up my list of favorite directors! I already had been a big fan since the 80s of his no-holds-barred cult action comedy Big Trouble in Little China and have recently gotten around to watching (and loving!) his atmospheric and spooky horror flick The Fog. There's a nonchalance and unassuming quality with which Carpenter directs his flicks that is really inviting. He doesn't overdo it with camera action or music. Rather, he focuses on the characters and dialog allow them to drive the action, rather than the other way around, and sets a tone and mood that permeates throughout his movies. They Live starts off very methodical and slow, establishing the main character and a couple of minor ones very well while setting an ominous, foreboding tone, and once it gets going, it REALLY gets going! It had been years since I'd seen it until recently, but I remember totally liking this effort and now have come to appreciate for how psychic and clever it really is!They Live stars 80s wrestling icon Roddy Piper (in a surprisingly persuasive performance) as a John Doe style drifter who finds work at an LA construction site. There he meets fellow worker Frank (a solid Keith David) and the 2 live at a local shelter that is run by Gilbert (reliably played by Peter Jason, who later played a role in Carpenter's anthology flick Body Bags). Piper's character finds out that the shelter is a front for a secret organization, that gets raided by the police, but not before Piper finds a box of sunglasses in the group's hideout. After donning a pair of the glasses, he sees the light! The world has been infiltrated by aliens who have worked their way up through societal ranks and hold key positions of power and authority (businessmen, police, newscasters, politicians) and all the signs and media carry subliminal messages that force the general populace to conform, submit, and obey! Then there is this long sequence where Piper discovers the magnitude and scope of the alien threat via the sunglasses that is truly spooky and scary, and he proceeds to go on an alien-killing spree! During his escape, he kidnaps a local yuppie named Holly (played by the beautiful Meg Foster in an all-too-small role) and tries to convince her of the alien threat.While They Live has several moments of hilarity (most notably in some of Piper's dialog) and has a comic air about it at times, it is mostly a serious film with an important message. Piper's blasé dialog actually complements the horror and action scenes as it's coming from a character that is at a crossroads in his life he's homeless, with little to no hope of a good future, and is in last straw mode, BUT he also has a heart (as illustrated in his connections with both Holly and Frank) and morals and defeating the aliens is his way of saying that he does count and can make a difference.Yeah, I know it all sounds cheesy and cliché, but the movie never feels like that to me. While the effects are cheap (which is intended since this is a very low budget B movie) and the dialog is purposefully tongue-in-cheek, the message and the way Carpenter tells the story is most certainly NOT cheesy or cornball! They Live is actually one of the more provocative low-budget flicks I've ever seen! The drab black-and-white world that is relayed through the sunglasses is actually pretty scary-looking, relaying a cold and empty feeling. The movie is actually pretty disturbing and violent, with the big alleyway fight scene, as well as the attacks on the shelter and the underground basement, and of course in the climax. The main stars Piper, David, and Foster really do a great job with the serious moments and making the viewer believe in the imminent threat.The film's ending is simply smashing, simultaneously ambiguous and yet somehow uplifting. They Live is a pleasing blend of horror, satire, comedy, action and is grounded in a lot of truth! My fave from John Carpenter! "},{"Title":"A Great and Original Sci/Fi/Action Film Classic. Carpenter does it again.","Date":"28 June 2012","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" John Carpenter's They Live is another Carpenter classic that greatly mixes Sci/Fi,Action and Social Commentary. The film has gained a cult following over the years and it is well-deserved.They Live is the story of an out of work drifter named John Nada(Roddy Piper)who has just arrived in L.A looking for work. When he finally finds a job, he meets up with a co-worker named Frank(Keith David) who becomes Nada's friend. Frank tells Nada that there's a place called Justiceville that takes care of the homeless and unemployed. When Justiceville is raided by the police, Nada looks through the damage and finds a box of sunglasses and when Nada puts on a pair the sunglasses reveal that the rich humans are actually aliens controlling and influencing everyday life and Nada tries to warn and tell people but it's not going to be easy.One of the reasons They Live is a great film and works so well is because it's just as relevant as it was back in 1988. The themes of people becoming poor,losing their jobs and the economy going bad relates to what's going on now in our society. Carpenter always said that this was a commentary on the Reagan era in the 1980s where the rich were getting richer and the poor were growing poorer. Carpenter sets the tone for the film in the first ten minutes showing people that are homeless and losing their jobs. You'll relate to John Nada when he's trying to look for a job in the harsh and troubling economy. If you take out the Action and Science Fiction the stuff with the economy and homeless would seem like something out of the news or a realistic documentary. It's that accurate. Instead of using humans,Carpenter uses aliens as the villains who are posing as rich human beings taking over society. Carpenter gives us a dark,eerie,paranoid,apocalyptic view as if the world was falling apart and you don't know who trust and who's human. You say that Carpenter was continuing his themes of paranoia and human beings from The Thing where human beings are paranoid and afraid of the aliens and of each other which are great themes and those same themes work here as well. What I also love about the film is the Humor and satire in this film where television and advertisements have subliminal messages underneath and also mocking the rich and the consumer culture when during the 1980s most people were about getting rich,making a lot of money and living good lives,but They Live turns that idea on it's head and offers a funny and biting satire of the era. Carpenter's commentary and jab at the Reagan era is very much dead on. John Nada is another classic Carpenter Anti-Hero we can relate to because he is down to earth and a human being that keeps his head on his shoulders and keeps his cool when he starts to go after the aliens but is also tough and cool individual that doesn't messing around. They Live is a Western in disguise and John Nada like other Carpenter Antiheros is a modern day Western cowboy instead trying to survive in the Wild West is trying to survive against Aliens in a big city The Action sequences in the film are well done with great shootouts and intensity and has one of the finest,longest,greatest fight scenes in film history. The fight scene is brutal,long and funny and at times you feel like it will go on forever,it's one of the most realistic fight scenes I've ever seen because you can feel those punches and kicks almost like you're in the scene yourself. It's Five great minutes of fighting you'll never forget. Great scene. The film also has one of the greatest lines in film history and will be quoted forever thanks to Roddy Piper. A great line. For a film made on a 4 million dollar budget the special effects are outstanding and at times makes the film look like it cost 40 million. Carpenter is a master at making a low budget film look like 70 million dollar film. The ending of the film is classic and funny and is a wonderful cap off to the film and is one of the things that makes They Live a great movie.Roddy Piper is great as John Nada bringing a cool and calm feel to the role and when Piper gets into the action,Piper says great one liners and kicks ass. No wonder Roddy Piper is one of the best pro wrestlers of all time. The Underrated Keith David is wonderful as Frank,Nada's co-worker and friend,with David bringing the same intensity and depth he brings to a lot of performances. Meg Foster does a fine job as Holly,a person that Nada meets and is trying to tell her what's going on. Carpenter actors George'Buck'Flower(Drifter)and Peter Jason(Gilbert)give great performances as does Raymond St. Jacques(Street Preacher)who is great in his small role. The direction by John Carpenter is brilliant. Carpenter moves the camera slowly and giving the film a great atmosphere especially during the black and white sequences with the aliens. The action scenes by Carpenter excellent and well-done with tightness and great editing. Great job,JohnThe score by Carpenter and Alan Howarth is excellent mixing together Western,Blues and Jazz that perfectly matches the tone of the film. It's probably my favorite Carpenter score.John carpenter's They Live is to put it simply a great and one of Carpenter's best.If you love Sci/Fi,Action and Cult films I suggest you see this film. Highly Recommended. 10/10. "},{"Title":"Carpenter's B-movie Masterpiece!","Date":"19 November 2006","Score":"12 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" John Carpenter had said that They Live had been the best film he had ever made, considering he also made Halloween, Escape From New York, and The Thing remake (arguably one of the scariest films and one of my favorite horror movies). To call this movie his best film is really interesting on my part because I can see where he is coming from with it. It's bad in the best possible way.The film stars WWF Wrestling legend Roddy Rowdy Piper as the lead hero who discovers a pair of sunglasses that reveal to him that the world has in fact been taken over by an imperialist alien race who has turned earth into a capitalist, decadent hell. However, in sociological context, take away the aliens, and earth already looks that way. The film is interesting because it was made around that transition period between the end of the 80s and the beginning of the 90s, so there's some competing trends and ideologies here.The first time I saw They Live, I remember flipping through the channels and finding it on the Space Channel. It was already half-way into it and I saw Piper wandering around aimlessly on the streets of New York, seeing the aliens all around him through cheesy black and white POV shots, and I kept asking myself, What the hell is this? It seemed really surreal, almost like the world around Piper had become a B-movie. Then Piper opens his mouth with a barrage of bad one-lines (the famous I am hear to chew bubble gum and kick ass, and I'm all out of bubble gum) and I knew exactly what I was seeing. It was different, though. I had never seen a B-movie with a brain, a social-conscience, and a self-reflexive sense of humor before. Usually you only get one of those things and it's generally not the first two.The beauty of They Live is that it is a B-movie, but it's a high-budget B-movie paying a loving homaging to the genre. It's one for the fans. It has the premise and the look of a B-movie. (Comparitively speaking to Carpenter's other works, the photography for this film is ugly as hell.) Carpenter is embracing the B-movie status of this film and using his talents/intelligence as a gifted director to make it that much more of a B-movie. Everyone involved in the film seems to know that except Piper, which makes the film even more enjoyable. His heroic crusades in the movie appear more like a madman on a killing spree - a direct jab at the whole 80s action hero trend. As a side note, Carpenter took this idea from the Italian Pablum films of the 50s and 60s, where Hercules went on fantastical and mystical adventures, but everyone in the audience watched him for how much of an idiot he was. There's a point in the film where so hobos are watching the original Hercules film starring Steve Reeves on a junky old television set.I won't spoil anything for those of you who haven't seen this masterpiece, but there is a fight scene in the film that makes the entire thing worth seeing. It's so absurd and so ridiculously long that it made in the series Top Ten Movie Fights. If you watch this movie for anything, watch it for that. It is so great. "}{"Title":"Carpenter's Best Movie","Date":"27 May 2015","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Spoilers AheadCarpenter's best film by a country mile. Brilliant, funny satire of yuppie pond scum who we all did suspect of being evil world conquering aliens. It starts slow but once it gets going it never stops. The fact that it is so short is actually one of its advantages. It has great humor action and suspense. The use of black and white photography is such a smart touch by Carpenter. First, it lets you know when someone is wearing the glasses. Also, it was a very low budget film, the black and white hides some of the makeup flaws you would have picked up on right away. Notice how Carpenter is aware Piper is a bad actor; he has him with just laconic dialogue. As long as Piper keeps it short he does fine, it is only the few times he has to speak paragraphs we get into big trouble. The film is like a roller-coaster; at the beginning it takes a little while to get to the top of the hill but boy does it move after that.Meg Foster, with those creepy cat's eyes, always plays a great evil woman. Childs steals the movie; there is a wrestling match over his putting the glasses on that is great to watch and drop dead funny also. This has as much humor as action in it. It really is one of the greatest satires of the yuppie slime culture of the 1980s. The action scenes, while done on a very small budget, do not avoid it because of that; remember this is John Carpenter, do you know how little Escape From New York cost? He knows how to do great work on almost no money at all. Ironically, his best work was done on the smallest budgets. Halloween and New York were very small budget films and they are his very best. The Thing was a big budget film and not one of his best. Do not think just because the budget is small the effects are bad. No, it has a few great effects scenes; Carpenter never lets you down with effects. His movies, with the exception of all films after and including Ghosts of Mars, feature great acting. Pipper is the only bad actor in the crew and Carpenter really controls him. He has his usual great supporting cast; you will recognize them right away he puts them in all of his films. I cannot recommend it enough; I consider it his best film. "},{"Title":"Popcorn Social Commentary","Date":"6 May 2008","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The poor and the underclass are growing. Racial justice and human rights are non-existent. They have created a oppressive society and we are the unwitting accomplices. So preaches the leader of an underground movement, fighting back against the burgeoning upper class of white elites taking over corporations and the government. More social allegory than horror movie, Carpenter blends social criticism with horror, action, and science fiction. An unemployed construction worker, Roddy Piper, stumbles into LA hoping to get back on track with a new job. Piper has spent his whole life following the rules and working hard, but this still hasn't been enough to enable him to provide for a minimalist existence.Piper does get his new construction job, but in the process he stumbles upon an underground group of rebels, who manufacture special sunglasses that allow normal humans to see society for what it truly is A series of advertisements promoting conservative brainless values, based on thoughtless reproduction and heartless greed and consumption. Piper accidentally becomes a lead figure in the rebel movement attempting to expose the disgusting elitists taking advantage of the poor and destitute.Many of the social commentaries explored in this film ring true more today than when this film was released in 1988. John Carpenter is one of the most under-rated directors in modern film-making. His films are easy targets for people to rip down and unfairly criticize because he often makes films that don't appeal to mainstream audiences. Much like Craven, he does what he wants to do, and if you don't like it stay home and rent Independence Day. They Live is grossly underrated and overlooked by the film community and moviegoers in general.Admittedly a bit campy at times, They Live is one of the few films in modern Hollywood that addresses the serious problem of the ever widening wealth distribution gap occurring in the US. Like Craven, Carpenter is often criticized for going too far and for disregarding what is prim, proper, and acceptable. I think what really holds back this film is budgetary restraints. Procuring acceptable financing commitments from Hollywood has been a career long problem with all of Carpenter's films. Movie studios just don't want to shell out big bucks to directors that don't suck up to ignorant audiences. "},{"Title":"If you don't like this movie I hate you.","Date":"8 August 2010","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" An unemployed drifter on the move, George Nada (Piper) finds work labouring in an LA construction site as well as discovering some lodging at a local shantytown. Soon Nada discovers that a nearby church is a front for a mysterious rebel group which possess motives of unknown nature. When the shantytown and the rebel front is bombarded and destroyed by police, Nada finds something that the insurgent group was stockpiling &#x96; rad 80's sunglasses. These sunglasses, however, hold much darker secrets &#x96; they allow the wearer the see the world as it truly is &#x96; full of subliminal advertising aimed at controlling humans, and all at the hand of aliens living among us! A paranoid Nada is now on an unstoppable path for answers he's here to kick ass and chew bubblegum, and unfortunately for the ghoul-like aliens, he's all out of bubblegum. No-one does 80's style B-movie classics quite like John Carpenter. A Sorry I'm Late.com favourite, Carpenter here, as always, has a message to deliver &#x96; this one about corruption, commercialism and 80's style excess. His throwbacks to 1950's paranoia themed movies, such as Invasion of the Body Snatchers, are evident - even down to the out-and- out cheesy special effects (Go, flying saucer, go!). Sublimely slow paced and low-key, They Live is probably Carpenter's most intelligently written observation of the times (still relevant, perhaps?), but don't let that fool you &#x96; this movie has enough silly B-movie shenanigans to make a truly entertaining feature. What may said shenanigans be, you ask? Well... - One liner's? Hell yeah. - Killer, low budget action set pieces? Umm, yup. - Piper giving the finger to the aliens in one final act of defiance? It's right here. - And the final coup de grace of awesome, when Nada's only ally (perennial bad-ass Keith David) won't wear the sunglasses, what happens? A five and a half minute fistfight, that's what. Awesome. Definitely a moment of filmic significance, even parodied on South Park's Cripple Fight episode, blow for blow. Plucked straight from the squared-circle of the then WWF, Rowdy Roddy Piper gives an amazing performance. He looks like a guy that has been through a lot, and really underplays the paranoia and disbelief for a while. That is, until he hits a moment where the character seems to snap and he's on a mission for answers and he'll take everyone with him. Performing in front of thousands of people in a wrestling ring was great practice for when Nada snaps, because when Piper hams it up, he hams it up with force. It's just a shame Hollywood never caught on to Piper, because he plays cheesey-80's-rugged action-hero very well. But it's not perfect. The film's slow burn dies in the final act as a jarringly fast series events speed towards the conclusion. And as with many Carpenter flicks, his ideas are larger than his available palette of tools to work with, and although that's what many, myself included, find charming about his films, audiences nowadays are spoiled with even the lamest trash getting decent budgets. Did I say the word 'awesome' a lot during this review? If I did it's because this movie's awesome! A true cult classic in every sense. If you don't like this movie I hate you. "},{"Title":"Maybe the bravest film ever made.","Date":"17 October 2001","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  In this day and age, when yuppies rule the world, it is indeed a brave thing making a movie, which depicts them as alien non-humans, slaughtering man-kind when not enslaving it.The truth is, of course, that the yuppies are just lackeys, which in this film only applies to the humans joining the aliens and not to the aliens themselves.Nevertheless, what a wonderful brave film! Took a long time for Carpenter, before he recovered from this one, it appears. He still isn't back amongst the money-makers. But with this film, he has left a legacy of awe.Mankind enslaved by market-economy, brainwashed to stupidity. That's what this film is about. Oh, how I wish it was so simple as only putting on some special sun-glasses, as in this film, and then see what everything is about.Honors for bravery to Carpenter for doing this! "},{"Title":"Reptillian Shapeshifters! Oh snap!","Date":"3 September 2013","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" SynopsisI know John Carpenter through his film Halloween (1978) which has become an American Movie Classic. Having heard about Carpenter's other works I had just never found the time to see another until recently.They Live is a story about a 'nameless' man who becomes aware of the world he lives in through the most unusual circumstances. And this world is much different than what you and I are familiar with. Upon this discovery, he becomes driven to exploit this 'other world' to the rest of the sheep out there. Filled with suspense, action, and quirky humor, this film has put me on a Carpenter binge.ReviewIf you're a conspiracy theorist, this film will blow you away. One reason this is true is because how the 'uncovering' is played out. It seems that the enlightenment that our nameless character experiences is much like the creepy terms sooner than you think&#x85; and before you know it&#x85; in which the events you just discovered have already tread an almost irreversible path. In addition, there are always a million people who just aren't going to believe a word you're saying. And this aspect is evident during a pretty gnarly fight sequence.The humor of this film is awesome. Our nameless character is a buff-all- American tough guy who makes parody of the Stallone and Schwarzenegger personas giving a clear idea of the tone Carpenter possesses in regards to those types of action figures. With cheap cliché idioms and catchphrases Carpenter owns this aspect of the film creating a character whose comic appeal turns out being more badass than Stallone or Schwarzenegger.Many have complained about the special effects of this film giving it a poor review. I might contend that the special effects, although cheap, in fact ADD to the strange and bizarre nature of the world that our nameless character uncovers.Obey my command and see this film. Do not question it. "},{"Title":"Amazing and vivid critics to our contemporary society!","Date":"3 August 2011","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie is excellent. It is because it is a blend of sci-fi and horror with firm yet amusing critics to the society. I have always loved Carpenter's vision of reality, it is stunning to think that, after 24 years this film was shot, many things match...Personally, I loved the way this title describes the degradation of the system and the efforts that are constantly made by the  ruling coalition  of this world to keep things running and make people do what's good for them! There are only a few things I do not like about this movie, but it's something not that important. In some scenes ( the fighting one between Nada and Franks is way too long ) the rhythm is not very active with the result of getting a little bit boring. There are also funny scenes such as the one in which Nada gets inside a bank by mistake and starts shooting everyone as he noticed that most of the clients were aliens. The scene in which he goes to the News agent's is pure genius. I highly recommend it to those who like to think, this movie's simply awesome!!! "},{"Title":"Clever plot, great pace, right amount of 80s cheese!","Date":"30 November 2011","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I randomly watched this film with very few expectations and I have to say I was more than impressed! I'd never seen Rowdy Roddy Piper in a film before and I really thought he did a great job, on par with Schwarzenegger in that era.The whole concept of the film was intriguing and extremely well delivered and the script was a fabulous eighties script with frequent action oriented punchlines. The story offers curiosity at the start, then as soon as you've caught the scent, the pace picks up and you are swiftly bounced through towards the end at a satisfying pace which gives you enough time to soak up key parts of the story but not enough time for it to go stagnant.If you're a fan of eighties action films and even pure science fiction films then I would highly recommend this as it delivers on so many levels. "},{"Title":"The Reptiles are coming","Date":"27 January 2005","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film predates David Icke's famous books on the reptile conspiracy that rules the world, but that's what it's really about. The reptiles came here 400,000 years ago and have been covertly ruling the world since. Or so millions of people believe. In this movie the aliens true nature can be seen only by those with the special sunglasses. Otherwise they look like regular people. Roddy Piper finds out about this and with the aid of some friends tries to defeat them.A very interesting show. Not much in the way of special affects and not really a monster flik either. But it makes you think about how we are so manipulated by those in power. Wrestling star Piper does not play a strong super-hero type as you might expect. He's just a bum looking for work and does an amazing acting job. "},{"Title":"Sci Fi hits the mark so often, and They Live hits on the mark.","Date":"29 April 2007","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" They Live deserves a 10 for being a much needed statement and indictment of current society.I could comment on the fist fight and other aspects of this film that help to outweigh its flunky aliens, but the metaphors are perfect to help the young learn about the uses of propaganda as well as metaphors. WMDs should be proof enough for anyone that has yet to connect the dots between reproducing society as each generation becomes more entrenched in the consume and breed cycle of propaganda, anyway. So the aliens were flunky. The metaphors are wonderful! It is ironic, to say the least, that the propagandists have mystified the growth of global warming andglobal dimming while feeding WMD lies and propaganda to us so successfully. It should not matter if the writer intended to create a bit of social realism through a Sci Fi film. "},{"Title":"Intelligent scifi film following lunkheaded protagonist","Date":"12 October 2015","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Carpenter's Golden Era fizzled out somewhere in the late 80's between PRINCE OF DARKNESS and this movie. This film has some amazing scenes and excellent ideas though not without its share of campy silliness and sloppiness which adds to the fun. Still, I can't help but wonder how much better this film would have been with a few more dollars and a lot more attention put on making sure the script was up to snuff.Conceptually, this film is great with a plot that nearly writes itself. Unfortunately, it settles into total conventions and the plot never really has any sense of reality or immediacy to it because things are so sloppily set up in the first act.Right at the start I've always chuckled a bit right when Piper walks into the unemployment office and a guy in a wheelchair scoots by him just unsubtly shaking his head in frustration. Things feel even sillier when it turns out that a blind street preacher Piper sees raving to some crowd of strangers is some central figure in the human resistance. Wouldn't they try to maintain a lower profile? Also, how are they so taken off guard by the police raid but never seem to notice the giant 7- foot blond wrestler in a plaid shirt parked across the street aiming binoculars at them all day and night?Like everyone else, I love how a heavily armed Piper pulls a reverse- HEAT and escapes a police shootout by entering a bank and shooting the place up. This awesome scene is undone immediately after by Piper just easily exiting the back door (are cops really this stupid?). It could have all been so much better to have the bystanders reacting more realistically (especially to their kin talking into wristwatches and disappearing) but Carpenter can't seem to be bothered by that and just whisks the plot along to a lot of unfortunately repetitive and uninspired action sequences involving dozens of nameless henchmen in ill-fitting army surplus store uniforms.Piper gives us an earnest performance as a clumsy hobo who suddenly wakes up to reality, but the real star performance belongs to Keith David. As much goofy fun as the 6-minute fight scene is, I'd have much rather seen a fight focus on a point in the film where the stakes were larger or devoted more time to Keith's conversion or setup. The film makes a lot of right turns when a few lefts might have made for something truly classic. As it is, the film falls just short, though it'll always retain a strong cult following for its pre-MATRIX social commentary mixed with fast-paced action and Carpenter delivery the (unfortunately?) cheesy goods, true to his standard. "}{"Title":"Read your Vance Packard","Date":"7 February 2015","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Other reviewers have pointed out the metaphor for Reaganism or the hippie thing. But it goes back long before either of those. Anyone who has read Vance Packard from the '50's (The Hidden Persuaders, and other great books)will immediately recognize the art of subliminal advertising which was in full swing long before Reagan or hippies. The big marketing companies have been using staff psychologists and test audiences since the '40's or even sooner, to find out what color to make the logo, what shape the box or bottle, which slogans turn on which age groups, where on the store shelf it should be displayed. That is, how to push our subconscious buttons to bypass any conscious reactions we may have to products. My favorite story is how an appliance manufacturer found sales on its new model refrigerator dropping. When they called in the shrinks, they traced the problem to a magazine and television ad that had the June Cleaver type housewife standing at the fridge holding the door open to show off the innards. People liked the look and features of the fridge. But deeper probing showed that people had a negative subconscious reaction to a housewife who was stupid and wasteful enough to stand there holding the door open, letting the cold out. They Live dumbs down the subliminal message just a little bit - Sleep, Obey, etc. But the technique is old and getting fine tuned all the time. The Koch Brothers and the other plutocrats love that liberals and conservatives fight over racism or religion in schools or a thousand other issues while they quietly rewrite the tax laws and make money from unnecessary wars. Misdirection, subconscious button pushing, and aiming below the conscious to hit the real decision making part of our brains - that's the lesson of They Live, and it far predates the 60's or the 80's. People respond to political or marketing polls with what they consciously think, then make a different choice when it comes down to it, based on those subconscious buttons that got pushed. I love They Live. I love Carpenter's use, also metaphorical, of the TV transmission, all staticky and spooky, trying to warn of the coming doom. He used the same device in his previous movie, the badly reviewed one with the devil as a tube of whirly green jello in the church basement. When you watch TV, especially the commercials, try to think about what they're trying to get you to do and which of your buttons they're pushing. The only defense against these manipulative ads (besides sheer poverty, can't afford to buy) is to understand the trick - what are they aiming for in you underneath the surface. They Live makes the point in a direct and entertaining way. "},{"Title":"Are we being manipulated? Yes. By whom?","Date":"12 August 2013","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Based on a very short story, John Carpenter's They Live takes it to a whole new level. The film is sardonic, funny and satirical. Set during the recession of 1986, it posits the source of the Yuppie scourge of the era. By now, few who may see this review have not seen the film, but for those few, I won't go into spoilers, but suffice it to say that anyone who loves conspiracy theories will recognize all of the elements the ones at the top of the conspiracy, pulling the strings and all those who go along for convenience or reward or because they 'can't handle the truth.' And most of all, those few who see the truth and must fear for their lives as they try to fight apparently insurmountable odds in a society 'wired against them.' Heck, there's even a black helicopter. As with a conspiracy theorist's perception of the world, the American (and one presumes other countries') society of They Live is unable to see the strings, let alone the puppet masters. To the everyday worker, everything seems normal. Wealth and social/economic advancement are out of reach and the media give out subliminal messages designed to demotivate, produce calm obedience and distract. Some would compare They Live to the masterpiece 1984 in the way it predicts top-down manipulation of the working class and lower class by design. They Live adds humor and sci-fi, but the message is there. Some say that in the years since this film was created, some of the trends imagined in it have come to pass. I wouldn't argue with that. "},{"Title":"Brilliantly Dumbs-Down Intellectual and Conspiratorial Truths","Date":"3 June 2013","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Director sure knows his target Audience and most don't go to the Opera or read the New York Times or Wall Street Journal. So he takes High Concept and Intellectual Discussion and brings it to the Masses in the guise of Campy one liners, exploding squibs, and back alley groin grinding fisticuffs. The latter in the most out of place, extended, Macho-Match of a knuckle scraping, body slamming fight that is as misplaced here as it is essential for his Fans.That is really the only scene that could be faulted because all of the rest is right-on Satirical Sci-Fi and Politics. This is an amazing and brilliant affair. It couches the stuff of Nebula Awards, Talk Radio, and College Libraries in a Cerebral Cartoon of timeless Truth.This is as much fun as it is Enlightening. The extremely low-budget and B or Non-Actors deliver witticisms of the most Lowbrow while persuading the Audience that they are being Subliminally persuaded to OBEY.None of that Subliminal stuff for the Director. It is all shoved into your Brain and given to you with a don't take this seriously, but you really ought to, format. It is a Cult Movie and nothing less than a Pop-Culture Classic. "},{"Title":"Wake up and put on the shades! go see this movie!","Date":"14 January 2013","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" That's what John Nada AKA 'Rowdy' Roddy Piper did. Roddy Piper plays a homeless drifter whom discovers the reason for the ever-widening gap between the rich and the poor in the world when finding himself a box of glasses in a church. When he put on the sunglasesses, he can see that aliens truth faces and notice they have infiltrated society in diguises of wealthy yuppies. He sees through their subliminal messages in media outlooks such as books, magazine, billboards and television such as words like obey and don't question. The use of black and white whenever John puts on the glasses, give the word, a 1950's B-movie look as well, as tribute to them. I can't help thinking it's a Twilight Zone episode. The black and white also gives the movie, totalitarian look at it, as if watching fascism era footage. He soon joins the counter culture in a revolution to stop the invasion. Roddy was great in the role, he had such a rich and textured character in this film. His performance is still one of the more underrated and meaningful in a science-fiction film because it deals with something we live with every day, advertising and authority, and to not let either rule you. It's about being your own boss, and live life the way you want. Rather than looking not normal like Hulk Hogan, Piper doesn't looks like a WWE guy, but a regular Joe who stand under the moral nothing wrong with a hard day's work. He starts to see not only does the aliens hold a threat, but common human beings whom sold themselves out for greed. I think most people miss the over-all deeper message of the movie. No the evil in this world is not aliens from another planet, but the men and women who let greed rule them and would step on anyone for wealth. TV, advertising, and mainstream news does make people sleep or rather get dumbed down. We are manipulated on a daily basis as we are their slaves. America was based on the idea that everyone has an equal chance but this is just no longer the case, that's what set off Piper into fighting them. Pipers starts to quote one-liners only to feed how badass the character is. Some of them are good, some of them come out of nowhere. I have come here to chew bubblegum and kick ass. And I'm all outta bubblegum. he quotes on the run, what kind of person says that when cops are chasing him. Shouldn't he not be public light at this point. Piper enlisted co-worker Frank (Keith David) after the world's longest fist fight over nothing. No, really. This scene was only suppose to be 20 secs, but John Carperter like the fight so much, he put the whole fight scene in. Carpenter allows 5 minutes of gratuitous Piper-David eye-gouging, an apparent bone to wrestling fans. The fight is brutal, and both characters nearly killed each other just because Frank is too proud to try on the magic dark glasses. It is completely stupid. Man, that guy is the worst sunglasses sellsman I've ever seen. Both men happen to stumbles (literally) into the scope of how big this reality of a galactic-size conspiracy when they find their secret base and a rich guy who show them throughout the base and how to stop them. He tells him, that it turns out those darn aliens are just intergalactic free enterprisers doing a little cross-worlds exploitation of our natural resources because the Earth is just another Third World to them. The media and the human power elite buy into this exploitation -- for them, it's just business as usual. All that information, for what reason. Why because he mistakes them for millionaires despite Roddy and Keith not wearing suits, looking dirty, and out of place. Come on, Carpenter, that's probably one of the most sloppy writing I ever saw. It's seem rush. On the way, both men meet up with one of the most scariest actor I ever saw in dimensional doppelganger of Kristie Alley, Meg Foster. She reads out the lines, barely giving out an emotion depth to it at all, and somehow she end up as the love interest to Roddy's character. She got what she deserve in the end of the movie, so look forward to that. This satire of Reaganomics and the greed is good era is a great genre picture with a clever subtext. John Carpenter still tells a story better than his contemporaries. His heroes are more interesting. He's a master of mood and timing, which probably comes from his instincts as a musician. Give it a try, and put on the shades. "},{"Title":"Brother, life's a b!tch and she's back in heat.","Date":"6 May 2011","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Wow. What a blast! John Carpenter's cult sci-fi / action is fresh, tip-top entertainment packing ballsy action, shade wearing, Roddy Piper, elastic dialogues that are just so memorable (I've come here to chew bubblegum and kick ass), Keith David, aliens in human disguise and cryptic messages. But what makes it&#x85; has got to be Piper and David's very long-winded beat down, which is rather bruising to watch. I heard that it went on and on and on&#x85; and boy, they weren't wrong. Put on those sunglasses or start eating that trashcan!. Should have listened to the man. Priceless.The innovative plot (adapted off a short story) starts off like something out of a Larry Cohen feature, as the story sets-up a commentary about social importance (We'll do anything to be rich) and urban plight featuring the poor / working class with an alien spin to it all. It's a hidden façade (numbing our senses, so they can influence decisions and control lives without anyone really knowing). But then it settles down with its glum paranoid air, novelty images and gut-busting action, but the dialogues always remains biting -- Piper as a drifter discovers there are aliens hiding amongst us when comes across some special sunnies and then he intends to show them up. Carpenter's style is full of energy, showing so with the funky soundtrack and sweeping camera-work. After a cruise-like beginning, the momentum picks up and then never surrenders. The boisterous action is caught with such dynamic verve and is tautly staged with certain toughness. The performances are all suitable; Piper and David are likable as our heroes. Meg Foster adds capable support and there's also Peter Jason, George Buck Flower and Sy Richardson. "},{"Title":"One Of Carpenters Best","Date":"19 December 2010","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Director John Carpenter has often proved more than any other director that you need little dialog to make a suggestion and They Live is a classic example. Slow with its beginning Carpenter introduces us to his characters until the almost point that we start to wonder if anything such the premise is going to happen...its then he hits us with the bombshell,and quite a bombshell it is...its classic Carpenter. They Live also boasts one of the best if not the best all out fight scene between two guys ever filmed and one would have to see that Roddy Piper gave a few tips as to some of the moves used...when listening to the commentary Carpenter states it took an entire week to film the scene however it is edited together so perfectly its such a joy to watch you may end up howling for more. John Carpenter is nothing less than a legend in the horror genre however They Live leans more to the suggestion of 'What If and deserves all the stars I can give it. "},{"Title":"Two down-on-their-luck  workers face off an invasion wearing sun-glasses through which they can see the true face of extraterrestrials","Date":"7 October 2014","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A drifter (John Carpenter wanted a truly rugged individual to play Nada , he cast wrestler Roddy Piper in the lead role after seeing him in WrestleMania III , 1987) discovers a pair of sunglasses that allow him to wake up to the fact that aliens have taken over the Earth . Wearing them, he is able to see the world as it really is , as he watches strange messages  Obey , Buy , Marry and reproduce , Consume , No thought , Stay sleep , Do not question authority , Watch TV , Consume , Obey and consume . The drifter named Nada join forces with a construction worker called Frank (second and final of two collaborations of actor Keith David and director John Carpenter who had previously both worked together on The Thing (1982) around six years earlier) and both of them take on an extraterrestrial threat . The Aliens keep humans in ignorance and they rule our world as they like. Nada and Frank seek other people aware of the situation to carry out a resistance against the hidden extraterrestrial from Andrómeda . This exciting picture become a Cult Movie contains mystery , chills , noisy action , thrills , fights , social critical and bits of humor with tongue in cheek attitude . The movie is full of suspense , weird atmosphere with dark and surprising ending . Interesting screenplay , as Ray Nelson's short story Eight O'Clock in the Morning, which was the basis for 'They Live'. Roddy Piper and Keith David are pretty good and likable as two workers who unwittingly become involved into a fantastic world underneath . The famous big fight sequence between Roddy Piper and Keith David was designed, rehearsed and choreographed in the back-yard of director John Carpenter's production office . The fight between Nada and Frank was only supposed to last twenty seconds, but Piper and David decided to fight it out for real, only faking the hits to the face and groin. They rehearsed the fight for three weeks ; Carpenter was so impressed he kept the five minutes and twenty seconds scene intact. The film is partially shot in black-and-white which involved only the scenes and sequences where the aliens were visible to the audience when characters are wearing the sunglasses for most of the film , but this visual aesthetic ceases towards the end of the picture whereupon the aliens become visible in color for the film's final act . Adequate special effects , all the various aliens throughout the movie, both male and female, were portrayed by stunt coordinator Jeff Imada . Appropriate support cast such as Meg Foster , George 'Buck' Flower , Peter Jason , Sy Richardson , Raymond St. Jacques and John Carpenter uncredited, as the voice that says sleep . Is known for an unofficial Carpenter's Repertory Group of actors who he enjoys working with, including Peter Jason, George 'Buck' Flower, and various crew members . Nice electronic musical rightly fitting the action by the same director John Carpenter . Colorful and evocative cinematography by Gary Kibbe , Carpenter's ordinary .Director John Carpenter is in familiar ground with this well-done tale on the style of comic books and old Sci-Fi serials . This was second and final of two times that director John Carpenter worked with Alive Films , the first was the previous year's Prince of darkness (1987). Writer-director John Carpenter has said of this movie that it was a critique of Reaganomics, a vehicle to take on Reaganism. His films often feature important visuals shown from a video screen , as the end-of-the-world transmission from the future in Prince of darkness (1987), the Norwegian recordings of the expedition to uncover the aliens in The Thing (1982), various TV sets and the general anti-TV motif in this They live¨(1988), etc. ¨They live¨ was realized during his best period in the 70s and late 8os when he directed classics as ¨Halloween¨, ¨The fog ¨, ¨Christine¨, ¨1997 escape from N.Y ¨ , ¨Big Trouble in Little China¨ and ¨The thing¨ . The movie will enjoy to Science Fiction fans but packs a roller-coaster thriller and wholesome amusement . Rating  Above average. The film will appeal to John Carpenter enthusiasts. "},{"Title":"Classic","Date":"1 November 2008","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A Turkish Muslim friend recommended this to me and I thoroughly recommend this movie as a must see for both it's entertainment value and social commentary. Interestingly everyone that I have shown it to have adopted the movie as their own piece of 'Propaganda', My cousin who is a Jehovah Witness loves it and no doubt sees the aliens as non-believers. Rowdy Roddy Piper does a great job and I must admit I was surprised by his performance. Meg Foster with those beautiful evil eyes is stunning. Yes we are being controlled by the rich and powerful but the question is, if we were fortunate enough to be in the same position would we be any different? "},{"Title":"Its scary because it could be true","Date":"26 October 2004","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Well, let me start out by saying that this is one of the best sci-fi flicks of the past 20 years. Rowdy Roddy Piper(in his super big time debut) is a distraught construction worker who finds a mysterious pair of glasses. You might ask what do these glasses do, well I will tell you and Piper what they do, they can see aliens disguised as humans, thats what they do, ohhhhh. Well piper is very scared and confused when he finds this out, so he turns to his friend kieth David(his African-American co-worker)for some assistance, but he refuses to try the glasses on, even just for style. So this is where the best part of the movie happens, Piper doesn't like that he won't try them on, so a 62 minute fight scene ensues(keep in mind the movie is only 90 minutes long). You would think this would get boring but the fight is so good, you will be in awe the whole time and if you are a woman you will have to change undies. Finally Kieth tries on the glasses after much convincing and its up to Piper and a new crew of vagabonds to stop the treacherous aliens and find out their sinister plan before its too late. "},{"Title":"A Modern Classic","Date":"26 November 2006","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is an extremely clever, relevant movie. Beyond the B Movie charm and incredible fight scene, it definitely contains some very astute social commentary. This is also a film that I don't think could be made today, at least by a major studio, what with its anti-government and anti-establishment themes. Any film where shooting police is shown as a heroic act would not fly today! (even if they are really aliens.) Although Rowdy Roddy Piper is not the most gifted actor who ever lived, he is perfect as a working man who has been screwed over by a corrupt system. And of course, this film contains the greatest fight scene ever captured on film. A paranoid science fiction/action masterpiece for the thinking person. Highest recommendation possible! "}{"Title":"Ahead of it's time Carpenter classic.Just amazing!","Date":"15 July 2006","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" From John Carpenter,here comes one of the greatest sci-fi/action movies ever made that you'll never forget.They Live is a cult classic and without no doubt,one of the best movies of Carpenter.The movie's about a drifter named Nada accidentally makes a horrible discovery while looking for a job;the earth is ruled by aliens and the only way to see their origins hidden behind fake human faces is to wear a special pair of sunglasses.Seems that they deliver hidden messages like 'obey','no independent thought' and 'watch t.v.'to control human's minds and to keep them away from a possible mutiny against them.Soon,Nada finds out there is a small group aware of the danger on humanity and make those special sunglasses.He joins that small group with his new sidekick Frank and they begin trying to find a way for a worldwide wake up call for humans.However,they don't fight only against the aliens,they also fight against humans who are aware of the alien invasion but seduced by money,status,a much better life standard and now cooperate with the aliens.While using his unique way of storytelling to keep the tension high,Carpenter also reminds us human beings are far from perfection.He says we;humans are selfish creatures and we could do anything for our unlimited desires;whatever it takes!Besides the message it's carrying,They Live is a typical Carpenter movie.It's a low budget masterpiece with humor,great one liners,a classic Carpenter score with Roddy Piper in the lead.He's just outstanding as the lone drifter Nada.The cast includes Keith David,very underrated Meg Foster with some Carpenter regulars like Peter Jason and George 'Buck' Flower and they all give solid performances.Also there is an unforgettable fight sequence between Piper and David that lasts nearly ten minutes which is almost as famous as the movie itself.A unique movie from a master. "},{"Title":"Z Grade becomes A Grade","Date":"22 August 2005","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" They Live is John Carpenter's tribute to cheesy 50's sci-fi movies, combining the sci-fi with a feel of grit and action, as well as some interesting social commentary that goes as far to talk about how the Reagen Administration propagates rampant consumerism and brainwashes the public so easily. Its an unlikely place to find such messages, but like the magazines with CONSUME written on the 'inside', seen only with special glasses, They Live conceals its true core and gives audiences a bit of everything, transforming the film into something of a hidden message keeper itself. .Nada Piper, is a wandering man with no particular place to go, representing blue collar America in Carpenter's tale. After arriving at an outdoor homeless shelter, he soon begins to suspect something strange is going on, especially after a brutal police raid. By accident, he discovers some plastic sunglasses, that show a whole 'nother side to the world. Piper sums it up best with the line, 'You see, I take these glasses off, she looks like a regular person doesn't she huh? Put e'm back on formaldehyde face!'.After discovering the secret hidden alien world, Nada first attempts going rampant, then thinks better of it. After a classically overdone fight scene, Nada teams up with Frank David and joins a group of people who are attempting to overthrow the domineering aliens. Underneath, their battle represents the minority's struggle against the big bad American government, but on the outside, its just a noisy, fun alien adventure. There is a plot hole or two, some bad alien makeup, and a few cheesy scenes, but its hard not to like this film as an action/sci-fi adventure, and its hard not to appreciate the layers of commentary Carpenter manages to cleverly conceal here. Maybe not everyone's cup of tea, but it should be recommended to any action, sci-fi, or Carpenter fans for the underrated 'hell of an adventure' film this is.9/10 "},{"Title":"Another JC classic","Date":"15 August 2005","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A excessively paranoid action film, 'They Live' sees struggling labourer Rowdy Roddy Piper stumble across a secret organisation that is trying to rebel against a race of aliens that live amongst humans like normal people. They are the successful ones who get the best jobs and all the promotions, while more and more real humans get stuck in the working class due to being held back by the subliminal messaging the aliens use to control them, hidden amongst billboards, television shows and basically everywhere. These aliens can only be seen with special sunglasses, and when he stumbles across a pair, Piper starts kicking ass because he's out of bubblegum.Some people say this is Carpenter's last great film; I say wait ten years until the likes of 'Escape from L.A' and 'Vampires' develop the cult followings that are already beginning to swell. Shot on a shoestring budget like all the Carpenter classics, 'They Live' wasn't much of a commercial success (like all the Carpenter classics), probably dismissed because it had a wrestler in the lead. But people have come to respect it over time (like all the Carpenter classics) and appreciate it as the intelligent thriller it is. The idea of the subliminal messaging and hidden aliens is a perfect one to tap into everyone's fears and angers about modern Western society. This is a gripping backdrop, but after all, at heart 'They Live' is an action film. And it defiantly doesn't disappoint in that aspect. Piper is fun and charismatic in the lead, delivering some classic one liners like Momma don't like tattletales and of course the legendary Bubblegum line. Once he gets his sunglasses the action really gets going, with the bank shootout and his fistfight with Keith David being the standout scenes. The latter is a scene which I regard as one of the best non martial art fight sequences ever. The film keeps to Carpenter's typical style, with a western atmosphere, a cool techno soundtrack and plenty of mindless killing. This is one of his overlooked masterpieces, a smart and inventive action film that is not to be missed. "},{"Title":"Carpenter's Overlooked Gem","Date":"15 May 2002","Score":"10 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  John Carpenter has always been willing to take risks as a director with personal, lower-budget projects with actors who are decent but not exactly Oscar candidates and special effects that are top-of-the-line for their budget range but still can't compare with a bid-budget production. Sometimes this works wonderfully, as in his most famous film, Halloween, and sometimes it doesn't work so well, as with 2001's Ghosts of Mars. They Live, produced in 1988, is somewhat of a midpoint between these two films on one end there's a very enjoyable sci-fi film which uses its nothing is real theme for social commentary, with a surprisingly good performance from wrestler-turned-actor Roddy Piper, and on the other end, the film's alien effects (which, given that they're the antagonists, is a pretty major part of the film) have decayed over the years and left the film with a tinted cheese/b-movie feel.Although wrestlers have to act for promotional vignettes and in the ring, anyone who's seen a Hulk Hogan movie or Dwayne The Rock Johnson in The Scorpion King can attest that that acting doesn't translate on the screen at all.  Though he has put on his share of cult classic fare, Roddy Piper is definitely the exception to that rule.  Though he still suffers slightly from overacting (though not to the extent that made Johnson look joyfully absurd in The Scorpion King), he's believable as both a blue-collar everyday man and a hero.  His wrestling skills are also referenced via their use in the film's famous ten-minute back alley brawl between Piper (whose character is never named in the film) and co-star Keith David (Frank). Piper certainly never won any awards for his performance, but it's more than enough for the film, and he even has a couple of classic action-style lines.The film is also surprising because of its effective social commentary. The theme of the world as seen through human eyes not being real is fairly standard in sci-fi, but that's also because it's open to so much interpretation.  In the late &#145;80s, the U.S. was a mess, economically and socially.  The film's setting is true to that, with Piper and Frank wallowing in and putting up with their own social misery by residing in a homeless/lower-class commune of sorts, only to later literally break into and destroy foundations of corporate America.  Scenes in Los Angeles where the real world is revealed to Piper for the first time are chillingly effective, particularly a whole line of news-stands where the news' subliminal messages have been revealed Obey and Stay Asleep being the most pronounced, though there are many others.  The reason these scenes and their messages are so effective is because that was definitely how the world seemed at the time to those in the ever-increasing lower class of America, full of hidden messages forcing them to unquestionably follow the rich whose only goal in life was to help others in the upper-class get richer.  This is represented not only through the aliens' dialogue relating giving promotions and material items to other aliens, but through the actual upper-class humans siding with the aliens because it'll lead to more economic gain for them in the short-run.Though they are the main villains, unfortunately the aliens haven't aged well.  They look less menacing than just goofy mixtures between bad zombie make-up and bug-eyed insects.  Also, as the film gets closer and closer to the end, more and more small holes and nitpicking begins to surface, but it still doesn't detract too much from the overall film.  As it stands, They Live is surprisingly excellent, the text-book definition of a sleeper if there ever was one &#150; not the best movie ever by any standards, but very good and relatively unrecognized.  This is easily the best movie with a wrestler in it, but more importantly, it's arguably John Carpenter's last good movie. "},{"Title":"This is how things really are!","Date":"4 November 2015","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I love this movie. I first saw this in the very early 90's, hired on VHS and I've loved this ever since. People always laughed at me when I said that life sucks because of aliens, and with They Live, I'm even more convinced.Rowdy Roddy Piper - God rest his soul, plays a drifter who comes to town looking for work. He makes friends with Keith David who takes him to a shanty town, for a meal and a place to stay. Piper then notices odd activity along with late night choir singing at a nearby church and on investigating he finds boxes of cheap looking sunglasses, with the choir being nothing more than a speaker set-up. The next day he puts on the glasses and notices that everything turns black and white with all visible text revealing hidden messages. It seems that all signs, billboards, magazines and even cash has hidden messages which are only revealed through the sunglasses. The messages are all simple authoritarian commands such as obey marry and reproduce this is your god - referring to money, and so forth. All of this reaches the human mind subliminally in an effort to keep us all subdued and docile, while the aliens take up varying positions of power and control. So while our eyes see a billboard advertising a holiday our brains are actually being told to conform.Also revealed are the appearance of the aliens living amongst us. Basically most of those in position of authority or those who rich are all aliens. They're ugly, with mottled skin, big glassy eyes, no lips and a face full of ugly teeth. When Piper hilariously confronts some of these aliens in a supermarket they realise that they have one that can see, and set about describing his appearance into their Dick Tracy style watches. He then kills two police officers who are also aliens and uses their gun to shoot up a nearby bank.With Piper now branded a wanted criminal he tracks down his friend and we're then given one of the screens most memorable fight sequences ever. After beating each other to a pulp and then finally managing to convince his friend to put on the sunglasses to see the real world for himself, they end up becoming part of a small band of resistance fighters who have been struggling to locate the source of the alien transmissions that have blocking their true identities to the rest of humanity.After a few setbacks and the human resistance almost completely wiped out, we find that some humans are persuaded to join the alien ranks by ratting out anyone who opposes them in lieu of huge bank accounts and a cushy lifestyle. Eventually the transmission device is destroyed and aliens identities suddenly appear on TV, casually sitting among us in bars, or even while enjoying human prostitutes. While They Live doesn't have great acting or memorable special effects, it works because it's an example of how a simple idea, with minimal budget can still gain a cult following and speak to a multitude of people. I'm sure a lot of people can relate to being constantly overlooked for promotion, or never winning the lottery, never being able to catch a break or always managing to be in the wrong place at the wrong time. And quite frankly if you're someone who's never experienced any of this, obviously you're an alien. There's just too many things in this movie that make a truckload of sense and have all the pieces of life's puzzle suddenly fall into place. Luckily this movie can be found almost anywhere like a cheap pair of sunglasses, so grab a copy, watch it several times and believe that they live. "},{"Title":"Entertaining but not the best of the 80's movies.","Date":"11 October 2015","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Problem with this film is that the humor is not as good as it is in other great films like Commando or Predator and it's a little bit too slow but still it manages to overcome some of it's problems with some strong action sequences (mostly that fight scene) and some really cool one liners Roddy Piper and Keith David they're both the best thing from this movie the girl is pretty much annoying and that ending totally sucks it's still a great movie but not from the best of that era but for sure it deserves a little more respect like i said if you are a fan of 80's movies you might like this as well not the best from Director John Carpenter but still a pretty good film with some good one liners and some cool action sequences. A 8 out of 10 for me!!! "},{"Title":"He may be all out of bubblegum, but definitely not screen presence","Date":"29 August 2015","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" They Live always gets lumped in with agenda flicks, but its satirical jabs are a lot more wink-wink than polemic. I guess it also helps in that regard to cast a pro wrestler as your main hero, stop the movie dead in its tracks with a mental (read epic) back-alley brawl and pepper the movie with one-liners that are just the right flavor of cheese. This is schlock at its best (indeed, the scenes from the discovery of the sunglasses to that alley fight is some classic B cinema). Yeah, there's politics involved (media indoctrination, consumerism), but like I said pro wrestler. Piper didn't blaze that trail, but he's one of the better ones. Solid fit.This thing's got comic book written all over it, and fun is the key word here.10/10 R.I.P. Rowdy. "},{"Title":"The golden rule he who has the gold makes the rules.","Date":"16 January 2015","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Interesting and relevant entertainment from John Carpenter stars wrestling icon Rowdy Roddy Piper as beefy drifter Nada, who arrives in an L.A. of a near future where the gulf separating social classes has become stronger than ever. Enjoying the hospitality of a community for homeless folks, he inadvertently discovers the strange truth aliens are among us. Their real visages and subliminal messages are only visible when a person puts on special sunglasses, designed by a resistance movement. The aliens are in collusion with the most affluent people on Earth to keep the lower classes in a state of submission while they take advantage of our planets' resources.Ultimately, They Live turns into a fairly conventional urban action flick, but it's certainly got some good ideas going for it. Carpenter, using a pseudonym, adapted the story Eight O'Clock in the Morning by Ray Nelson, and gives us a thoughtful meditation on how people can be manipulated by those that have all the power and influence, and a scathing indictment of the Reagan era 1980s.Rowdy Roddy acquits himself well in the lead, and delivers an amiable performance. His dialogue is full of some choice quips. He's joined by the eternally cool Keith David, who's working with Carpenter for the first time since 1982s' The Thing. Meg Foster is fine at portraying a beautiful but aloof woman whom Roddy continually encounters. Two Carpenter regulars, George Buck Flower and Peter Jason, have two of their best roles with him. Raymond St. Jacques is commanding as a blind preacher; other familiar faces in the cast include Sy Richardson, Susan Barnes, Norman Alden, and John F. Goff.Carpenter composes another of his catchy electronic scores, and continues to make full use of the Panavision aspect ratio. Some of the best shots have both the homeless community and towering office buildings in the frame, quite literally showing two different worlds at once. The makeup on the aliens, admittedly, is pretty damn silly.Of course, no summary of They Live is complete without mentioning one of the most epic of protracted fight scenes (between Roddy and Keith); every time you think it's over, it starts up again!All in all, a solid entry in Carpenters' filmography that both amuses the viewer and provides some food for thought.Seven out of 10. "},{"Title":"B-movie thrills, with a political edge","Date":"23 May 2013","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" They Live is the second of a planned three-picture deal John Carpenter had with production company Alive Films - the first was Prince of Darkness.This tale of aliens living among us, is on the surface, a neat, somewhat tongue-in-cheek popcorn action flick, with a formidable hero in the form of Roddy Piper, who does a better job than he's often given credit for. We are with him almost throughout the film, seeing and discovering things as he does. Underneath it all is a sharp attack on the 'greed is good' era it was made in, with the rich and powerful corrupted by their greed, while those less fortunate are left to suffer.When Roddy puts on a special pair of sunglasses, we see the real world that the aliens have set up, and that the humans are sleepwalking through - social apathy being another key point that comes under fire.Ads blare out, consumer culture and materialism is in our face, but the glasses reveal their sinister true meaning, and it makes one take a second glance at everything when one walks through the nearest town.And then there's the aliens - right-wing, ultra-capitalist, exploiting the poor for their own ends. 'I figured it would be something like this,' mutters Roddy's character, seeing the President in his real form...Once the set-up's over, it's time for the action. When the aliens are alerted to Roddy's discovery of their presence, tensions rise dramatically as our hero finds himself on the run from the alien-controlled authorities when he kills some of them in self-defence, and then out of anger takes out a few more when he winds up in a bank, ''all out of bubble-gum''.When he finally manages to convince his friend Frank - Keith David - after a gratuitous but amusing fight, they meet up with a human resistance group, and it's here the film goes downhill somewhat, as it meanders it's way to it's bittersweet climax, though the ending provides plenty of amusement.Not a perfect film, and the alien make-up isn't too great, but it works as both a B-movie thrill ride, and an angry protest. "},{"Title":"Chilling Source Material, Dystopian Movie","Date":"26 March 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The short story upon which this movie is inspired, Ray Nelson's 8 O'Clock in the Morning, should be read before completely understanding how disturbing the source material really is. Chilling and sparse, it is essentially a first draft of a plot, expanded cleverly by John Carpenter, with the same great ending. (Carpenter loves to end his movies with zingers, in case you had not noticed!) I would highly recommend fans of this movie read Nelson's story to get a different, darker, tale than the one Carpenter made, and with good reason In the story, you are never really sure if its protagonist is really a nut or if he has been programmed to act the way he does, because it seems his grip on reality is tenuous at best, and so everything you are reading could be a complete derangement -- or it could all be true. People kill each other daily over just such obviously mad conclusions. "}{"Title":"One Of Carpenter's Best!","Date":"29 February 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Roddy Piper, Keith David and Meg Foster star in John Carpenter's 1988 sci-fi film based on a short story, Eight O'Clock In The Morning. This starts with drifter, John Nada (Piper) arriving in town looking for work. He gets a construction job and meets Frank (David), an everyday man providing for his family. Soon, Nada and Frank witness a strange police raid at the place they stay at. Nada then stumbles onto an alien conspiracy when he finds a pair of sunglasses allowing him to see subliminal messages. He tries to warn Frank until he finally gets the picture that aliens are running the planet making people slave-like. Foster plays Holly Thompson, a TV station assistant program director Nada meets and gets close with. I think this is one Carpenter's best, Piper and David are great in it and who can forget their long classic fight scene. Carpenter & Alan Howarth's score is also excellent as usual and I recommend this 80's cult classic. "},{"Title":"Supremely enjoyable Carpenter film slowly getting the recognition it deserves.","Date":"13 February 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I've seen the popularity of this film slowly rise of the years and all the better for it. This one of Carpenter's most underrated films. It features everything we all love about John Carpenter during his heyday, especially the musical scores that are so recognizably his.The dialogue is intentionally B-movie cheese - but it is great cheese. You'll be quoting this movie for a long time potentially the rest of your life. You'll saying something about asses and bubble gum - if you haven't seen it, you'll soon know what I mean.Also there is a fight scene in this movie that goes on for approximately fifteen minutes that you can't even comprehend - not to say that it is good but only that it is so hilariously long (and the actors take it SO seriously!) that you can't help but think Carpenter is having a little send-up of 80s action flicks.Great story, entertaining acting, and pure B-movie greatness. Watch it today. "},{"Title":"Either you get it, or you don't","Date":"12 June 2013","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This came to my theater when I was a theater manager back in the 80's. Of course being a John Carpenter movie I had to see it right after I put it together.Roddy Piper is a drifter coming to California looking for work. He lands a job on a construction sight and stays at an encampment full of other homeless people. Be befriends Frank and he discovers the people in the church across the street are hiding something.First of all, I struggled through the 80's so I got this right away. The rich were were getting richer and tho poor were getting poorer. And the idea of being manipulated by unseen forces seemed plausible. There were many angry people out there and maybe they saw this movie as someone standing up and saying WAKE UP! YOU'RE GETTING SCREWED OVER BIG TIME! I read a review in Box Office Magizine and they commented that the film was a mess and John Carpenter forgot everything he knew about directing. Apparently, they didn't get it. But if you were living hand to mouth like I was at that time you got it right away. I can forgive the movie's shortcomings because the story was that powerful for me. And if you were to watch it today for the first time I think that you would find out the more things change the more they stay the same. "},{"Title":"Life's a bitch and she's back on heat!","Date":"12 June 2013","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" They Live is directed by John Carpenter who also adapts the screenplay form the short story Eight O'Clock in the Morning written by Ray Nelson. It stars Roddy Piper, Keith David and Meg Foster. Music is by Alan Howarth (and Carpenter) and cinematography by Gary B. Kibbe.Unemployed drifter Nada (Piper) wanders into the city looking to find work, but upon finding a unique pair of sunglasses he sees a different world to everyone else. It's a world frequented by an alien race who are using the Earth for their own nefarious means.See The Truth!Carpenter does subversive sci-fi and it's a whole bunch of fun. Stripped back it's evident that They Live is Carpenter's wry observation on the politico posers who endorse the rich getting richer and everybody else sliding down the pole; to where they stop nobody knows! It's also a blatant paean to the glorious years of the 1950s when paranoia based sci-fi schlockers and creaky creature features ruled the air waves. It's also a wonderfully macho driven action movie, laced with comedy as well. You can rest assured there will be plenty of shooting, punching, dodging and spoken lines to make you smile.Piper is no Kurt Russell, but we shouldn't hold that against him because he fills the role nicely. With muscular frame, 80s hair and a quip on the tongue, he is most assuredly a Carpenter leading man for the 80s. Alongside him is the reassuring presence of Keith David, himself a beefcake and also one of the coolest muthas on the planet. It's easy to believe that these two can save the planet, even after nearly beating each other to a pulp during a prolonged side-alley fight sequence, where Carpenter doesn't miss a chance to parody professional wrestling. While away from the beef, Meg Foster gets the lead lady role, with those amazing eyes nestling in perfectly with the world Carpenter has created.Carpenter does political? Yes, but it's not the be all and end all of his intentions. He wanted to make an action sci-fi schlocker with sly politico undertones as motives. And that's exactly what he did. Joyously so. 8/10 "},{"Title":"my new favorite movie","Date":"8 July 2012","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I went to see this movie the other day on a big screen, special projection on a festival at my town, I've heard of the movie (and seen other Carpenter movies before), so I had high expectations and the movie surpassed them all! Simply, it's bad ass awesome. AWESOME. Hail Carpenter, hail Roddy Piper. I was afraid it would be less interesting than I expected, but everything's perfect, the trash, the humor, the plot, the turn, the way all the characters pose all the time, beautiful. I could watch this movie a bunch of times. My new favorite movie.I guess I don't care he made some not-so-great movies lately, Carpenter rules. "},{"Title":"A movie from which ideas are in life and even in computer games","Date":"12 March 2011","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Spoilers ahead... The movie They Live, brings foreword the human condition and how it unfolds. The plot is simple, but effective, about a simple man, Nada. We do not know anything about his past, he meets some people who introduce him, rather abruptly, in the world controlled by aliens. They are seen only with special glasses. The film is worth seeing, even if the idea is simple and i will not tell the end of the movie here. I will make a parallel of words and I will say the link between this film and computer games. It seems that, according to director John Carpenter, Rowdy Roddy Piper invented the words ''I have come here to chew bubblegum and kick ass ... and I'm all out of bubblegum. These words you will find in Duke Nukem 3D  'It's time to kick ass and chew bubble gum ... and I'm All Outta Gum. Of course Rowdy Roddy Piper has said it a little different. I do not know if anyone has said this two ideas and this contains spoilers from the movie but is related to computer games, is the fact that aliens are using a clock teleporter thingy, is like what they use in Duke Nukem 3D or some sort of a device. And the second idea i have is that the fact that, when Nada and his friend are fighting the aliens and the clock that teleports is damaged, something will happen like in the game Portal, a blue -red portal will appear Some would say that the film is based on a real idea, others not. It's up to us to believe or not what is actually referring or at least the idea of the director John Carpenter. "},{"Title":"great classic movie?? it is!!!","Date":"10 October 2008","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" this is undoubtedly one of the greatest and best movie from john carpenter...i have seen most of john carpenter's movie, and i have decided to give this as one of the best carpenter's movie in history! this one stands as good as the fog, assault on precinct 13, escape from new york, and the thing.here i would really say this is the last good film by john carpenter.. and nothing come out as good as this movie in the 90's... it doesn't mean that the movies from carpenter in the 90's are not good...it is good..but still incomparable to the 70's and the 80's movie from carpenter..they live is a sci fi movie..not only sci fi,but about political too.. the idea about the glass is really great..come on..who's gonna think about this idea??? only a great director can think about it!! it is something which is quite different than other movies i have seen in my whole life!!at the beginning of this movie, i was thinking what was the story is mainly about..people in some sort of place attack by the police, people hiding something n the church...i can't predict what it is going on! only then when Roddy piper discovers about the glass,then only i started to understand the story! it is really a great story!!!the acting are superb..perhaps,this is the best Roddy pipers movie! Keith David is amazing,and also meg foster who plays as villain in this movie...i think that this movie is less rated...it should be given in top 250 movie in the world..give this movie a chance...because this movie is truly a great classic movie!!!Bravo for John Carpenter !!!!10/10** "},{"Title":"It resembles me novel of Stephen King The Ten O'Clock People (1993).","Date":"21 June 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" It resembles me novel of Stephen King The Ten O'Clock People (1993). I think he should have seen that film before. Some details are changed. Hourglasses vs. smoking cigarettes. Woman vs. colleague. Conspiracy. Other details... May be they have common roots in American literature. If they're not real, you could always induce the best line of the film..I have come here to chew bubblegum and kick ass. And, I'm all outta bubblegum. And I'm not holding out too much hope. Indeed, consider all of the members today who fought through sickness and chemotherapy to make their democratic contribution. Also I found it an excellent, amusing, and entertaining film. Dixi! "},{"Title":"illuminati in full affect, ya'll!","Date":"7 September 2003","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Great sci-fi movie, great story decent action. Rowdy rowdy piper is surprisingly good. I saw this in the theaters when I was a kid and loved it, to this day it doesn't lose any of it's charm. A classic in the vein of other greats like The running man and westworld. And if you don't know now you know! P.S. Do not read any spoilers if there are any. If you have no clue what its about then your in for a treat. enjoy.  "},{"Title":"Hollywood, Hollywood...","Date":"11 January 2012","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Yes, this is one of my favourite Carpenter films. I really like the story, even for its simplicity and unexplored arcs. I love its cheesiness, its in-your-face posture, tongue-in-cheek immaturity. I love the characters, paper-thin and two dimensional as they come. But it's a classic, an 80's gem. It's a film that brings entertainment in spades and this is what makes me watch films.As for political and social commentary, there's a lot to say about that. But once again Hollywood is not the honest player. This came out in an era when America was doing quite well, economically and militarily. Hollywood pretends to serve revolution, but instead serves us Revolution(TM). The film is largely a class struggle metaphor, taking the inhumanity of the rich to the extreme that they are actually not human. This in an era during which there was more political stability than the US has known in quite a few years. But if this was an attempt at moral and cultural outrage... I just wish they would show their indignation without resorting to the corporate products. Seriously, consume, this is your god, sleep, these ARE boilerplate Hollywood rhetorical at its core. Corporations using the products of corporations to attack corporations? Beware of consumerism? Hypocrisy doesn't even begin to describe it. Quite the rebels you guys are! I wonder if the producers really aimed at that level of social commentary.It's a sickening cliché when films depict corporations as evil Weyland-Yutani, Tyrrel Corp, Umbrella, UAC, etc. Their purpose is to play gods and enslave mankind... I thought corporations depended on a good service to be profitable, so they can survive and not Oh my god, the corporations are coming, run for the hills! If anybody wants to protest against the corporate world, please don't do it writing on your PC or Apple Mac, while sitting in a Starbucks sipping a latte, and sending your posts through AT&T lines, onto YouTube or Google Servers, using Hitachi hard drives... the moral outrage gets lost somewhere along the corporate chain, don't you think?So, if like me you enjoyed this film, it's probably because you didn't take it very seriously. The kind of film that elicits this reaction from people Wow, that was great fun! OK, what are we having for dinner? "}{"Title":"This movie is reality with a twist","Date":"14 December 2009","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie... wow... it is so deep yet so simple. I love movies that challenge your thoughts and make you feel and this movie does just that. When I watched this it immediately made me think of how Satan and demons control our world and how evil human beings are. Just replace alien with demon and you got reality. People are asleep and chase vain things, they kill one another at the first sight of profit, they selfishly pursue only their own needs while unknowingly destroying themselves. This movie is not about consumerism or anti-republicanism, its about human nature. The aliens look demonic so to me this is a picture of reality. When Nada said The middle of the road is the worst place to drive that immediately struck me as Biblical, aka being lukewarm. Im not saying Carpenter meant this as a religious film but it matches very closely with scripture as anyone familiar with the Bible would recognize immediately.On a sci-fi and strategic note this movie was downright awful. The music wasn't very good. It was cheesy and now I know where the Duke Nuke 'Em quotes come from. But ignoring all of that the message and general idea were good. Please stop reading if you don't care about tactics and strategy.A) one central vulnerable transmitter (hello star wars) B) drone devices unaware or unable to avoid gunfire, unable to tranq or stop Nada, etc C) teleport into central command unmonitored D) allowing humans into vulnerable areas; general low security E) guards in vulnerable areas weak and vulnerable to human ammunitionThis movie is about the idea, and thats why its a 10, a movie does not need anything except a good plot/idea to be good. Putting Jessica Alba and a million special effects can polish a turd, but its still a turd. Ironically enough this simple low budget but epic movie is anti-polished turd that the movie industry churns out regularly. "},{"Title":"Great fantasy depiction of the scum at the top!","Date":"10 May 2009","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I love those sunglasses. If only it were that easy in real life to see the low-life people who circle money & wealth as if that is God. This fantasy movie quickly starts revealing the truth once the cops start assaulting the poor people & then Nada gets the glasses. I'm impressed by how, in this totally fictional world of film, so many sociological realities are exposed. Yes, money & power can completely destroy the moral compass in lots of people. And, the number of chickens & 'tow the line' morons out there is disgusting. I'm already quite familiar with advertising, since I worked in the field for almost a decade. This movie does a great job, though, in giving those who don't really understand marketing, a clear picture of the objective of all mass media, especially television. OBEY THOSE WHO SAY THEY ARE IN POWER! YOU MUST BUY, BUY, BUY ALL THAT YOU CAN IF YOU DON'T WANT OUR ECONOMY TO FAIL! Corporations are the true aliens & if you are not one with them, you are the mere surfs & cattle they feed on. --- I would really like to get a pair of those sunglasses if anybody knows where they're available..... Before I make love with a women...I gotta wear shades.) "},{"Title":"They Live=Great Movie","Date":"2 January 2006","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie is extremely under rated and often forgotten. If not for some television appearances, I think people would totally forget about it.The movie is great in 2 ways. 1, It gives us an in depth story line that is no doubt a point of view of the writer/director, John Carpenter. I think that this man has an excellent grasp on what is really going on in the world. Sublimital messages through marketing, a secret control over the world right under our noses. I think that this movie is a message for us to wake up, and I think that this is exactly what Carpenter was trying to convey. We have characters like the bum who becomes rich by joining the bad guys. People selling themselves out for opportunity. This movie has an amazing message. Many people will take this movie as a simple B-movie, with Sci-Fi value, and never look at it any deeper. I don't know about you guys, but other than being literal and giving you a decoded message as captured through the eyes of the main character, this totally resembles the world I live in. Minus the Sci-Fi aspect, you basically have the real world, compelling us to consume, preying on our animalistic instincts.and 2, this is a fun movie to watch.Guys, stop focusing on the actors and the Sci-Fi sugar coating. This movie makes an amazing statement. "},{"Title":"One of the best movies ever","Date":"9 July 2005","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" First off this movie is by probably one of my favorite (if not my favorite) directors John Carpenter. I grew up watching this movie and about a year ago I re-rented it cause I hadn't seen it since I was at least 9 or 10 and I was just stunned. Movies aren't made like this anymore. It explores a question held by the truly analytical people of this world who question the subliminal messages in the media of our society. This movie takes it one step further and adds the element of maybe some of the these law makers/media folk are actually aliens from another planet trying to hypnotize us. The idea of this movie is just amazing and the scenery is spectacular. The comic underlying fits incredibly well with this movie (the comments Roddy Piper makes are hilarious).This is going a little far, but this movie also reminds me of the Megadeth album Peace sells......but who's buying. I don't know if Carpenter was a megadeth fan, but this cd is practically the soundtrack to the movie. The album has a lot to do with social questioning and even at the end of one of The Conjuring he says OBEY, just like in the movie.I might have gone off on a little tangent, but I really enjoyed this movie. If you are a fan of Alien/sci-fi/political questioning type movies, then definitely go out and rent or even buy this movie. "},{"Title":"Just see it.","Date":"22 February 2005","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I saw this movie in the theater when I was 16, and its underlying meaning was not lost on me even then. This is, hands down, the single most important mainstream commentary on international politics- and the sorry mental state of the general populace- ever made, even more creative and pointed than George Orwell. It is a blistering indictment of the power elite in this country and others- greed and love of money and power knows no geographical boundaries- and is a testament to the power of the arts to convey important messages that would be banned for their controversiality if they were not wrapped in the guise of, oh, say, a B- science fiction movie. If you have never seen this movie, then please, PLEASE go rent it. It is not difficult, it requires very little stretch of the imagination to ascertain what the filmmakers were really trying to say. It is simply a bold, inventive, ingenious political statement of the sort few are brave enough to make. Halloween notwithstanding, it is also John Carpenter's finest film, and on top of all of that, it contains the greatest mano-a-mano fight sequence ever put to film. One of my favorite movies of all time. Should be one of yours, too. "},{"Title":"They Live, We Sleep","Date":"9 March 2004","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  After the not so great success of Prince Of Darkness which was a good movie, Carpenter made this film. They Live which is about an loner who discovers these pair of sunglasses that show the world for what it really is. The Beginning starts off very strong and humorous, the middle does slow slightly with a silly sub-plot but does have a very funny and cool 7 minute fight scene between Roddy Piper and Keith David. The ending is short but gives you plenty of room to make up your own thoughts. A very original premise and a very original and fun movie that are underrated and have been copied many times over the years.10 out of 10Hey what's wrong baby? "},{"Title":"One of the greatest B Sci-Fi movies ever (mild spoilers)","Date":"9 December 2003","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a low budget production with an absurd premise staring an ex-pro wrestler....and it is fantastic. Both Carpenter and Piper have made some awful movies, but this isn't one of them. I love the way the movie manages to combine great characters with lots of fun-filled violence.This movie contains two terrific scene's that it a must-see. The first is the movie's best line, I have come here to chew bubble gum and kick.... You'll probably recognize it because it has been ripped off by certain video games and cartoon characters (and probably a few hundred others I don't know about). But nobody can deliver that line like Roddy Piper. A little later on, the viewer is treated to the fight scene between Piper and David. This is an absolute gem. From what I understand, the two actors decided to really kick the crap out of each other and just let the camera roll. Carpenter added his trademark dark humor and the result the most incredibly brutal yet hilarious street fight to ever be put on film.If you like your movies to be enlightening, go somewhere else. If your looking for entertainment, you can't go wrong with `They Live'.  "},{"Title":"I've come here to kick ass and chew bubblegum... and I'm all out of bubblegum...","Date":"27 July 2003","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I *love* this film! I like a lot (but not all) of John Carpenter's work. They Live goes down as one of my favorite all time movies. I note that it has just been re-release on DVD in the UK... along with an excellent audio commentary (by John and Roddy) that is totally entertaining and full of interesting snippets about their experiences making this movie.The story starts off slowly and gives nothing away in the early stages... more so you are given subtle hints that there is *something* going on, but you just can't put your finger on it until Roddy put on the sun glasses for the first time. For a wrestler, Roddy Piper turns in an excellent acting performance and is totally believable as Nada. The story unfolds in a way that holds you spellbound. I can't imagine this tale being told in any other way or with any different cast members. Everything fits together perfectly and the minimal special effects make the story all that more believable. The soundtrack sets the mood for the film perfectly... but John Carpenter does seem to have a knack for getting the ambiance of his movies *just* right.The movie contains a fight scene that ordinarily would be totally outrageous... but works perfectly due to the way that the director has set up the premise.John Carpenter set out to tell a story that many would have shied away from... and in his own indomitable style has told it perfectly. This one gets a 10 out of 10 in my book. "},{"Title":"One of John Carpenter's best and boldest films","Date":"22 March 2013","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Honest and hard-working everyman drifter Nada (a sound and credible Roddy Piper) decides to alert the unsuspecting human race to the existence of sneaky and cunning alien invaders who control our everyday lives and are exploiting various resources for their own nefarious personal gain. Made under the clever (and misleading) guise of being a straightforward and unpretentious Grade B shoot 'em up sci-fi/action opus, writer/director John Carpenter uses the crafty premise as a brilliantly subversive means to make spot-on stinging, trenchant, and provocative social and satirical commentary on mindless conformity and complacency, rampant consumerism run amok, corporate omnipotence, the duplicity and unreliability of television and the mainstream media, the erosion of the middle class, how folks compromise their values on a regular basis in order to achieve substantial wealth and success, and the fiercely drawn delineation between the rich and the poor. Moreover, Carpenter not only does his customary ace job of creating and sustaining a gritty downbeat tone and a brooding paranoid atmosphere, but also delivers plenty of choice cheesy one-liners and tops everything off with a wickedly funny line in sharp sardonic humor. The super acting by the bang-up cast keeps the picture humming Piper brings an appealingly earnest and believable lived-in quality to the scruffy average guy main character, Keith David gives a splendid performance as Nada's reluctant construction worker ally Frank, Meg Foster radiates a suitably sinister aura as the enigmatic Holly, Peter Jason does engaging work as compassionate underground army resistance leader Gilbert, Raymond St. Jacques registers strongly in his small, yet memorable part as a blind street preacher, and the always enjoyable George Buck Flower contributes a stand-out portrayal as a treacherous turncoat who sells out mankind so he can have a slice of the good life. A brutally protracted alley way mano-a-mano fight between Nada and Frank rates as a definite exciting highlight. Kudo are also in order for Gary B. Kibbe's neat widescreen cinematography and the fine bluesy score by Carpenter and Alan Howarth. An absolute powerhouse. "},{"Title":"we sleep","Date":"22 June 2007","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" 6.6 for they live? too low ) that's why i'll add an extra star. again, movie that too many take too literally. if you do too, you'll have classic b sci-fi movie with enough entertainment to last you through hot summer night. but i think this movie deserves more from you ) john nada, john nobody, the small hard working man in a fight against evil aliens that infiltrated our society and corrupted it. money, greed, obedience, television, vices, all the bad is programmed into us by evil aliens and their ambitious human servants that rule the world. we are not like that, so there is hope ) where do we, poor and wronged, go when our houses are torn down to make place for new rich peoples shopping mall? what can we do, enslaved into everyday labor and consuming circle? don't worry, in steps nada, the hero, to kick some asses. paradigm of the modern society and it's spiraling downfall, this movie is epic ode to ordinary lower class man still believing in values of humanity, and a sentimental portrait of long gone American spirit willing to sacrifice for truth and justice. turn off your TV, put your glasses on and remember the freedom. "}{"Title":"They live .... we ....?","Date":"18 September 2004","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  An interesting movie, by the well-known director Carpenter. The movie looks like a sci-fi thriller, but it is more of a satira or ironical look at the modern society! Now, in 2004, I realize how much truth holds the movie. The constant subconscious suggestion from TV commercials, billboards, radio stations from the movie ... is happening now! In the real world. The greed (This is your God), the vanity, the hypocrisy are taking over the world. The modern societies are becoming a mere mass of mindless zombies, led by the common trends, by stereotypes, by suggested ideals. The movie is more of a warning of what could happen if we loose our humanity!Sadly, I think that all is as in the movie, only that the evil aliens are actually evil human beings, turned into monsters, by our natural demerits.  "},{"Title":"When Bug-Eyed Monsters Become Politicians . . . .","Date":"28 August 2001","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  John Carpenter's They Live is really a fiendishly clever reworking of the Bug-Eyed Monsters From Outer Space movies of the 1950s.  Instead of featuring insect-like aliens trying to take over the world, though, They Live features aliens that have managed to disguise themselves as human beings . . . and they aren't trying to take over world, because they've already succeeded in taking it over.  Politicians, newscasters, policemen, business executives -- these are the positions in human society that the aliens have assumed, and as such, they effectively rule the world.  It's an offbeat take on a conventional movie formula, and for the most part, it works fairly successfully.They Live is a story about Nada (Roddy Piper), a downtrodden, unemployed construction worker just looking for a job and a little happiness.  (Those looking for a shred of subtle subtext in this film will note that Nada's name literally means nothing.) While wandering aimlessly through some city streets, Nada discovers a strange pair of sunglasses that allow him to see a different world than the one he sees normally a world blanketed with subliminal messages.  Magazines and television ads flash messages like Obey, Submit to Authority, and Conform.  Nada is also able to see the true form of all his supposedly human authority figures (policemen, politicians, and the like) -- they are all bug-eyed aliens, dedicated to keeping the human race happy, dumb, and subdued.  Nada, who's already tired of being pushed around and told what to do, decides that's there's only one way to take care of this alien menace -- and that's to take matters into his own hands, preferably with an automatic weapon . . .They Live is an interesting, if not always successful, movie because of its ability to take some standard movie formulas and inject some new twists -- and realism -- into them.  It's not the typical tale of humans beating back confounded aliens without too many setbacks or difficulties. Instead, there's some real problems -- Nada (and the other resistance fighters he encounters) find that not all of their efforts to fight or defeat the aliens actually work; the aliens actually use all the vast resources at their disposal to their full advantage, instead of constantly being dumbfounded by the human freedom fighters; and so on.  (As an example of an original plot twist, I liked the fact that the aliens use the TV networks to portray Nada as a psychotic killer to the public at large after he shoots some aliens; after all, without the benefit of Nada's strange sunglasses, the aliens look like ordinary, everyday human beings . . .)  Just when the events of They Live look like they're going to become predictable, something happens that completely shifts the film in a brand-new and original direction.  This originality is occasionally hit-or-miss -- sometimes, the brand-new and original direction works a lot less effectively than a more predictable direction would've worked -- but They Live deserves credit for constantly daring to be different, if nothing else.The other factor that makes They Live such a fun, interesting movie is its hero -- Nada.  Instead of making Nada the stereotypical hero of a bug-eyed monster movie -- i.e., the scientist whom nobody believes until it's far too late, or the strong, silent soldier battling grimly against overwhelming odds -- Carpenter makes Nada a complete moron.  True, Nada's a well-meaning moron, but that doesn't change the fact that he's about as smart as a bag of rocks . . . and yet he represents humanity's only hope of survival. There's no subtlety when it comes to Nada.  If aliens need killing, then he kills aliens.  He has no concept of long term planning, or losing a battle in order to win a war -- he's a very violent and very stupid man dedicated to ridding Earth of its disguised alien rulers, and he simply does what he thinks is right in order to accomplish this mission.  What adds to this is the fact that his stupidity doesn't confound the aliens -- they recognize Nada for the Neanderthal that he really is, and deal with him in ways that actually make logical sense.  (For example, Nada always seems mystified that the aliens can hunt him down after his little alien killing sprees -- he never seems to fully grasp the concept that aliens control the police departments, the military, and so on . . .)  It's kind of a backhanded compliment, but Roddy Piper plays Nada beautifully; it's hard to think of too many other actors who could play such a determined moron so well.  (As a side note -- it's also interesting to notice how Nada automatically assumes that the bug-eyed aliens are evil.  He turns out to be right, of course, but he manages to gun down a decent number of aliens before finding even a shred of proof that his assumptions are correct.)There's no denying that there are some significant problems with They Live.  The ending is abrupt and makes little sense; the production values are pathetically shoddy; and apart from Roddy Piper, the cast is more or less forgettable.  Still, They Live is a decent, solid movie that largely succeeds in its quest to provide some original, offbeat entertainment. For that, it deserves a lot of credit.  Grade B . . . for a darn good B movie.  "},{"Title":"Stealing John Carpenter's Ideas, the new book by Chris Carter...","Date":"18 August 2000","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The idea that aliens control our world and secretly pull the strings on which we all dance is nothing new, nor is it particularly unusual. But in They Live, John Carpenter turns it into the almost-ultimate word in satires of American culture at the end of the twentieth century. It would be the ultimate, in fact, if Paul Verhoeven had not beaten him to the punch in the previous year with RoboCop. Both films depict an America that is in the terminal stages of its addiction to capitalism, although they also approach the material from completely different tacks. While RoboCop uses a cog in the increasingly totalitarian wheel to depict a system and a world gone mad, They Live instead tells the tale from the perspective of a total outsider. It is not a coincidence that our central protagonist's name translates into English as nothing. He is a full representation of the ever-growing underclass that the wheel rolls over. Here, John Carpenter's fiendish imagination fleshes out a tale of who really rules in a world where the President is basically an actor.Nada, played with a surprising restraint by Roddy Piper, starts the story as exactly what his name implies. He is nothing, a mere cog in the system that is leaving him without a place to work. As he talks his way into a job on a construction site, one of his new co-workers shows him a place to stay and get food. Coincidentally, it happens to be near a church where some strange goings-on can be observed. Meanwhile, the television set in the nearby outdoor group home is acting up, breaking the program every so often to present a speech that, in fragmentary form, makes little sense. Most of the residents dismiss it as just being the work of a crank, but Nada's curiosity grows until he sneaks into the aforementioned church and discovers that the broadcasts are coming from there. Not long after, the police raid the church, and the people hacking the television signal are scattered to the four winds. But Nada manages to investigate what the police left behind.The moment when Nada opens the box and finds nothing but sunglasses is puzzling, but nothing can prepare one for what soon follows. Putting them on, he discovers that what the man on the hacked television signal has been saying is true. Signs depicting models suddenly bear messages saying MARRY AND REPRODUCE, and it gets even more puzzling from there. It is not until a rich-looking businessman comes to buy a newspaper that the shocking truth becomes fully evident. How John Carpenter so seamlessly pulled off the contrasts between the world we see and that monochrome real world would make for an amazing audio commentary in itself, but alas, no DVD with this feature exists yet. By most commercial standards, the film was a roaring success, earning over three times its production budget at the box office. Matter of fact, it only cost two-thirds what it cost to make Escape From New York, at least if you believe the IMDb. Carpenter must have kept in practice in the years between these two films, as They Live looks more like it cost fourteen million.As I have intimated in the subject line, Chris Carter must have really liked both The Thing and They Live, as almost all of The X-Files' material is more or less directly lifted from those two films. This, however, is an example of the aliens secretly controlling the world idea done the right way. Knowing that the idea alone is too preposterous for the audience to accept, Carpenter surrounds it with details of the workings of their society within a society. In less time than it takes Carter and company to meander around a single X-Files episode, Carpenter creates a living, breathing alien civilisation. He expertly suspends reality in graduating steps. It is not until the second act that we get the idea that all is not what it seems, and then it is only for brief flashes. Our hero reacts in much the same manner as any of us would. First by having doubts about his sanity, then by hedonistically exploiting the situation. It is not until the final act that our heroes get it into their heads to do something about it. By this time, the monochrome effects showing the aliens in their true form are minimised. It has the pleasant side effect of emphasising that the heroes now see clearly.If there is a weakness in They Live, it may be that the pacing is off. Scenes that establish the problem and its solution go by in less than a minute at times, but a brawl between the two main characters takes more than five minutes. There also seems to be a sense that the resistance network shown consists of only one cell somewhere in America. Perhaps this was the effect that Carpenter wanted, but it does throw the viewer out of the film at times. Roddy Piper is not the best actor, but this part literally has his name all over it. His dialogue in the bank robbery could only have come out of his mouth. This soon gave rise to the Wrestler Rule when you want a character to sound boisterous nine out of ten times, cast a former professional wrestler. Keith David does not let the side for real actors down, either. His portrayal of slowly becoming more of a believer is what keeps the viewer in the reality of the film during much of its latter half.I gave They Live a nine out of ten. I paid something like thirteen American dollars to buy it from Amazon, and I felt it was money well-spent. I can mention it in the same breath as RoboCop, and that is not an easy thing for a film to achieve. It is a perfect postcard of the 1980s. See it post-haste. "},{"Title":"Film Satire Masterpiece","Date":"2 October 2001","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Spoilers. This film takes on Reagan Era ethics, as American Psycho would several years later, with the darkest humor and satire. If your neighbor or those phonies you encounter around town seem not to care what happens to other people, if they seem somehow disconnected from the reality the rest of us know, it's not because they are Republicans, it's because they are aliens. They Live handily satirizes paranoia films of the 50s, film fight scenes (the bit where Roddy Piper and a foe punch and stomp at each other for what seems like 12 minutes of screen time is side-splitting once you realize they are pulling our leg -- this scene, like so many in this film, means more on re-viewing), and most of all the politics and ethics of the 80s. (I guess the makers showed restraint in not naming the chief alien Meese.) The scene in which Piper realizes that select people on the street are aliens, and that our cluttered postmodern visual environment of tacky signs and billboards is not close to what it appears is genuinely hackles-raising, a stroke of genius. See it. Ten Stars. "},{"Title":"Best Movie for Humanity","Date":"1 January 2016","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie is about becoming conscious of what will make humanity destroy itself. Its about opening the eyes on the behaviors which are not really human, because they are missing emotions and care for humans.It really hurts to open the eyes, which is greatly demonstrated by the street fight between the main characters.The greatest criticism on this movie is probably it's rhythm issue. But then again, this is ingeniously implemented, as getting conscious, open-minded is a very long tedious process, where you will face many opposition from your own close environment.Considering this is a movie from 1988, it has never stopped becoming more and more an appropriate allegory of our close future "},{"Title":"Quickie Review They live","Date":"24 August 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Now this one's a real screamer. Roddy Piper stars as a good-natured but not very bright construction worker, who pretty much spends his day chewing bubble-gum and kicking ass. He discovers a pair of sunglasses that give him the ability to separate normal humans from aliens that have taken over earth. In the fashion of every conspiracy theorist's dream, these aliens brainwash humans through subliminal advertising (which isn't too different today). Like most Carpenter's movies, it's fun artistic and, most importantly, doesn't take itself too seriously. Capenter's camera-work in They Live is remarkable for the very fact that it is unremarkable &#x96; he chooses to let his cameras to be simply used as reverence points and allows the two leads, Roddy Piper and Keith David, to carry the movie, accompanied by a comic a stoner- like score. They Live, whist funny, is culturally relevant &#x96; it highlight's the struggles of the working man who often is unable to stand out and make a change for fear of his job, family, home etc. &#x96; even if it mean aliens have taken over the world. Keith David's character represents this, whilst the drifter Piper is able to make a difference because he has no family or home to lose. The movie smartly taps into the suspicion that most of us are being taken advantage of by the elite of America, the rich, the cooperation owners etc. The fear of the illuminati. The fear of Zionism .It could be seen as the alleged Jewish infiltration of Western society. Or any elite sub-society that lives off the lower classes and are free from work, poverty or persecution. It's a pretty profound theme to be found in a film as intentionally offbeat and quirky as They Live. Its movies like this that make you feel (or want to fee, perhaps?) that the director is trying to telegraph you a secret that he knows of. In fact, it's pretty suspicious that this film, which was number one at Box Office for two weeks, disappeared from theatres straight after. I guess some nameless suits weren't too pleased at its release. Only, that's the beauty of independent filmmaking &#x96; you can make what you want without a studio pulling the strings. Best Scene It has to be the WWE style street brawl between the two leads, as Pipe tries again and again to make the ignorant David put on the glasses and open his eyes to the horror around him. A shout out to the hilarious sex ending though. "},{"Title":"Very happy this exists","Date":"9 July 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" My only criticism is that this film is too funny... Or maybe that's why I like it... The movie plays like a comedy, but has some serious attitude at the same time. It feels right to laugh amidst all the imagery of greed, ego and corporate America. Plus, carpenter busts up clichés in really cool ways, I mean, the ending is like a satisfying slap in face. I did find it a little cheap, though, when our lead man 'nada' makes these quantum leaps in character. Sure, I love to laugh at that kind of excrement, but it doesn't mean it's good. The story and concept are so strong that just a little more attention to character might have gone a long way. Once again, though, my criticism is my praise because the hollowness of Nada's character made him the perfect flaming star in this lightning bolt of 80's cinema. Go see for yourself and bring your Hollow headed friends. "},{"Title":"Messages buried in cheese.","Date":"17 May 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Prior to watching this film, the only John Carpenter film I had seen was Big Trouble in Little China. Needless to say, after that experience, I found it very difficult to take They Live seriously. It provides only a fraction of the absurdity of Big Trouble but makes up for it in anti-consumerism undertones. Professional wrestler, 'Rowdy' Roddy Piper stars as George Nada, a surprisingly well-muscled homeless man struggling to even find work in construction sites. He finds himself suspicious of a church near to his landfill site of habitation. He meddles about in matters and ends up lost in a rigmarole of oddly believable ridiculousness. The undoubted best aspect of the film is the incisive allegorical anti-consumerism. There are hugely overt references to how false the American dream is and how media is effectively brainwashing consumers. The theme's presence is apparent and definitely the focal point of the film but it doesn't detract from the action of the film. It would be difficult to make any political statement this large in a film that isn't a documentary, which is the impressive part of the film. It affected my standpoint on the matter as much as a Michael Moore film.The action in the film is odd and rather jarring. In act three, gunshots are quickly followed by a close-up of the jittering barrel of the gun that is shooting&#x85; every single time. This happens many times and never failed to shove me right out of the film so that I could look away to avoid a splitting headache. Even still, the act three shots are majorly long takes and visually arresting. Having Roddy Piper as the leading actor, you would expect more suplexes and clotheslines than actually appear. The extent of his fighting is him forcing sunglasses onto a guy's face (which is admittedly hilarious).I don't want to spoil a large aspect of the film, (an aspect that most people already know) so I will merely say that the production value and make-up in the film is very impressive, something that Carpenter has become known for after The Thing.They Live is the quintessential mix between political statement and cheesy 80s action film. The statement is expertly integrated and was personally, very successful. The action is a true mixed bag featuring great long takes but needless flurries of cuts. However it features a great use of production and make-up. Definitely worth your time. "},{"Title":"Why are you reading reviews on this movie? Just go see it!","Date":"3 April 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is one movie that hasn't been seen enough, it's action-packed, a good amount of thriller and horror, and it moves at a pretty fast pace, which works well with this movie. But what I liked mot of all about it was the message it had about consumerism - how it hurts our culture and people do nothing but allow it to do so. It provokes a good amount of thought, and is now one I'll be seeing at least once every year.If you want to see it ASAP, it's free on Hulu!Yes, IT'S FREE ON HULU!!FREE ON HULUGo watch it but if you're not a person who wants to see any nudity (because it's rated r) literally just skip the very very very last scene. "},{"Title":"Iconic Cult Sci-Fi","Date":"30 March 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Welcome to one of the most iconic modern sci-fi action movies made. A film that has gone on to inspire the work of artist Sheppard Fairey amongst an endless list of eternally grateful filmmakers. Its director, the legendary and criminally understated John Carpenter, absolutely hated it, seeing as it was the movie that burned him out, labelled him a commercial failure and saw him retreat prematurely into semi-retirement! One of the few original movies of the 20th Century that is highly coveted as a bible of hidden truths in a world of elitism, conspiracy and the fate of man's freedom where capitalism and corporate rule are destroying the world, I don't think it was ever meant to be so clever, so deep or foreboding, but what would otherwise be an average '80s action movie is instead a shout against the alienation and segregation of the middle and lower classes, thanks to the ignorance of the super wealthy.Starring WWE superstar Rowdy Roddy Piper in a fascinating and often intense lead role as drifter John Nada, our relenting and reluctant hero stumbles upon a Los Angeles where the unemployed and homeless are being driven out as alien beings in disguise sit at the top of the economic hierarchy, acclimatising the globe to their own preference.Upon witnessing the carnage first hand, and then discovering a way he can separate the aliens from humans, Nada goes on the rampage, catching the attention of the underground resistance who've been planning a way to expose the alien threat for some time. Nada and his new friends have one chance to make it right or die as the armies of the enemy close in to exterminate them all.As usual with any '80s Carpenter movie, you might not know his family of go-to character actors (Peter Jason, Keith David, George Buck Flower etc.), but they are all naturals and they really add to the atmosphere. Keith David had always been a great co-star and put even more into his work alongside Rowdy than even with Kurt Russell in 'The Thing.' The fight they have in the alleyway is painful to watch. You'll never see a street fight like it ever again.In terms of cinematography, it's the staple Carpenter look widescreen film format, always perfectly shot and a pleasure to watch. In terms of soundtrack, it's Carpenter's least effective, but with that slow-beating western style every time Nada's on screen and counting his woes, it serves the character and the story, so it's not distracting.As for action, Arnie and Stallone must have blushed for sure and Carpenter always having been ahead of his time gave a kind of arcade game first person shooter feel to some of the shootouts, which is really interesting considering he's retired from the business to sit and play X-Box all day every day.Other cons; it has some boring quiet moments that don't work as well as they could have, and the strain on Carpenter's creative muscle does show at times through some clunky scenes and empty dialogue. There lacks a little chemistry between Rowdy and leading lady Meg Foster, though I think we're supposed to notice that for a reason.On a whole, it's like the sci-fi action movie Walter Hill never made. Imagine that Hill and Schwarzenegger made this instead of 'Red Heat' because you could watch them back to back on a Saturday night and have the time of your life without a doubt.Not perfect but so horribly underrated. I hope Carpenter now realises how 'They Live' had to wait a couple decades to be really appreciated. Because for those of us who understand the message, it's really true They Live, We Sleep! "}{"Title":"They Live. We Sleep.","Date":"27 February 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" John Carpenter's They Live is one of my all time favorite movies and in my opinion also one of his best. This action packed sci fi thriller is unique in many ways and delivers social messages without being preachy. This also is the best movie ever to star a pro wrestler and Roddy Piper is fantastic as the lead. The Rowdy One is John Nada. He is a loner and working class drifter looking for work and a better life. Nada soon discovers that skull faced aliens have infiltrated our society and are exploiting us for their own means of survival. One of my favorite actors, the criminally underrated Keith David is lead support actor and greatly helps carry the film. He worked with John Carpenter before on another classic and personal favorite, The Thing. He also is one of the few actors around that can nearly match Roddy Piper in toughness, but really act as well and deliver such a solid performance. The fight between Piper and Keith David is around 10 minutes long and one of the most memorable movie fights in film history. Also, setting the tone and pace to the film is John Carpenter's bluesy, rough and tumble working class score. While They Live is an entertaining, kick ass film with a ton of action and hilarious one liners, it also has a social message. The parallels between the aliens in control and The Reagan Administration are just as relevant in today's political landscape. In fact, the gaps between the have and have nots have widened. The homelessness problem is much worst and poverty and inflation continue to grow at a rapid rate. The wealthy elite are making more money than ever and at a great cost to our society as a whole. Meg Foster appears as well as John Carpenter regulars Peter Jason and George Buck Flower. I have fond memories of seeing this film in a packed theater when it was released in 1988 and I've been a huge fan ever since. I also remember purchasing one of my favorite albums on the same day. The album was the, at the time new release Leprosy, by death metal legends Death on cassette. All and all, it was a great day in my youth. "},{"Title":"Like wine it gets better with time. Time made this film relevant.","Date":"12 February 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Ah... the 1980s where flamboyance was accompanied in films whereas today's films highest aspiration is to make sure that you are numb and applaud for it, with its own exceptions. This film displays the surface world and later reveals what lays behind it. Nada appears to be the average Joe Blow just going about his day radiating in such a way that something curious resides within himself. He is living a time in the USA where employment was not adequate. After the changing of circumstances he realises what is happening in the world and initially stuns him.The camera-work tends to draw attention and generates interest while being aesthetic. The framing in this film is done in a way that highlights several aspects and details that the story contains. Also, it helps to create a sense of wonder which complements the setting.The music for this movie is simple and yet captures the feeling of the scenes with ease. They did not use many instruments for each track so it does impress with how it impacts with what is occurring when watching.The storyline and the plot is what makes this film outstanding and it is better to spare unraveling it. If you are the sort of person who likes depth its likely that you are going to like and enjoy the film. If you are someone who just wants to get his or her kicks thinking that it would be a generic film or a numb film then it is not for you. As it is possible that it would stir emotions. Supposing that you would like to watch it anyway then why not.Enjoy! "},{"Title":"Funny and brilliant movie","Date":"20 January 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" John carpenter has always switched between genres and he has proved it in most of the genres. Here he tackles the sci fi genre with lots of social commentary and comedy. What makes this movie special are the 80s touches which make it far more interesting than any arty boring movie about the evils of consumerism. The main character is a drifter who is looking for work and he gets some temporary work where Frank works. As they say, the idle mind is a devil's workshop. Soon he is fascinated by the underground group who seems to know all the answers with regard to alien control of the world . Carpenter relates this concept to some anti-capitalist message about the rich either being part of the alien species or making some deals with the species. The rest of the story deals with the fight of this underground group against the elite aliens. Ever since I discovered the internet, I have become aware of these conspiracy theorists and their grand theories about the elite. This movie reminded me of that, so I was slightly annoyed. But the movie is so much fun, you don't really care that much. That's the great thing about 80s movies, they don't try to be pretentious and bore you to death. This is all about rowdy roddy piper, gun fights, a long pointless fight (it is only around 5 minutes but it felt longer) and a woman with creepy eyes. Oh and what a fight! This is one of the highlights of the movie. It was like watching a real wrestling match. I guess maybe Keith David was given some sort of training briefly before getting into this. It was a little hilarious because they were beating each other to death for no reason almost. This is a remarkable 80s moment in my opinion. The lines are so funny! Apart from the obvious choices (bubble gum line), there are so many underrated lines which I loved so much. For a guy who doesn't have much experience in acting, his dialogue delivery is actually pretty awesome! And Keith David is also pretty good in this one. I have never seen Meg foster in any movie and frankly she scares me with her creepy eyes.The ending is a nice touch to complete this fun film in a funny way. I loved it 9/10 "},{"Title":"I am all out of bubblegum.","Date":"13 December 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I saw this a while ago but for some reason I never got round to reviewing it until tonight. I am a fan of John Carpenter's work in the 70's and 80's... I haven't seen that much of his 90's work but anyway I decided to see this and it actually is a lot of fun to watch.So the plot is that a drifter gets a job at a construction site in another town but in that town he sees multiple... assuredly crazy people who believe that some kind of mind control is going on between the entire human race. One thing leads to another and he finds a pair of sunglasses that manage to let him see that all billboard signs are replaced with words like obey and some people are not people but aliens that manage to assimilate our society. The end result is the aliens have all the wealth and power and basically use this planet to take all it's resources.So this movie is pretty much in the genre of others such as Invasion Of The Body Snatchers but one of my biggest problems with it is that through unclear intention I don't really know if it's meant to be a movie mocking it or playing it as a straight up action movie. I mean I like this movie but my expectations are rather confused when the guy can see Aliens through sunglasses and there are people who know how ridiculous that sounds, like it's playing it self aware along with some of the effects used for the alien spaceships seem like it's out of a 50's sci-fi.Aside from that as I said I really enjoyed it. Stuff like the acting seems good in places but a little hokey in others from people like Roddy Piper although I don't know if that was the intention. I also think some of the effects are good and the idea of John Carpenter directing something like Invasion Of The Body Snatchers seemed like a good idea. I honestly think that if I saw the intention more clearly this could be up there with the best of his work. "},{"Title":"They Live","Date":"16 November 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Probably one of the most overlooked and underrated films by Carpenter yet possibly his most clever. All his own work and a quite beautiful look at how paranoia and fear within an ever decreasing economy can be exploited for a good story.Now I'm not saying all Americans are suspicious conspiracy theory doom mongers but this film exposes that ever present trait whilst also scratching at the notion of constant gross consumer consumption, greed and subversive subliminal messages touching on hypnosis and domination.To be honest the whole idea just shows how some Americans (including Carpenter) think most of the time, always looking over their shoulder and suspicious.As for the film its a romp that just keeps going and you wanna know how it ends. The start is slow and dull, it takes time to get going but once Nada finds the sunglasses of truth things get really interesting in a good way. I love how Carpenter made this film, its dated but still looks great as it has that nice B-movie look which is mainly down to the budget. Think of it as an unintentional result that happens to fit the whole films concept perfectly. Classic 50's alien B-movie fluff enhanced with time.The whole idea is really very clever and imagined so well. We see the alien corrupted world controlling the now unaware obedient humans in their daily lives through the black and white shades Nada finds. Without the shades the world appears normal, an illusion created to blinker or fog human eyes.The aliens only appear when the shades are on and boy do they look creepy. Even though its obviously a simple mask the makeup and design is superbly created and really gives an eerie effect. That skeletal skull look with those quite scary eyes!I have always been surprised with the great performance by Piper also. The guy was a WWF wrestler at the time for Gods sake yet his acting here is great, just perfect. He really carries off the suspicion and awakening of the story to a tee. As for his character of Nada...all I can say is the guy certainly has an element of Jack Burton if you ask me. 'I have come here to chew bubblegum and kick ass...and I'm all out of bubblegum'I also like how this film isn't predictable. It keeps you guessing and you're never sure how it will end or who will survive.The subtle political jabs, crazy ass humour and out n out action is a curious blend but like Carpenter's 86 film 'Big Trouble in Little China' he manages to pull it off with ease and create another cult on his filmography. A great comicbook tale of mindless media/advertising supremacy on an Orwellian alien monitored Earth. 'Brother, life's a bitch... and she's back in heat'8/10 "},{"Title":"Fun satire from a great director!","Date":"25 October 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" They Live is a Sci-fi - Comedy - Horror cult movie from 1988, directed by the great John Carpenter. The movie revolves around Nada ( played by wrestling star Roddy Piper ), a common drifter who comes over a pair of sunglasses. But these aren't just any sunglasses. They make Nada realize that aliens have taken over the earth, and are controlling the human race in the form of commercials, magazines, and other forms of media. Now it's up to Nada, and his newly accompanied friend Frank, to try to stop the aliens, and find out whats going on.Let me just say this. This is a criminally underrated film! It's funny, suspenseful, intelligent, and all around a great film. Roddy Piper gives a surprisingly good performance, and he's just perfect for the role. He's constantly spouting cheesy one liners, and kicking ass. He's just great.Definitely check this one out. Is it flawless? No, it has a lot of problems. But it's just so fun and weird, that you don't care that much. The cheese factor just adds to the charm, and it's just great. Not for everyone, but still a great film.8/10 "},{"Title":"Nobody kicks a$$ (and chews bubblegum) better","Date":"19 July 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" 'They Live' is a masterpiece. No, not a masterpiece of acting, nor storytelling or even originality. It's basically a masterpiece of a B-movie. In B-movie terms... this is the 'Godfather' Parts 1, 2 and 3.We join a vagrant (played by a wrestler no less!) who stumbles onto an alien plot to take over the world. He decides that ain't gonna' happen! And he does it in style.I could mention the numerous classic (yet completely cheesy) lines. I could also mention the truly ridiculous fight scene that transpires about half way through the film (and was so brilliantly parodied in 'South Park'). And I could mention that They Live was directed by the master of horror in the seventies/eighties John Carpenter. However, you don't need to know any of that. All you need to have in order to enjoy this film is an appreciation for the slightly dumb, the slightly daft, the slightly over-the-top and the ability to suspend your disbelief for an hour and a half so that you can really cheer the good guys on in their quest to rid the world of this corporate alien menace.No brain cells required. Just sit back, crack open the popcorn (chewing bubblegum is optional) and watch the aliens get their collective a$$ kicked by 'Rowdy' Roddy Piper!http//thewrongtreemoviereviews.blogspot.co.uk/ "},{"Title":"Everybody's got their own hard times these days.","Date":"12 July 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Drifter John Nada (Roddy Piper) finds a special pair of sunglasses that allow him to see the truth -- that aliens have taken over Earth and are using subliminal advertising to keep humans subdued and unaware they have been conquered. With this knowledge he joins with others as part of a resistance movement to stop the alien invasion.John Carpenter's satirical sci-fi horror movie is a truly under-appreciated classic, in my opinion. It has a cult following but it deserves wider recognition. The script is smart and actually has something to say, unlike most popcorn flicks. The cast is terrific, particularly Rowdy Roddy Piper in easily his best movie role. He gets lots of funny and memorable lines. His professional wrestling background comes in handy, too, as he and Keith David have the greatest fight scene in movie history here. It goes on for over five minutes and just has to be seen to be believed. No CGI fakery or even stuntmen. This scene is probably what the film is best remembered for today. Oh, and I love that Carpenter soundtrack. It's really a fantastic movie that seems to get better each time I watch it. "},{"Title":"A movie that exposes our fear of freedom","Date":"16 December 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I remember watching this movie a long time ago (basically when I was a kid) and I really liked it. Recently every time I see it I state that it is a brilliant movie, but nobody really seems to listen to me regarding this movie so I hired it and my judgement still stands. Even though it is a B-grade science-fiction movie, it is actually quite good.Basically the world is going through economic hardships and many people are loosing their jobs, but the rich seem to still be living a luxurious lifestyle. A guy comes into Los Angeles looking for work, and finds some, but stumbles upon an organisation that seems to be attracting the police's attention. After a particularly nasty raid, he decides to investigate further and steals a box which he discovers contains sunglasses. Rather annoyed at this find, he ditches the box but keeps a pair and puts it on for a shock - everything contains subliminal messages and a number of people look horrid. We learn that the horrid people are actually aliens that have made a pact with the power elite on earth.Basically this movie seems to have a huge social commentary attached to it. Earth in this film is a third-world country and our power-elite have sold out to these aliens. We are simply a planet with resources worth exploiting and these creatures have made deals with us to get these resources. Money is the thing that entices us so they give us lots of money and take what they want. One statement in the movie is that it is easy to sell out because all we want is money.The key is a statement made at the beginning when we are born we are told that we have to succeed and then the person who tells us tries to rip us apart to succeed himself. This movie creates a bleak and empty world were everybody emotionlessly pursues money, while those who do not have the fortune to be in the wealthy social class must struggle to survive. The places we visit here are the wealthy district and the shanty towns where the poor and the wretched hide and struggle to survive.It is interesting to see how people sell out. Basically the wealthy do not see a problem with these aliens, but when the guy sees the truth through the sunglasses, he realises that we are all being manipulated by subliminal messages that are everywhere. The only reason we do not see what the signs really say is that there is a transmission that hides everything. The goal in the movie is not to wipe out the aliens - that cannot be done - but to reveal the truth to everybody, and thus they must wipe out the tower. The wealthy don't want that to happen because they have everything already - freedom does not matter when they have freedom with money.I guess there is also the idea of subliminal advertising, but this is not really the thrust of it, but that we are being to controlled to think and do what we do, and if it is socially unacceptable then we must be reprogrammed. We are programmed by everything that we look at, and in the movie there are subliminal messages, but we do not need a movie to tell us that advertising programs us. Humanity basically needs to be told what to do because most people don't like to think or make a choice, as such they look elsewhere for their decisions to be made.This is a good movie and it is very socially damning. I have seen movies that are much more so, but this basically strikes at our nature, the desire for wealth and power and will give up our freedom and our thoughts to obtain it. "},{"Title":"Exercise of self-definition","Date":"25 August 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Strange film grace of his original beauty. The essence is self-discover of a famed wrestler but, not his obsessive love for his friend, the ambiguity of feelings, the moral end or the fight with himself, the contact with the others are important . The essence is the splendid art to tell, in honest way, with delicate images and ordinary scenes the evolution of a crisis, the gestures of a age, the love as miracle, the fixation and desire of an outsider for who his self-image and the opinion of friends is the fundamental punishment.To be yourself like horrible sin.It is not a original story but this film is great for the subtle science to discover, without pity, compassion or masks a real slice of existence.The love for an Achim or the desire for be normal in a homophobic society are not only artistic themes and the message of film is, in fact, to be a model to self definition, a subject to meditation, a point to search of truth against others, against yourself.Only, the commercial happy-end. The shadows are not a so short life. But, the intentions , the honesty of work, the game with lights and the good interpretation are more important. "}{"Title":"Prescient Science Fiction & Action Film.","Date":"12 September 2013","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" John Carpenter wrote and directed this intriguing, prescient(and still timely) thriller about a drifter(Roddy Piper) named Nada, who enters a new city looking for work, but finds none, until he befriends a man(played by Keith David) who gets him work on a construction site. Things go wrong when(after finding a strange pair of glasses left behind in a homeless shelter that was raided) he discovers that the world he lives in is a lie in reality, ugly-looking aliens have infiltrated society and brainwashed the populace with subliminal advertising, and for a few, promises of wealth, in return for their cooperation. Nada tries to convince the world of this fact, without much success, though he later joins a resistance group, after becoming a fugitive.Clever and satiric film works well for the most part, because it contains lots of thoughtful ideas about the world we lived in then - and now! Hurt by some clumsiness(the fight in the alley and the alien make-up come to mind) and an ending that leaves you wanting more(there was still more of the story that could have been told) but overall, a thought-provoking film, especially in today's media-driven culture... "},{"Title":"Down and out...","Date":"13 July 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Remarkable when it was first released, John Carpenter's THEY LIVE still holds up- and is still (unfortunately) relevant. The damage done by the Republican Reich in this country will take a lot of undoing (the current oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico, for instance, is a direct result of a lack of government regulation and its long-term effects are still unknown); nor are Reaganvilles like the one Roddy Piper lives in in the movie a thing of the past (the homeless abound here where I live, though city ordinances have been enacted in an attempt to at least keep them out of sight/out of mind). THEY LIVE moves along at a pretty rapid clip, and Piper is much better here than he was in HELL HAS COME TO FROGTOWN (which isn't a bad little movie in its own right). The makeups remind me more than a little of the creatures in I MARRIED A MONSTER FROM OUTER SPACE (THEY LIVE feels overall like a 50s sci-fi shocker) and the space-traveling jaunts from planet to planet seem to have been inspired by Alfred Bester's THE STARS MY DESTINATION. Worth a look. "},{"Title":"Paranoid sci-fi frights","Date":"25 September 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I think this is my favourite Carpenter movie. Yes, I know Halloween is a masterpiece and, yes, yes, I think that The Thing is superb. What's that? The Fog? Yep, that's great too. What? Shut it! Whilst Carpenter's more 'straight' horror movies are, on the whole, excellent, this is the one that gets my pulse rate soaring. Blending horror and sci-fi with a rather healthy dose of utter paranoia, this is one of those films that has a 'Holy Christ' moment in it, which I won't elaborate on here for fear of spoiling. Seriously folks, this is one of those Sixth Sense scenes that just completely blind-sides you. 'Rowdy' Roddy Piper is more than proficient in the lead role, a role apparently written with Kurt Russell in mind, and you can tell. Stand out moments The previously mentioned 'revelation' and the rib-tickling extended fight sequence between the two main characters.A masterful sci-fi horror combo "},{"Title":"Actually Pretty Good!","Date":"18 July 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The concept of this movie was great. The sunglasses reveal the truth about aliens living in the world and shows what the world really looks like, almost like The Matrix, but for this time, it was a great achievement in fantasy world concepts. The editing was amazing in contrasting the difference between what we see and what a person with the sunglasses see, and it really showed what a talented editor can do with juxtaposition. In the story, there is a group of people that are conspiring to stop the invasion of the aliens. What I think that makes this movie work so effectively is the whole prelude to the alien invasion and the whole apocalyptic sense. It had the great special effects, evidenced by the way the aliens looked and the teleportation device that was under the city.It's hard to explain why I love the feel of this movie but it has something to do with the decade that it was made in. It's not the special effects or the plot structure; it's almost as if it's one of the best alien invasion movies that I've seen from this decade. It's hard to pin point what I like about this movie, but I can say that it was a great thrill ride with a lot of great action and violence with great performances to back it up. For me it was a thrill ride that I would recommend to anybody who loves alien movies or even John Carpenter movies. You'll hopefully know what I'm talking about when you see it. "},{"Title":"Cult classic or just plain classic?","Date":"30 April 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" That is the question. Or is just both a cult classic and a classic? Whatever, this is a fun, thrilling, and yet remarkably intelligent film. And who can ever put on a pair of sunglasses again without expecting to see....? The characters hit the viewer hard, and none of them wimp out. All of them have a lot of integrity. Oh, yes, the plot? A drifter slowly ambles onto a plot of aliens who are here among us, and only by wearing special sunglasses can you not only see them, but you can see the propaganda they have been spreading. All this is done with a surreal attitude, but an all too realistic approach. You could swear it was really happening. Is it just a movie? The great fight scene between the two main male characters excels because it doesn't look choreographed. It begins as a real fight, with both parties not sure at first they want to fight, but then things get out of hand, and bam! Fight! They stumble, they miss, they fall, they get up. It is a real fight! Not some comical bit from action pictures that leave you shaking your head. But this is just one part of a great movie. There are so many parts you can pick, which is one sign of a cult classic, along with making characters out of what most movies would make stereotypes. The filming is not as surreal as a cult movie, so maybe it is just a classic. No matter what, there is gutsy action, and something for everyone. Pretty typical Carpenter work, but this is probably his best. "},{"Title":"Piper's Best Role","Date":"21 September 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I've always liked Roddy Piper and have followed his wrestling and movie career since 1983. In the wrestling rings, Piper was a charismatic loner who had considerable presence. He was magic on the microphone and when he started acting I was very pleased indeed.Piper's character in this film was not unlike his wrestling character-mean, brooding and marching to a different drummer. He is an unemployed labourer who stumbles into town where aliens are subtly controlling the population. Only he and a few others can stop them. The aliens are being very subtle in their takeover.It's a great film and not unlike The Invaders TV series from the 1960's. In both cases, the hero is alone against the invaders and he's having a hard time convincing people of the threat. And he can't trust anyone (although he does get his hands on some special glasses that help him see the aliens true form).It's a very hard hitting film and some of the fight scenes are very realistic. There's plenty of violence and guns for fans of those.Check the movie out if you can. I believe it is Piper's best film role. "},{"Title":"Really Fun Sci-Fi","Date":"22 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Still stands the test of time; still looks fresh, and still has me laughing at the put on the damn glasses!! line.  Some really funny moments here when Rodney first sees what they look like while wearing the special glasses.  They Live really has a nice pace and a certain balance that set it apart as a unique piece of work.  I'd say it probably resembles The Hidden, in that both were sleeper hits and both have a definite quirky likability to them, a certain charm that is irresistible.  It's a shame that They Live had to end in way that was less original that its beginning and middle but overall, a very very enjoyable flick that really gets you laughing.  Definitely an unexpected, surprisingly good film.  Not to mention strong acting from Rodney. "},{"Title":"surprisingly good","Date":"20 December 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  John Carpenter seems bent on lowering his standards with each passing film, but this one's quite good. It starts slow, but when the fun starts, it never lets up. And remember this classic line  I have come here to chew bubble gum and kick ass, and I'm all out of bubble gum. Meg Foster shines with her acting and weird eyes, but Roddy Piper can't act. This ranks among the best political, social commentaries ever with action and comedy to boot. "},{"Title":"THEY LIVE AND THEY ARE HERE!","Date":"9 November 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  One of my all time favourite films,its a low budget movie but John Carpenter's direction is never boring.I think this movie deserves more credit than it gets,most people have never heard of it.Id recommend this to anyone who loves sci-fi themed movies.I wish they would do a sequal to this as I think there is quite a lot more they can do with this film now as special effects have moved on dramaticaly since this film was made.The ending just leaves you wanting more. An excellent underrated clasic sci-fi movie from the master John Carpenter. "},{"Title":"See this film!!","Date":"18 April 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I loved this film. I first saw it a long time ago, renting it out simply because it was on the 60p shelf at my local video store and thoroughly enjoyed it. The plot was superb (reminding me heavily of a 60's sci-fi film I saw but could never remember the title of where warring aliens had come to Earth to fight, assumed human guises and could only be seen through particular glasses). My biggest regret is that I never bought a copy of this before it hit the deleted list. Carpenter has produced (IMHO) some rubbish, but he has also produced some true gems, and this is one of them, along with Prince of Darkness, Vampires, Big Trouble in Little China, Escape from New York and Into the Mouth of Madness. If you like Carpenter's slightly twisted take on reality, then this is a great film to see, with a surprisingly good performance from Roddy Piper. "}{"Title":"One of my favorite films, and definitely my favorite by Carpenter","Date":"22 September 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  First off, I have to admit, I'm a real Carpenter fan. But, whereas most people know him for his Horror movies, the first movies I think of when I think of John Carpenter is this one and ones like it. Like all of his early movies, the plot is very slow-moving and unfolds at a realistic pace. No shiny explosions or million-dollar special effects here. Only exactly what's needed to get the point across and no more. And to match the movies pace, the soundtrack is in the same repetitive, slow-moving, ambient mood as that from Precinct 13 or Dark Star. The plot is pretty clever. The idea being that we are all slaves of the aliens that have taken over the planet, and all the rich and the powerful either are aliens or have sold out to them. The thing that intrigues me most about this movie is the contrast between its slow moving plot and its genre, combatting an alien invasion. Often the subject of action computer games, this treatment of that plot idea actually only has a few fight scenes, and even they don't seem to rank up there with your standard action movies. Sure, there's guns blazing, but there's not much running around, dodging bullets. Most of the gun-fights look like something you'd see on the streets of LA more than an action movie. And I think that's the point. A paranoid-schizophrenic's view of the world. Taking the violence and hatred in the world and blaming it on, not just the aliens, but human nature's own tendency to follow them. Of course, this movie also has some of the best one-liners in movie history. "},{"Title":"GREEEEEAT!!!!!!!!!!1","Date":"11 August 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  One of the best Carpenter's movie political, full of humour, full of action!!! Don't miss the longer fight scene of all-times really funny!!! A must!  "},{"Title":"Muley's Revenge, or The Greatest Story Ever Told","Date":"15 February 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie, nay, _FILM_, delivers a strong populist message without stooping to the sentimentality so often employed by lesser works.  I have awarded it ten stars out of ten, and, in my fantasy life as a Citizenship instructor, made it required viewing for my classes. Plus the action kicks butt!We've all seen the story of the helpless victim more times than we can count.  _They Live_ is not one of those tales.  Don't look for it on Lifetime any time soon.  Our hero (Roddy Piper as Nada) has been dumped on enough to dismiss any hope of his friendly neighborhood social worker, the ghost of FDR or divine intervention to redraw his lot.  In refusing to accept fate, he ultimately must lose, but, darn it, he isn't going down without delivering a fresh crop of souls to Hades.  His jihad's sword has two edges as his evangelism bypasses fire and brimstone speeches for the cold, sharp slap of the sensei. At that moment (well, actually, after eighteen minutes) Frank, the student, is enlightened.  What a great excuse for savage violence!Many feel threatened by _They Live_ because on the surface it appears to be an attack on their politics.  These folks need to take a step back.  A broader perspective reveals that it is not material possessions and power that choke the soul in Carpenter's _oeuvre_ but rather the filth stirred up by the enemy's march down the muddy paths of fraud, subjugation and prostitution.  This is a truth that most would agree with,  regardless of whose lever they pull on election day.  Viewed in context, then, not only does blasting away at Andromedans and Yuppie scum become justifiable, but watching them die becomes even neater.Sure, _They Live_ is heavy-handed, shameless propaganda.  Heck, it's _Alexander Nevsky_, _The Battleship Potemkin_ and _Why We Fight_ multiplied by ten.  But that's what makes it great fun.  There is a certain appeal to the story of a true believer making the ultimate sacrifice so that all nations may see.  Combine that with a double (triple?) digit body count and you've completed an equation whose solution is plopping down in front of the tube for an hour and a half with a six pack and a big bag of pretzels.  No need to keep the remote in your hand.  Better a pencil and pad to tally the casualties.It is possible that more impressionable viewers may exhibit signs of sociopathic paranoia after viewing _They Live_.  Fortunately, a single viewing of _Babe_ has been scientifically proven to effectively treat the more extreme cases.  I recommend renting it in conjunction with _They Live_ and keeping it on deck just in case.See _They Live_ and you'll understand why Rolexes are so expensive.  "},{"Title":"They Live!  We Sleep!!  I Moo!!!  &#141;","Date":"15 September 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Attention.  Submit to our will.  Obey the rules.  Do not challenge the establishment.  You will not like this moovie.  You will not enjoy the director's mockery of authority figures, particularly the jab at Regean-omics & the erosion of the middle class - that is a lie perpetrated by the cultural elitists, artists, and free-thinkers who are ruining this country.  We will tell you how to be entertained.  You will not like this movie.  We will give you Armageddon, Independence Day, and Phantom Menace; you may squeal with glee at Shiney Things Go Boom.  You do not need to think.  Take no notice of the distopian setting the director has placed this film in - it did not happen.  You will not like this movie.  Enjoy consumerism; buy more videos, but don't believe them.  Obey our commands.  Ignore Rowdy Roddy Piper's portrayal of Nada, the blue collar everyman cast adrift in a sea of swelling poor & corporate princes.  Free Market is not economic imperialism.  Corporate culture is not feudalism.  Trickle Down supports the Working Class.  Trees destroy oxygen.  Do not watch this movie.  Do not watch this movie.  Obey.  Obey.  Obey.... "},{"Title":"A film at a whole other level","Date":"15 May 2010","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" From what i've seen on the ratings, they live has got mediocrish ratings. Whilst i can only whine about how the top films on IMDb are voted by morons, i'd rather spend the time explaining why this film is a masterpiece.John Carpenter is a director who doesn't care for the norms. He's dabbled in horror and sci fi mostly as well as some action movies among others. But what he does in this movie is once again to blur the distinction of films. Not only does they live have action sequences and buff guys fighting but it also contains a clear and intricate message.Typical of John Carpenter, the film can appeal to one audience and yet cater for something outside that audience. That is the sign of a brilliant film maker.It seems most people fault it on being a cheesy 80s action movie with bad hair, ripped pecks, gratuitous violence and snappy one liners. Yet i don't see that as a bad thing. All it shows was the respective era of 80s film making and those benchmarks. They are all still very enjoyable elements which have been lost in recent movie making in attempt for even lower form of humour and brass action.What sets they live apart is the message that it tries to bring even though the package it tries to deliver it apparently doesn't fit.Well as i have said this movie would be good enough for anyone in the 80s or those who remember that era. But this film asked some deep stuff in a rather amusing way and some people wrongly believes that takes away from the message.To deconstruct this film i would say to use characters as buff as Roddy Piper in a way makes for a herculean average Joe. A character with a simple enough story but with the zeal and personality to get himself through any situation. He finds himself in the middle of very bad situation and yes the scale is played small in that regard. But that's the beauty of it, as a an average Joe the small scale of it makes him more effective than rather blowing up a mother ship.They live wasn't a big budget film nor an art-house movie and yet it feels more effective then either. Yes its a B-movie but its the best of that niche. While its played outlandishly somewhat it does it out of regards to that era of film making and previously alien invasion scare movies.The fact that this film has permeated even video games is testament to its appeal or the fact that over 20 years later its is still being referenced. Even the most cheesy 80s elements have become a hallmark for the film such as the infamous overlong fight scene. You could even say the overlong gag owes it self to this film. Even the underlying political and social message was sheer brilliance. Before the stark and dark tones of the matrix and dark city there was this film telling us that the world was not all that it seemed and the solution was as simple as joining forces and taking arms. That feels far more empowering then the superhero esqe matrix or dark city.So they live is a film above excellence. Even now the film is incredibly relevant and fun in its own right. Year from now i believe people may still issue the I'm here to kick ass line. I just hope they remember where it all came from. More than that i hope they listen to the message of the film. "},{"Title":"The best movie sci-fi movie ever made starring a WWF wrestler","Date":"2 November 2009","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I will begin by saying this movie is awesome. I will continue by saying this movie isn't awesome. To try to make sense of all this you should read the review.First of all this movie stars Rowdy Roddy Piper. I don't know if it's worse if you do or don't know who that is, but Rowdy Roddy Piper was a WWF wrestler in the era of Hulk Hogan back when there was still national debate about whether or not wrestling was fake. To imagine we used to live in a time where tards seriously believed wrestling was real is hard to believe, but those were simpler times when a black man entering a wrestling ring with a parrot on his shoulder while calling himself cocoa beware made sense.The movie is a little goofy, but still is somehow considered to be somewhat of an underground classic. The plot is the world is being controlled by aliens who look like normal humans unless you see them while wearing special sunglasses. Not a bad idea, but not a good idea either. Just an idea. The only purpose in being able to see who's an alien is for the sake of the movie. Seeing that the guy next to you buying the paper is an alien is pointless unless you take it upon yourself to murder his alien ass. Luckily Rowdy Roddy is the one person willing to do just that.The beginning of the movie is pretty slow and boring and mainly involves Piper removing his flannel shirt to do construction jobs and then going to live in a homeless shantytown. Since a movie about a homeless construction worker doing actual construction work would be terrible, rowdy roddy eventually discovers a church where rebels are making the special sunglasses.After putting on the sunglasses Roddy sees that some people appear to have alien faces when he's wearing them. And although nobody has actually explained to him what it even means to see random aliens while wearing sunglasses, within 10 minutes of first putting on the glasses he's already killing two cops who appear to have alien faces.Naturally Roddy has a hard time convincing others of this alien scheme he's discovered/imagined, but he makes a very memorable effort to when he meets his friend Frank the next day in an alley. Roddy tries to put the sunglasses on Frank's face to make him see the truth, but Frank simply refuses to wear them. What takes place as a result is by far the most ridiculous and awesome fight in movie history. In a fight that just won't end Roddy and Frank beat each other for what seems like an eternity. The fight is so ridiculous and over the top that it inspired an entire episode of southpark where jimmy and timmy beat each other in an alley in the same way.Eventually Frank puts on the glasses and realizes Roddy was right and the rest of the movie is about Frank and Roddy fighting the aliens. They go the the alien headquarters via the use of some sort of star trek beaming device and proceed to murder everyone there whether they are alien guards, alien office workers, or humans.All of this murder is great and necessary to keep you from give up on watching the movie, but the act of stopping the aliens is basically pointless. There's a vague explanation saying the aliens came to this planet to use it's resources, but that doesn't even make sense when you put it in the context of this movie. The dirty aliens technically use our resources through normal living just like we do, but they're not using them at an alarming rate or anything. So rather than being diabolical they're really just being a-holes by not sharing any of their alien technology with us. In summary this movie may deserve its underground cult status or it may be a pile of garbage. Which side of the fence you land on regarding that depends on how much you love wrestling and aliens. If you love aliens actually wrestling then you'll be disappointed for sure. If you would love to wrestle an alien yourself then you should spend more time finding a way to make contact with aliens and less time watching movies. "},{"Title":"Really Great B movie","Date":"3 June 2008","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" 10 out of 10 to bump this above 6.5.Carpenter has done some questionable films, but this one is really great. He manages to make an excellent film using a wrestler as the lead character. That's almost as difficult as using a Rap star. Second, he makes excellent social commentary on the 80's/Me(Reagan) era in the guise of upper-crust parasites as alien overlords. There are a few plot holes but it's great entertainment.Prior to Reagan we had no significant budget deficit, we may have had a recession during the Carter era, but that is nothing to the d**th-scape that King George is handing our kids today. I only wish it was aliens selling us out. In the words of Ripley (Aliens), You don't see them f**king each other over for a g**d**n percentage!. "},{"Title":"John Carpenter = Genius","Date":"9 May 2008","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" What a film maker John Carpenter is, he can make horror, scifi, and action films flawlessly. Here he takes the premise of aliens invading, and secretly taking over, to the nth degree. There are the veiled allusions to the fear of Communist takeover, and just looking at their subliminal messages scrawled about the sign-age throughout this California city used as the backdrop of the film, the message is received. The aliens have secretly arrived, and are taking over the planet through subliminal coercion. Their messages are literally hidden under signs, and their true visages are cloaked with a powerful signal they transmit from a Newstation tower. But there's hope. A scientist has stumbled upon their world domination plot and created sunglasses that actually see through the cloaking signal. Enter drifter Rowdy Roddy Piper, who packs of load of great lines, and delivers the aliens the butt whumping they deserve. Just remember, I have come to chew bubble gum and kick a**. And I'm all out of bubblegum. "},{"Title":"Watch","Date":"27 November 2007","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The story here is ridiculously simple. A guy named Nada, who is a drifter of sorts, finds a very special pair of sunglasses that enable him to see past the facade of society and at the disturbing truth that it hides. The result is a brilliantly executed film that walks the fine line between utter hilarity and all out horror.There are many memorable scenes in They Live but the one that sticks most would have to be the one when Nada sees downtown Los Angeles through the sunglasses. The bleak and hopelessly dystopian view is all the more shocking that most people don't know about and, as a result, have accepted it. Rather they have been conned into accepting it, but the difference is just the same. The pessimism of the film is balanced with some great black comedy. The scene where Nada walks into a bank is simply priceless. The video game Duke Nukem 3D even took the immortal one liner from that scene for its own use years later. Having played that game back in junior high school, I had no idea that it was actually from this film. Interesting is the fact that Duke Nukem 3D and video games like it fall into the very category of things that this film is clearly against. Another great thing is the film's ending. The ending manages to combine action-hero badassness (is that even a real word?) with great comic timing and still be intelligent enough to leave you thinking.Funny, exciting, and daring this is a very important movie that all should see at least once. --- 9/10 Rated R for violence. Ages 13+ "},{"Title":"One of my favourite John Carpenter movies","Date":"19 November 2007","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" They Live is one of Carpenters best, it deals with our culture and how things we don't even know about are secretly controlling out lives, They Live sadly wasn't a box office success which it should of been since it's a original movie, the film has a great score like other John Carpenter movies, it has great acting, cool effects, freaky alien make-up and great action, Roddy Piper is great as the main character and says some memorable lines like I've come here to chew bubblegum and kick a** and I'm out of bubblegum, the fight scene in the alley is a cool. They Live is based on a Short Story called Eight O'Clock in the Morning, the screenplay is written by John Carpenter using the name Frank Armitage. The film sees a drifter named John Nada going into the city for some work, he soon finds work at a construction sight and finds a place to live with the help of a worker named Frank. Strange things keep happening with TV's a broadcasts are constantly held warning people about what's really going on in the world, John finds something strange going on in the church and decides to check it out, inside he finds that a group of people are broadcasting the messages here, at night they're all suddenly attacked by Riot Officers. John escapes and the next day goes into the church to investigate some more, he soon finds a box containing sunglasses, he decides to take one and when he puts it on he sees what the world is really like. Signs, money, books all tell us what to do but we don't even see it, devices are on traffic lights, small ships fly over monitoring everyone and the people who really control us are Aliens that are disguised as us. After causing a disturbance in a store John is confronted by Police officers who are also Aliens, after killing them he takes there weapons and goes into a bank where he finds more of them and shoots them all before escaping, John holds a women named Holly Thompson hostage and she takes him to her house but when he is distracted she knocks him out the window. On the run from law John meets up with Frank who doesn't want to get involved. After a fight Johh shows him what the world is like with the glasses, soon it's up to them to try and stop the Aliens from controlling our planet.They Live is a underrated sci-fi classic that should be seen. Check this out. 10/10 "}{"Title":"I've Come to Chew Bubble Gum and Kick Ass, and I'm all out of Bubble Gum!","Date":"9 October 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" They Live(1988) They Live is another nice feature from John Carpenter. They live among us. A drifter(Roddy Piper)is looking for a job and lands one in construction. He befriends a fellow worker(Keith David)and finds a place to stay. Our hero notices strange television frequencies and a nearby church that has some shady activity. After acquiring some odd sunglasses, he sees things that cannot be seen before. With the glasses sees the alter image of every thing. Things are not what they seem. Our hero now has the very fate of the world in his hands.Piper is an okay actor with limited dialog, Keith David is pretty good here. The story is original and interesting. One real treat here is a really downright awesome back alley brawl. That has to be the toughest fight scene ever.The look of the evil beings for 80's standards are pretty cool looking. Fiendish and grotesque. The movie also has some surprises as well. The ending is quite a surprise too. I personally liked it.The Last Word Interesting. I'll agree that They Live is very underrated. Not a masterpiece, but I had fun watching. The original story is the main highlight. Piper is a likable hero, and the movie does not overstay it's welcome. I recommend They Live. Watch and enjoy. "},{"Title":"a great film","Date":"6 September 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I've just been running through John Carpenter's late '70s and '80s films recently and this is my favorite. There's a lot of cheesy moments and the film is quite dated, but most of the flaws of the film add to They Live's overall charm. The premise is hilarious--that the rich and powerful are ugly aliens that are plotting the demise of those less fortunate. In the middle of the film is a long, hilarious fight scene. As another reviewer noted, the femme fatale lead is meant to be a knock-out but she looks more like a robot. The subconscious messages (which the characters can only view with special sunglasses) of billboards and commercial signs in the film are a bit simple-minded but still very effective. Lacking almost all of the horror elements that make up most of Carpenter's films, this film is a straight up sociological sci-fi satire of 80s America. "},{"Title":"Piper's Pit x 10000","Date":"14 March 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" They Live came at a strange time for John Carpenter. The commercial misfire of Big Trouble In Little China and the back to basics Prince Of Darkness left him looking for a new project. They Live was the outgrowth of a low budget, around $4 million, and a pre-existing love for B-movies. Carpenter's love of B-movies is well noted, not least by his direct re-workings of The Thing and Village Of The Damned . They Live profits from his obvious passion.L.A. the near future, John Nada (Roddy Piper) is a working class labourer that comes to town to find the work that has eluded him around the country. He discovers, via a pair of treated sun-glasses produced by an underground rebel force, that humans and the planet earth are being exploited by aliens that hold all seats of Political and social power. One of the movies best features is the visual differentiation from the everyday world and the alien reality. Shown in black and white point of view shots of Piper's character the underlying messages in advertising, newspapers and even money are strikingly exposed in black lettering. The most impressive element of this visual style is that many of the black and white POV shots are matte paintings.Another of the real strengths of the movie, surprisingly perhaps, is Piper's turn as Nada. He is never short of convincing whether he is portraying the fear of the situation he finds himself in or spitting one liners as he blows away aliens. He has said that his own experience of homelessness helped him create Nada. His performance is supported in the best possible way by the always watchable Keith David as Frank, Nada's labourer friend who he turns to for help. Meg Foster's performance as Holly Thompson is less impressive but not all the blame can be put on her as her role as Nada's captive, then love interest isn't well written or substantial. Her character moves the plot forward but does little to add to it.The action is acceptable and typical in its 80s style, lots of gun fire and bodies, but that and the uneven tone, from social satire to lines like I have come here to chew bubblegum and kick ass. And I'm all out of bubblegum (a Piper ad-lib), work against what is an interesting and somewhat rare, anti-Reagan '80s action movie. While the film may have been improved by a slightly more serious tone the lighter elements do hold some pleasures. The near ten minute fight scene in which Nada tries to convince Frank to put on the glasses and see what is going on is hilarious, just when you think it is over they get down to more scrapping. It puts you in mind of The Fast Show sketch The Longest Fight and is just as amusing. The last shot of the movies also has to be seen to be believed but I'll let you find that out for yourself.Guilty pleasure or not, it doesn't really matter as many have discovered They Live ranks amongst Carpenter's best movies.An interesting sideline, the commentary track on the DVD release is excellent and includes the director and Roddy Piper whose stories about the filming of the movie and his position in the world of professional wrestling at the time are fascinating. As many fans of John Carpenter know, his commentaries are always good value. This one is no different. "},{"Title":"The Cinema of John Carpenter They Live.","Date":"20 August 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" They Live (1988) was another classic science fiction-action film from John Carpenter. The eighties were a great time for this legendary film maker. Some of his best work was made during this era. Professional Wrestler Roddy Piper stars as Nada, a homeless day laborer who becomes a hero by accident. Keith David co-stars as his running buddy. Earth has been slowly invaded by aliens under the guise of conservative Reganites. They have repressed the have nots and corrupted those who are willing to sell out their friends and neighbors. The aliens use a form of mind control to not only brain wash the masses but it's also used to cloak the aliens true identity. They pollute the environment to make the air more breathable. Nada stumbles across a pair of Ray-Ban sunglasses (During a routine police raid on homeless camps) that allows it's wearer to go beyond the sophisticated alien cloaking device. Shocked by what the world has become, he tries to get his friend to wear them. After a lengthy fist fight, his buddy is convinced and joins him to find those who made the glasses.The two hide out in a flophouse until things cool down. It's there that they met the few remaining members of the human underground. They're planing a raid on the local television station (that's where they think that the satellite feed from the aliens is coming from). But before they can execute the plan, a informant has ratted them out from their hide-out. Only a handful of fighters escape the raid. Nada and his buddy head for the Television Station. Nada fights his way to the top of the building only to be betrayed yet again. Before he's gunned down by a police helicopter, he fires his pistol into the transmitter. Dying, Nada sees it blow up right before his eyes. Now everyone wakes out of their alien induced slumber and sees the aliens for what they're truly are.Awesome film. I wished John Carpenter continued to make such violent and cheesy action fantasies. But he had to sell-out to continue his career. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"cult classic not to be missed....","Date":"19 January 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Well, what can I say about this movie? Absolute cult classic! John Carpenter follows on from 'Big Trouble in Little China' with this masterpiece of modern action movies. I was lent the DVD over a year ago, and to my sad admission, let it sit on a shelf for more than 6 months.....big mistake. Being a person who prides himself on his knowledge of 80s action movies, the fact that Id missed this one really makes me hang my head in shame. You might at first be forgiven for thinking that this is meant to be a spoof...and I still do! The acting is ludicrously poor, the action is (of course) over the top and the plot jumps from one scene to the next with no explanation as to how or why. Ever wanted to see two grown men having a fight using proper wrestling moves in a back alley?! Or hear the immortal line I came here to kick *ss and chew gum...and I'm all out of gum? Look no further ladies and gentlemen. And if you really want a treat, get the DVD - the commentary from Rowdy Roddy and John Carpenter is worth the money alone. Hilarious! They really don't make 'em like this anymore. "},{"Title":"Must See Piper Flick","Date":"30 October 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  While this movie is low budget it is absolutely high budget when it comes to entertainment. Rowdy Rod Piper (once professional wrestler now (1988) turned professional action movie actor) makes this film even more than worth seeing. I saw it many years ago and have remembered it ever since. It is because it is so solid in plot and action with a bit of comedy thrown in.If you doubt it, I would bet you recognize this quote I have come here to chew bubble gum and kick butt... and I am all out of bubble gum. Kids have quoted this line thinking it is a cartoon characters... it isn't - it's a now famous line delivered by Mr. Piper in a way only he can do it.See the movie, order a pizza, have some great (old/original) scifi entertainment fun. 9/10-ZafoidBTW, I was amazed to see that this movie was directed by John Carpenter - if I knew this, I would have avoided it. But it turns out to be an early movie of Carpenter's which is very good, unlike his later Ghosts of Mars which is barely worth watching except for Jason Strotham's appearance in it.-Z "},{"Title":"Probably John Carpenter's best movie","Date":"14 May 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw this crazy little film many years ago and of course fell in love with it immediately. Now I finally found the dvd and naturally bought it and I'm very happy to say They live still works like a dream. I understand why this may not be everyone's cup of tea but out of all the movies John Carpenter has ever directed I guess this will always be my personal number one favorite. Why? I reckon mostly because I'm really not a huge horror flick freak and most of his movies are unfortunately so-called serious horror films which doesn't even necessarily make them very scary. They live is on the contrary a very tongue in a cheek comedy and that's why I love it so damn much.The beginning is a bit slow but it keeps the viewer quite curious and after Roddy Piper's Nada finds the mysterious sunglasses things are suddenly starting to get really absurd and extremely interesting. I love that scene by the way, it would actually be rather creepy if it all wouldn't be so bloody comical. What about the scene where Nada tries to get his pal Frank to wear the glasses? It's hilarious and it's a classic. They Live has a rather good and amusing script too. I have come here to chew bubble gum and kick ass....and I'm all out of bubble gum. Even Arnie didn't have oneliners that corny! This movie is funny, peculiar and not even over-long, just perfect. So weird that it's very easy to remember once you've seen it. 9/10. "},{"Title":"One of Carpenters best","Date":"21 May 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Pro wrestler Rowdy Roddy Piper uncovers a plot about aliens trying to take over the world through television! and hipnotic signals.  Piper is Nada (probally cuz his name was never mentioned therefore hes nothing, nada) who finds special sunglasses that allows him to see the true form of some so called citizens.Piper, Keith David, and Peter Jason all tune in good performances.  And Carpenter has a great music score, 2nd only to Halloween. "},{"Title":"They Live.  We Sleep.","Date":"7 December 2001","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Did you ever think you would see Rowdy Roddy Piper in an extremely intelligent movie? Well, I guess you've never seen They Live. They Live depicts the world with aliens in control of everything; our money, our economy, and even our thought patterns. They run the whole show. And no one knows. The story begins with an unusual, straight to the point but great graffiti intro. And then the drifter (Piper) appears. His character name (which is never given) says it all Nada--nothing, zero, the underclass and the poor. Meanwhile with the promise of money the rich are under alien control and the middle class are following. Shows the power of the dollar bill right? John Carpenter doesn't focus too long on America's greed but one scene sums it up A dollar bill is shown reading This is your God. Horror, sci-fi, action, and intelligence have never been blended so well. Carpenter's score also taps into the feeling of the film. It's gritty and very western at times, it fits the film well. The actors are great too. Piper and Keith David make an awesome duo. They stage the best fight scene ever filmed. And seeing Buck Flower is always a plus (Some sort of epidemic of violence is what they been sayin'.). They Live is Carpenter at his best and a must see in my book. Watch this movie (obey). "},{"Title":"They Live is everything Mars Attacks wanted to be.","Date":"5 July 1999","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Mars attacks was supposed to be a send up of 50's sci-fi films.  Instead it is just a boring mess.  What Burton forgot was that not only were those films silly and cheap but they had a message contained within them (even Plan 9 From Outer Space), often anti-communist.  That is why They Live is such a great film.  It has good action (although there could be more), really weird looking aliens and a message within the films plot.  The films poking at the me generation of the 80's is even more fun to watch today because it's so laughable (much like the 50's films are today) but that doesn't take away any to the fun you get watching the film.  Over all this is a great film which is highly under-appreciated outside of sci-fi fans. "}{"Title":"The greatest engaged movie of Reagan era","Date":"20 January 1999","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is one of the toughest critics of Reagan-era. It must be noticed during these years of intellectual poorness in american movies. It's not to say that there have been no clever movies but the most noticed movies were not. In France we keep overall movies like Rocky IV or Rambo where the hero is the stronger, he never dies and saves the world (what could we do without Americans ?). The point of view of Carpenter is very courageous, he shows what consumption society makes (consume, obey) and has that few people awares of it. It was an era where money and economical liberalism were ruling human relationship. Carpenter couldn't stand this and showed it by the way of the seventh art. That's what movies should be made for  engagement in the author's mind by the work. There are not a lot of movies today having surprised the viewer like this, by its cleverness. The last american one is In the company of men by Neil LaBute. There are scenes which will stay in the memory of the person who watches, like the fight. You think it's going to end but it continues, and continues. In a typical movie it ends after one or two minutes, but there, no way. John Carpenter breaks the rules and this nihilism (see the name of the hero  Nada) was not the american way of life. By breaking the rules of movies he broke the rules of american society. There has been two other heroes, created also by Carpenter  Snake Plissken and Jack Crow. They are not perfect, they have weaknesses, they are just humans. They don't really make dream the spectator but they're more similar to him than Armaggedon or Independance day's characters. The perfection is a notion that carpenter doesn't like, in his different movies (village of damned, Vampire$) the heroes lose sometimes, they're not more clever, they get f***** (the motel's scene in Vampire$). They live is a film about the human, the perfection and freedom. Carpenter broke rules of American society (and way of making films)in order to promode a typical American value  the freedom. Carpenter was free when he made this movie. This idea sweats from the screen and you would like to feel as free as him, with no limits. 10 on 10  "},{"Title":"cool movie","Date":"11 December 1998","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I love it!  My favorite part of the movie is when a helicopter suddenly appears above a building Rowdy piper is watching, taking him by surprise. You know these new stealth copters....but seriously, there should be more movies like this.  It updates 50s paranoia into the late 80s early 90s fear of economic collapse, xenophobia.... but this is only a surface interpretation.  In truth, it's a clever satire that only a few will appreciate; it plays on our notion of who we are, whether the human race can have enemies or would always be its own enemy.  It also parodies our selfishness and stupidity and blindness to the situations that are really around us, our ability to go on with a situation we know is intolerable, and it's about how one man (two men) could reach the breaking point.  Homoerotic undertones?  I think so.  Isn't the black guy jealous at one point in the movie?  Anyway, great film, love it "},{"Title":"The greatest engaged movie made in the 80's in USA","Date":"7 December 1998","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is one of the toughest critics of Reagan-era. It must be noticed during these years of intellectual poorness in american movies. It's not to say that there have been no clever movies but the most noticed movies were not. In France we keep overall movies like Rocky IV or Rambo where the hero is the stronger, he never dies and saves the world (what could we do without Americans ?). The point of view of Carpenter is very courageous, he shows what consumption society makes (consume, obey) and has that few people awares of it. It was an era where money and economical liberalism were ruling human relationnship. Carpenter couldn't stand this and showed it by the way of th seventh art. That's what movies should be made for  engadgement in the author's mind by the work. There are not a lot of movies today having surprised the viewer like this, by its cleaverness. The last american one is In the company of men by Neil LaBute. There are scenes which will stay in the memory of the person who watches, like the fight. You think it's going to end but it continues, and continues. In a typical movie it ends after one or two minutes, but there, no way. John Carpenter breaks the rules and this nihilism (see the name of the hero  Nada) was not the american way of life. By breaking the rules of movies he broke the rules of american society. There has been two other heroes, created also by Carpenter  Snake Plissken and Jack Crow. They are not perfect, they have weaknesses, they are just humans. They don't really make dream the spectator  but they're more similar to him than Armaggedon or Independance day's characters. The perfection is a notion that carpenter doesn't like, in his different movies (village of damned, Vampire$) the heroes lose sometimes, they're not more clever, they get f***** (the motel's scene in Vampire$). They live is a film about the human, the perfection and freedom. Carpenter broke rules of American society (and way of making films)in order to promode a typical American value  the freedom. Carpenter was free when he made this movie. This idea sweats from the screen and you would like to feel as free as him, with no limits. 10 on 10  "},{"Title":"I bet David Icke has this one on heavy rotation.","Date":"14 November 2012","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I'm a sucker for a spot of good old-fashioned sci-fi paranoia, and They Live, from director John Carpenter, is one of the finest examples the genre has to offer, a pitch-perfect blend of cutting social commentary, unashamed B-movie silliness, and hard-hitting action.Pre-dating the similarly themed The Matrix by over a decade, and made on a fraction of that film's budget, They Live stars Rowdy Roddy Piper as blue collar construction worker John Nada, who, with the help of a special pair of sunglasses, discovers to his amazement that the world is in fact ruled by ugly aliens who keep the human population under their control through the use of subliminal messages and mind-altering broadcasts. Like The Matrix's Neo, Nada opts to fight his oppressors, joining a group of freedom fighters dedicated to revealing the terrible truth to the unsuspecting public.Full of ingenious ideas, cool visuals, eminently quotable snippets of dialogue, and great fight action, including one of the best prolonged street brawls ever captured on film, They Live is creepy, exciting and funny in equal measures, perfect viewing for anyone who has ever had the sneaking suspicion that all is not as it seems on the surface.8.5 out of 10, rounded up to 9 for IMDb. "},{"Title":"Brilliant black comedy satire with plenty of thrills and gun drama.","Date":"6 November 2006","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is one of my favourite John Carpenter movies. Its the story of an unemployed drifter, John Nada, who arrives in Los Angeles in search of work, only to find that once he puts on a pair of sunglasses he has found, the City and most of the world are under the rule of an alien force. He becomes embroiled in a rebellion to destroy the aliens that have corrupted mankind with huge wealth and property temptations.This has all the ingredients of John Carpenter music score, camera-work, traditional character actors etc. etc. But They Live is an enjoyable adult comic book of machine guns and one liners and so much more...It also has a great performance by Roddy Piper as Nada and his line 'I have come here to chew bubblegum and kick ass....and Im all out of bubblegum!' is one of the best Hollywood lines in movie history.They Live also has the greatest fight scene up a city alley EVER, and it goes on for a staggering seven minutes! Special mention to Keith David for playing Frank who is just plain funny from start to finish, i loved it when he and Nada are rolling about the ground because of his stubborn refusal to wear the sunglasses.See They Live, its a great laugh as well as a great movie. It reminded me a little of Invasion Of The Bodysnatchers (the 70s version) intermixed with the buddy/buddy thrills of Lethal Weapon.I think i love this film so much because i think Roddy Piper is awesome as Nada. Its a pity he never became a movie mega star.Ten Out Of Ten "},{"Title":"David ICKE David ICKE David ICKEEEEEEEEEEEEEEE","Date":"13 September 2005","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" WOW WHAT A GREAT MOVIE!!!! That fight scene was one of the most intimate scenes I've seen since the end of Resivoir Dogs--obviously a different kind of intimacy from sexual intimacy, but valid nonetheless. It's a trip how we police each other's right to these intimacies, woah!!! This movie was like a big old book of Barbara Kruger pictures.Oh, I need 4 more lines to finish this comment? What more can I say? Rowdy Roddy Piper! The black guy! The sexy white woman with a face like a mask!! Crazy guy!!! The white woman's eyes!!! What???? She was like a big soft sexy tiger cat, a big cat. In a good way. In the best way. Bester and bester and bester. "},{"Title":"One of my best movies!","Date":"5 January 2004","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This must be one of the best movies I have ever seen.It has such a great atmosphere and feel to it.The music is EXCELLENT.The two main actors are great.This movie has some unforgettable and classic scenes(when the two main characters fight out against each other,great one-liners,great action scenes etc...).I like the way how movie slowly progresses in the beginning(although the movie lasts only 90 minutes),because the whole movie is hypnotizing.This one has become a cult movie. "},{"Title":"Sticks it to the Reagan era","Date":"13 August 1999","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Spoiler alert the following comment reveals a key plot point.Growing up in the Reagan era, I often thought my values made me an alien among my own people.  This movie reverses that scenario, by making the hero the human among the aliens, but the point is the same.  The values of the soul-less money grubbing eighties were at their base anti-human, cold, reptilian.  Carpenter's images of the skeletal alien changelings with their blow dried 80s dos make the perfect symbol of the times, therefore.Carpenter has never been a high brow movie maker but rather a craftsman, skilled in the techniques of horror and sci fi, so the message of They Live results a little bit in Carpenter's grasp exceeding his reach, but that's okay.  The humor of the movie and the chemistry especially between Piper and David make it entertaining enough to be more than worth 90 minutes of your time and the price of a video rental.  Classic line I have come to chew bubble gum and to kick ass; and I'm alllll outta bubble gum is practically worth the price of admission right there.One complaint is Carpenters do-it-yourself score which consists of a looped blues riff played over and ovvvverrrr to the point that it gets a bit annoying. "},{"Title":"While You Slept; They Lived.","Date":"29 March 2007","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Roddy Piper is an excellent newcomer to the movie genre, after his domination of the American wrestling scene, he plays the underdog here to such a believable degree, well directed and well taught by Mr. Carpenter, his persona is not a disappointment. Along too, to the journey of self-discovery, are the co-stars Keith David (The Thing 1982, Armageddon 1988 and Pitch Black 2000) as his friend in need. Meg Foster (The Emerald Forest 1985 and Masters of the Universe 1987) and her mesmerising and beautiful green eyes provide the love interest with a touch of poison ivy to boot.What really makes this movie is the work of Jim Danforth, double Academy Awards nominee for When Dinosaurs Ruled the Earth (1970) and 7 Faces of Dr. Lao (1964). His matt paintings are used to excel They Live to shocking disbelief at this new and sinister world that lives just beneath the surface and just out of reach of our knowing and understanding. Having worked on movies as The Time Machine (1960), It's a Mad Mad Mad Mad World (1963), Willy Wonka & the Chocolate Factory (1971), Diamonds Are Forever (1971), Flesh Gordon (1974), Clash of the Titans (1981). Also to his credit are Conan the Barbarian (1982), The Thing (1982) and Day of the Dead (1985) and others, his workload has been heavily consistent and of the finest quality.Based loosely on Ray Nelson's short story Eight O'Clock in the Morning, 1963, of a man coming out of hypnosis and then seeing the world as it really is is turned into a science-fiction of note and with it intelligence, thrills and excitement. With John Carpenter's stance on the simple minded populace and their submission into a world of apathy and willing obedience, and their finely tuned minds that have adjusted well to this technological age of television and over sensualised media saturation.John Carpenter's slow and deliberate immersion of the daunting and worrying fable of the corrupt, deceiving and indifferent economic, social and political society, that has wrapped itself around its people and who in turn have blindly accepted their fate. Multicultural in more forms than anticipated, are the leading and upwardly mobile alien race who have gelled into the Human psyche and exploited it to its full potential. This is the story of an everyman (Roddy Piper), a no one, a Nada, literally meaning nothing, who stumbles upon their secret, via an underground movement, whose mission is to sabotage their plans and awaken the world to its sinister plot.With the help of a pair of sunglasses, that shows the world as it really is, not in colour, but a black and white parallel world that the sub-conscious has chosen to ignore. With subliminal messages as OBEY, CONFORM, MARRY AND REPRODUCE, CONSUME, WATCH TELEVISION and SLEEP everywhere, it is seen as all to easy to succumb to this train of thought, this sleepwalking of the living, the lifeless Souls that are never truly awake. It is through this thought control and the paranoia's that exists within this modern world that the aliens have this world tied up and neatly packaged for its own manipulative uses, to further themselves at the expense of the meek, mild and the lowly sufferers of a jobless, homeless, hungry and cold world.This is the battle of self-awareness and one mans struggle with a reality check that has these alien beings staging war against the up-rising and rebellious armies from the gutters and streets. They Live You Sleep are what they daub onto the cites walls, this this their warning, this is your chance, where will your consciousness take you when the sleep is washed from your eyes&#133; "},{"Title":"They Live the Multidemensional Dominionism of Conservative Dystopia!","Date":"31 December 2005","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Marry and Reproduce. Consume.Submit. Watch TV. No independent thought, no ideas, buy, obey authority. Sleep. Doubt humanity. Conform. All typically hierarchical, top-down, cutthroat, conservative, anti-human ideals, as enforced by a riot-gear police state that beats up blind Black men and bulldozes homeless settlements.Except, conservatives/Reaganites/free enterprisers and other reactionaries aren't lizards from spaceships, profiting from the coldness of the conservative heart. That's where it's only a movie backfires on us, bearing as it does some accurate reflections of the Reagan Era excesses. Thus, they Live still leaves us with only two choices, complicity or rebellion, and in this movie, both turn out to be radical acts.Because, as much as political and social conservatives in the United States snivel and whimper about the media, and liberal Hollywood, they depend on both for their survival and perpetuity. After all, their beloved union-busting teflon president and Governator were spat out onto the American populace by so-called liberal Hollywood. Conservatives also get to add to their roster successful governors who built their names on pro wrestling, as well as a host of friendly witnesses to the House Committee on Un-American Activities (HUAC), including a conservative senator from California, a former MGM song-and-dance contemporary of Ronald Reagan named George Murphy. So I don't know what they are continually whining about, seriously.And anyone who recalls the Reaganite-California 80s, the political and social context that has given us the Bush 90s-00s, remembers the police brutality of the LAPD, the battering ram, gated communities enforced by private police, the rise of homelessness, Reaganomics, and of course, the beginnings of cable and small-screen wrestling. It should go without saying that the camera ready surveillance society that passed for science fiction in '88-'89 -- for which we should suspend disbelief -- is today a routine part of American life.And speaking of all-seeing eyes, t'was blind, but now I see...access to higher Truth via Black people and 2-D black and white glasses. It's true Black American religion is the central redemptive force in They Live. Note the African Methodist EPISCOPAL Free Church (a made-up conflagration of the African Methodist Episcopal and white-Methodist derived Evangelical Free churches), the broadcast site of the Cable 54 hacks. The Psalm 23-quoting blind Black preacher (Raymond St. Jacques) who in fact can see, and transmits the broadcast hack of the Eeeeeeevil Tee Vee station. And, by extension, handsome Keith David reprising his solid supporting man roles, this time as Frank, the reluctant revolutionary. Oh yes, and despite the mullet, Roddy looks GREAT shirtless in his snug fitting jeans...wow!They Live the heavy-handed Fight Club of the 80s, without the irony and with a different kind of humor?Or, They Live the logical sequel to Halloween 3. Consider and decide, good reader. "}{"Title":"Laser surgery for yours eyes and senses to prepare you for the slavery you live in","Date":"8 February 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Now here's a cult classic and great film. I remember watching this as a child in the eighties, as a wrestling fan I instantly recognised mullet haired Rowdy Roddy Piper in the central role, and as a fan of horror seeing John Carpenters name on it was more than enough of a reason to watch it. I enjoyed this film then and fast forward twenty or so years later I still enjoyed it when it happened to be on a late night horror channel. A drifter going from town to town finds some sunglasses which reveal to him the reality of the suburban jungle he is living in. Aliens have been living amongst us for sometime and society is being drip an agenda to maintain it's conformity and consumerism while keeping it numb and dancing unaware to the sound of the rich and powerful drummers in servitude and subconscious slavery. It's up to Rowdy Roddy Piper as Nada, to tell the world and then save it. There may have been goofs and gaffs galore in this film but if you are looking for those you have missed the point of the film, it may be tongue in cheek at times but this was an attack on the American political system in place in the 1980's, an attack on Regan, greed, capitalism, conformity, poverty and mass consumerism. While it was created in the 80's and is about the 80's take a step back and ask yourself if the film could still be relevant today, the answer is of course it is. Nothing has changed at all and the film is as valid now as it was at the time of it's release in the 80's - albeit slightly dates in appearance. What this film cleverly does without you realising is it adjusts your vision; you can step out your front door and if you remember some of the content of the film you can see without glasses that those things depicted are the realities that we live in today. I am constantly surprised by the amount of people who haven't seen this growing up, it's harmless yet meaningful, it's action packed yet family friendly, it's bad but good all at the same time. Definitely worth a watch and a whopping 7 out of 10 on my 'difficult to please' rating system. I'd happily watch this again, any time, which I can't say for a lot of modern films. "},{"Title":"Really good movie but with a few disappointments......","Date":"4 February 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I gave this a watch because it was the 20th anniversary of Duke Nukem 3D and when I looked at the facts online, it was saying that the game stole the quote  kicking ass and chewing bubblegum from this movie. It was a little disappointing for me since I have played Duke Nukem Time to Kill from childhood and thought it was all his own words but, unfortunately I was in that regard.Anyways I thought Roddy Piper was an excellent and badass actor. I honestly didn't know he was a wrestler until I've seen his IMDb page and unfortunately, he died last year from cardiac arrest. He does resemble a lot of Duke Nukem, except for the long hair. Man, himself and Keith David were beating the hell outta of each other for around 10 minutes (well it did felt like that long really) all because the reason of getting David's character in wearing a pair of those sunglasses! Even though I liked the movie, I was rather annoyed at some of the scenes. I would have loved to see Piper alive in the end instead being shot by the alien cops and getting the girl without her betraying him. I would love to have seen themselves a couple since he is the 'good guy' after all! I didn't like the fact Keith David was his sidekick, it's just I think Nada would be better off on his own. I actually would've liked to have seen him use a bulletproof vest too like, it would give him more power and destruction into killing the aliens. I thought the movie was overall alright but it wouldn't be part of my favorites list. I would have given it 10 stars if my suggestions happened in the film but they didn't. I think its reasonable to give this movie an 8/10 rating. "},{"Title":"Alien Vision","Date":"8 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Other than Escape From New York, this is probably my favorite John Carpenter movie. Although the plot is not terribly original and the action is a bit predicable, this film still stands up well. Aliens infiltrating the human condition is not all that original but this story has that special Carpenter touch that makes it memorable. While not an absolute classic, it's still entertaining. Keith David and Roddy Piper turn in very admirable performances. While it may contain some flaws it's worth owning as it falls into one of those movie categories where you might want to watch it when there is nothing else on or when you haven't seen it in a long while. "},{"Title":"John Carpenter Lives... CLASSIC!","Date":"5 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The 80's and 90's were all about directors and writers taking risks... John Carpenter was one of the best at that.Taking a short story and trying to make it a movie was always going to be a long shot, and it worked so well.Like many of my most favorite films, while it had a serious subject line - it did not try to take itself to seriously either - If you have not seen the film, all I will say is make sure you watch the whole thing!!! The last scene is a total DOOZY!As is already noted here on IMDb, The film has also become a cult classic giving rise to many memorable quotes that have since appeared elsewhere... I have come here to chew bubblegum and kick ass... And I am all out of bubblegum! the most memorable.I would recommend this film to anyone - I just hope to god they never try and reboot as I just know it will be ruined! "},{"Title":"Lets you thinking 'bout western society... Scary.","Date":"7 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Okay, it surely has some punch action (quite long scene actually!), ugly aliens and some soft nudity, but the message the script is trying to make clear is that as we are included on today's society, propaganda makes you follow a single path or at least die trying. Makes me also think about Rat Race theory, where no matter what you do, your destiny is sealed. Capitalism my friends! It's all about it. CONSUME, BREED, BEHAVE, OBEY, CONSUME (again... more).¿Sounds disturbing? It is...I've seen it on TV (mid 90's). I rented the VHS some days later to see it again. Super entertaining movie + let's you thinking... A must see. "},{"Title":"Yes, they live. And they are thriving like never before.","Date":"10 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I had the pleasure of catching a midnight screening of this last night at the Dundee Theater. Though not a true classic, They Live is an engaging Orwellian-type urban thriller. Rowdy Roddy Piper (in a surprisingly effective performance) plays an unnamed drifter who finds a low level construction job and takes up residence in some type of squatter's camp near downtown L.A.. Things look like they still look in most U.S. cities today. The poor are desperate, and the rich seem to keep getting richer. But it seems that some of the residents of this camp are using the church across the street as a kind of a resistance center. But resistance to what? After putting on a pair of special sunglasses he finds at the church, Piper learns a terrifying secret. The well to do are actually aliens whose identities are revealed by the glasses. All sources of media are also subliminally ordering people to consume, obey, and procreate. Small drone aircraft buzz overhead to keep watch on things. The aliens seem to have people totally under their spell. When Piper tips his hand at his ability to see the aliens for what they are, he becomes a hunted man. Can he stay alive long enough to help the resistance expose the entire alien scheme? Who can he trust, if anyone?They Live has too many serious over and undertones for it to be simply dismissed as a low budget exploitation flick. Still it relies heavily on old fashioned shootouts and ass whipping to get its point across. There is nothing subtle about it, despite its low-key first act. Piper is about as subtle as a cinder block thrown through a stained-glass window. At one point, he and Keith David have a long fight that seemed to be like a choreographed Wrestle Mania encounter. It brought plenty of guffaws from the audience. The conclusion is awfully abrupt, too. But this is still a solid and diverting picture, and as timely as ever. In this country, the gap between rich and poor is ever-widening. And people seem less inclined than ever before to put on the glasses and take a hard look at things. What are they afraid they might see? 7 of 10 stars.The Hound. "},{"Title":"A message behind this movie...","Date":"13 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" 'They Live' what can you say about this movie. Pretty much I think that there are a whole lot of subliminal messages that being said throughout the movie, one would just have to know how to read between the lines and see whose it's really about. It can be looked at from a political standpoint and biblical one as well. They who they are speaking about is basically the government and are trying to hide and deceive people from the truth to keep them brainwash and blind to the fact as to what's really out there. As you know as long as the general public are that's what help expands there brand. Roddy Roddy Piper whose name is George in the movie is one of the leaders who tries to free the people and help them see the government (or Illuminati) for who there really are; greedy corrupted people that's out to ruin and trash people mind. I say biblical standpoint because I viewed the movie as in Roddy Roddy Piper being a Moses like figure trying to help free his people but the government are basically the devils that's out to wipe him out because they know the threat that this man possess to help expose their brand. I don't want to get too deep into this but this movie has a lot of layers that can be looked at, watch it with an open mind and you'll see what I mean. John Carpenter was definitely ahead of his time with this movie and I believe that he intended for it to be looked at from a futuristic and realistically point of view as if he's giving you a message as to what about to take place, I don't think he did it just for pure entertainment. The truth is out there it's just up to the person to decide whether to accept it not. Definitely a good movie and wish there were more like it. Didn't see the remake but plan on doing so as this movie put you up on game and have you expecting more. I first heard about it through Prodigy the rapper from Mobb Deep on his autobiography book and glad I gave it a chance to watch. "},{"Title":"Mixed Thoughts","Date":"13 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  yes i just watched this on dvd again and came away with a better appreciation of it than i had before.I'm a big carpenter fan and had not had this film even the top 10 of any of his films.But this is more of a movie that gets you to think a little about what carpenter wants you to realize rather than a movie that is just simply going to entertain you,and from that perspective i think that carpenter does a good enough job here.One thing that should be noted is that part of the premise of the movie is that the aliens are trying to somehow get us to sleep and have little or no emotion and basically try to lull us into a coma like state.Watching the movie and listening to the movie score really does  make you feel that way as well. Yes there are parts here that slows the movie down but it does have it's more suspenseful moments also.My choice would have been to put Kurt Russell in the lead role and teamed up with Keith David just like in The Thing.It is a movie that is very thought provoking rather than just pure entertainment.By the way this was the second low-budget film that carpenter was to do for Universalthe first was Prince of Darknessand after this carpenter would take a break from directiing and not re-surface again until Memoirs of an Invisible Man. "},{"Title":"My 80's trash flick of choice","Date":"29 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I've seen nearly all of Carpenter's stuff. And while Assault on Precinct 13, The Thing and Halloween easily beat this in the dramatic tension stakes, I still find it his most enjoyable work. Its loaded with Regan era satire, dark humor and tongue-in-cheek action excess. Roddy Piper's Nada can join the ranks of deliberate cypher characters (Much like Carry Grant's Roger-O(for nothing)-Thornhill in North By NorthWest).  The film has an infectious sense of fun. Keith David, who I'll watch in anything, is great as a surly, incredulous buddy. After seeing the film I really wanted to track down the original novel, but it seems to be out of print, so I'll settle for this happily. "},{"Title":"Greatest fight sequence in the history of film","Date":"11 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"   Allright Allright.  Enough of this Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon nonsense.  Sure, they can fight on the tops of trees and sprint across rooftops. It may look pretty, but it pales in comparison to the epic battle between Keith David and Roddy Piper in They Live.   Allow me to just set the stage for this epic duel.  Roddy Piper's character has just uncovered the truth about society, it is really controlled by evil aliens! How can he tell this? By wearing his special (and incredibly boxy looking) 80s sunglasses! When he sees his friend, played by Keith David, he tries to convince him to put on the sunglasses in order to see how the world truly is.  I will now write an example of the incredible dialog that sets up this sceneRoddy Piper Put the sunglasses on!Keith David No, you crazy mother!Roddy Piper Put the sunglasses on!Keith David No!Roddy Piper Put the sunglasses on!Keith David No! ..and then, that's where the action starts.  For the next 10 minutes, Piper and David beat each other unmercifully. The fight itself is way too grandscale for me to describe here, so I suggest you run (don't walk) the the video store and pick up The Live, it will change your life. Chow yun-Fat.. BAH! Gimmie Keith David suplexing Roddy Piper in a back alley any day!  "}{"Title":"Brilliant and forboding, then ... D'OH!","Date":"15 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  First half of the film is a 10, great idea, interesting execution, character driven plot... then... without warning...WHAMMO!  BRICK WALL!  Stupid move!While watching the film, one can actually witness a neat idea turning into a bad idea, a horrid vision of a clear idea turning to feces...There is much wrong here.  The homeless village seems too pat, too much a sense of Hey, can we borrow this stuff from your villa?  Too clean, too neat... Sometimes we do all get a tad heavy handed, and listening to an on-screen party running down violence in films, mentioning the director and his friends by name, was just ever so precious...like Ollie Stone in Wild Palms being interviewed about his political beliefs...as if he  doesn't have a forum...Good stupid fun.  "},{"Title":"great sc-ifi","Date":"7 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Despite plot holes the size of Antarctica, I liked this movie. If sci-fi and suspense are your things, so will you.Part sci-fi, part action, part propaganda messages, this creepy film will keep you hooked. A man discovers aliens have subliminally gained control of earth, and a special pair of sunglasses will reveal it.A great ending (final 5-10 minutes or so) makes it worthwhile.*** out of **** "},{"Title":"cult classic","Date":"9 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  john carpenter is by far the greatest director living now. I love all of his films from assault on precint 13 to in the mouth of madness. The first time I saw they live I was 12. It blew me away. I couldn't believe that rowdy roddy piper  could act as well as he did. the plot is great and the story moves right along. never a dull moment!!! "},{"Title":"Dont they though?","Date":"7 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  And the awand for Best Gut-Laugh From A One-Liner goes to Roddy Piper.If you only watch this movie to see Roddy stand straight-faced and say I have come here to kick ass and chew bubblegum .... and I'm all outta bubblegum then you have done yourself a favour.'Nuff Sed. "},{"Title":"I Dig This","Date":"28 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I have come here to chew bubble gum and kick ass.  Yes, great words from a great movie.  And one of the few John Carpenter has made that is good. Roddy Piper makes his only good movie with this flick.  He and Keith David make a great team and duke it out in a long fight scene that is one of the best action sequences in recent memory.  It's a great satire, great action film, and great sci fi story set in a near future Los Angeles.  The City of the Angels has almost never been so much sick fun! "},{"Title":"Life's a bitch, and she's back in heat","Date":"19 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  John Carpenter's movie have always had a great B-grade feel to them (aside from The Thing, Assault on Precinct 13, and Halloween, which were a step above), and this 1988 movie starring wrestler Roddy Piper is an extremely entertaining and funny movie, a true guilty pleasure,  as well as a clever little jab at Reagan-era economics.  Roddy Piper gives a surprisingly durable performance, and Keith David (one of my all-time favorite character actors) gives a good performance as well.  Add to that a truly great payoff at the end, and you've got one of the more entertaining movies of the 80's. "},{"Title":"The trailer to the film.....","Date":"5 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Most men would do a review of the actual film, however I am not most men...so I am doing a review of the film's trailer (preview of coming attractions). This particualr trailer was well put together. The trailer got your interest yet, didn't give away the whole movie or the film's end. The THEY LIVE trailer was a cavalcade of images which set the tone and pace of the film and was so well put together I was immediately drawn to go see it. To properly sell a film a trailer needs to be a viewing experience in itself....this is achieved through good editing and use of music. The railer was very kinetic to say the least and featured several action sequences from the film. As far as movie promotions go the one for THEY LIVE was one of the best. "},{"Title":"Sshhhh, there's something going on - and it ain't good news","Date":"4 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What an absolute classic. The fight scene was notorious in my school playground. The premise that something is going on that the common folk are not privy to is all too real to those who have worked among the upper classes - just what planet are they from? Well this film goes a long way toward explaining why they are so different. And for good measure Carpenter chucks in some great one liners, the best hammed up acting for ages and some original concepts, which, coupled with his atmospheric, almost hypnotic, score, really draws you in to the story. Next time your colleague gets promotion at work, just take a second, harder look - are they all they seem?  "},{"Title":"action packed cheese","Date":"5 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  the movie is great action----i loved it but others might find it cheesy.1st off rowdy roddy piper isn't an actor he's a wrestler,and a bad wrestler at that but some how this role works for him. "},{"Title":"deep meanings.....","Date":"3 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  ok, you may say i am nut..but i am not. I believe that this film showed a part of the true for our world..A little earlier there was a novel about the greys and generally in all the history we can see the greys. It is not exactly what the movie implies but gives us an idea and say to us WAKE UP, THEY ARE HERE.For sure it is a cheap production but this isn't very important as long as it passes the message and make people thing.Many other movies do that ,say a part of true.dark citystar warshighlander ..but requires  a lot of thinking and reading and .......to be carefull. "}{"Title":"Great movie. Especially Roddy's quote.","Date":"10 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  His one great quote in the movie. I have come to kick ass and chew bubble gum, and I'm all out of gum. It's been taken by Duke Nukem, and never credited. "},{"Title":"A potential truth revealed","Date":"27 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The movie stresses subliminal perception, being used by alien influences, in order to control the majority of the population. Not too much different than what's happening today... "},{"Title":"They Live! Buy the BluRay! Obey Hollywood!","Date":"6 May 2015","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Before 3D came Rowdy Roddy Piper and his 4th Dimensional sunglasses. They Live! is one of Director Carpenter's finest works. What I enjoy about Carpenter is the seeming simplicity of his direction, and his horror, despite the often extraordinary circumstances of the plots, benefits from the surreal realities he captures so magically.Roddy Piper has the chops for just this sort of gig, and his everyday man character shines through. He's a real working-class hero who shows us just what a real fight scene between two tough guys really is.Budget restraints are evident, and that gives the film and its look and it's low-tech, sci-fi vibe an extra boost. It doesn't pretend to be anything more than a B-Grade film, but if you slip on your 4th Dimensional glasses a sign will appear on every frame sayingTHIS IS AN A-GRADE CARPENTERIAN MASTERPIECE. LOVE THIS FILM. BUY THIS FILM. "},{"Title":"Clever, funny, awesome and overlooked","Date":"19 June 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" At first glance this title may seem like any other corny, goofy, action flick. But the idea of the controlled society, seeing the world for what it is and either giving in or going against the status quo is very intriguing. And if anything still relevant even today (still will be for a long time).After seeing references, countless of references to this film in media I had to see it. And I was expecting a b-movie. And in some instances during the movie it is cheesy, and a lot of the things happening doesn't make sense, yet I sat fascinated throughout the whole film. And having not seeing this movie before I feel quite ashamed of myself. But I love it!The build up is great, Roddy Piper is awesome as is Keith David, the action is sweet as all hell, the point of people being controlled is timeless, science fiction (just the genre it self is great), and holy hell that pay off at the end. F****** perfect!Yes, I may just be bias at the moment. But, hot damn! If you haven't seen this movie you need to see it, it doesn't matter when you see it. It goes perfect to anything, anytime and anywhere! And if you have seen it, just watch it again.Now, if you'll excuse me. I'm off to buy some bubblegum. "},{"Title":"Before you read the review, remember that I'm not a B-movie fan.","Date":"5 August 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" They Live (1988) While not the most subtle of social commentaries, 'They Live' succeedingly gives us an entertaining experience mixing nice action, right amount of horror, a touch of 80's campiness and dark humor. John Carpenter still knows what he should be doing and he does it well. The thing is, is it well executed. That is another problem.I couldn't help but to think that the film feels like a video game. Definitely a good video game, but video game as it is. It feels very simplified, and the last part of the film is only action oriented, with no smart plot points except one which is so contrived that you could have seen it miles away.The main character is filled with charisma, recalling the quotable line 'I have come here to chew bubble gum and kick ass.', but he lack actual characteristics that could make him a three dimensional character. He is simply awesome and good at fighting, there isn't really much to it than that.Considering the main character, the other characters don't really have any personality. The only motivation they have is to survive and that's it. Even to the more concentrated supporting characters don't have personality.There's also a very pointless scene in the film where the two main characters fight because one of them is trying to convince the other that the aliens exist. While it starts all fun at first, it becomes very boring as it is simply the same moves done again and again. Thankfully, that's the only scene that has that feeling. But oh what an annoying scene.But definitely, it's not a bad film. It's reasons are direct and straight forward, easy enough to understand and truthful. The media is quite frankly controlling the world into a very unworthy of a place and we all know that many people are simply blending into the background of the world, not trying to get out of the blue and make another color. The commentary is one of those themes that I relate to a lot.With that said, the film is definitely not good. But if you like those 80's camp-fest Sci-fi films, you're in for a treat. It's just that it's not my thing. 2.5/4 "},{"Title":"they live  a glimpse of the future","Date":"1 July 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Really a must see for everyone who loves a good scifi movie.It gives a vision of the future without showing you the actual future.The present is most dangerous time.No one can deny you the pleasure of a great movie such as this.Although the acting can be described at least poorly, the concept makes up for everything else.I first saw this movie when i was 10 and 17 years later it still holds a good place in my memories.You can also get many ideas about what is being kept from us and all you need is a pair of nice glasses to see the truth as it is standing naked before you.If you want to explore the depth of this movie you should try reading authors like David Icke,William Cooper and directors like Chris Everard.Open your mind and enjoy a possibility of our reality! "},{"Title":"Entertaining action and satire","Date":"9 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" They Live is under-rated. It's one of the best John Carpenter movies. The film works on two levels. As an entertaining action film and as a satire of Ronald Reagan's America.Roddy Piper plays Nada, who comes to L.A. as an out of work construction worker. On the job he befriends Keith David. Piper stumbles on to a conspiracy but can't convince David it is true. To do so, Piper has to engage David in a brawls which turn out to be one of the most protracted fight scenes in any movie. Now convinced, the two of them team up to stay alive. On the run, Piper gets involved with Meg Foster who turns out to be one of the weakest in any Carpenter film. The movie includes some clever sci-fi gimmicks the sunglasses, the billboards and the magic watch.I don't want to give anything away but the make-up of the bad guys is hysterical and just right for the satirical tone of the movie.Roddy Piper is no match for Kurt Russell, Carpenter's usual leading man, but he does an adequate job. Keith David (also in Carpenter's The Thing) is good as well.One of Carpenter's best films. "},{"Title":"A real John Carpenter movie!","Date":"21 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  One of the great John Carpenter movies, unlike the overrated Halloween and the stupid John Carpenter's Vampires. Here's one that's funny, suspenseful, action-packed, and imaginative. I really choose not to give away any spoilers either, but I say there is no way this could've been done better. Carpenter proves again and again that he is a master (if not THE master) of the one-liner with the endlessly clever and ribtickling dialogue keeping a fun feel to things. One thing for sure is that it's no surprise that this movie didn't do so well at the box office because it was released in 1988 right as Big Daddy Bush was about to be elected. As for those who will criticize the fight scene and various other hilarious scenes, I consider them crusaders against humor and very square people. As for the ending, I loved that, too. About everything done here helps to make it an all-out sci-fi classic in my book. It really just could not have been better. "},{"Title":"Classic Carpenter","Date":"31 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Being a fan of Carpenter for some time you begin to see him for what he really is, that is an auteur. He is an individual with an unique style which is displayed through the whole body of his work. Being an Auteur means that the audience can tell that what they are watching is a Carpenter film, They Live is no different. It uses all of Carpenters traits, the shock ending's, great use of the anomophic widescreen and mood lighting. These are why i love Carpenter's work. They live delivers on all of these but also adds a new dimension to Carpenter's work. In this film Carpenter becomes politicaly aware. This is seen in the news bulleten at the end of the film where a reporter bad mouths both Carpenter and Romero. This is one of Carpenters best films, as well as being the best film he ever made for Alive Films. To put it simply Carpenter is a genius and this film shows it. The only problem with the whole film is the casting of a wrestler, this is mainly due to the stigma that wrestlers have when they try and act in films, Hulk Hogan anyone!, but fortunately he's not too bad as to not detract from the story or the film in general. Overall this film is very good and very entertaining, and if your a fan of Carpenter you'll love it!.  "},{"Title":"PUT THE GLAUSES (GLASSES) ON!","Date":"21 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"   This is probably one of the best movies I have ever seen and remains one of my all time favorites. John Carpenter does not disappoint once again when he pieces together this story of aliens among us. Carpenter directs as WWF legend Rowdy Roddy Piper plays the character NADA. Nada is your average down-on-his-luck construction worker looking for employment in Reaganomics-reigning 1980s Los Angeles. He finds a friend in unemployed man (played by Keith David). Together, they find out that the world has been secretly overrun by aliens. They find out by finding these SPECIAL GLASSES (Piper pronounces the word GLAUSES) that reveal who is an alien and who is not. Filled with anti-Republican rhetoric, action, laughs, and serious fun... They Live can't be beat. This movie has some of the most quotable lines in the history of movies. Also look for the fight scene between Piper and David when Piper has to convince David to PUT THE GLAUSES ON! Both actors really did duke it out and actually broke the window on some guy's car that was parked in the alley. After filming the scene, the cast and crew left the alley in a hurry!Piper's wrestling skills are put to the test as he tackles alien cops and hordes of aliens disquised as affluent members of society. Watch this movie... and think about it... are we really alone in this universe? Only a pair of SPECIAL GLAUSES can tell....  "}{"Title":"great science fiction film","Date":"13 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is one of the greatest science fiction films ever. Who wouldn't like Roddy Piper and some black actor kicking some alien butt. When you first watch the movie you think it will sort of be something like a drama until Nada (Piper) finds the glasses and he picks up the shotgun and starts blowing away. I really liked the (SPOILER) ending when Nada shot the transmitter and all the alien's faces could be seeable without the specially made glasses. This movie is a **** out of *****! "},{"Title":"One aspect of this film","Date":"27 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  One aspect of this film is the spoof on america and how we let the entertainment industry lord over us. Entertainment is the art of make beleive, we as americans let stars of stage and screen and tv get almost Presidential media status and push political agendas or points of view where in other cultures celebrity is something that happens but is kept closer in check and is down to earth. America, a nation that takes the word of a soap star (in I.E.) over a elected official or noted scholar; a nation that seemingly worships media and it's make beleive of emotion. As a result of this apathy and non caring a literary(film) fiction agressor villian force has taken over society. This is of course just a movie and satire. Much of what america was int eh 1980's and is still now is ripped apart in this movie. The tale is set in a ORWELL fantasy america that is so pre occupied witht he quest for things and stocks and entertainment there is a silent take over. More or less a morality tale set in a ultra media age, THEY LIVE serves as a modren GULLIVERS TRAVELS and a social conscience warning. The film is wildly entertaining yet not a film that insults it's audiences intelligence. "},{"Title":"The truth hurts, or are you a sociopath if you beleive in this stuff?","Date":"27 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  THEY LIVE is a entertaining film about a world which is controlled by a shadow like government of off world paradimensional aliens. Secret society in nature these beings, use subliminals in everything from print to tv and film and advertising to control human minds. A lone man named NAHA stumbles onto this when he finds a box of special sunglasses which allow him to SEE the subliminals. In the film, a groupof scientist rebels are trying to get the truth out about the take over by a race who views earth as it's third world. The film rips on conservative 1980's politics in a political satire of sorts laced with science ficition and fantasy action. THEY LIVE plays on biblical block fears of a silent take over but instead of armageddon and 666 and satan uses a fantasy element which provides a catalyst for the satire. Like ESCAPE FROM NEW YORK, JOHN CARPENTER weaves a interesting and original tale about CIA grade mind control and the use of media subliminals for global conquest. The film goes deeper and also at times relays mankinds apathy tot he world as it is indulges in make believe rather than focusing on the real world. This latter subplot is bold for a make believe movie. A thinking persons action film. "},{"Title":"Escape From","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Wrestler Rowdy Roddy Piper delivers a memorable performance as an unemployed man who stumbles across a pair of sunglasses which allow him to see things as they really are All those stunning bon vivant yuppies of the Reagan Years? Yup, they are really a bunch of skull-faced aliens. Once the glasses are in place not only do you see the aliens, you can also see that all the billboards carry subliminal commands to obey and consume and watch TV. Complicating matters for our not-too-bright hero is the fact that nobody will believe him about the glasses or even try them on before labeling him crazy.This movie delivers a social message without sanctimony and is funny to boot, including some great throw-away lines by Piper. Definitely worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Action without the guilt","Date":"26 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Fans of John Carpenter's work are familiar with his directing style slow, atmospheric with a lot of shots of a character just kind of walking around and discovering things.  This has worked like gold in movies like Halloween but not so great in cinematic messes like Prince of Darkness and Escape from New York.They Live is not a departure from this formula in the least.  Rowdy Roddy Piper plays the drifter Nada, who stumbles across a whole secret society of rich yuppie aliens attempting to take over the world. We don't really get to know Nada at all (although Piper is definitely not as bad of an actor as you would think), in fact, there aren't really any fleshed out characters or relationships in the entire movie.  The star attraction is the aliens, and their ability to put subliminal messages such as Sleep, Consume, and Reproduce in everyday advertising and literature.Other than that slightly cerebral aspect, this movie is really just a guy's action movie.  The closest thing we get to characterization is when Rowdy and a fellow drifter sit recovering from one of the longest fight scenes ever in the movies.  The other drifter is played by the awesome Keith David, who Piper beats the snot out of, WWF style in a concrete back alleyway. After the whuppins, Piper forces David to put on the magic Ray-Bans (he found them just lying in a box in an abandoned house) that allow you to see the aliens masquerading as humans.  Later in a dingy motel room, Piper tells David about his father, who would talk to his young son about them rich folks that keep him and his kin down.  The nugget of wisdom passed on to his son was simpy this There's gon be hell to pay.Plus the only male-female relationship we get to witness is betweem Piper and icy blue-eyed character actress Meg Foster.  It goes as follows - He kidnaps her, he tells her don't f**k with me, she throws him through a plate glass window where he proceeds to fall two stories and roll down a hill.  But wait, she soon realizes that this big dumb wrestler was just trying to save the world from yuppie aliens.  So when she sees him again and tries to apologize, all she gets out is I... and a shake of her head before the building the two of them are in explodes.  Hey, this is a MAN's movie BABY!   No time for apologies!Nada doesn't really wait for explanations anyway.  As soon as he can identify the yuppies that are actually aliens, he starts blowing them away with a shotgun, including a couple cops.   This is where he blurts his now infamous tagline, I have come here to chew bubble gum and kick ass, and I'm all out of bubble gum.  What he is really saying is this You yuppie scum have taken everything I have, so I must shoot you in the face.  Good night and thanks for playing.All in all, They Live is badly acted, badly written, slow, and has an extremely skeletal plot.But I loved it.  Seldom do movies come along this unapologetic and guilt free.  This is everything Carpenter's Big Trouble in Little China should have been but wasn't.  The action plays like a video game at times, and it totally gets the joke of itself the finale is played out on top of a TV station right next to the big satelitte dish.  It does do a great job of spearing capitalism and rich white-man culture, but it never goes too far or gets too preachy.  If you're in the mood for some goofy fun, grab a six pack of the cheapest beer you can find and watch They Live. "},{"Title":"The Best Fighting Scene ever....","Date":"17 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is on my top 10 and its not only because of the great story that goes along with the movie, its because this movie has one of the best fight scenes you will ever find watching a flick. Roddy Roddy Pipper and Keith David go all out in which seems to be like a half hour. Once you think the fight is over, it's just begun. If you haven't seen this film by legendary film director John Carpenter, trust me and go rent it one night, you will not be disappointed "},{"Title":"Creepy....","Date":"17 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I don't as a rule like sci-fi or horror or whatever...but this is a great movie. I really enjoyed the creepy concept. Perhaps more creepy since some of these concepts have actually come to pass.....Roddy Piper deserves an Oscar (if the only actors in the world were wrestlers, but that day is done, thank god...) "},{"Title":"A surprisingly good movie","Date":"3 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  There is one thing that comes to mind after seeing this film  the matrix. This film has a lot of the same plot details and character qualities seen in the matrix, a movie that is completely original as some people have dubbed it.  Rent it and see for yourself.  Obviously, They Live isn't on the same level as the Matrix in terms of quality, resulting from a far lower budget, but the feel and the message of the movie is rampant here.  There are some cool action scenes, and the city in which it takes place fits nicely. They Live may not be a cinematic masterpiece, but it's definitely worth a look. "},{"Title":"One of my favorite low-budget flicks...","Date":"13 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Not a super high priced movie, but worth every minute of film.  Rowdy Roddy shows he's not just good at going by the script in the wrestling ring and turns in a superb performance.  Count the wrestling moves in the fight between Nada and Frank, a classic.  The whole movie is summed up in one lineI have come here to chew bubblegum and kick ass....and I'm all out of bubblegum  "},{"Title":"Makes you wonder how this ever got made when you see it!","Date":"12 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a MUST see for everyone.  I guess this is as close as John Carpenter could come to revealing the Truth without being run out of Hollywood. "}{"Title":"This one gets you looking over your shoulder!","Date":"25 September 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  After seeing this film for the third time, my feelings of paranoia about the corporate world and their intentions are once again renewed. Not your typical horror movie, They Live actually has a unique premise that gets you wondering.....COULD THIS REALLY HAPPEN? Great flick, and Roddy Piper does a great job in his role.  "},{"Title":"The greatest conspiracy-based movie ever!","Date":"8 September 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  They Live is the perfect blend of paranoia, horror, action, and thriller.  It is a movie that makes you question the world around  you and you will never look at things the same way again. "},{"Title":"Another Shade of Carpenter","Date":"27 May 2011","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" After successfully haunting audiences with stone-cold boogeymen and sub-zero aliens, director John Carpenter decided to take a new direction with 1988's They Live. Inspired (or perhaps disgusted) by the failing economy and growing commercialism of the times, Carpenter used greed and control as the antagonist in the film, creating an all-new and all-too-real villain. Sure, there's also an alien sub-plot at hand, but what sets They Live apart is its unique blend of cynicism and dark comedy which has ensured the film's status as a quotable cult-classic that is surprisingly just as relevant today as it was some twenty odd years ago when Carpenter first put pen to paper.Pro-wrestler Roddy Piper stars as Nada, a peaceful (and surprisingly well-kept) drifter (read hobo) who stumbles into Los Angeles in search of his piece of the American Dream. He gets more than he bargained for when he stumbles upon a pair of sunglasses that reveal the world for what it is. It turns out aliens are using subliminal messages to manipulate and control the masses. Like many conspiracy theorists, Nada struggles with credibility, eventually converting a co-worker (Keith David) and a beautiful but feisty woman (Meg Foster) to his cause.Surprisingly, Piper certainly has the charisma to tackle the film, more-so than the average wrestler turned actor, as a matter of fact. In fact, even though somebody like Kurt Russell could just as easily stepped into the role and made it work, Piper turns out to be an excellent and engaging action hero who keeps things fun and light, but never loses human touch. You'll root for him and his one-liners as well as chuckle and cheer when he engages in a lengthy back-alley brawl with his co-star (one for the books and certainly worth checking out the film just to see). It's a shame his career went south in the following decade to make room for the likes of Hulk Hogan (?!) and The Rock (ugh).As for Carpenter, he delivers in classic form. Despite the cynicism at hand, he keeps the film fun and fast-paced. Like his best films, it swells to its conclusion, creating a roller-coaster ride effect that few directors now how to. Sure, there are flaws in the film if you look close enough (the narrative takes a backseat to over-the-top action bits and humorous chunks of dialog) but while it entertains it also makes you think a little, which is the genius of Carpenter. In the end, They Live is worth re-living again and again and you don't need special glasses to see that little nugget of truth. "},{"Title":"One of Carpenter best movies! It's simple, funny, and serious at the same time.","Date":"17 September 2009","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie honestly became one of my favourite movies before it was even over. It's a perfect example on how great a film can get on a tight budget. Like most Carpenter films it has a bit of a horror feel to it, this time with more of an what if were all controlled by aliens kind of idea. I love it it's simple, funny, and serious at the same time. I personally think this should be one of John Carpenter's five best movies.I'll try not to spoil to much, so I'll only mention the main character. The movie is basically about a drifter called Nada played by Roddy Piper. he basically just walks around trying to get a job, when he sees something mystical going on around a church in a very poor neighbourhood. he finds a workshop in the building which is making sunglasses (another great example of the movies simplicity). After the whole area gets raided by a police force he manages to hid a box of sunglasses. he decides to take one for himself and use them. But when he puts them on, he start seeing things that other cant. Billboards changes into messages like obey, consume, reproduce. And certain people aren't human at all. It's soon apparent that the world is controlled by subliminal messages broad-casted from some type of aliens. Now I wont spoil any more so I'll just stop here.I advise all Sci-Fi and Carpenter fans to see this film. It's an original idea, with clever message, but it doesn't weigh down the movie, but is brought forward in a very funny and exiting way. i give this movie a 10/10. "},{"Title":"A witty, enjoyable ride with scathing social commentary...","Date":"27 November 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Shaun Munro's Reviews (ShaunMunro.co.uk)John Carpenter's They Live could easily have gone either way - an overstuffed failure, or a witty commentary on modern society. Fortunately, with Carpenter's steady hand, this film assumes the latter - it makes remarks about social inequality which are relevant even near-twenty years on, taking the viewer on an extremely fun ride.Needless to say, the film wastes not a second in establishing its social context - our protagonist (Roddy Piper) is a down-on-his luck drifter, unable to find work, seemingly kept down by the man. As he walks past someone, their glazed-over eyes staring into a window full of televisions, one must consider that the considerations this film makes are about as subtle as a brick being hurled through that very window, but nevertheless, Carpenter raises important issues effectively.Eventually scoring a job on a work-site, Nada becomes fast friends with Frank (Keith David), a hard-done-by individual himself, yet Nada initially sees him as simply being too impatient with society and expecting too much from life. Conversely, Nada is of the belief that the everyman can succeed in American society, but alas, his stance is about to change drastically.In his travels, Nada also comes across a series of strange television transmissions, spouting what is dismissed by most as the verbiage of madmen, urging the everyman to rise up and revolt against their controlling oppressors, who are supposedly preventing racial diversity, allowing an underclass to grow, and exerting their hegemonic powers (primarily money) to these ends. Furthermore, Nada also encounters a shady group of individuals posing as a choir group, whilst something far more sinister is quite abundantly afoot.Things very quickly turn to chaos as a fleet of police officers arrive, riot shields and all, and at this stage, it's all quite the exciting mystery. The real treat of the film comes when Nada discovers a box of sunglasses, and upon trying on a pair, discovers that hidden messages are placed all about our world, instructing us to obey, watch TV and have no independent thought, among other things. It's a fantastic concept, and everything about its execution is extremely pleasing to the eye - the monochrome representation of the world through these glasses, and also the alteration of everyday objects such as magazines to appear as blank slates with instructions written on them.Further still, those already assimilated by this force assume a ghoulish facial appearance when the glasses are worn, as evidenced by Nada's encounter with an aloof businessman. As with The Thing, Carpenter and his team are to once again be praised for their stellar effects work - the skeletal guise of those already infected is both terrifying and authentic looking, having stood the test of time fantastically.Piper's reaction to these ghouls is gold - his natural defenses invite him to make jokes at the hideousness of them, naturally offending those around him observing, who have not seen the world through Nada's magical glasses. It isn't long before Nada's actions earn him the attention of a great number of these things, and he is ultimately forced to resort to violence in order to survive, quite an interesting commentary in itself when considered within the context of freedom fighting and revolutions.Nada's transformation into a certified baddass is a little too fast, but it's so much fun and so enjoyable to watch that we don't care. Nada, shotgun in hand, now goes about dispatching as many of these beasts as possible, and if that wasn't task enough, he becomes a wanted man as a result, with both the monsters and the police (who believe him to be a communist freedom fighter) on his tail.Nada naturally has a difficult time convincing people of what's going on, resulting in him both being knocked out of a window and down a hill by a woman, and engaging in a refreshingly gritty five-minute slug-fest with Keith David's character whilst trying to convince him to try the sunglasses on. Much of the difficulty also seems to stem from the fact that most people are likely to simply humour a seeming madman wielding a gun rather than actually try the glasses on and see if he's telling the truth.The film's final set piece is a wildly overblown (in the best sense possible) war between those awakened to the truth, and those not, with bullets and explosions hurtling in every direction. It has a degree of inherent cheese to it, but again, this is in the best way possible - two warring sides alternatively hiding behind bins for cover and then firing at their enemy has never, and probably never will be, so much fun. As Piper and David sweep through a building, destroying waves of soldiers in hails of bullets, what could have been a conventional and tiresome shooting exercise is kept vibrant due to Carpenter's original use of imagery and superb soundtrack. By the time They Live reaches its end, there are genuinely surprising turns and unexpected departures, reaching a climax which, through his actions, solidifies Piper's Nada as an action hero and role model for the everyman tucked away in most of us.They Live never endeavours to take itself too seriously - sure, it has a message to it, that we must remember to take a breather from buying things we don't need and working 40-hour weeks every so often, but even in the final moments of the film, we're left belly laughing at what is an all-around extremely entertaining film. Piper, surprisingly enough, is a believable protagonist, bringing both the presence and macho charisma that his other vocation requires, and Keith David is a likewise entertaining disgruntled sidekick. John Carpenter is something of an unrecognised auteur, frequently writing, directing and scoring his films, each with a unique flair that deserves praise, and as far as his modernised Invasion-of-the-Body-Snatchers-with-bells-on goes, I say Kudos!. "},{"Title":"Life's a Bi**h. And now she's on heat","Date":"25 August 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The film works on so many levels. As, no doubt, others have said before me the film is a reflection on America's down-trodden working masses. The symbolism doesn't so much hint at America's destructive capitalist fervor as much as it beams it directly into your skull.Paranoia is the name of the game here. He puts on his sun glasses, beats up a few cops who know that he knows what they're up to, walks into a bank and tragically makes the unthinkable a reality. I'm here to chew bubble gum and kick ass. Is this not an observation of the hysterical paranoia that gets played out all to often across the Sates? Being a pommie I didn't realise the leading actor was a wrestler until the hilarious fight scene between him and Frank. Casting him for the role was a stroke of genius. No a-lister would have been able to give such a performance. But I have no intention of putting this film down. I truly believe it is an important film. In it's imaginative plot and many sub-plots it delivers a refreshing glance at the funnier side of America's darker side. In this respect it is second only to Starship Troopers. "},{"Title":"Chewing bubble gum and kicking ass...","Date":"19 February 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Roddy Piper stars as a homeless and unnamed drifter (Because of IMDb I found out the character's name is Nada) who finds a pair of sunglasses that clue him in on the reality, that aliens walk among us. What's worse is they have enslaved us humans, since all the wealthy appear to be aliens, suffice to say Nada joins forces with Frank (Keith David) and later with the rebellion to stop these creatures once and for all. When They Live came out, I must admit I had low expectations. With a professional wrestler (Ahem, No Holds Barred) and a cover that didn't exactly inspire greatness, how wrong I was, as They Live is easily the best movie to date that has starred a wrestler. (Yes better than The Princess Bride, although just a little bit) They Live has such wild imagination as well as unpredictable twists, that the movie lets us buy into the fantasy of the premise. The movie's message is one that has aged quite well, in fact it's politics have gotten even better with age. They Live does have its weaknesses (Mainly in Meg Foster's character) but typically this is very enjoyable and compulsively watchable stuff.* * *1/2 out of 4-(Very good) "},{"Title":"Thomas Jefferson and Nada's quotes","Date":"22 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A fan calling himself Clockwork Assassin said that Nada's quote, I figured it would be something like this, is They Live's best. C.A. said that Nada knew something to be wrong, given the job losses; the economic upheaval, etc. C.A. said that Nada just couldn't put his finger on the problem.In the seventies, people talked of collective consciousness. Consider what's happening in the United States in 2007 Everyone knows that President George W. Bush's fixation with citizenship for illegal aliens is not right; we the people of the United States don't need an academician, journalist, or senator to corroborate what we know.If you want to understand They Live, consider what Thomas Jefferson wrote Merchants have no country. The mere spot they stand on is not so strong an attachment as that from which they draw their gains.Arnold Stallone is my name, a-stallone@hotmail.com my e-mail address. "},{"Title":"More than ever...","Date":"3 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This was a wry comment for its time but it hit the theaters for all of 2 weeks before being ejected. How come? It made a lot more money than it cost. Profit.... Isn't that what the free enterprisers of Hollywood are after?Nowadays (2006) what with Reaganomics authorities like Paul Craig Roberts proclaiming the Bush administration to be reviving communism from its grave by representing employer interests over middle class interests, Carpenter's dark satire is more relevant than ever.If I had one thing to say to Carpenter Remake it with a bigger budget and more emphasis on how the aliens have learned to divert attention from their vicious class warfare by pitting Mexican workers against US white and black workers and crying Racist!. "},{"Title":"Aliens Undercover","Date":"3 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I thoroughly enjoyed watching They Live, casting ex- wrestler Roddy Piper, with an impressive body, in the male lead, as the blonde haired Nada, a construction worker, to keep (well, most of) the ladies' attention. Like War of the Worlds, this film deals with fending off the threat of an alien culture. Meg Foster's enticing eyes, that were not done justice in her earlier role as Evil Lynn, in the eerie, He Man and the Master's of the Universe, (with Dolph Lundgren) would be worth the price of admission or any other media that this flick is available on. However, I might warn that the violence and gore in this film warrant parental guidance.The story imagines the hero discovering that aliens with jolly-roger skull like faces, live among the people of Earth, but who can only be seen by wearing a set of spectacles, known only to a secret group of people. As always, director John Carpenter has created a thrilling sci fi flick with a measure of action that mesmerises the viewer to the end. Don't miss it. "}{"Title":"Piper and Keith work as a team","Date":"1 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I remember going to see this film back in my early twenties. I never caught the promos, read the reviews or watched the trailers, but I knew it was another Carpenter vehicle because a few friends informed me. And since I was a fan of Carpenter, I was happy to be the first in line at the ticket booth when this film opened in my home-town. But I went thinking THEY LIVE was going to be a horror film. I was very disappointed when I first caught sight of the aliens and wanted to leave the theater, but since I had purchased my $3.50 ticket, and my $5.00 tub of buttered popcorn (and also I noticed Keith David, one of my favorite actors co-starring in it) I decided to sit through it.All disappointment left when Keith finally teamed up with Piper to combat those butt-ugly aliens. The action was almost non-stop from that point till the very end. And I left the theater amazed at Roddy Piper's (a pro wrestler) acting skills. I don't know if he had ever acted before, but he seemed like a darn good natural. Keith David's great acting skills came as no surprise to me since I was already a fan of his work in John Carpenters re-make masterpiece THE THING (I'd gone to see this at the theaters as well). But that's another review that I'll tackle at a later date.My vote for They Live is 8/10 "},{"Title":"Chewin' Bubble Gum and Kickin' Arse... And I'm All Outta Bubble Gum","Date":"3 April 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  They Live (1988) - Starring Roddy Piper, Keith David, and Meg Foster - Written and Directed By John Carpenter - Based On the Novel Eight O'Clock in the Morning By Ray Nelson - MPAA Rating R - 8/10They Live is one of those obscure classics of the Horror genre. I haven't heard of it until recently, myself. When I looked it up, I learned it was a film by the John Hughes of the Horror genre, John Carpenter. So I just had to see it. But then I learned the lead was played by none other than WWF superstar Rowdy Roddy Piper. I was a little discouraged at that point, but I really shouldn't have been.They Live has a strong message of anti-conformity, which we, as Americans tend to do. This message is a very poignant message that should be taken seriously.But enough about that. This movie was just plain COOL! We have Rowdy Roddy Piper chewin' bubble gum and kicking ass when he's all out of bubble gum (probably one of the greatest lines I've ever heard in a movie). We have aliens taking human forms. We have a poignant message to go with it. This is the ULTIMATE thriller!Roddy Piper's acting, as expected, wasn't really that good. He just took his WWF character and used it here. He didn't deal any significant damage to the movie, and his overall cool look helped it more often than not. Keith David kicked some ass himself, including Roddy Piper's (to be more specific, they really kick EACH OTHER'S asses pretty bad).A couple of weak spots I encountered; a little too much silliness (I half expected it to be a Horror movie), it takes a bit too long to get started, and there was one fight scene that ran about a minute and a half too long.Other than that, They Live is one of those hidden gems of the horror genre that most people will pass up when they see it in the video store. But look for it. It is a very good thriller, and one of the coolest movies ever made.Smitty's evaluation 8/10 - You really should see this film. "},{"Title":"underrated","Date":"19 March 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  They Live is a good movie where you would least expect to find one. It is low budget, but suspenseful and actually scary in places. It is obvious that the work and money went into the writing, story, and direction. All of the actors do a good job, including Roddy Piper and his mullet, and features the longest fight scene you'll ever want to see. It gets a tad predictable toward the end, but that's okay. This movie was made in the 1980s (and doesn't look dated) and its message is more pertinent than ever. The build-up is excellent and spooky. Goes to prove that all that CGI unnecessary when the story is good. I always try to catch this when it's on TV. SUBMIT. "},{"Title":"Roddy Piper + Sci Fi = Great Carpenter Film","Date":"3 December 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  ***WARNING-SPOILERS INCLUDED***This film will always hold a great place in my heart.It is among the films that wrestling fans cherish very deeply.Consider one time film actor,the legendary Andre The Giant,in one of the greatest fantasy films of all time,Princess Bride.Or how about Hulk Hogans films? ( Hey I loved em' all!).The difference though,is that its a hard edged sci-fi film created by Carpenter and brought to life by surprisingly good acting by the Hot Rod himself.The film is basically about a drifter( who by the way has no first name,only referred to as Nada in the films closing credits)who comes across a discovery that all the human population is being brainwashed by alien controlled and subliminal t.v. and advertising campaigns.The only way to tell whos an alien and whos not,is by wearing a special pair of sunglasses.This is where the movie picks up some heat.When Piper firsts puts those glasses on,it turns into a really creepy movie.Those aliens are ugly man! And to make matters worse he has to convince people to try to wear these glasses! (Check out the awesome fight scene in the alley!)The only problem I had though was the end.If I could have rewrote the script,I would have made the aliens die,not to be revealed.But all in all,this film is a must have for the wrestling/sci-fi fan.It is a very original and interesting film,you should give this one a try with the lights off late at night! "},{"Title":"Another Carpenter classic","Date":"28 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I am very used to John Carpenter reeling out these great films by now. My opinion is that anything that is a John Carpenter idea is worth watching after the evidence I have seen in his films so far. They Live is a slow moving film to begin with, until I was shocked into seeing what John Nada sees when he puts on his super cool shades.Keith David who plays Frank is a great actor and he is also good in another Carpenter film The Thing, which is even better than this. I havent seen Roddy Piper in anything else but the wrestling, but he puts in a suprisingly good performance. For anyone who likes something different then this film is for you. By far the classic line from the film is I have come here to chew bubblegum and kick ass........and I'm all out of bubblegum..Enjoyable film, rating 7/10 "},{"Title":"Classic film, with the best fight scene ever","Date":"15 December 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Not that I'm a fan of ultra-violence or anything, it's just that it *is* the best fight scene I've ever scene, it's just so realistic. Anyone who has seen this knows the scene I'm referring to, and anyone who hasn't will recognise it when they do.But onto the rest of the film, the overall plot (Aliens are taking over the world) doesn't sound too hot, but good old JC pulls it off brilliantly, and the casting of Roddy Piper as the hero is a stroke of genius. The film is a bit corny in places, but what do you expect? Overall, a really good film, provided you aren't taking it too seriously.  "},{"Title":"Clever Premise...","Date":"18 April 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" ...but John Carpenter is not the person to do it.  Albeit, he comes pretty close.  But instead he rides off into his own world of social parody, violence, and commentary on the foibles of mankind.  Carpenter himself seems bored, and feels the need to toss in an action sequence occasionally. Particularly the _incredibly_ long Piper/David brawl - all because David's damned character won't put on the glasses!  Piper is okay - neither incredibly good nor bad.  He's basically a good action-hero actor...but there are parts of the movie where something a bit subtler is needed. This is social commentary hitting you over the head (like The Running Man), rather than as a subtlety (Invasion of the Body Snatchers and the 70's remake). "},{"Title":"...we sleep.","Date":"1 October 2006","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Almost every John Carpenter flick is cult, or underrated, or a sleeper. It seems that audiences never truly get his films until long after their release. Only now are people warming slightly to Escape From L.A.They Live is no exception. It takes forever to get going and has hardly any dialogue. But remember, I'm talking from the angle of someone who lives in an era where there is always an explosion in the first ten minutes, just to interest the audience.Taken from a short story, Eight O'Clock In The Morning, the film focuses on John Nada (Roddy Piper), a drifter, who comes to L.A. in search of work. After scrounging a job at a construction site, he stays in a shantytown, run by Gilbert (Peter Jason), and becomes friendly with Frank (Keith David). After a while, he reckons that Gilbert is up to no good, as he is always disappearing into the gospel church across the street, and is reluctant to spill the beans too easily.Nada gets the feeling that something's not quite right. And so do we. Only we can't figure out what. Then the fuzz show up and lay waste to the shantytown. Nada just stands there and watches, looking totally confused. Next day, he raids the church, only to find boxes of sunglasses. He swipes one and when he wears it, not only does he see in black-and-white, but the world isn't quite the same. Ads and billboards tell him to Eat, Sleep or Marry And Reproduce. Magazines say nothing but No Independent Thought and Do Not Question Authority. But, most distressingly, some humans do not look human in the least. They have big bulging eyes, with purple skull-heads. Naturally, Nada is freaked out.Everything rests on his shoulders. He hardly ever speaks, yet the story is told through his eyes. We know what he knows only by reaction and facial expression. It's a difficult role and yet Piper handles is pretty good. Although the dialogue is pure exposition, Carpenter never fully presents us, or Nada, with a threatening situation.Obviously, the non-humans are aliens. But, like the tagline says, who are they, and what do they want? It seems like they want to rule the world and exploit the working class, but that's the way things are anyhow. Apparently, they lead ordinary lives. If they weren't around, then someone would still be running the show, probably in the exact same way.It is because of this that Nada's sudden desire to go on an alien killing spree is too much to handle. Carpenter fails to make much of the movie after this. Meg Foster's character is almost totally irrelevant and extraneous. She serves no purpose. The prolonged fight scene between Nada and Frank is supposed to be funny, but simply isn't. It just feels odd and the comedy doesn't come through. I guess Carpenter let this scene go because Piper had a lot of wrestling experience and it might be a good idea to film a less fake-looking fight with him. Although Nada and Frank are friends, the reason for them to beat the crap out of each is stupid and not ironic at all.The ending is a bit abrupt, but the director has never been one for indulgence. It's a good ending though and it will make you laugh, which is fortunate, because you're hardly likely to smile much in the second half.Interesting, but not up to the standard of Carpenter's earlier work. "},{"Title":"Put on the glasses!","Date":"29 May 2006","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" They Live A great John Carpenter flick. Based on the short story eight O'clock in the morning. Roddy Piper plays Nada, which is what his character is, nothing. Nada is a drifter just looking for work. He finds a job at a construction company. There he meets Frank played by Keith David which you might remember from another carpenter flick, The Thing. Frank helps Nada out and their friendship almost begins and ends there, but Nada starts sticking his nose where it doesn't belong. he starts to look around a strange church, where he finds a box of sunglasses and that is only the beginning of Nada's adventures.I loved this movie, it has something special about it. John carpenter knew what he needed to tell/show you to have everyone understand the plot, but still seem distance enough to be fiction.All I have to say is this is a movie that should be seen, it's worth it. After you see this movie, you'll have to take a good look around, because really, everything isn't what it seems to be. "},{"Title":"The message in 'they live' is timeless","Date":"8 April 2006","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The message in this movie is a reflection of what has been happening and is still happening today. Our elected officials are working with 'aliens' much to our demise. In return they will be taken care of forever on the Saudi 401K payroll plan. Don't believe me? Keep filling up your tank with the gasoline that came from a nation that killed over 3000 of our fellow Americans. Nothing has changed since then. Just ask George Senior, The Clintons, GW and you'll know what I'm referring to......... ..... ....... .... .... ... ........ .......... ...... ........................................ ........... ........... ............ ....... .......... ......... ...... ....... ......... ..... .... ..... ..... ........ ...... ........ "}{"Title":"Pleasantly surprising sci-fi actioner","Date":"29 December 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" STAR RATING ***** The Works **** Just Misses the Mark *** That Little Bit In Between ** Lagging Behind * The Pits John Nada ('Rowdy' Roddy Piper) is an unemployed labourer who drifts into a small town and manages to blag himself a job on a construction site. After a bit of racial tension and macho posturing, he makes a new friend in Frank (Keith David). Frank lives in a sort of trailer park in the middle of corporate America, that the world's richest nation would rather you didn't know about. There's also a TV there that is interrupted with messages telling how the world around them is really a front by aliens to control our minds and make us obey their commands. It's also constantly raided by heavily armed, brutal riot police. There's also a stash of fancy-looking sunglasses in a box. One day, probably just wanting to look cool, John tries a pair on, only to see funny alien faces on certain people and billboards and other mind control substances get decoded for what they really are. Rather than laying off the acid, John comes to realize that the interrupting broadcasts on TV are true and that he and the rest of those who are on to the big conspiracy must band together to stop it, rather than going it on his own and looking like a totally psycho, demented nutter.I've seen a few other of Roddy Piper's works and with him being a former wrestler and all I was expecting this to just be a light bit of switch your brain off fun. But I seemed to forget it's also directed by John Carpenter and the surprisingly intelligent, inventive film I was greeted with, rather than giving me a bit of harmless fun, made me wonder why on the back of this Piper didn't get a bigger big screen career rather than just making a lot of DTV movies.The film was made 20 years after Night of the Living Dead, and at first glance many of the ideas (the interrupted TV broadcasts in particular) may seem to be stolen from that film, but it's better to see it as a spin-off of that film rather than a rip-off, even as an update, bringing the concept to a more modern audience. It even borrows the commentary on consumerism from George Romero's Dawn of the Dead and updates that.Carpenter is apparently also a huge wrestling fan, so there's also a huge (but rather pointless) scene in the film where Piper and David wrestle that has impressive chereography if nothing else. As the lead hero, Piper actually doesn't have much going for him here, dry and kind of bland but David is impressive support, well suited as an action co-star.Piper and Carpenter are kind of an odd mix, and given his rather lacklustre performance, it's obvious that it was Carpenter's love of wrestling that cast Piper in the lead role, but as a clever Carpenter film, he controls it all the way, cheap, cheesy special effects and all. Very impressive. **** "},{"Title":"Quick Reviews!!","Date":"25 April 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Carpenter rounded off his eighties career with They Live, an action and sci-fi mix with all the usual Carpenter traits, but which also works as a propaganda piece, and seems to have influenced films such as The Matrix. It is a film about unseen forces controlling us, about speaking out and taking action, rather than sitting back and accepting that what you see is the way the world should be. Featuring many good ideas, minimal and cool dialogue, shady characters and unlikely heroes, They Live is considered by many as Carpenter's last good film, though I have enjoyed most of what he has done since.The film begins with a drifter walking into town, looking for any sort of work. His name is Nada, though this is never said, and he eventually finds work at a building site. There he meets Frank who introduces him to his slum neighbourhood on the outskirts of the city. Pirate TV broadcasts tell of the upper class getting richer, and the middle class being drained. Nada sees that these broadcasts are coming from a nearby church, but is warned not to get involved or the cops will take him away. When one day the church is raided, Nada finds a box of sunglasses. When he wears a pair he begins to see things- advertisements turn to slogans such as 'sleep' and 'obey', and realises that aliens are walking disguised amongst them, mostly the rich people. He grabs a gun and begins killing them, trying to find out why, who, from where etc. He meets Holly who works for a TV station and tries to convince her, but she doesn't believe him and calls the cops. After a long fight Nada manages to give Frank a pair, and he too sees what has been hidden from the public. They find the people who made the glasses, and set out to stop the aliens who are using humans, and other planets as resources for their own wealth.This works as a social commentary on class, wealth, the politics of the time, and as an anti-war message for today. Invasion and subtle control are tolerated until a few rebels realise the truth and fight back. We should not be content with buying what we think makes us look good and become numb and dumb. Roddy Piper of WWF fame gives a fine performance as Nada, and of course his strength is exploited. Keith David is as strong as always, and Foster looks chilling and distant. The effects are still effective even if they do resemble something from the forties, and the story is good. After a slow start things speed up towards a typically Carpenter ending. This is another good film by Carpenter which lacks the best scares of The Thing and the fun of Big Trouble, but still is greatly entertaining and worth watching.8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Hugely Entertaining, Vastly Under-rated","Date":"4 January 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Plot- 'SPOILERS' A young man out of work Nada (Roddy Piper) travels to the big city and manages to get a job at the local construction site, along the way he notices there are many hoards of Homeless people lining the streets and there seems to be some strange goings on at the local Church, after searching through the building after it's near destruction by the Local Police Force, he finds a big box of sunglasses, he pops one on and starts to see life in a very different way and the city in which he works seems to be inhabited by hideous aliens who disguise themselves as normal human beingsWhere did they come from? What do they Want? Nada tries to find out.Direction- I'm a Big Fan of John Carpenter From 'The assault on precinct 13 to Halloween to light-hearted though Box Office Turkey Big Trouble In Little China, and he dosen't disappoint with this.Acting- Now not being a great follower of Wrestling I didn't realise Roddy Piper was a Wrestler, he's actually quite a good actor and an Oscar-winner compared to Hulk Hogan- but sadly looking at his IMDb Profile hasn't appeared in anything memorable since.Co-stars- Keith David and has made a career playing bit parts in major productions & Meg Foster probably better known for playing Cagney in Cagney and Lacey for just one series before Sharon Gless took over.The Bottom Line- If you like Carpenter's Work and have been dismayed at his recent efforts- Don't miss! even if you just like sci-fi that's not too gory that's slightly tongue in cheek you'll enjoy this film very much -I did- and It's 90 minute running time will fly byFinal Verdict- ***1/2 out of ***** or 8/10(Just hope and pray that Carpenter does something as good as this in the future instead of rehashing his old classics- never a good sign) "},{"Title":"You look like your face fell in the cheese dip back in 1956","Date":"6 September 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Wondering what you world would be like if it were run by aliens that were trying to control your minds through subliminal messaging? Well, look no further than John Carpenter's cult classic They Live. Wresting superstar Roddy Piper stars as Nada, a drifter that stumbles upon a pair of sunglasses that show him the truth about his society and the world he inhabits. He discovers that humans are not the only beings to be living on the planet Earth. Nada also knows what he must do to save the human race from complete invasion of these creatures. Does he have enough time and manpower to stop these culprits of communication or will Nada only help them enslave the human race? It will all teeter on the amount of 'bubblegum' that he carries with him!Visionary director John Carpenter creates this world that is not unlike today's society. Glued to the television and void of independent thought, he shows us a human race that resembles cattle in the fields waiting for the farmer's next decision. Created well before The Matrix, Carpenter uses aliens to demonstrate the power of the media and the superpowers behind the scenes. In a world where we gather our truth from others and in the comfort of our own home, this film carries themes that are still relevant today. Carpenter shows us that we can live in a world, even a city, and not realize what is happening around us. How hidden are those subliminal messages in our culture? He also prods at the notion that only the wealthy can create the supposed truth, and that eventually the lines between wealthy and homeless with be much defined. There will be an elimination of the middle-class and humans would be at the bottom of the social order.This was a beautiful film that carries with it a heavy burden of showing us the truth of our world. While we may giggle and laugh at this 'created' society, there are some truths to what Carpenter is showing. He gives us warnings and answers if we choose to listen. I was not expecting such a high caliber of emotion to go into a film like this, and was utterly surprised by the experience. Perhaps it is the packaging, perhaps it is because our culture has not adapted well to the horror/sci-fi genre yet, but everyone should experience this film once. I recommend it for anyone that enjoyed The Matrix and want to see more about the structure of our society.Grade **** out of ****  "},{"Title":"One of Carpenter's better efforts","Date":"14 January 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Movies like They Live aren't made much anymore. Cheap and corny though it may be, They Live represents a dying breed. Good B-movie sci-fi. Back when John Carpenter was making good movies instead of slowly digging his own grave, They Live showed the viewer a filmmaker that always had a clear vision of what he was doing. They Live isn't meant to be taken too seriously on the surface. The biting social commentary that reveals itself when our heroes put on their special sunglasses is the real scary part of the movie, the alien masks don't shock unless you put yourself in Roddy Piper's shoes.By far the best and most famous part of the film (besides the line I am here to chew bubblegum and kick ass, and I'm all out of bubblegum.) is the seemingly endless fight scene between Roddy Piper and Keith David. Long, brutal, and started for the stupidest reason, this scene is the blueprint for the cripple fight between Jimmy and Timmy in South Park.Bottom Line They Live isn't the greatest movie ever or anything but it's worth checking out if you like John Carpenter or sci-fi. Rent before you buy. "},{"Title":"A witty look at Reagan's and Bush's America","Date":"5 June 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Following the rather traditional devil reborn pattern of his 1987 production Princes of Darkness, horror director John Carpenter made They Live one year later and focused on a paranoia of Ronald Reagan's and George Bush's U.S.A. of the 1980's. Aliens are ruling the world and have made the people to modern slaves, following the directives of consumption, obedience, power, corruption and lies.Modern media, advertising, pop culture, politics and television are the mask of this invisible alien invasion, and it's the turn of wrestler Roddy Piper to find a pair of sunglasses(!) that reveal the true face of the rotten society - and of course it's the turn of his enormous muscles to start the fight against the invaders...Carpenter takes the typical paranoia plots of 1950's science fiction movies like Invasion of the Body Snatchers or The Thing (of which he already did a remake in 1982) to show the true face of society via a science fiction/horror movie. But instead of reviving the anti-communist and anti-liberal ideas of the fifties he's taking a rather left-winged and Reagan-opposed view on society - and one with much more humor than in the cold war area.They Live really works and has earned positive reviews even by critics who are not into the horror/sf genre. The story is fun to watch, and there are some twists, action, thrills and nice special effects. The only mistake is the choice of stupid-looking Roddy Piper for the hero - a real actor with less muscles and more expressions in his face would have been a far better choice for this social fiction picture. Anyway, watch out for the invisible enemies in the sky - or for the next VHS or DVD copy of this movie!  "},{"Title":"NOT a sci-fi film!","Date":"8 August 2005","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Folks, this is not a sci-fi film but is actually a social commentary under the guise of science fiction. It is similar to TV shows such as the Simpsons or South Park, in that they are allowed to express controversial viewpoints due to the fact the shows are animated. In this instance, it is accepted because on the surface, They Live appears to be science fiction, but it is not. This movie is actually a satirical attack on rampant consumerism, greed, elitist control of the masses, trans-global corporations and profiteering from natural resources. Although most of these problems existed long before this movie was made, they were vaulted to new heights during the Reaganomics era of the 80's, and have continued onward to this day with no end in sight. Ever wonder why you feel worthless, insecure and ill at ease? Do you ever feel like a sheep being led by an invisible shepherd? TV tells you that you are too fat, your teeth aren't white enough, and that your clothes are outdated. TV tells you that happiness lies only a phone call away-for the next 29.99 QVC garbage product that will last less than a year. Ever feel like you're living in a glass box while the walls slowly move inwards, but are too distracted by the pursuit of money to notice or care? Wake up people, this movie is not far removed from reality, and you would be wise to heed its sub textual messages. "},{"Title":"More than just a Sci Fi Action flick.","Date":"10 June 2003","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Roddy Piper is nada (interestingly Spanish for zero), a drifter looking for an odd job in construction.  Keith David is his co-worker turned ally Frank.  Nada finds a pair of sunglasses that reveal the world isn't what it seems... and it all goes downhill from there.-Possible minor spoilers- It seems that a race of ugly aliens in disguise (that can only be seen with such special sunglasses) are turning earth into a corporate colony ruled by greed and most humans are unwittingly going right along with their plans. But then there is a resistance group who knows.  Pairs of those special sunglasses, and later contact lenses, are being manufactured by this group, and are distributed with weapons to sympathetic humans.  Piper and David naturally join up.  Now, this is no happily-ever-after wishy washy story, but has a naturally bittersweet/downbeat Carpenterian conclusion.  *Not just a kick-a$$ action flick of B-grade... They Live has several important symbolic points.  It is a pondering into who you can really trust.  People look so normal on the outside, but they can be hideous under that thin layer.  This of course in real life of a personality sense rather than a physical one.  Some humans continued to collaborate with the aliens even after knowing the truth, thereby becoming just as ugly figuratively.  And the greatest message of all, anti-greed.  When Piper puts on the sunglasses and looks at the dollar bill, the hidden message reads This is your God.  That part just stuck with me.  People really do treat money like it is their life and savior.  And finally there is a quick self referential blurb about censorship at the end of the film that just cracks me up.In all a great film that I'd recommend.  Dare I say it actually has a bit in common with the Matrix, having the world-not-as-it-seems setup.  See it. "},{"Title":"The Deep Impact and Interracial Misogynirstic Gayness of They Live","Date":"11 September 2011","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Based on a 1963 short story written by sci-fi writer Ray Nelson (lifelong friend of Phillip K. Dick, hung out with Satre, Simone De Beauvoir, all the beats), this 80's sci-fi thriller is John Carpenter's personal favorite and the best of his shaky ouvre. Although not a celebrated blockbuster, They Live impacted those who would be influential later on. It is the Velvet Underground of 80's action movies. Artist Shepard Fairey owes the film his career and still echoes its themes in his increasingly bland sloganeering. Fight Club discretely paid homage by stunt-casting Meatloaf.Is it possible to ascribe too much importance to this silly flick? Novelist Jonathan Lethem (Fortress of Solitude, Chronic City) recently devoted an entire slim book to the film. I don't know what Lethem says, but one thing is certain They Live is gay.Piper plays Nada, who rolls into town, having allegedly left his wife behind to seek employment. He finds a job at a construction site, meets a black guy named Frank (the awesome Keith David), also free from the confines of traditional family. At break, Nada puts the scent out, sunning his pecs in tight jeans and waving his mullet. Frank bites. He takes Nada back to the homeless camp where he lives in a cooperative community and presumably has sex with him. The guys at man-camp sit around talking about repression.Nada goes to investigate the church next door and finds some odd, intriguing things. But his best find is a young dude who he rushes out of there and they presumably hook up, which causes a rift with Frank. Frank acts like a jealous ex for the rest of the movie.Nada also finds sunglasses that reveal the world has been taken over by nasty aliens. They're all yuppies, politicians and police. Billboard and magazine subliminals are revealed as pictures and text are replaced by stark commands floating in white space Obey. Watch TV. Honor Apathy. This device is clearly based on the work of artist Barbara Kruger, who used the same font to subvert stock consumerist images throughout the 1980's.The awful scenario of a schizophrenic with a gun is evoked when Nada wanders into a bank with a shotgun and delivers that nutty line It's time to kick ass and chew bubble gum... and I'm all out of bubble gum! Then starts killing people / aliens.Nada carjacks a woman who embodies all women in the movie's world. She's beautiful, but blank, zoned out to a state where she cannot emotionally engage with life, completely undesirable to our gay hero. Her presence almost puts him to sleep at her condo. Finally, she realizes w/ disappointment that Nada will not try to rape her, smashes a champagne bottle over his head, and shoves him out the window. Then she calls police, explains what happened, and languidly says Yes, I'll hold.Nada makes his way back to Frank to show him the sunglasses. But Frank has quit Nada. He's had it with him, obviously still angry about Nada's liaison with the young dude.So begins the absurdly long and sexual back alley wrestling sequence, culminating with furious man to man dry humping. Frank finally succumbs and wears the glasses. Both men are spent. They go to a seedy motel with an air of illicit purpose. The door shuts, they lock eyes. Nada ruefully inquires Ain't love grand? Then he washes his pecs in the sink.No love or pity exists in this bleak, doomed dystopia. Society's social and structural order exists only to protect the interests of the wealthy and privileged (See C. Wright Mills, Karl Marx, Chomsky, etc, etc). Entertainment is an anodyne that prevents anyone from paying attention to this. The transgressive affair between Frank and Nada (a feminine sounding name for a guy who means nothing to this world) is part of their rebellion.Nada and Frank make their way to a secret cell of insurrectionists led by... Meatloaf! Much ass-kicking ensues. There are lasers, secret portals and gunfights amid the aliens and the innocent and those that have thrown in with the aliens. The Woman comes back, threatening another rift between Nada and Frank because Frank is so jealous. By the end, its clear that she's a Judas.The aliens are defeated when the device making them look human is destroyed and the psychotic dream becomes reality in a gag sequence that saves the lowest joke for last.With its striking imagery and paranoiac premise, They Live distinguished itself from the average dopey action movie. But its the incredibly misogynistic interracial gayness, explored so blatantly, that packs the most punch. Truly subversive. The first audience would've needed special sunglasses to see it. It slid by undetected, until the effect is felt later, like the subliminal obscenities that Tyler Durden spliced into family movies. "},{"Title":"The whole package.","Date":"15 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" As mediocre or for that matter, bad as this movie could have been, it some how winds up having a little of everything for everybody.It's a campy sci-fi, a cult classic, a pulpit for preaching on consumerism, an expose on the ease of programming the sheep for sheering and slaughter, an I-told-you-so for UFO crazies and not so crazies, and a prophetic treasure trove for the more intelligent viewers who see actually conspiracies most never even consider.Grab the popcorn and your favorite beverage and hit PLAY, because only the grouchiest of film snobs can't find something to love about this movie. "}{"Title":"The world needs a wake up call and were gonna phone it in","Date":"1 February 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" ***SPOILERS***Based on Ray Nelson's 1963 short story Eight O'clock in the Morning the movie They Live has to do with a secret invasion of Earth by alien forces who integrate themselves with the human race as they slowly take it over. It's out of town drifter turned construction worker John Nada, Roddy Piper, who soon gets the drop on who these aliens are by coming across a box of discarded sun glasses after the church were they where hidden in was ransacked by the gestapo-like local police who bulldozed it to the ground.Putting the glasses on John sees the world in the a stark black & white aliens prospective in them controlling everyone on earth with subliminal messages telling the humans to blindly obey them and desist from preventing their control of the human race. Even worse John sees that a good number of human beings are traitors to their own race by joining the aliens in enslaving the human race so that they can be on the Winning Team when they finally take over. John in trying to sound an alert after slugging it out with his non believing fellow construction worker Frank Armitage, Keith David,finally get him to see, with a new pair of sun glasses, the light and thus join him in his fight to both inform and save the human race from what's planned for them by the alien invaders.****SPOILERS**** John in his attempt to knock out the TV dish that keeps the human population from finding out what the aliens are doing to them is betrayed by Holly Thompson played by a zombie-looking Meg Ryan who already betrayed him once- The guy just never learned- before by blowing away his fellow human freedom fighter Frank and turning him over to her alien masters. This all backfires on her and the aliens that she's working for by John blasting her, with a hidden firearm, as well as blasting the TV dish and thus having the entire human race able, without the uses of the mysterious sun glasses, to see the aliens for what and who they really are and most of all, by joining together, by being able to finally stop them. "},{"Title":"An important part of film history, plus one amazing fight","Date":"10 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Hopefully any film fan will agree that there is a true unbridled joy found in the watching of a John Carpenter film from his 1980's heydays. With The Thing, The Fog, Starman, Escape From New York and Big Trouble in Little China the decade was a productive, unique and enjoyable time for the master of schlock and all his fans. Ending off the decade of greatness was 1988's They Live and while not in the same league as the previously mentioned films is still a thoroughly enjoyable sci-fi yarn that had a lot to say then and even more to say in today's climate.Carpenters yarn is a film that operates on many a level whether it be as a comedy, a political/social commentary, a Sci-Fi or merely a low budget action flick and is a tale that has more ideas than a dozen modern day movies. The centralised tale of drifter Nada played by the muscle clad Wrestlemania star Roddy Piper is an excuse for Carpenter to critique the ever growing marketing of the modern world where everything exists to sell or promote to the people. It's a startling idea realised in a still grand fashion of magic glasses that allow the wearer to see things for what they are &#x96; come to the Caribbean is replaced with Marry and reproduce marketing signs replaced by the lone and now famous Obey. With a low budget Carpenter realised many a great idea even if he made no secret of production hearkening to 50's Sci-Fi production design.When praising many elements of They Live it must also be stated that when compared to other works of Carpenters career peaks it pales in comparison, not fit to wear Snake's eye patch or hold MacReady's flamethrower, it's a film that jumps a little too much in tone and the finale is somewhat too haphazard to end the film off on a high. Piper to is too cold in the main role, the wrong side of being too cool for school and the musical score by Carpenter and musical partner Alan Howarth is also a little too frequent and repetitive to not grate by the hour mark. Small criticisms of an enjoyable film yet enough to tarnish it from true classic territory.They Live is a lively, energetic and unique film that is deserving of a watch by any Carpenter or Sci-Fi fan. Featuring unquestionably one of cinemas greatest fight scenes and ideas/concepts that have now seeped into everyday culture They Live stands as a historic and important part of movies as we know them today.3 and a half unnaturally long ally fights out of 5 For more movie reviews and opinions check out - www.jordanandeddie.wordpress.com "},{"Title":"Brilliant but flawed film, out of it's time in many ways","Date":"22 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Loved John Carpenter in the late 70s and early 80s, he really was brilliant. He lost it in the mid 80s and They Live is his last hurrah. A not-so-subtle allegory of the Regan revolution blaming the growing gap between the rich and poor on an alien invasion and mass brainwashing (rather than the inherent weakness of human nature). However once the film moves beyond the initial shock of Nada's revelation it dies on its' feet. Good things? The wonderful Meg Foster who effortlessly improves any film she ever graces with her presence. Nada's terrific scene where he robs the bank, reminiscent of Jesus throwing the moneylenders out of the temple, so great that Roddy Piper actually improvised his classic 'bubblegum' line. Nada gleefully blowing away the aliens but disarming and letting the human cop go because he genuinely doesn't know what's going on and thinks he's fighting 'commie terrorists'. The longest fight in cinema history. The fact that money is stamped 'This is your god'. The terrific ending. Bad things? It rather stretches credibility that the aliens are supposed to be the rulings class yet take working stiff jobs such as cops and bank security guards? Isn't it a bit of a stretch that Keith David's character gives Nada two weeks pay after he slaughters dozens? Nada's everlasting magazine on his MP5. A great film but one more suited to the post-Watergate cynicism of the 70s (and the more thoughtful sic-fi it generated, Silent Running, Soylent Green, THX 1138) rather than the peak of the Regan revolution of the 80s, the triumph of capitalism over communism (and competing with the bombastic appeal of Predator, Robocop and The Hidden) "},{"Title":"They Live original","Date":"27 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I think this was on TV one time and I watched a little while. What was striking to me was that this was a very similar story line used in 1970. It was a TV movie (sci-fi) called The Love War starring Lloyd Bridges. It was Exc. Produced by Aaron Spelling. The premise was basically from what I remember, Good aliens (looked like Humans) after bad aliens fighting a war on earth. The bad aliens looked like humans also. The only way to tell each other apart was through special glasses. The shot each other with laser guns. To dispose of the dead bodies they would put a little device on the bodies and it would disintegrate the body.Question, did anyone see this 1970 movie? "},{"Title":"What's wrong baby?","Date":"19 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"     This is the story of aliens that decide that capitalism works. They disguise themselves as humans and work under the philosophy 'the rich get richer and forget the poor.' All seems quite well until wrestler Roddy Piper, playing a man named Nada, comes along to kick some alien butt. Roddy's been snooping around the same area where people have been coming to realize how to demask the aliens. RAYBANS!!!!    Wearing the Raybans, Roddy Piper is able to see these aliens conversing with their human counterparts. This is way to disturbing for him, so it's time to go on a killing spree. Of course, Roddy needs a partner. His friend Keith David joins forces after getting beat down by Roddy (why wouldn't he just put on the glasses?)           Speaking of aliens doesn't Meg Foster kind of remind you of one of the aliens from TV's 'V'?  Fun movie in a bad sort of way. "},{"Title":"Didn't need the glasses","Date":"23 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Tripping across location shoots is not that unusual in Los Angeles, where I lived and worked when this movie was produced.  But this was one of the stranger instances.  I and several others left our office building for lunch, only to be confronted with plain white newspaper boxes labeled OBEY where USA Today boxes normally stood, and posters exhorting us Don't Question Authority.Didn't realize that it was a location shoot right away - this was where they shot the convenience store scene, and everyone was inside trailers or in the building at the moment.But, when They Live came out in theatres, and I finally understood what I had seen that day, I REALLY had an appreciation for what Roddy Piper's character went through.  The messages are far more subtle in real life, but we DO get programmed.  I just wish it were as innocuos a message as crass commercialism.  "},{"Title":"One of John Carpenter's most awesome movies!","Date":"22 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" They Live sets a character Nada played by Roddy Piper against invading aliens, and only special sunglasses can reveal their true identities.Co-starring Keith David, who previously appeared in Carpenter's The Thing, They Live is a sci-fi masterpiece in my book... the concept of the film is frightening and hypnotic and I love the way John Carpenter can make a city seem so empty at times, very creepy. The action sequences hit it heavy with a great fight sequence between Roddy Piper and Keith David, and the ending action scenes build the excitement with a stunning ending. "},{"Title":"Classic Carptener","Date":"16 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  They Live is classic John Carptener. The film has a classic hero in the form of Roddy Piper a likeable sidekick in the form of Keith David and plenty of one liners and action. The plot which involes and ailens and all types of crazy s*** is cool and the film is in need of a special edition DVD. "},{"Title":"Piper can still kick your ass!","Date":"30 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Fans of John Carpenter don't have to be told that most of his best work (Escape from New York, Vampires, The Fog, Prince of Darkness, etc) is not conventional or mainstream.  They Live is a true piece of Carpenter craft exactly because it is neither conventional or mainstream. Though panned mercilessly by internet wannabe critics, They Live is a worthwhile movie. It is thought provoking  The entire planet is being laid waste by rapacious aliens and a loathsome group of collaborating humans. The worst part is that only a small group of underground warriors knows what's really happening. (There really is a secret Cabal of rich folk draining this country of its wealth and resources and all they want you to do is breed, conform and consume.) And how does Rowdy Roddy Piper,  a notoriously unstable pro wrestler, deal with such an enormous problem? Do you really need to ask? This movie is a lot of fun, and is destined to be considered a classic of 80s cinema someday.  "},{"Title":"I HAVE COME HERE TO CHEW BUBBLEGUM...","Date":"12 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  One of Carpenter's better latter-career projects. Roddy Piper and Keith David keeps things going (especially in their extended fight sequence) as two construction workers who fight to save the world from being taken over by a whole different race. Though the storyline is completely absurd and the conclusion is an utter let-down, the film is overall a good action flick that is, as always, handled well by Carpenter. 7/10 "}{"Title":"Aliens, subliminal messaging and sunglasses.","Date":"23 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  While John Carpenter's later films are no match for such greats as Escape from New York, Halloween or The Thing they still display the same imagination and humour as the rest of his work. The Live is no exception. The basic premise is 'A construction worker finds a pair of magical sunglasses that allow him to see what no one else can. That aliens are taking over the world and controlling everyone with subliminal messaging.' While the film takes a while to get going it soon explodes into full force and, while the special effects are a bit crappy, the humour and action carry the film along with gusto. While the acting is a bit on the sloppy side and Carpenter's direction lacks tension this is still a nice piece on escapist sci-fi fantasy. If you've got a few hours to spare, why not give it a look? "},{"Title":"Decent Effort","Date":"3 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a great movie with a kind of Orwellian world view to it.  It turns out that Big Brother is really from another planet.  Roddy Piper does well as the nameless drifter trying to stop the evil aliens that rule our planet.  The plot seems trivial but the ending really is not.  They Live probably contains the best desperation fist fight that was ever captured on film.  By no means is The Matrix, Dark City, Donnie Darko, or even The Alien Four-pack but this is a worthy addition to the sci-fi community.  Like The Faculty, I give it an 8 out of 10!Here ends my rant! "},{"Title":"A Fight to Remember","Date":"30 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Any movie that has a fight scene like this one does gets at least a two and a half-star review, even if the rest of the movie is kinda wack. The fight between Roddy Piper and Keith David goes on for something like, 45 minutes. Okay, maybe not that long but it sure feels that way. And all because Roddy's trying to convince Keith to put on a pair of these black Ray-Bans that allow you to see that there are aliens disguised as humans walking about. That last sentence pretty much describes the entire movie Roddy trying to convince everyone that there are aliens among us. The movie is full of funny one-liners and it's pretty violent. Watch this if you need to kill some time. Carpenter's done a lot better than this but watch it at least for that fight scene. Rating **1/2 out of *****.   "},{"Title":"The World is controlled by Aliens that look like us.","Date":"11 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Wrestling's Rowdy Roddy Piper is a working-class man who finds special glasses that extend his vision into other realms and discovers that Banking and the Media are controlled by greedy aliens. Try to look surprised. "},{"Title":"Great Sci-Fi Eventually Concept Degenerates into Jokes","Date":"7 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  John Carpenter's They Live starts out fantastically, in the usual, methodical Carpenter way. Along with the main character, a drifter played by Rowdy Roddy Piper, we slowly find out what's going on--aliens have taken over the planet and control our vision of reality (kinda like a pre-Matrix Matrix). But once the secret is totally revealed, the movie switches rather abruptly from a satirical, yet still dramatic, social commentary to being more of a hokey-jokey affair. Its as though Carpenter wither didn't know how to end his story, or didn't have the money to end it as he wanted--or that halfway through writing the screenplay, he realized that he just really didn't give a ****. I got a similar feeling from his latest, Ghosts of Mars, although he wastes even more in that one.But, as it is, They Live is still like no other film out there, and-- like all of Carpenter's work, good and not-so-good--it's worth seeing, flaws and all.  "},{"Title":"Silly, yet intriguing fun","Date":"17 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  After The Thing (1982), John Carpenter made a variety of forgettable films, with the exception of Big Trouble in Little China, In the Mouth of Madness, and this one, undoubtedly his best post-Thing film. John Nada (Roddy Piper) is a man without job who walks around a big American city trying to find something to do. He finally finds a job as a worker and a place to spend the nights, but one day something terrible happens to him. John discovers a pair of sun-glasses through which he can see the true face of people. Many people in this city are in fact aliens and most of them are important members of our society. They keep humans in ignorance and they rule our world as they like. Nada must find the rest of the men that know what's happening and join them in the fight against the aliens.Although there are a few dumb lines, and an excruciatingly long fight scene, They Live is so much fun, and a must see for fans of B-grade sci-fi movies. 8/10. "},{"Title":"Decent entertainment","Date":"13 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  As a John Carpenter fan I'll have to say this isn't all that bad a picture. Granted it's not one of his best but this is one of those Pizza movies Get a Pizza and sit back on your recliner and watch it for what it's worth type films. It's got a story line some action some underlying message but most of all it's entertainment. Roddy Piper turns in a decent performance and Keith David's casting as his buddy Frank really helps the film. Great fight scene! My favorite character however is the guard with the shotgun at the humans meeting place. Hey brothers there's something new going down. Put aside all the Reagan era implications and enjoy it.  "},{"Title":"Only for those...","Date":"11 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Who don't take their movies too seriously.  If you do I don't think you will like They Live, but if you don't then I think you'll enjoy it.  It has some very unintentionally funny scenes.  One of the funniest parts is when the two guys (I don't know their names) are engaging in a super long fight scene.  It's incredible how long these two guys go on fighting.  By the way I can't believe this is directed by John Carpenter!  "},{"Title":"Stupid, but funny","Date":"31 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a great, funny movie, but I don't understand anyone who thinks that it's deep and intellectual. The flimsy premise of this movie (that Republicans, aka anyone wealthy, white, and over 40, are really zombies and therefore it's ok to kill them.)- is really pretty crude and heavy handed when you think about it. All society's problems are caused by an evil race of subversive beings? Does that strike anyone out there as particularly thoughtful? Plus, this movie has all the usual gratuitous violence and blatant anti-intellectuallism that is John Carpenter's trademark. Don't get me wrong, this movie is really tremendously funny, but I couldn't sit back and listen to people go on about how it was a deep and thoughtful critique of the 80's- it was anything but.  "},{"Title":"A great concept, but poorly executed","Date":"8 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is based on a great concept, namely that we are surrounded by vicious aliens who prey on us and keep our minds in a fog. The aliens are very ugly, but we are hypnotized into seeing them as beautiful, successful people. Someone could make a good movie from this idea, but this one isn't it.They Live stars Roddy Piper, who is a wrestler, not an actor. The action mainly consists of him getting into fistfights with lots of people, both human and alien. What could have been a classic sci-fi thriller instead became an action movie, meaning lots of action and little thought. "}{"Title":"Marxist Thesis the Movie","Date":"3 November 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" John Carpenter is known as the king of the B-Movie in the 70s and 80s, making films like Halloween, Assault on Precinct 13 and The Thing. They Live can be considered one of his last great films and most political and thematic films.Nada (Roddy Piper) is a homeless construction worker looking for work in Los Angeles. When he finds a job a fellow worker, Frank (the always awesome Keith David) takes Nada to a shantytown to stay where Nada notices odds things going on at the church opposite, leading him to discover a pair of sunglasses which lets him see the aliens that are really in control of the world.They Live is basically a Marxist thesis being made into turned into a film. Nada is able to see the evil network of the upper ends of Capitalism are secretly controlling the world, using mass market and hegemony to enact their plans, keep the masses down and make humans no more then unquestioning puppets. There is a criticism of mass media in the 80s at it constantly bombard the masses with adverts and poor programmes it can be easy to make the case that it is even worst now with the rise of celebrity culture and reality TV. There are even modern parallel as well about the divide between the wealthy and the poorest in America and a little nugget where it was mentioned the government bailed out the steel industry show no gratitude and the bosses give themselves massive bonuses.The acting is mostly weak to put it nicely. Piper was a WWF wrestler so it was clear he was not a trained actor, but he does have the action chops and has charisma. Piper also has an excellent ad-lipped one liner that was fitting for Carpenter's style. David is always a welcome presence in film and he was the best actor in the film.Carpenter supplies plenty of B-Movie violence and action which will please fans. Two of the best moments are when Nada's makes his discovery he goes on a killing spree and a five minute long fight scene between two bulky men simply trying to beat the hell out of each other. It's the kind of thing you want in a film like this.They Live is a tout film, having a running time of 90 minutes. This is a film that buys into conspiracy theories that the world is secretly run by people who for the own interests, grind down any dissent and no chance of advancement. I personally do not subscript this world view but people who enjoy Carpenter's work will get pleasure from They Live. "},{"Title":"Roddy Piper gets the call to star in this John Carpenter horror/thriller/action film.","Date":"4 January 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I enjoyed this John Carpenter film, as I enjoy most of his films up till that one set on Mars. The guy was the best at making horror films and remaking them in the case of The Thing. Here he made a very good film about a guy who finds some sunglasses that allow him to see some very strange things. I enjoyed this plot as it reminds me of a Dean Koontz story called Twilight Eyes, as in that one only certain people could see these strange creatures and in this one sunglasses allow a person to see the world as it really is as there are some strange looking people out there to be revealed when these special sunglasses are put on. There is also a Stephen King story where people who smoke can actually see things, but it may have come after this film was released. This one stars Roddy Piper of WWE fame, my guess is that Kurt Russell was busy with another project as he was generally John Carpenter's guy during this time. Do not fear though, as Carpenter is able to get another of his faves in this in the form of George Buck Flower. Piper does a commendable job as he is certainly a much better actor than most wrestlers during this era as this film is good while Hulk Hogan made steaming pile of crap after steaming pile of crap during the 80's, 90's and beyond. Piper being in this film also sets up one of the longest fight scenes between two guys I have ever seen and it was a rather good back alley brawl that was literally in the back alley. Meg Foster was also in this film and she was annoying, but then she was supposed to be. The ending was funny in a way and though I hated to see the lead guy end up the way he did, he did manage to get a good one off. "},{"Title":"A Sci-fi ride, with one-liners, action and aliens.","Date":"28 October 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Humanlike, skeleton looking, extraterrestrial's have taken over the Earth and walk among us, but are cloaked by a transmitter that makes 'them' appear like us. A drifter discovers a pair of sunglasses that allows him to see what is being hidden.Halloween's (1978) horror legend writer/director John Carpenter does his best with a limited budget. The film for the most part has an urban realistic look, due to the on location shots, however, at times lacks the production values of The Thing (1982) or The Fog (1980). In true Carpenter tradition there's a heart pumping and relentless score.Amongst all the 80's testosterone there is a fantastic story based on Ray Nelson's short tale. They Live themes reflects consumerism, class and corruption to name a few. Underneath, Carpenter's punchy screenplay lay a fear that we are not in control and our society is led by 'them', echoing Invasion of the Body Snatchers and 'V'. To join them would be to give I and we would benefit but we'll pay a greater price. They Live is high concept sci-fi with great ideas, the sunglasses touch is genius, that's original and allows some great visuals and interesting moments. There's also the intriguing secret society aspect and space travel.Oozing the 1980's Roddy Piper is entertaining as the lead and does a good job in the main role with the likes of Meg Foster and Keith David giving the film some weight. There's also some good performances from the supporting cast.Carpenter though a simple story immerses the viewer in the conspiracy and connects us with the heroes search for the truth which has a fantastic, un-Hollywood brave and downbeat ending. In addition, the effects are of the time but are still effective, there are some stand out set-ups, the supermarket, the underground segment and the discovery of the sunglasses. I'm hesitant to use the word, but They Live is cool.With so many remakes in recent years They Live would benefit from a serious and heavier version. That said, taken at face value it's a great fun ride, with one-liners, action and aliens. "},{"Title":"Oh Yeah!","Date":"4 April 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" If you have not yet exited mainstream propaganda, then perhaps you've sold out, are use to tossing the Monopoly game in the air when your losing, or don't even know the its 'Game On', Albeit, not being a fan of John Carpenter, or for that matter Karen Carpenter, I do enjoy commercial free TV, and melodrama. So the movie had no commercials.....that scores 5, give 2 more for the longest beat down ever seen, and 1 more for making my sunglasses more exciting to wear again! I'm not going to beat you down and force upon you a pair of ZZ Top sun glasses.. But if you judge this movie by Hype, or by comment, your missing the point! Put on your cheap sunglasses and then see it again for the first time. Minus all the hype, or non hype, witness it. "},{"Title":"You look like your face fell in the cheese dip back in 1957","Date":"7 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" When I first watched this movie, I wasn't sure what to expect. I hadn't really seen many John Carpenter movies before this one, and I hadn't really heard many reviews about it, so I thought I was taking a risk buying it. Turned out to be a great movie. Roddy Piper did an awesome portrayal as Nada, a nobody who wanders into town one day and joins a small slum on the outskirts of town. He makes friends with Frank (Keith David), who had moved from his family to find work. They soon discover a church across the street is sending signals through their TV's. A bearded man (John Lawrence) would appear on the screen and tell them that they are being controlled through their TVs. Nada wanders in one day and is confronted by a blind Street Preacher (Raymond St. Jacques). Soon the church is raided and their organization starts to fall apart, then Nada discovers sunglasses which reveal the truth, which is, that many people walking around are actually aliens from the Andromeda galaxy, and that they control society. Its up to Nada, Frank, and a few other remaining people of the resistance to put an end to their reign. "},{"Title":"The Point","Date":"13 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This was not a film for the average viewer. The magic glasses in THEY LIVE were a mere metaphor for what the average Jack or Jill doesn't see in their day to day life. People, the viewers, see only the surface, only the facade, clothes and jewels or surface skin of the people around them. If they could actually find a pair of these magic, magnifying, x-ray glasses they would see their neighbors and friends as composed of tiny, microscopic proteins, folding and unfolding by the second, and these bodily signals, these neurons, would present people as the molecular, chemical robots that they really are. The strings of DNA, the strings of neurons are tiny , but they are really there. Rent the film again and pry beneath the surface plot of it. See the aliens, not as monsters, but as ordinary people trying to pass as ordinary people. The fact that they tried so hard to assume a human facade says a lot about what being human means. "},{"Title":"Like an episode of The Twilight Zone on steroids....","Date":"29 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" An episode of The Twilight Zone mixed in with a nice helping of balls to the wall action is about as accurately as I can describe this movie. First off, the pacing is really good. Carpenter doesn't waste any time getting into the heart of the matter and there's no lengthy exposition that you would normally want to skip through(I'm looking at you, Hook). While I don't want to spoil any of the story, I can tell you that it features Roddy Piper kicking copious amounts of ass. They Live is infamous for a fight scene in which Piper and Keith David beat the crap out of each other for about 10 minutes, all because Keith's character doesn't try on a pair of sunglasses. So if nothing else that's one reason to check it out.Roddy Piper does a really good acting job in this, at least in my opinion. It's not exactly award winning material but Piper has such charisma and ability to command the screen that you find yourself rooting for him and eager to go along on the ride. For a film of this nature the overall theme of the story is surprising as well. I think it could've been taken a little further but that's a minor complaint.While I don't believe They Live is quite up there with Escape From New York or The Thing, it's still one of my personal favorites by Carpenter and a movie I would recommend to anyone. Just watch it, you won't regret it.If you like this I recommend Most of John Carpenter's other movies, Invasion of the Body Snatchers(1974), Dark City, and a few others I can't think of right now. "},{"Title":"Comfortable Carpenter Quality","Date":"11 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Ah, yes! I watched this movie long time ago since i was teenager. Giving a line to it came across when i saw this movie running on showtime sat channel. In basically there's nothing really special on it in a way. But what makes it good is that it is one of the best movies directed by John Carpenter, and that man has some of these good movies. So you can say this is normal workmanship as looked by director. Other notable is that this movie is very good being low budget film. And the cast is not bad either. Well, i like Carpenter 's films so it's easy to me look positive towards it. But i think many will think same, that this is good sci-fi flick. Give it a try. "},{"Title":"Interesting and clever movie of the '80s","Date":"9 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw this movie yesterday night.   I liked it due to the clever screenplay.  How is that?  the sunglasses that allow seeing the aliens (that are taking control of the earth).  Simple as that. Intelligence shown by Carpenter who is under the name of Frank Armitage that wrote the screenplay (based on a short story). The actor's performance are very good specially Pipper who plays Nada with fun.  The movie is funny and interesting.  Great music by Carpenter and Alan Howarth.  I rate this movie 7 out of 10.  Andres. "},{"Title":"they live, we sleep.","Date":"25 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is one of the great unsung b movies of the 80's and it pulls it off with its' own signature style. With Carpenter at the helm, macho one liners aplenty (which some view as a bad thing), and WWF star Roddy rowdy Piper in the lead, this is one of the few true subversive action pictures that I can recall. The film entertainingly mixes elements of the western and sci-fi genre with social commentary by tackling themes of oppression, and media manipulation which seems even more relevant today than upon its' initial release. WWF star Piper is actually not bad in the lead as the working man turned soldier who is awakened to the horror of the American dream through special sunglasses. And of course, that fight in the alley between Piper and genre vet Keith David that goes on and on..and on...(Spoofed in South Park's Cripple Fight episode). Classic.  "}{"Title":"If you don't have time to watch the entire Matrix trilogy...(DOULBLE SPOILERS)","Date":"28 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Sure, it's a really, really CHEAP version.  The Matrix is the pinnacle of millenial cinematic technology, casting some of the world's most recognizable stars.  They Live looks like it was filmed for television circa 1982, and its stars are a professional wrestler and a dude who used to live in Mr Rogers Neighborhood -- in the land of make-believe.  But if you've ever dug Chuck Norris movies, or anything with Kickboxing in the title, They Live will feel like a freakin' treatise.Honestly, the parallels are there.  Is Roddy Piper's character, Nada, any more reticent and mysterious than Keanu Reeves' Neo?  If anything, Nada seems more charming, and definitely more human.  There's the mysterious glimpses and glitches into a world that exists among our world, akin to the parable of Plato's cave; a scrappy but armed underground contingent whose ultimate goal is to return awareness to the human race; a malevolent alien force that sates mankind into complacency while it uses humanity for its nourishment; the sublimination, the betrayals, the humor amid the chaos...For me, 80's B-grade action is a genre, like French comedies and Woody Allen films;  in this context, They Live is a capable film, though not strong enough to transcend its conventions.  It's a working class action film, with the catchy bon mots and gratuitous explosions that you crave from these films.I can think of two distinct advantages that They Live has over The Matrix -the alley fight between Nada and Frank is a more powerful struggle for me than all the wire work of all 3 Matrix films. -They Live only took an hour and a half of my life.  rating 6/10 "},{"Title":"Good Movie","Date":"6 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is actually a good flick.  There is a great script, seriously it is a very clever idea for a movie, and some funny one-liners.  The acting and special effects are not great but overall the movie is pretty good.  If you have no good ideas for what movies to watch, I would suggest this John Carpenter just for it's anti-consumerism message.  Check it out. "},{"Title":"Good action movie with a decent concept behind it.","Date":"25 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  They Live is a classic John Carpenter film, although not up to the quality of other JC films such as The Thing. It places a bit to much emphasis on action and although the action is good, it would have been nice to see more depth with the alien concept and perhaps a little more explanation. It is still a very worth-while film that I would recommend to anyone who enjoys good science fiction "},{"Title":"* * *1/2 OUT OF FIVE","Date":"27 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Roddy Piper stars as Nada a drifter who after finding a pair of sunglasses is able to see the world for what it is and is shocked to see aliens have taken over the planet in this witty action flick which has an excellent premise and delivers the goods.  Highlights include Roddy Piper and Keith David's huge fight scene as well as the climax. "},{"Title":"Fantastic fun","Date":"18 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I didn't really know what the expect from this film, although a bit of a slow starter it turns into massive amounts of fun. The acting is more than adequate, Piper is actually pretty good he seem to have such fun portraying Nada who you can see the character of Duke Nukem was created from right down to the quotes. It's a B-move plane and simple so much so I kept expecting to see Bruce Campbell pop up as one of the aliens though sadly he doesn't. At times it can be quite disturbing the aliens do actually look quite frightening the first time u see one and as another reviewer said the world is just a bit to much like or own. Words do fail me to describe this film it's gotta be seen by anyone who likes John Carpenter or just screwed up films with a real sense of humour. 		8.5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"There's something about Carpenter","Date":"24 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  For some people John Carpenter is only a bum doing low-budget movies and that's all. This is the American global point of view people want their money's worth so they feel better if a film costed a hundred million dollars, including top-class FX and a big star with his star on the Walk of Fame and a $20m fee (plus %).Okay but hence they can't see what Carpenter is really good at. It's not being lenient with his movies to say so. Carpenter got used to work with a reduced crew so that it is not possible for him to be himself with a big budget. Assault on precinct 13 and The Thing are his major achievements to me. With Assault he showed us how good he could do with very little. The Thing stands as the maximum he can do with a bigger budget without going into a coma after he's had a close look at everything from development thru post-production.To sum it up in Carpenter's movies directing is in the foreground. To see only the cheap aspect is like watching for goofs. There's much more fun in just getting in the movie.They LiveThe way Carpenter builds his narrative with John Nada, the poor lonesome cowboy in modern days LA, is great. Thus it's important to see They Live without knowing much about the plot. If you read the outline you'll certainly find the first hour too slow-paced. The last part with Nada fighting the villains along with a side-kick is less good since it's really difficult to look good with a low budget went it comes to action. Anyway Carpenter's directing is much more effective when danger is here and nowhere (Assault, Halloween, The Fog, The Thing); or we have to be with a Snake Plisken character, kicking asses from time to time, right from the start. "},{"Title":"I like it","Date":"1 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I have biases, towards sci fi and former Winnipeggers.  I like Rod Pipper, and he did much better than the Rock on his first film.  This is a neat little film about mind control with lots of violences added in.  David Keith another b actor plays one of his better roles since The Thing.  The fight between Keith and Piper is a classic, with some wrestling too boot.  Mindless fun for the TBS crowd. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Surprising and quite well done SCIFI Thriller Movie.","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Very good story with some new faces makes, this a SCIFI cult classic. Roddy Piper's acting along with some good character actors and settings brings the story to life. Filmed in Los Angeles with lots of locations makes this well done movie worth watching. "},{"Title":"Good short story, less movie","Date":"9 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie was originally a short story. John Carpenter later reworked it into this movie and I'm afraid that's where something went wrong. The basic story of this movie is very good but there simply are some problems with its translation into a movie.Although some parts of the movie, like the beginning half an hour are very atmospheric and one really sees the magic of John carpenter, it gets sloppy by times. There is for example a very long fight scene in the movie. There should be a fight scene there, but it is simply much too long and it thereby ruins the complete buildup of the film.For fans of the science fiction genre I would really advise you to see this movie. That is, if you like the genre for it's originality in storytelling. If you like it for whatever other reason, leave this movie aside.  "},{"Title":"B-movie social satire spoof","Date":"4 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Set in the near future (made in 1988), a drifter that goes by the name of Nada discovers that aliens have invaded society and are governing the earth. Using hidden messages to propel obedience, encourage massive consumerism, not question authority etc. Nada can distinguish these aliens from ordinary humans by using special sunglasses and soon he joins an army of rebels that set out to uncover the truth for all the people to see.It's called a sci/fi action film that's armed with a social conscience but it's really just a low budget spoof by master horror director John Carpenter. Carpenter's ventures into other genres usually turn out pretty well. He made the best film about legendary rock'n roll performer Elvis Presley, a heartfelt romantic film with Starman and a relatively successful Chevy Chase comedy Memoirs of an Invisible Man. Carpenter has tackled action films before and more successfully with Assault on Precinct 13 and Escape From New York, he's quite literally proved himself to be able to take on any cinematic genre. They Live works best as a funny and violent social satire aiming it's guns squarely at the Reagan administration. The ever increasing gap between the rich and the poor, the ever so growing consumerism and the pursuit for wealth (in essence; greed) are explained here in a fun fashion but it's not to be taken too seriously. This is John Carpenter in B-movie mode and few are better in this territory than him.Some usual Carpenter traits are present; such as his trademark moody music score (composed by himself and Alan Howarth) that sets a cool tone for the film and a familiar scenario involving ordinary people getting caught up in circumstances for which they have no control over and rise to the occasion. As usual in a Carpenter film, the protagonist here is more in the anti-hero department (you could easily envision Snake Plissken, had he not chosen the criminal path) and he's very well realized in the hands of ex-wrestler Roddy Piper. Piper displays a reasonable amount of acting talent and looks good in one of cinema's longest (but very amusing) fight scenes. In fact all the cast do a splendid job here.They Live isn't John Carpenter at his best but it's a fun diversion all the same. Fans of him will probably enjoy the film more than others, it's fairly slowly paced despite it's relatively short running time, it's not exactly chock full of action but it's cleverly written (by Carpenter under the alias Frank Armitage) and overall has a lot going for it. That fight scene alone is worth the price of admission. "}{"Title":"A Very Good Illustration of America","Date":"31 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A movie that starts out a bit slow, peaks as Nada discovers the illusion filtering sunglasses, and kinda drags a bit at the end. The draggy end is inevitable as the movie's core message was delivered during Nada's first walk down the street with the glasses on. The rest of the movie is anticlimactic. A pretty good job by Roddy Piper. The technical aspects and various merits of this film have been explored by others. I mostly wanted to point out that on 1/31/2006, the Sci-Fi channel aired this classic directly opposite George Bush's state of the union address! Many kudos to the brave closet subversive in the Sci-Fi Channel programming department. I'm sure if their upper management had a clue, that particular programming item would have been overridden, immediately. "},{"Title":"Excellent Message Film","Date":"4 March 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" They Live is an excellent message film though it's quality of production and acting is suspect. It reminds me of what is going on in Grants Pass, Oregon; I allege there is a secret scientific facility engaging in subliminal microwave weapons use and testing. The banquet scene is reminiscent of the People these manchurian scientists work for. The implants the so-called aliens possess could also be construed as analogous to the neck (vagus), spine (c-4), cerebral cortex, hippocampus and other microchips the scientists operating in Grants Pass place into unwitting and non-consensual Human Beings. When one resists the overtures of the banquet crowd, the scientists under take a protocol of the destruction of mind, body and soul through the transmission of subliminal microwaves (produced in a hidden remote location) effectively destroying a Persons life. If only the ending scene of this film were to occur in Grants Pass. As in the Elvis Costello song 'Alison', Somebody had better put out the big light is so true of Grants Pass and it's absolutely deplorable enslavement, exploitation and abuse of Human Beings. "},{"Title":"Great idea, so-so film","Date":"6 May 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Let me start saying that I absolutely loved the idea of taking a punch at the materialistic 80s world by using a sci-fi/black comedy. This movie could have reached the status of huge cult favorite and have delivered an intelligent message - albeit masked by a comedy element - to a lot of people if only it was better developed.To be fair, the movie lost itself after a while. I don't blame Roddy Piper. He's not great in this movie but he delivers a fair performance, certainly better than what most of the former sportsmen delivered in their movie career. However, there's way too much of him walking around in poor neighborhoods, and that fight scene is just way too long... at one point, the movie just drags, and that's a pity for a movie that had more than one smart thing to say.Make no mistake They Live looks silly but it's not. All in all, it deserves to be watched, because it's unique, and because despite being very flawed it's a worthwhile cinema experience. Believe me, the last scene will stick in your mind as one of the funniest ever.6/10 "},{"Title":"Simulacra forerunner to the Matrix. (spoilers)","Date":"12 March 2006","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" They Live is not especially great science fiction work from John Carpenter & Co. However, the themes presented here that of a society blinded to the spectacle and ultimately, it's own doom--take over by an alien race--is a good fictional example of what French theorist Guy Dubord calls 'the Society of the Spectacle,' although the most amazing and thorough representation of it so far has been the first of the Matrix trilogy (although even these need not be science fiction films as seen in How to Get Ahead in Advertising and Fight Club, among others).This film, based on Ray Nelson's short story, Eight O'Clock in the Morning, may seem initially cheesy to begin with due to the starring role being held by former pro-wrestler Roddy Piper. Although, the supporting cast (especially Kieth David as his trusting ally and the seductive, but double-crossing Meg Foster) are solid enough to keep the movie in stride. The story involves a nomadic freelancer who comes to a rather rundown part of Los Angeles in search of work. Along with the temporary shelter he finds at a nearby communal area (where some fellow co-workers live), he also stumbles upon a crazy cult warning about the existence of dangerous aliens who have taken over the planet and blind the people as to their existence. The alien's credo Obey and the people seem willingly in trance, able to be brainwashed through their consumerism of not only products, but slogans and rhetoric as well. The Americans (they don't focus on any other place) are conditioned to accept this and follow it easily. The aliens' plan for takeover through consumer habits seems so easy and, unfortunate for humanity, almost in completion.Sure it sounds like paranoid hooey, but not until the curious nomad stumbles upon sunglasses that expose the reality does he learn that the crazies at the church were right all along. The sun-glasses provide self-actualization and he tries to educate his friend (Kieth David) of the same, as he needs a fierce ally if they are to of course, try to stop their oppressors. It seems like a lot of work for two guys, but com'mon--this is an 80s action/sci-fi film and the numbers don't matter in the battle between good and evil.The political themes of this science fiction tale are of modern relevance and are more interesting than the actual execution of the film. Fans of decent b-grade science fiction should be impressed, although there are moments towards the end that seem to rile in somewhat mounting implausibility. It certainly is nonetheless entertaining in the cult classic sense and well worth trying. "},{"Title":"Need Special Glasses to See EVIL!","Date":"17 September 2004","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Over the years I seemed to have missed this film and was glad to view this crazy film. I never saw two actors who beat each other up constantly like Roddy Piper(Nada),Jack of Hearts,2000, and Keith David,(Frank),Crash,'04. Nada wanted desperately for Frank to put on these special sunglasses that would enable him to view the ugly faces of the evil force that was fighting against society. I thought their entire fight scene was real crazy and very OVER DONE! However, Meg Foster(Holly Thompson),Coming Up Easy,'04, with her sexy eyes and great figure, put some romance into the film and kept the guys from fighting about the darn sunglasses. It was entertaining and had a way out ENDING!!!  "},{"Title":"So sad....","Date":"14 February 2004","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I almost loved this movie!  But, oh, the sadness...It is so sad that such a mind-blowing premise as we find in this movie has been so mercilessly produced.What could have been a scathingly brilliant social statement has been reduced to a relentlessly stultifying pandering to the tastes of a 9 year old boy's Saturday morning cartoon fare.Piper's dialogue is so preposterous throughout that one wonders if they really did use a junior high school drama class to write it.  Although I have read where he improvised some of it.  I am not saying that Piper does not exude a commanding presence in the movie, he's practically the only reason I continued to watch it (not that I am a wrestling fan by any means), he just had so much untapped potential.  It is a crime that we were not served with a fuller plate to eat as far as his development.  A couple of visits to the Actor's Studio may have done him some good.  I did also enjoy Keith David's portrayal.  It had all the angst it needed.  I am glad they are both still working.There are some brilliant touches here.  I must admit this.  The alternate world discovered behind the superficially visible world has a touch of Orwellian-speak...and they are, no argument here, chilling.  It presages the overly-lauded Matrix series of alternative realities.What could have been an indictment of why our society has gone wrong (in the realm of science-fiction), is reduced to a movie in search of a script.Without attempting a spoiler here, I must say that the scene in a grocery store at the commencement of his discovery has got to rank among the most poorly written scenes in all cinema.  What potential this scene had!  What a terrifying waste! Instead I am now reconsidering just how well written Plan 9 from Outer Space really was...oh, the pain...To truly describe it's potential, this movie, with a little work, might have ranked among the most fascinating treatises on society in the science-fiction genre, if not all of cinema.  Think of a combination of the lonely quests of Silent Running, Logan's Run and Soylent Green, the psychological games between Hal and Dave in 2001 A Space Odyssey, the brilliant sociological statements of Network, the take-over in Invasion of the Body Snatchers, the inescapability of Seconds...the list is endless.Instead we are treated to two maniacs fighting out their aggressions for nearly 15 minutes in an alley over the most preposterous point that it boggles the mind! Oh...and the transport system was a truly shameless plagiarism from Star Trek!Well, I could go on and on...but it would not dull the pain or alleviate my sadness in thinking what a wonderful experience this could have been. "},{"Title":"John Carpenter Should Re-Make This Movie","Date":"28 July 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  They Live is easily one of John Carpenter's best films. Many have complained that it started out slow and then became fun. I am of a different mind. I think it starts off just right and slumps into a ponderous action film. Though I appreciated the ridiculously long fight scene, I think it would have done better in another film.I have read that Carpenter wanted to make a film slamming unrestrained capitalism but not be too preachy. In doing so he goes against what the main character warns against `The white line's in the middle of the road. That's the worst place to drive.' Be preachy! He had the chance to really ram the dagger home into the heart of the yuppie/Reaganomics ideology, but held back. A lot said in this movie rings true today We gave the steel companies a break when they needed it. Know what they gave themselves? Raises. Things maybe worse today. Companies like Enron not only lay off everyone and give themselves raises but they stole from their employees too. There's a scene in They Live where a man missing a leg is rolling out of the welfare office shaking his head. Recently, here in my home state, it took a man who lost both of his legs at work 8 years to get his social security disability. The film has such a wonderful premise that I wanted explored as thoughtfully as the set up was. Not that I want it to loose its humor. I would have liked to have heard jokes more pointed at the unrestrained capitalism Carpenter is satirizing rather than the general action film one-liners. I would even like to see John Carpenter re-make this film in that way, but I'm sure that I'm way out numbered by the people who want more aliens blasted, faster. I love action too but it can be done with considerable intelligence. Case in point John Carpenter's masterpiece The Thing.Roddy Piper delivers an excellent performance when he is given intelligent dialogue but seems somewhat awkward when delivering lines like the famous `I have come here to kick a** and chew bubble gum&#133;' line (which, once again, I liked, but would have preferred in another movie). The problem is that the transition between everyday man to action hero is way too abrupt and I even get the sense that Roddy Piper feels that way too. The character goes from introspective to wisecracking on the turn of a dime. The introspective Nada was far more intriguing. A logical transition from introspective to wisecracking may have been intriguing also, as well as a deeper look into the resistance movement and the black and white real world. Carpenter has a real knack for filming black and white scenes. The aliens advancing on Piper in the grocery store is brief but unsettling. I wanted more. The movie was done on a low budget ($3 million) so I appreciate the limitations  (keep an eye out for a prop from Ghostbusters used as an alien walkie-talkie). But this is also why I'd like to see it re-made with a bigger budget so it can explore this idea more. *Spoiler* Briefly, I'd also like to air my dislike for `instant revolutions'. It was not exigent that the aliens in They Live be defeated within 70 minutes of me finding out about them. The Running Man and Demolition Man are some other movies guilty of this blatant attempt to instantly gratify the crowd and it almost invariably always fails. It took 3 films to destroy the empire in the Star Wars saga and it looks like 3 films is what it's gonna take to destroy The Matrix. Over all the movie feels like two different scripts spliced together. It is filmed with delightful satire in the beginning but detours into an action film and briefly becomes satire again. I think Carpenter had a lot to say but played it safe. I left the theater in 1988 feeling somewhat let down. But still I have seen They Live again countless times because it is a timeless gem despite its flaws. The extent to which we let capitalism run unchecked and the consequences of living in a hyper-Darwinistic world are things we will always have to deal with. "},{"Title":"Quite possibly the scariest funny movie ever made. Or the funniest scary movie ever made.","Date":"9 February 2004","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  They Live is one of those horror movies that is so scary and so good that it has become a comedy classic. Yes, comedy. There are maybe a total of five horror films that were made in the 80s that are or ever were even slightly frightening, the majority of them, particularly those which remain popular today, are popular because of their comedic value much more than their scariness. Now, I don't mean to badmouth 80s horror or to suggest that these movies are a sustained string of cinematic failures, but you really can't watch something like one of the Nightmares on Elm Street or a Friday the 13th film and afterwards say that you laughed less than you were scared. Okay, so maybe this is just me, but I really think that it can hardly be denied that the comedic content of horror films provide a large part of their overall appeal. And whether you personally agree with me or not, it's not hard to see that John Carpenter agrees.My favorite example of this in They Live is the way Nada (the basically nameless main character) reacts when he first begins to see what the alien beings really look like when he finds those glasses. Personally, I would have kept my visions a little more to myself until I figured out what was going on, but this guy hilariously tells an elderly woman exactly what he thinks of her appearance in the middle of a crowded convenience store. Now, I should probably point out that this is not really something that translates very well into film-review form, you just have to see it for yourself. By explaining it in writing here I feel like Mr. Burns trying to be funny (`We'll have some excellent practically-based jokes!').And then, of course, there is the violence, which is so overdone that it's subsequent humor is nearly unrivaled until Quentin Tarantino came along and made Kill Bill. Nada is a construction worker who is struggling to maintain a job (as are many of the other workers), but desperately needs to show his visions to someone else just to make sure he's not insane. He finds himself wanted by the police (for reasons that I won't explain), and shows up at the construction site where he works to try to get one of his coworkers (also struggling to maintain this job to make ends meet) to try on the glasses. Personally, if I was in that guy's situation I wouldn't want to be getting involved with this apparent nutcase either, especially if I needed that job as badly as he obviously did. Nada is not about to let the guy go until he sees, though, and thus follows The Fight Scene, capitalized for obvious reasons. And by the way, if the guy didn't want to get involved with Nada, it seems like it would have been slightly less troublesome to just look through the glasses and walk away than to get into a full-on kickboxing match with him in broad daylight for half and hour or so.I watched the DVD version of They Live, and I have to say that I was a little disappointed that there was nothing on the DVD about how they did the makeup of the aliens, because I always thought that that was the most interesting part of the movie (besides the fact that the whole control issue so closely resembled the operation of mass media and commercialism in real life). So what you have in They Live is a very interesting premise with a pretty simple delivery, but it works because it's cleverly done and believable, despite the fact that the whole magical sunglasses thing is more something that you might expect to see in a fiction story written by a kid in fourth grade. When I was in fourth grade I wrote a story about a hat that I could put on to make myself invisible, and the conceptual difference is really not that much.They Live is one of those 80s horror/comedy gems that is widely overlooked, especially today, when massive video chains like Blockbuster have reduced their horror sections to contain little more than the ridiculous crap that Hollywood cranks out and foolishly labels horror films, like Jeepers Creepers (one of the dumbest horror films to come along since I Know What You Did Last Summer) and other such nonsense. Granted, they still carry a few of the good ones - my local Blockbuster still has the original Nosferatu in its horror section, as well as some of the excellent recent horror films like The Ring and Ringu, upon which The Ring was based. And I DID rent They Live from my local Blockbuster, but it was in the DRAMA section. WOW. This is an example of the way that the horror genre has evolved and the way that older horror films have been affected. You would think that if they were going to completely redefine a genre, they would at least have put a movie like They Live in the COMEDY section. "},{"Title":"Disappointed.","Date":"24 April 2016","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The scene where Nada tries out the sunglasses is really the best part and actually the only good part of this movie. All the rest of it in front and in the back is just a very badly made story full of gaping plot holes and a very unoriginal message, even for that time. I had expectations of at least an amusing movie form people saying that this movie was so clever and deep. But the story felt like a severe insult to my intelligence. The main character is a total Gary Sue. He is the only one to spot out the obvious things that are supposed to be hidden from every one else and he is everywhere at the exact right time for important things to happen and everybody just knows how important he is the moment they see him. Also there is a quite pointless and unsympathetic fight scene that lasted for half an hour with the very deep and educational message that you are allowed to bully people to make them see things your way. "},{"Title":"Really good movie,","Date":"24 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I have only seen this movie once before as well,I remember I wasn't to keen on it's back then.I thought it was lot more better the second time around, I loved the plot the movie, I thought it was great , the pacing from the movie was really good.It did not get boring at all and there some decent effects in this movie but I find a lot more funny then bad taste, I saw the night beforeI loved the ending of this movie was very good and very clever and one best and funniest fight scene ever. The acting was really good in this movie7 out of 10 "}{"Title":"Better When I Was 13, But Still Entertaining","Date":"13 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" John Carpenter was able to pull off a complicated premise without too much dialogue or expensive special effects. The movie only gets a mediocre rating from me due to the over reliance on anti-capitalist sentiment that oozed out of the movie. As a fan of Rowdy Roddy Piper, it was good to see him in good form, and a fight scene between him Keith David was fantastic and believable while allowing a smirk as they threw in some wrestling moves. Meg Foster comes across as spooky with her taught face, yet mesmerizing eyes. Raymond St. Jacques also pulled off a convincing performance as the blind reverend, leaving wondering why he stopped appearing in movies. "},{"Title":"Don't remake that!  Remake this!","Date":"12 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Nada is on the scrapheap in a decade of disposable income and disposable people. The world is one that gives all its resources to those that have and increasingly little to those who don't. Something is wrong with the world but no-one can figure out quite what. That is until Nada discovers a pair of sunglasses that don't just darken the view but remove all the colour from the world. It's only when he wears these that he sees the subliminal messages that order to people to obey authority, consume as much as possible, reproduce and generally maintain the status quo. The sunglasses also reveal another secret that is all the more terrifying about the world that I'm not going to go into here.This had the potential to be the best John Carpenter film to date, however the lack of Kurt Russell in the lead role is a clear problem with Roddy Piper being an inadequate replacement for Kurt Russell. The script is pretty darn good and the idea a solid one that is well executed.The really sad thing about both this and Dark City for me is that both films really make one question the nature of the world we inhabit and invite us, the viewer, to ask questions about the world that also surrounds us, however both of these films, while good, failed at the box office, almost as if the audience where not ready to yet undertake such fundamental questions over existence. It was only when the Matrix was made that such films have started to become more acceptable to a mass audience, although the main thing to be taken from The Matrix being an overuse of wire martial arts where is is not needed.Not the best John Carpenter film he ever did, but with talk of a remake of The Thing in the pipeline I wish they would remake this one and allow it to be put together to its best potential.Still all right though.7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Brother, life's a bitch... and she's back in heat.","Date":"3 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The answer has finally become clear to me. There is some alien force behind the Faux News Channel that is poisoning the minds of those that watch. Normal people just see ridiculous news and soft core porn, but to the adherents, they see some secret messages.This was the basic premise of this interesting John Carpenter film. The aliens have taken over the world, and you need special glasses to see them. Rowdy Roddy Piper (WWE, WCF, WCW star) stumbles on the secret and gets his friend Keith David (The Oh in Ohio, Mr. & Mrs. Smith, Crash) to join him in the fight to take back America from the Neo-Cons, oops, I mean aliens.Piper was smitten with Meg Foster (The Osterman Weekend, Welcome to Arrow Beach), as was I. She has incredible eyes.Really funny ending, especially with Cibby Danyla. "},{"Title":"They Live!","Date":"30 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  They Live is good movie. I thought Roddy Piper was really good. Keith David, Meg Foster, Peter Jason, and George 'Buck' Flower was also good. Look for Al Leong! The film is a clever one. Good music. They fight between Piper and David was excellent! If you like The actors mentioned above and John Carpenter then Watch They Live! Movie Nuttball's NOTEIf you like alien movies and/or the subject of aliens I also recommend the following films The Thing from another World, The War of the Worlds, The Day the Earth Stood Still, The UFO Incident, E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial, John Carpenter's The Thing, Krull, Time Walker, My Science Project, Howard the Duck, John Carpenter's Starman, Mac and Me, Explorers, Invaders from Mars, Total Recall, The Abyss, Communion, Suburban Commando, Fire in the Sky, Independence Day, The Arrival, Mars Attacks! Men in Black I & 2, Stephen King's Dreamcatcher, Xtro 3 Watch the Skies, Battlefield Earth A Saga for the year 3000, Impostor, Stargate, The Puppet Masters, John Carpenter's Village of the Damned, Life Form, The X-Files Fight the Future, Mission to Mars, Signs, Spaceballs, Alien, Aliens, Alien 3, The entire Star Wars saga (A New Hope, The Empire Strikes Back, The Return of the Jedi (Original and Special Editions!), The Phantom Menace, & Attack of the Clones), the entire Star Trek movie saga (Star Trek The Motion Picture, The Wrath of Khan, The Search for Spock, The Voyage Home, The Final Frontier, The Undiscovered Country, Generations, First Contact, Insurrection, & Nemesis) and Stephen King's IT!  "},{"Title":"FUNNIEST SCENE EVER!","Date":"5 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The part when Nada aka roddy piper fights with the construction worker is easily the funniest scene EVER. Why do they get into an all-out full throttle brawl while using wrestling moves such as the german suplex? Perhaps maybe the reason is because Piper is a wrestler. They almost kill each other over a pair of sunglasses! Every time you think it's about to end, it doesn't! Acting and Dialogue in this movie is pathetic, and a remake should be made since it's a good idea for a film. "},{"Title":"Laughable in it's stupidity.....","Date":"3 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is hilarious, unintentionally. All the corny one-lines, the bad special effects, and most importantly the plotline make this one of those movies you laugh at. The movie has wannabe Big Brother, the Aliens are hidden and taking us over, superficial plot. Even funnier is the horrible acting and god awful ideas. Come on, cheesy 80's sunglasses help you see these corny aliens, jumping off 100 ft cliffs and landing on your feet...you get the picture. Kinda reminds me of the same seriousness you give Bloodsport or Dolemite. Wonderfully bad. Funny and sad how people think it's a well developed plot with good acting on some of these reviews.Quality 2/10 Entertainment value 8/10 "},{"Title":"A great idea for a SciFi movie.","Date":"30 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a good movie and it is Piper's best role. This could be the best picture done by an ex-wrestler. I guess I have not seen all of the Rock's movies, so I will leave him out. I will not spoil the movie, but the aliens have taken over the world and humans are brain washed. Only a handful of humans know and Piper is one of them. You must see this one. It is on cable many times and available everywhere movies are sold. "},{"Title":"Good story, terrible acting","Date":"27 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I'm not sure what people see in the fight scenes; the choreography is way off, as Piper attempts to deflect punches Keith had no idea he was going to make yet. The fighting is awfully unrealistic, especially with the police fighting scenes, and give a good nostalgic memory of the 'Four Fists', but a lot less entertaining.The story is reasonable, but definitely ruined by overly cheesy lines and bad acting. I chose to watch it due to reviews here, but I couldn't see anything to justify the time I spent watching it. "},{"Title":"cult classic","Date":"20 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  One of Carpenter' s best Rowdy Roddy Piper is great.......Must see for Carpenter fans Great actors in a fantastic screenplayBetter than most of Carpenter's box office smashes "},{"Title":"Roddy Piper Conquers the Martians...","Date":"18 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Or something like that.  At any rate, They Live proves once and for all that 1) John Carpenter was always a master of atmosphere, 2) Roddy should make more movies like this and 3) aliens are the root of all evil. The plot in a nutshell - Roddy is a drifter who discovers sunglasses that enable him to see that aliens have infiltrated our society as socially affluent yuppies and only a small band of renegade humans can save the world from staying asleep and being mentally and subliminally conquered by them.I always liked stories like this, but the way Carpenter approaches this is like an '80s version of the Red Scare only this time it's aliens, not Russians, who walk among us.  The effects, while not outstanding, are good enough to make the story acceptable.  And that fight between Roddy and Keith David, while draining, is still worth watching in the same way the old bar room brawls between John Wayne and any unlucky cow poke would be.  Maybe not innovative but remember, one of those guys is a professional wrestler!Carpenter's direction doesn't disappoint - he still maintains his usual one-good-solid-shock-per-film quota, but the story, while entertaining, just doesn't seem as original at a second glance.  The last few minutes of film, which I wouldn't reveal for anything, are pretty entertaining and give their money's worth.  All in all, They Live make for an entertaining experience.  And if you always expected something funny about the rich and affluent, even better.Seven stars and an autographed pair of sunglasses for They Live, Roddy's finest hour.TIDBIT - there's a part where Roddy grumbles, I've come to chew bubble gum and kick a**, and I'm all out of gum.  Any game players with sharp ears will recognize that as one of Duke Nukem's favorite lines in the video game Duke Nukem 3D.Hmmm...they're supposed to be making a movie featuring Duke Nukem sometime soon.  I wonder if Roddy knows? "}{"Title":"The fight scene was DREARY","Date":"23 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I really can't believe the comments I have just read praising the fight scene for its interest and realism. It is possibly the most soporific scene I have ever fidgeted through. It goes on and on and on. And as for realism... a one-year old walloped me in the face last week and it did more damage than their full-on punches. If realism was present here, we would have spent the six months following the fight watching the two blokes have reconstructive surgery and speech therapy (or seen their funerals). The world would have been long conquered by the time they were sufficiently recovered to be of any use. Otherwise I quite enjoyed it but I hesitate to recommend it unless you are prepared to yawn your way through a lot of fisticuffs. "},{"Title":"Good idea, a lot of useless violence","Date":"22 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When I saw for the first time this movie, I thought it was excellent! I was thrilled by the plot and if IMDB existed back then, it would be a straight 10! But I was 10 years younger, i.e. 14 years old. I saw it again today; I appreciated the way the plot evolves (slowly without logical gaps, something I really miss in a lot of movies), till the point the hero finds out what's going on (which is about at the 30th min of the movie). I highly recommend these 30 min because you can really get inside the atmosphere. But after that, it was a let down. I found a lot of trigger-happiness (everything evolves around guns) and this extremely tiring fighting scene. I cannot stand one minute of fistfight (so boring if it isn't for real) and with this I was bored even by pressing the FF key on the remote!A good film for those who are conspiracy theorists and don't find continuous use of violence unnecessary and diverting from the subject, or for those who want to see just a shallow action movie. What I think though, is that with a bit better directing, this could be the X-files of the 80s (or even better). Unfortunately, it isn't.  "},{"Title":"John Carpenter's They Live delivers fun scares and social commentary.","Date":"24 November 2012","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" John Carpenter has an interesting track record of films. Many are considered cult classics like Halloween, The Thing, and Escape from New York. Others are held in high esteem by some and shunned by others. I'm referring to The Fog, Prince of Darkness, and Vampires. A select few are seen as outright disasters. One prime example everyone would agree on would be Ghosts of Mars. A film that seems to fall just a little shy of being considered a shining example of his work is They Live.Two drifters try to make ends meet while working construction and living in a shanty town. One of the men, Nada (Roddy Piper), begins to notice suspicious activities occurring in the church across the street. He investigates and finds a small group of people who discovered aliens have taken over the world and dominate us subliminally through hidden messages delivered via television, billboards, newspapers, and magazines. The only way someone can see who is or isn't an alien is by putting on sunglasses that act as x-rays and expose the otherworldly intruders. Nada must find a way to convince his friends and fight back against the evil beings.It's obvious that writer Frank Armitage is using aliens as a representation of corporations, the government, and the controlling upper class in They Live. He clearly has issues with anyone trying to oppress the little guy or the less fortunate. His story works beautifully as a sort of parable exposing this idea.Where the movie breaks down is in its pacing. The set-up, beginning, and end of the film move along quite nicely. Things start to drag a bit in some middle spots, but it doesn't completely ruin the viewing experience. It redeems itself every time the sunglasses are put on and we get a glimpse behind the curtain.The age of They Live is clearly seen in its visual effects. The alien faces look like rubber masks but still look good for a low-budget sci-fi / horror film in 1988. This doesn't make it unwatchable. If anything, it adds a feeling of nostalgia and appreciation for this genre masterwork.Although I wouldn't put They Live on the same level as The Fog or Halloween, it still deserves a mid-range spot in John Carpenter's repertoire. "},{"Title":"I Wear My Sunglasses At Night...","Date":"14 June 2010","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" How can you not love this movie? Former pro wrestler Rowdy Roddy Piper is kicking ass because he's all out of bubble gum. What more do you need? But seriously folks, They Live is a mostly cool little B-Movie from famed director John Carpenter but it suffers from a bit of schizophrenia. Carpenter seems to want They Live to be both a balls-out action movie and a message movie all rolled into one film, and though he tries hard to envelop the viewer in creeping paranoia, by the end he's been more successful at the ass-kicking part.Piper stars as Nada, a mulleted drifter in a flannel shirt who wanders into L.A. looking for construction work. He takes up residence at a homeless shanty town outside a church where strange goings on seem to happen in the dead of night. One day the police show up, raid the church, and bulldoze the homeless encampment. Piper enters the now-abandoned church and finds a stash of special sunglasses. When he puts one of them on, his formerly Technicolor world is now a stark black and white, and he can see the subliminal messages hidden under every advertisement, on all TV broadcasts, and on every newspaper and magazine cover. Things like OBEY, STAY ASLEEP, NO INDEPENDENT THOUGHT, THIS IS YOUR GOD (on a dollar bill). Even more shocking is that through the glasses, some of the people he sees aren't really people, they're bug-eyed, skull faced alien beings. It quickly becomes apparent that these alien beings have taken the places of the rich, the elite and the powerful, while regular Earthlings like Nada have been relegated to the bottom of the food chain. So what's a red blooded American to do when his eyes have been opened to the truth? Pick up a shotgun and start blasting away at every skull face he sees, of course! Now a wanted man after a shootout with police, Nada succeeds in turning a fellow construction worker (Keith David) to his point of view thanks to the special sunglasses (the epic length fight scene between them that leads to David's conversion is already legend and needs no further discussion here), and our heroes hook up with an anti-alien resistance movement determined to find the enemy's broadcast signal, destroy it, and reveal the impostors to the world. I will leave it up to the viewer to find out for themselves if they're successful.As with most Carpenter films, there's a healthy dose of goofy humor underneath the skin of They Live. The scene when Piper first dons the magic glasses and sees what's hiding underneath everything is both creepy and hilarious at the same time. The film does have some pacing problems; it takes seemingly forever for the action to kick into gear but once it does They Live is a white knuckle ride to the very end, packed with shootouts, fist fights, and one-liners aplenty. Piper may not be much of an actor, but he doesn't really need to be in a film like this, and he's given suitable backup in David.Intended as a satire of 1980s materialism and consumption, They Live pretty much went over the heads of most viewers when it was current, but nowadays it holds up as a pretty decent gouging of everything that was wrong with that decade. Even scarier is that given the current world economic situation, the story could even take place today. Small wonder, then, that a remake of They Live is reportedly in the works. I hope they leave in the line about the bubble gum. "},{"Title":"Different aliens among us movie...","Date":"7 November 2009","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" 1st watched 10/6/2009, 6 out of 10 (Dir- John Carpenter) Different aliens among us movie presents the idea that all those doing well are aliens and the low life's are human. The film starts out as a homeless man just trying to get a job -- becomes curious and runs into a group that is blocking TV transmissions. He finds a box of glasses that reveals the alien presence in subliminal messages on billboards and, of course, who are aliens and who are not. The intriguing part of the movie is that some humans decide to work with the aliens to get ahead and some don't. This is obviously an allegory about our current world as well and it's nicely done by John Carpenter. Instead of a typical gross-out alien movie -- we get a thought provoking story with some action but made very plainly just to get his point across, I guess. In my opinion, this is one of his overlooked gems that should be viewed by more and given it's place as an alternative alien movie. It's not spectacular-- but has a nice slow paced story that brings you along with some tongue-in-cheek humor and an interesting message made with an obvious low budget -- but done well. "},{"Title":"They Live is happy to cheapen itself but has a lot going on under its surface,","Date":"11 October 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" They Live will probably be considered an underrated piece by its hardcore fans which would be fair to say.Its a weird little film that almost loses your interest then takes a solid turn for the better after 30mins and becomes an entertaining action film with a lot to say about how we live our everyday lives in an oblivious state allowing advertising and popular culture to manipulate our daily habits. The main characters journey is to wake everyone up from said oblivious state however some people are happy to just go with the flow and aren't so keen on waking up.The film is happy to cheapen itself with overlong fight sequences and cheesy music.One particular fight scene in an alley between WWE star Roddy Piper and Keith David looks like one of Pipers wrestling sequences and his inclusion in the film points to this scene.So in summary They Live is hardly a masterpiece but has a lot to mull over quietly bubbling under its surface. 6/10 "},{"Title":"A truly fun time!","Date":"16 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Then WWF superstar ROWDY RODDY PIPER, stars as an out of work, drifter named JOHN NADA, who caught up during a police raid one night on an abandon church housing a small group of revolutionaries, discovers a pair of sunglasses that the group is manufacturing, confused over why they were so overprotective & secretive about them, he soon learns upon putting them on, that these are no ordinary glasses, but rather a pair of special specs that allows one to see the ruling class for what they truly are, Aliens in disguise! who use subliminal messages seen on billboard, TV & radio or anything for that matter that carries any kind of slogan to control the thoughts of lives of others, completely enslaving the population into mindlessly obeying & consuming the products they offer. On the run from the law, he teams up with a buddy/co-worker of his played by Keith David & together they arm themselves with grenades & guns of all kinds & together they become outlaws, picking off aliens by the dozens. While attempting to expose the aliens true faces & hidden agendas, in an effort for society to fight back & reclaim this world from the invaders. Based on a short story from the early sixties, director JOHN CARPENTER has updated the story to modern day & seems to have had a ball in writing the script & it's not hard to see why, THEY LIVE is arguably one of John's top five best films! Carpenter seems to revel in poking his salty finger into they eye of the ruling class, especially those of the Regan era & makes several points of interest regarding the ruling class treatment over the poor & less fortunate (In fact the very next year B movie horror director BRIAN YUZNA would explore a similar avenue with his 1989 splatter effort SOCIETY) several times throughout the film & in particular during it's opening credits, Carpenter presents to us a city over filled with street people & the unemployed & struggling lower class people, who flood the unemployment offices looking for work, while the rich & powerful live it up in their high class lifestyle, attend conferences, talk about the stock market, chat in fancy restaurants etc. In a way, it's kind of an interesting action movie take on INVASION OF THE BODY SNATCHERS, it's not exactly a new idea, but it is done with an enjoyable twist. The idea is kind of humorous though, as Carpenters hero is given a glimpse of the real world & that it's really black & white & all the aliens have done is colourized it for us. The film shifts gears about midway, dropping the political satire & sci-fi angle for a straight up shoot-em up action film, with aliens taking the place of the usual human bad guys. RODDY PIPER is a likable hero & plays NADA well & this is arguably Piper's best film, he's both fun & funny & really makes his character interesting. In fact, one can almost relate his character to that of Snake Plissken in Carpenters ESCAPE FROM NEWYORK/L.A. & Destination Willams from the directors mediocre, GHOST OF MARS, both are loners, & both by each films end, help expose & bring down a corrupt system & that's another thing I liked about the ending, it leaves it wide open for fans who have seen it, to draw their own conclusion on how things would go now that the alien race has been exposed & the public will realize that they have been had, will a war break out between man & alien? will man win the war & reclaim society yet again? or have the aliens truly conquered mankind with their technology, to the point they are fully able to take control of man & enslave him? The ending itself with the death of the hero's is awfully downbeat after such a fun ride & MEG FOSTER all though performing well as a middle class woman caught up in the madness & who befriends Nada, is wasted in a role that could so easily have been written out, since her character has only fifteen minutes of screen time & barely fits the story at all, since there is no time to really bring her character into the films main plot, since she arrives midway in the film for ten minutes, before showing up in the final five minutes. There was no time for her & Piper's character to really interact & flesh out the idea of a possible romance that was gelling between the two. Well acted & directed, with great stunts & some pretty good action sequences, THEY LIVE is deserving of it's high praise & cult status. Good make-up effects with the aliens as well. Highly recommended to fans of the genre!**** stars "},{"Title":"Good Scenario Idea, Yet Mediocre Total Result","Date":"31 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Carpenter's They Live is based on a clever scenario idea Mankind is dominated by human-looking aliens, who are blended inside the social system unnoticed. The aliens occupy all the leadership positions, while they broadcast hidden subjucating messages (obey, conform to authority, etc.) to the humans who are given only the hard-labor positions. Everything runs smoothly (for the aliens) until a construction worker is getting involved into a rebel group who has found out what's really happening and tries to revolt.Clever the idea might be, its implementation is below expectations. The characters are rather improbable and unconvincing, the plot develops and ends up in a quite naive way, and Carpenter has certainly directed some better movies than this one.All in all the film gets a 6/10 pass grade. "},{"Title":"Entertaining if Flawed","Date":"13 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  THEY LIVE tries to be both a social statement and an action film and doesn't entirely succeed in either area. Both do provide their moments though. The best scenes in the entire film are the wild subliminal  world underneath the real world Nada sees when he first puts on the glasses. Now this is a wild idea I would like to see examined a little more in film. While we all know there's a ring of truth in what is revealed to Nada here - In reality things aren't quite that black an white. Good and evil can not be so easily determined. The action stuff is sometimes good with loads of violent and exaggerated gun battles but the film seriously lacks logic here too as people do things which are totally impossible. Still if you don't think too much about it and overlook the plot holes and illogic of the ending, you'll have fun watching it. Basically if you enjoy action films it's a good romp. I admit I enjoyed it for what it was. "},{"Title":"Best Paranoia Film of the 80's","Date":"16 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When this flick came out, many people who saw it told meit was symbolic of the Japanese  financial take over of theUS(remember  in the 80's when Corporate Japan was  buying everything they could in the US at inflated prices?). Acouple  people told me that it was about the Jews takingover the US.  I decided to see it myself and I rented thevideo. My conclusion? It can be who or whatever you want itto be depending on your worldview.   I enjoyed this movie taking it at face value and wassurprised at Piper's performance. Good action/Sci-fi withadequate special effects and some good twists in the plot. Rating  7  "}{"Title":"Not a bad effort from John Carpenter.","Date":"14 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  John Carpenter has made some very good films (Halloween, The Thing) and also some very bad ones (Prince of Darkness, In The Mouth of Madness) but this falls somewhere in-between.I have this film on video at home and I think the film has some very good ideas about how we fit into society.  The idea that we are surrounded by aliens disguised as humans unless you wear some special spectacles is a good idea.The only bit in the movie that really gets on my nerves is the bit where Roddy Piper tries to get Keith David to wear the glasses but he won't and a rather unnecessary long and protracted fight happens. I suppose because Mr Piper is a wrestler they had to have it in there somewhere.If it were remade with a better main actor it would a far superior film than it turned out to be. "},{"Title":"Entertaining with an obvious message","Date":"11 April 2007","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Fairly entertaining, but pretty dumb and way too heavy-handed with its message. I mean, I have no problem with biting satire, but can you get any more obvious than huge messages all over the city? Not very subtle. The concept of humanity being 'asleep' is an interesting one, but would be done much better a decade later in The Matrix. Roddy Piper does his best Arnold Schwarzenegger, and dissolves from an interesting character to a generic action hero by the end, but has some classic lines (I have come here to chew bubble gum and kick ass, and I'm all out of bubble gum!) and possibly the best 'fall out of a window' scene ever. There's also an incredibly long and random fight scene between him and Keith David that, while fun to watch, is pretty terribly choreographed - it's obvious they're not hitting each other. It also comes right out of nowhere. By the end, any semblance of a serious satire has been replaced by another generic '80s action flick. A fun watch, but that's about it. "},{"Title":"Cheesy fun with a very clear message","Date":"8 November 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" It's easy to see what Carpenter thinks about the USA in this movie.Well, not so much about the USA, more about the politics during the time of yuppies and Reagonomics. In retrospect, it's easy to do what Bret Easton Ellis did in American Psycho; despise it and denounce it. Carpenter did that when it actually happened, which is more admirable.Politics aside, the movie has it's ups and downs. It's got a visibly low budget, the main character is played by a wrestler, there is circa 0,9 female characters in the entire movie, and the political message is plain as day.On the other hand, it's well directed, some simple things add originality without straining the budget, the make-up effects are really cool and there are some funny one-liners. Some scenes are pretty chilling as well, especially when Roddy Piper puts the glasses on for the first time.The script is a bit weak though, and it's probably the movie's biggest fault. No-one can help a small budget, but a script is free(Carpenter wrote it himself). The ending is too convenient, everything goes well. Still, maybe seeing mr. Piper cleverly figure out the big clue would have been equally bad.Even though it's not a quality movie, it's certainly worthwhile. "},{"Title":"Oh, They Live Alright","Date":"2 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The story of a homeless man (Roddy Piper) who stumbles upon some sunglasses that give him the ability to see the media's true messages and what lies beneath the skin of some of earth's more powerful people. (Hint Either someone was reading too much David Icke before filming this, or Icke stole his philosophy from this film.)The film started as the 1963 short story Eight O'Clock in the Morning by Ray Nelson. Nelson is an interesting guy in his own right, having studied theology and meeting the greats of the Beat Generation before becoming a science fiction writer alongside his friend Philip K. Dick. The short story (only a few pages) was very heavily used the name Nada, the reptilians, the hidden messages, and the key component of the TV station. This is possibly John Carpenter's most under-rated movie. Unlike The Fog, Halloween or Assault on Precinct 13, which were doing just fine, this is the one most in need of a remake with updated technology and special effects. Not that any ought to be remade, but this one makes sense. But do not get me wrong, they did great with what they had.The plot drags at times (especially in the first half), and the messages get repetitive, but the underlying satire is a somewhat biting one -- though maybe not as blunt as I would like. There is an interesting interpretation of the free enterprise system, wherein aliens are using America -- and presumably the rest of Earth -- for natural resources, as though we were the Third World and to be exploited. What is interesting is if you take this to the next logical step, which the film does not.Assuming it is justifiable for us to fight off the foreign menace who are using our resources to make themselves rich while we suffer, it stands to reason that the Third World people have the right to fight off foreign invaders who exploit them for their resources and make them suffer. Which I presume is the point of this film -- causing us to think about how some people are rich and others are not. The answer is because we can turn our backs to the poor and feel no guilt.Carpenter has said this film is a response to the policies of the Reagan era. And that is undoubtedly what called Carpenter to action, but to pin this as anti-Reagan is too narrow. The film condemns consumer culture as a whole, which is not a conservative versus liberal issue. It is an American issue, or even a first world issue.But, yeah. Starring Rowdy Roddy Piper. Fighting police. And getting into the most memorable fight in movie history with Keith David... which seems like 15 minutes, but is really only 5 minutes and 20 seconds. You will wish it was longer, trust me. What more to say? Watch this movie! Carpenter's second best sci-fi movie, next to The Thing, easily. Recommended!Scream Factory has released the definitive edition of this film on Blu-ray. Not only does it look and sound great, but it has a full-length commentary from Carpenter and Piper. The back of the disc says it has more features than listed, and this is quite right you will be bust for hours watching all the content, including an interview with Meg Foster. "},{"Title":"Great concept but poorly executed","Date":"14 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Nada (Roddy Piper) is a drifter who come to L.A. skid row. He gets a construction job and co-worker Frank (Keith David) leads him to an outdoor homeless camp. Gilbert (Peter Jason) is the leader of the camp. Nada follows Gilbert into a church. He finds sunglasses and 'They Live We Sleep' written on the walls. The police comes to raid the church and tear down the camp. The next day, Nada goes back to the church to find a box of those sunglasses. When he puts them on, he sees the world as it actually is. The world is full of subliminal messages and the most power people are all weird looking aliens. He starts getting in trouble with the cops and he kidnaps Holly (Meg Foster) to hide out at her home.I certainly like the concept behind this movie but I don't really like Roddy Piper. He has a very narrow acting range. He's only good for fighting. Also I don't like the character as he is written. He can't give those sunglasses away. The fight to put them on Frank is ridiculously stupid. It is a great concept wasted by a poor leading man and a weak execution. The guys literally fell into the alien headquarters. The whole final battle looks so badly done. I have never seen any movie character get shot and fall backwards like that. And they did it twice. This is just so badly done. "},{"Title":"A Bit Underwhelming For A Carpenter Film!","Date":"1 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" They Live, sadly, is one of my least favorite John Carpenter films. It is a shame because, like with most of his films, They Live has a great premise. The problem is that most of the characters, save one, I do not care for. The main character especially got on my nerves half way through the film. The way it ends is a bit anti-climactic as well.The film stars a drifter named Nada, played by Roddy Piper. He comes to this out-of-the-way workplace looking for a job. There he meets a man named Frank, played by Keith David. Nada then comes across a group of mysterious people lurking around with boxes filled with sunglasses. After a riot breaks out he puts on the one pair of the sunglasses, and through them he sees an entirely different world. He comes to realize that aliens have enslaved humanity without them even realizing it. They can only be seen in their true form with the sunglasses. Nada then tries to get Frank on his side but he thinks he is crazy at first. However, Frank eventually joins up with him and, together with a group of resistance fighters, they must free the world.There are many good things about the film. The premise is interesting. The makeup effects for the aliens themselves look fine. I also like Keith David in the film. He is a great actor and has a great voice. I like that over the years he has grown in popularity a bit.However, the rest of the cast I do not care for. I liked the main character, Nada, in the beginning, but later on he kind of annoyed me. Roddy Piper does a so-so job acting wise. He was not bad but he was not that good either. Once he finds out about the aliens and their takeover he does the dumbest thing ever. He breaks into a bank armed and shoots all the aliens disguised as humans painting as a crazy maniac, and now everyone is after him. I understand that he is in shock, but he should have handled everything with more of a cool head. When he confronts Frank again and Frank thinks he is crazy I do not blame him. If Nada had handled everything with a cool head he could have made everything easier on himself.The other characters are not even worth mentioning. The effects are not bad, but they are pretty sub-par. They are nothing compared to the effects in The Thing or Starman. While the makeup effects were good, I do not care for the design of the aliens. The ending was a bit anti-climactic too.Overall, They Live is not bad. I think that, if you are a fan of John Carpenter's other films, then this is worth at least one viewing. However, compared to most of his other work, I felt that this was sub-par. "},{"Title":"Actually very clever beneath all the silliness","Date":"14 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A nameless drifter know simply as 'Nada' (former WWF wrestler Roddy Piper) wanders into Los Angeles and finds construction work to get him by. He befriends Frank (Keith David), who takes him to a homeless community, where the impoverished do what they can to help themselves and each other. Nada notices that at a nearby church, a group of freedom fighters, including a man who hacks into TV stations to deliver a message about society being enslaved, are stocking something in massive quantities. When the police destroy the community, Nada escapes after stealing one of the boxes, only to discover they are stacked with sunglasses which, when worn, allows Nada to see the truth - the planet has been overthrown by an elite alien race that are using advertising and mass media to deliver subliminal messages to the consumerist public.Using numerous sources, including the work of H.P. Lovecraft and the short story 'Eight O'Clock in the Morning' by Ray Nelson, as his inspiration, director John Carpenter coined the idea for They Live after becoming sickened by the media's aim to simply take your money. It's a quite fascinating concept, as Nada wanders the streets littered with signs dictating messages such as 'Obey', 'Marry and Reproduce' and 'Keep Sleeping', to keep the human race zombified and hooked on consuming. Admittedly, it's a rather graceless and unsubtle execution, but They Live has its tongue so far in its cheek that its popping out the other side, and its mise-en-scene rooted in comic book aesthetic. When Nada wanders into a bank rocking a shotgun, spying the numerous alien suits, and proclaims I have come here to chew bubble gum and kick ass... and I'm all out of bubble gum!, you'll know it's not exactly a film to take too seriously.The film is littered with memorable scenes and moments that have cemented its status amongst the cult favourites of its era, and most memorable is the five minute fight between Nada and Frank, as the former tries to get the latter to try the sunglasses, with Frank refusing given Nada's previous killing spree. It's a ridiculous episode, re-starting numerous times when you think its all over, but it's very funny, and actually impressively choreographed. The casting of 'Rowdy' Roddy Piper as the lead only increases the curiosity I had with this film, and although he's never going to win any Oscars, his lethargic and stoic approach suits his character, and makes himself a memorable hero (even with his sociopathic yet casual approach to mass murder). But beneath all the silliness, there is something very clever here, and has a relevant message that is even more powerful today. The coming together of various mediums into something we carry in our pocket, means the advertising elite are now always on our person - our phones seem to run our lives, with millions noting down their every move on social networking sites. Anyway, I digress, but it's these intriguing themes that make it such a shame that the film is so eager not to take itself too seriously, it resorts to ham-fisted (yet very funny) action scenes and cheesy one-liners every time it's in danger of becoming satirical. Yet, I suppose, it's the ridiculousness of the film that makes it so memorable, and it is undoubtedly a fun and colourful comic-book sci- fi/horror. "},{"Title":"Cheesy, but some of the best one liners ever!","Date":"7 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Story Aliens invade and a guy fights them with guns while spouting one liners. Seriously, what more do you want? Carpenter spends a lot of time jumping up and down on his soapbox, with the hidden messages on the money and the billboards being oh so subtle (This is your god!), but it's done in such a cheesy, over the top way that it becomes quite hilarious. There are a few moments of plot induced stupidity, mainly coming from the bum who turns out to be working with the aliens not noticing that Piper's face was on TV as being wanted when he takes Piper inside the alien base. C Acting Roddy Piper does an excellent job of playing a very understated character at the beginning of this movie. Then once he notices the aliens around him he starts spouting one liners in an over the top fashion. In many ways it felt like his character had split personalities. I also love the fact that the first offensive move he does in this movie is a good old fashioned clothesline from pro wrestling. Keith David is probably the star actor of this movie, unless you count the fight between him and Roddy which was probably the real star of this movie, just ask South Park (Cripple Fight!). C Visuals Okay, this movie looked awesome. The special effects are a bit dated, but they more or less hold up to this day. The differences between the real world and the world seen through the glasses are awesome. John Carpenter is and will always be one of my favorite directors and this one was pretty good, although his love for long shots cost the scene of the cops beating up people in the back alley. That scene needed some creative editing and rapid cuts to make the hits look like they were actually impacting the victims. B Sound Carpenter loves synthesizers, as shown by this movie, Prince of Darkness, and In the Mouth of Madness. In this one we get the blues as played through a synth, which makes for an eerie sound. No foleys kicked me out of the movie, so all around we're good. A Overall This is a really stupid movie and I love it. It has become a bit hard to find these days, and if you consider yourself a fan or Carpenter and/or Evil Dead 2, then this movie is worth hunting down. I'd be willing to pay up to fifteen dollars for a good copy or a buck or two for a used VHS copy somewhere. C Tacmovies We're not failed film students who bitterly criticize successful movies... really... sniffle... so, um... yeah, ahem Follow our reviews on blogspot, flixter, IMDb, yahoo movies, and youtube. "},{"Title":"There's just two things you need to know","Date":"6 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Rowdy Roddy Piper and Keith David - hardcore 80's wrestlers going at it big time, Kicking some Alien Ass.And One of the best lines in a film ever i'm gonna kick ass and chew bubblegum and i'm all outta' gum!you just cant get any better than that when it comes to scripting comedy in films. the scene where the two guys fight over wearing sun glasses is a real joke, but as pointless as the fight is, its bloody hilarious. A must watch film! )----------- ------------- ------------- ------------ - --------- --------------- ------------ --------- ------- ----------------- ---------------------- -------- ----------- --------- ------------ -------- -------- --- ------- ----- ----- "},{"Title":"How can people claim this a clever movie?? Simply over-rated!","Date":"26 June 2011","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Imagine you find a pair of sun glasses that allow you to differentiate aliens from normal people, what would you do?? Panick, very likely; try to know why, probable; pretend not knowing anything, also acceptable behaviour.... but start mocking those aliens and even attack alien policemen, grab their guns and shoot?? What the ...? And fighting for two minutes to force another guy to put on the sun glasses?? Another waste of 2 minutes of my life.The acting is atrocious. That guy who played Roddy seems to have no emotion. In fact, he looks like an absolute idiot. Every other actor/actress talks so so so slooowwly as if the director didn't have much to say and wanted to artificially stretch the film.The movie may have a good idea, but a good idea does not make a good movie. This is awfully and awkwardly done. Simply over-rated. "}{"Title":"...and I'm *all* outta bubble-gum.","Date":"24 May 2009","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" From the first moments, you can tell this is Carpenter. The building of the mood is impeccable. The great synthesized tunes fit perfectly. The action/thriller scenes are intense, entertaining, exciting and engaging. As the best of his do, this has an excellent concept behind it(and it's incredibly well-integrated), and one that makes you think, that stays with you long after the credits have run. Piper being in the role didn't bother me, and he does just fine. David and he are awesome in this. The acting is never below average. The plot is marvelous, and develops nicely throughout. I can also vouch for the high quality of the short story that this was based on, and I certainly would suggest it to anyone who enjoys this, and vice versa. I won't detail the idea, and would say that going into this without knowing it is a good way to do the initial viewing. There are grand surprises and twists in this. The sense of humor is bad-ass. The dialog, including the one-liners, is all well-delivered. The pacing is spot-on. The characters are well-written and credible. The special effects are quite nice, if dated by todays standards, and they arguably were never as well-done as they could have been, with a larger budget, but that's part of the charm, and they work well. I recommend this to any fan of the talented director and/or any of the cast or crew. 7/10 "},{"Title":"One of John Carpenter's Best!","Date":"5 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  -contains a spoiler-This film certainly challenges  Buckaroo Banzai, Repo Man, Six  String Samurai and Dawn of the  Dead as some of the best cult films  of all time. Keith David and Roddy  Piper were great in this film, not  matter the fact that neither had much  acting ability (though David has  improved over the years). I will state  this, this film had one of the all-time funniest moments. The last scene,  where the lover suddenly starts  fornicating and says `Hey Baby,  what's wrong.' A gas of a scene to  see if you haven' watched this movie.  Anyway, I'm a slut for bad movies  which have no problem making  fun of themselves. "},{"Title":"Morning in America Gets a Wake Up Call","Date":"12 May 2012","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Homeless blond muscle-man Roddy Rowdy Piper (as John Nada) drifts to the streets of Los Angeles. He receives some friendly help from fellow construction worker Keith David (as Frank Armitage). While taking in the sights and sounds of the city, Mr. Piper observes some intense police action. He observes strange happenings at church and on TV. It all culminates in what looks like a giant drug bust, but Piper finds the contraband is only a box of cheap black sunglasses. He puts on a pair and, we're off and running...They Live! is a wild ride from director John Carpenter. He also contributes to the writing (from a Ray Nelson story) and music; the soundtrack is especially outstanding. There are flaws as the film plays on - it's fine until a confrontation inserted more to give viewers a long, bone-crunching fight scene than move the narrative convincingly. The second half is less interesting, but it's never dull. Marvelously-eyed Meg Foster (as Holly Thompson) provides Piper with feminine interest, and there are fine supporting roles for George Buck Flower and Raymond St. Jacques. This is one of the better films about the underclass in America during the 1980s.******* They Live (11/4/88) John Carpenter ~ Roddy Piper, Keith David, Meg Foster, George 'Buck' Flower "},{"Title":"Relatively disappointing.","Date":"30 April 2015","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The intro is promising an atmospheric introduction of a newcomer in town with some fine some blues music nice shots. But things become rather dull pretty fast after that. A couple of really good scenes (the scene with the bird eye shot for instance) are still there, but that's about it.The long fight between Nada and Frank is dubious; it is so misplaced and silly, that it somehow becomes funny on some level. Personally, I'm not crazy about Roddy Piper's on-screen presence, let alone his delivery and one-liners. Perhaps, with some leniency, one can observe all that as that fight.A really cool aspect is the sunglasses, or more particularly what can be seen through them. All in all, to me this is not the cult classic I've read about, though it's certainly not all bad.5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Libertarian cult classic or just not so good?","Date":"12 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" But back to the movie. I suppose that any collectivism vs. individualism movie&#x97;from Invasion of the Body Snatchers to 1984 or The Matrix &#x97;manifests similar qualities. The sad thing is that in reality, when collectivism rules, we have only (defective) humans to blame. Our collectivist rulers are aliens only symbolically; though I would not be surprised if the defect that afflicts them were biological and those who are addicted to power may someday be shown to have been a distinct subspecies of homo sapien.In the movies, for dramatic impact no doubt, the writers seem to need to posit alien creatures at some location in the collectivist-ruler political metaphor. So They Live comes along and shows the rulers to be ape-like humanoids who can only be seen in their true appearance by humans with a cheap pair of nerdy wraparound sunglasses. ...For my complete review of this movie and for other movie and book reviews, please visit my site TheCoffeeCoaster.com.Brian Wright Copyright 2009 "},{"Title":"Uh ... They Live!","Date":"20 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" They live! They breath! They look like your cousin! Who are they? And what do they want? Well, they want you. They're the aliens of John Carpenter's They Live.Wrestler Roddy Piper plays a homeless construction worker who finds himself and his home of lowlifes being run down by police officers late one night. The next day, Roddy decides to take a walk and finds himself in the church across the street. Using his supa-wrestla-kick, he knocks down a section of wall and - voila! - he finds a few dozen boxes of sunglasses. Big deal, right? Wrong. When old Roddy here puts on them sunglasses, he sees the world as it really is - about 40% of our population are otherwordly invaders intent on conquering our earth. Through the media, stock market, and billboards, of course. They don't wanna kill us! They just wanna wipe us all out non-violently. Of course, wrestler Roddy doesn't care. He teams up with his buddie, grabs a few machine guns, and sets out to blow 'em all to hell.This is They Live, a minor yet popular film in horror master John Carpenter's career. While no where near as good as hits like The Thing or Halloween, They Live is one of Carpenter's most entertaining and simple films ever. It's also one of my favorites. It features fine acting thrown into some completely unbelievable situations; nice direction, but nothing special; and some very cool creature effects. Don't rent the film expecting any horror masterpiece. With lines like Life's a bitch, and she's back in heat! or You look like your face fell in the cheese dip back in 1956, you know you aren't going to find the greatest sci-fi thriller you've ever seen. If you keep that in mind, I think you'll find a fun albeit plain film.Overall, I liked They Live, but at the end you can't help wanting more than you got. Although, I must admit, the final minute is outrageous. They Live, that we know. The question is - will you live? (Yes, I realize that was almost as bad as Roddy's bubble gum speech) "},{"Title":"One of Carpenter's Lesser Epics","Date":"11 October 2012","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Halloween helmer John Carpenter must have run out of dough while he was making They Live with Rodney Piper, Meg Foster, and Keith David. This enigmatic, alien invasion thriller about deception and mind-control unfolds with urgency, developing the dysptopian world that our brawny hero must negotiate carefully to survive. Nada (Rodney Piper) walks out of a railway tunnel at the outset and enters sprawling Los Angeles. Eventually, he finds work on a construction crew and takes up residence in a makeshift camp. The residents sit around and watch television. Occasionally another weaker signal interferes with Cable Channel 54, but little about these bootleg transmissions makes sense to anybody. Nada becomes best friends with Frank (Keith David) who helped him get a job on the construction crew. One day Nada investigates a nearby Catholic Church and discovers that the choir warbles their songs from a tape recorder. A group of resistance members use the church as their headquarters from which they beam out a signal.Things really begin to happen when our hero finds a cardboard box brimming with huge, wraparound sunglasses. When he slips them on, wearing them is akin to staring through an X-ray machine. Nada is horrified to learn that Earth has been invaded by aliens, and these extraterrestrials have gradually taken over society, subdued nations, and are working with quislings to uproot any remaining pockets of resistance. Nada tries to get Frank to slip on the spectacles, but he refuses. These two guys battle each other as if they were titans in a smackdown in an ally. When it appears that the fight can go no longer, Nada surprises Frank and takes him down. Frank reacts with similar horror after he sees what is really happening. Messages about procreation, watching television, obeying, and others populate the landscape. Humans look at them and cannot see the message without the glasses. These two hellions embark on a crusade. They encounter a resident from the makeshift camp (Buck Flowers) who has sold out to the aliens. Along the way, they have a running battle with the authorities who are trying to wipe out the last vestiges of resistance. Early in the action, Nada takes a hostage (Meg Foster) and believes erroneously that she is sympathetic to the cause. He performs one hell of a header from her apartment.The chief problem with They Live is that it has a downer of an ending. Our heroes never confront an alien leader. They blast away at alien soldiers but they never learn much about the occupying aliens, except that resistance is futile. Of course, this doesn't prevent Nada and Frank from carrying out their mission. When our heroes don their sunglasses, they can differentiate between the aliens and the humans. Humans appear normal when peering at them through the glasses. The aliens, however, look like ghouls with hockey masks and their faces and bodies are dappled. Just when it looks like our heroes are about to make a difference, They Live ends on an inconsequential note. Apparently, this is the kind of supernatural, science fiction saga where the aliens triumph over humanity. Carpenter makes our heroes sympathetic, while the aliens are unsightly. Actually, They Live qualifies as one of Carpenter's lesser efforts. The aliens are too cryptic and the heroes aren't heroic enough. Finally, They Live ends up as a disappointment. The orchestral soundtrack that Carpenter composed is atmospheric. Meg Foster makes a superb alien. "},{"Title":"Borrow but don't buy","Date":"12 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" If ever a film was ripe for a remake, surely it's this badly acted piece of crap? A great conceit (which I'll not spoil for you), a nice visual idea (only let down by pretty much every aspect of the cheap 80s effects), a great lead role (tragically given to Rowdy Roddy Piper &#150; at least it wasn't Hulk Hogan, I suppose&#133;) &#150; everything's in place to make an interesting sci-fi/adventure flick. As you may have gathered, I was disappointed by this film. I would have liked it more if it hadn't been as good, if that makes sense? The annoying thing is that it had potential, and then let itself down (Meg Foster's 'acting' is spectacularly wooden) by wretched delivery of dialogue and the most insultingly token boob shot I've ever seen (late on &#150; you can't miss it). On the plus side, it is actually enjoyably funny, and the lengthy fight between Piper and David Keith is a comedy highlight. Borrow but don't buy. "},{"Title":"Sci-fi with a sense of humor.","Date":"23 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  John Carpenter directs a neat piece of sci-fi. An out of work construction worker(Roddy Piper)is bumming around the streets of town when he finds some very weird sunglasses. Wearing the sunglasses he sees some of the most prominent citizens as they really are bug-eyed, skull-faced aliens that have invaded earth to exploit the poor and rule the world.Also in this thriller are Meg Foster, Keith David, Raymond St. Jacques and Jason Robards III. "},{"Title":"Fun but paranoid liberal fantasy about the Reagan years","Date":"1 June 2006","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I dug this film when I first saw it. I saw it again last night and still dug it but found myself laughing at what John Carpenter obviously thought was deep social comment on the Reagan years.I love John Carpenter, when he's at his best (THE THING) nobody can beat him. But John, just like anyone can cross the line into the sanctimonious thinly disguised statement of policy according to the director.That's fine if the statement is better thought out and more complex then the underlying one of They Live.Still, in this movie, even though that line is indeed crossed, it still has enough cheesy, campy Sci-fi appeal to halfway overlook the shallow socio-political world view.The movie was made in 1988, in the midst of a robust economic expansion. Yet, it chooses to portray an America that is on the skids for all but a few.And those few are either Repub... I mean Aliens exploiting the planet and the masses and Reagan Democr.... er I mean the human turncoats that are in league with them to enrich themselves.The Aliens can only be exposed with special glasses (along with all the subliminal propaganda that is printed in magazines, billboards, TV and even on currency). I don't know how those glasses can reorder the scan lines of a cathode ray tube in order to show hidden things on the TV but I guess I shouldn't try to figure that one out. The exposed aliens look like they are missing the skin on their faces or maybe they are wearing masked with some sort of holographic generator to generate facial features. Okay, I promise to stop trying to figure this out. Okay, you can see the Aliens with the glasses but how do you identify the human turncoats? Well, they are the characters that have more than one nickel to rub together mostly. Because, in Carpenter's world, no one comes by wealth honestly (except for movie directors, perhaps).SPOILER For instance, how many were really surprised that Holly Thomson was a turncoat? All you have to do is look at her nice apartment and you could've written that surprise yourself.Still, all that is easily put aside so you can enjoy the lines and the moments.Lines like I'm here to kick ass and chew bubblegum and I'm all out of bubblegum and Life's a bitch and she's back in heat and moments like the ultimately hilarious 5+ minute long fist fight between Roddy Piper and Keith David's characters.A 5 minute rumble over Roddy wanting Keith to put on the glasses so he too can see the Aliens and messages.I don't care how macho bull#%$* you are, most would just put on the glasses instead of having a couple broken ribs BUT NOOOOOOOO......Not that it slowed them down any. I mean, Roddy Piper was already tossed out a plate glass window from a couple stories before they fought and seemed only momentarily encumbered.Then, it took only a few scenes after this knock down drag out for both of them to look completely recovered.Too bad universal health-care wasn't on the radar in 1988, John could've had them both had to go to the hospital after the fight and encounter a whole new group of aliens bent on keeping prescription drugs and medical care high. But that may be another story.Finally, what really bears mentioning about They Live is how it must've inspired The Matrix to a certain extent. Aliens coming to Earth and hide themselves by altering our perception of reality.Main characters break out of that alternate reality and try to take down the aliens through lots of ammo and insurrection Whoa..!Ultimataly, They Live is more enjoyable because it's only pretentious in it's politics. The Matrix is pretentious across the board (with CGI, I guess they can afford to be).It also lacks John Carpenter's sense of fun (not to mention his scoring. John is the king of making minimalist, repetitious background music for his movies that somehow work)And any time Rowdy Roddy Piper is not in his kilt, it's a plus (hey, he turned in a decent performance). "}{"Title":"Good social commentary, but slow pacing","Date":"15 September 2005","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Title They Live (1988) Director John Carpenter Cast Rody Piper, Keith David, Meg Foster Review John Carpenter is hailed as a horror master anywhere you go, and why not he has made such incredible contributions to the genre that heck, there's no way that he could NOT be considered amongst one of the greats. But among those great ones there's a few crappy ones and a few so-so ones. They Live is one of the so-so ones, in my opinion.The story is about a drifter named NADA (that means nothing in Spanish by the way) and the guy is looking for a job trying to make his way in life. So when he ends up in a shelter he discovers that there is actually a whole rebel force teaming up to go up against these aliens that are trying to take over our world. Here comes Roddy Piper and David Keith ready to take them on and kick their collective asses.This movie has a few things going for it and a few bad things going for it. Ill start by the good stuff. First off, the biggest attraction for me with this movie is the story. There's aliens that are trying to take over the world while disguising themselves as human beings is a great story. I love how they represent the rich and oppressive side of humanity. How the rich and powerful are trying to keep the poor poor and ignorant. Only in this movie they are aliens trying to manipulate us via the TV set and subliminal messages spread out all over the media. Great stuff. Immediately anyone who has felt the oppression and constant hammering of the media and the never ending bombardment of TV commercials will instantly identify with this story. So thats what grabbed me right away.What didn't grab me right away was the slow pacing of the film. Right from the get go when you hear the movies soundtrack which consists of a slow as hell bass line you know you are in for a slow flick. And it never really picks up, its just constantly slow. There was never an effort to liven things up, its all very ho hum. Even the action sequences had nothing special about em...and yeah, I'm talking about that fight sequence between Piper and Keith. I really didn't find it all that special.Another thing that didn't really do it for me were the stupid decisions that the characters kept on making over and over again. Walk around broad daylight with a shot gun in hand? Check. Walk into a bank with a shotgun in hand and start shooting at everybody? Check. Hows about letting the aliens know that you can see their true appearance? OK, lets do that! There's more things they do like that, but it just drove me nuts after a while. And ultimately made me hate the main characters....or feel sorry for their high level of stupidity.Then there's the aliens themselves. First off, the rebels say that the aliens are breeding us to use us as slaves? And they want to take over the world, but we never really see any of this happening, in fact the aliens seem pretty harmless to me, save for the fact that they are not from this planet, they really aren't a threat! For the longest time I kept asking myself, why are these aliens being portrayed as evil? What exactly are they doing thats so damn bad for humanity, and an answer to that question never really showed up. So suddenly I felt like the humans were really just being a bunch of racists. Shooting aliens just cause they ain't humans.The look of the aliens didn't really bother me because I think its kind of cool in a low budget sort of way. I mean lets face it, they obviously didn't have much moola if the aliens ended up looking like that. When they talk it looks so fake! You can tell its just a cheap ass mask over the actors face. Anyhows, not a big problem for me, but I'm sure a lot of people will hate it.And finally, I really gotta say that watching this flick I got the same feeling I got when I watched Jhon Carpenters Ghost of Mars and Prince of Darkness. I just really felt that Carpenter got really lazy while making this flick. You can tell certain story elements and script elements could have been developed further and better, you can tell certain scenes could have been directed better had they been planed more elaborately. I don't know the whole film just films like a rushed job, specially towards the ending.But don't get me wrong, I don't hate this movie, I like its themes and what its trying to say. I get the message fo the film and all. It was about chicks right? Just kidding. But really, what rubbed me the wrong way was the sloppy execution. Heres to Carpenters golden days the good old days, the days of Chinese ghost stories, ghost pirates and spider like alien heads. Those days seem to be gone forever.Rating 21/2 out of 5 "},{"Title":"Overrated (especially in the intelligence apartment)","Date":"13 March 2002","Score":"8 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Everybody seems to be fawning over the fact that this movie shows all the 'true' meanings behind advertising. And while it may be an interesting thing to watch an attack on the Reagan-establishment, this quality does not make a movie good intertainment, but potentially good education... Of course the sunglasses are an interesting idea - but the movie goes nowhere with it. It just turns into another help-they're-invading-shootout, with one cool gimmick. "},{"Title":"They Live by John Carpenter is horrible.","Date":"7 April 2010","Score":"9 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I understand a remake of this 1988 movie is in production now - why? It was horrible the first time, and I do not expect much better the second time around, since it is the same director. The first movie had horrible acting, horrible writing, and horrible directing.The lead role then, (1988) was played by a professional wrestling star, Rowdy Rod Piper, and the smaller parts were nothing worth mentioning either, with exception of Keith David who played Armitage.The script was poorly written, for it does not show why Meg Foster's character, Holly did not have the unusual and scary kind of night-of-the-living dead face as her other cronies, and looked completely human. Yet she pushes Rod's character, Nada off a balcony with such strength, but Nada can't identify her like he can the other enemies with the sunglasses. The script also does not reveal why some of the deaders can push a button on their sci-fi wristwatch and disappear quickly, while others don't even try, and instead are shot and killed by Nada and the good guys. Then there is the matter of the sunglasses themselves, which don't appear to be any particular kind or brand or with any special characteristics to reveal the walking dead, as if any old pair of sunglasses will do just fine. Yet the deaders are amazed, and exclaim We have one that can see. Yeah - no special sunglasses, just an ordinary sundry item that you can get anywhere, and the deaders didn't think about that beforehand. Really how gullible do you think the watching audience is? Plenty of other holes in the story also.The direction is poor, for why would John Carpenter have some scenes shot where it is one hour of the day inside and another hour of the day outside, but it is supposed to be the same time of day, like 5 minutes later. An no it is not because the movie takes place in a time warp, but just sloppy directing.The movie They Live is a rating of 1 out of 10, but only because I cannot rate it a zero. "},{"Title":"The village idiot of films...","Date":"24 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  They Live a profound movie? You gotta be kidding me...at least in the traditional sense. The production values are too ridiculous, the explaination for why the '80s was a time to be loathed is too convinient, and exactly how bullets did those guns have in them? AND YET...and yet I can't help thinking about it without a quote from Eric Hoffer (quoted by Harlan Ellison in his An Edge in My Voice collection of essays) floating to mind What monstrosities would walk the streets were some people's faces as unfinished as their minds. Kinda puts the first time Piper puts on the shades in perspective, doesn't it?For the remake of Scarface, Oliver Stone wrote a line during the drunk scene that, while funny, is pretty much what any writer worth his salt tries to accomplish I tell the truth, even when I lie. When I watch They Live, I see, in the lie of this film, everything I ever hated about the 1980's. From the subliminals in the signs to the fascist tactics employed to beat down the resistance to the passive acceptance of the status quo, the entire film is just a fun-house mirror reflection of the way things were. If Carpenter weren't just as interested in having fun as he was with sprinkling in the subtext, this might have been a better film...but that still doesn't mean that I consider it worthless.No one is going to mistake Roddy Piper for Laurence Olivier, but he does a fairly good job with what he's got. He's not quite as interesting as, say, Snake Plissken, but he does come off as an average guy who's been beaten down by life, but still cares about the world around him. One great line that he has that is NEVER quoted sums up the character rather well The white line's in the middle of the road. That's the worst place in the world to drive. I can't help but crack up when I think about his fight with Frank just to put a lousy (ableit special) pair of sunglasses.The ending kinda kills things a little, but if one wants to get profound, I suppose one could say that it serves as a metaphor for what people some two or three decades down the line are going to see about the 1980's...but maybe not. This film is rather like a village idiot, spouting so much gibberish that it's sometimes hard to catch the pearls of wisdom mixed in with it. John Carpenter remains, to me, the king of deliberate camp (as opposed to the unintended camp of the Mummy remake). "},{"Title":"Not absolutely terrible, just very disappointing","Date":"28 August 2011","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Let me start by saying that before watching They Live, I was by no means intending on, or in the mood for, being blown away or philosophically challenged by a film. I was bored, I found a cheesy movie with a half decent IMDb write-up, and I watched. The film's protagonist played by Roddy Piper wasn't too painful to watch, he was able to fit the role of a somber yet hopeful drifter quite well, but his acting skills were sadly stretched when his lines lasted more than one sentence. The initial half hour is very slow paced for such a cheesy action flick, but it does gradually heighten interest as to what is afoot in a well executed if not long drawn out way. Once the revelation of an earth in captivity is revealed however, it is milked. Dry. When the alien revealing glasses are first put on they stare and stare. Yes, the creatures are horrible and well crafted, yes the world has become a dystopian nightmare. I could have been shown that within a minute. the further 10 were not required. Another prime example of this bloated cinematography is in the TV studio, where corridor after corridor of guards jump out and meet their death at the hands of the heroes' guns. The director barely even bothers to change the camera angle or method in which they meet their demise, each shot nearly identical. Lather, rinse, repeat. The film continues throughout in this pattern, presenting good ideas and set pieces but ruining them with either bad acting, directing, or dialogue (I'm not talking about the cheesy one liners, some were quite funny!). The film constantly piqued my interest with it's humour and immersive ideas, only to ruin it every time. It focused far too much on fairly unnecessary parts of the script, failed to be at all concise and (with the exception of the amazing fist fight) contained dull action sequences. That on top of a dollop of cheese and frequent bad acting from the protagonist was really enough to almost completely ruin it for me, even though it did show slight promise throughout with the fertile plot, humour and occasional (very occasional) tight directing Carpenter is capable of. "},{"Title":"They Disappoint.","Date":"1 June 2011","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" After hearing so many positive things about this movie, I'm utterly shocked at how it turned out! The beginning went on for what seemed like an eternity, many scenes of the main character walking around, looking for work and a place to say, nothing relative to the movie. The characters could have been developed much more quickly and efficiently. Characters would disappear for so long, that I'd forget who they were when they reappeared back on screen. The ending was so abrupt and disappointing I actually asked Is that it? out loud. This movie should be categorized only as action, sci-fi, and comedy! Not horror. I wasn't scared once. I don't really have much more to say about this film other than I cannot believe the man behind Halloween, The Fog, and The Thing is responsible for this tripe! The only positive things I can say is They Live did provide some laugh-out-loud moments and the aliens were genuinely creepy. Other than that, I was left shaking my head in utter disbelief. Avoid at all costs if you are a fan of HALLOWEEN, THE FOG, or THE THING! "},{"Title":"An entertaining cheap shot at the Reagan Era","Date":"27 February 1999","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Not that other cultural phenomena (rap music, disco, smoking, homophobia, and religious fundamentalism) couldn't best be explained by alien mind control, but materialism has been with us always; it was not invented by Ronald Reagan and the Republicans. John Carpenter would have us believe otherwise in this relatively cheesy (for him, anyway) sci-fi film.A product of the Golden Age of Corporate Downsizing, when BMWs ruled the land, THEY LIVE has a perfectly cast Roddy Piper in the role of a blue collar, day's-pay-for-a-day's-work idealist who believes in America. The rugged Piper's journey from blissful ignorance to enlightenment is handled with fine comedic flair and Carpenter's workmanlike approach to action. The back-alley fistfight scene between Piper and co-star Keith David is a cinematic classic and is worth the price of a rental by itself. The aliens with blow-dried corporate hairstyles are even funnier today than in 1988.Only in the shoot-em-up denouement does the film's relatively low budget peek out. The typical B-movie devices of bottomless carbine magazines and endless streams of automatic fire that don't even mar the drywall are rampant here. The bluesy score, co-written by the director himself, sounds good on the DVD release, but the rest of the sound editing leaves a lot to be desired. The video transfer to DVD is adequate but not spectacular. "},{"Title":"Carpenter Takes on Reagan","Date":"3 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" They Live (1988) ** 1/2 (out of 4) John Carpenter's political satire has a drifter (Roddy Piper) discovering a pair of sunglasses that allow humans to see aliens walking around on Earth. The sunglasses also allows people to see hidden meanings in items that we use everyday so the drifter along with a friend (Keith David) decide to join an underground movement to expose them.Here's another Carpenter picture that didn't too all that well when released but overtime it became another cult film that is enjoyed by countless people across the country. Carpenter was certainly in a bad mood in regards to his political feelings because this movie pretty much strikes out about everything popular in the 1980s. The political satire in the film really isn't all that bad and thankfully it's never taken too serious but, then again, nothing here is taken overly serious, which allows the viewer to have some fun with the material.I think Carpenter has a very good plot to work with, although I'd argue that the end results aren't nearly as great as I would have hoped for. The idea that aliens have taken over the world without humans knowing is something that you could do a lot of things with and there are many interesting ideas floating around. One of the best sequences in the book shows that even humans are willing to sell out their own as long as they're rewarded with some money. This message or slap in the face is just as relevant today as it was when the film was first released. Carpenter is clearly having fun with the idea of calling out various types of people and this includes a funny nod towards the end of the picture at Siskel and Ebert.Again, the politics never get to the point where the film is preaching to you and this is a major plus because no one likes to be beaten over the head with a political message. Another thing that works extremely well are the special effects of the aliens whenever someone is wearing glasses. The fleshless look is actually extremely good and is a nice throwback to the 1950s sci-fi films. There's also a terrific music score by Carpenter and Alan Howarth as well as the typical great cinematography that you'd expect from the director. Then, there are the two lead actors who are both very fun in the roles, although some of Roddy's one-liners are pretty bad.THEY LIVE isn't one of my favorite pictures from the director but it's certainly got a clever little idea and isn't afraid to call a few things out. The movie is certainly well-made but I think it falls just short of actually being good. I don't mind, perhaps had it taken itself a tad bit more serious then it would have accomplished more. As it stands, it's a decent camp film. "},{"Title":"Paranoid documentary","Date":"12 March 2015","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Not into '80s cheese, but this is reality 35 years later.The disaster of Reaganism has come true, the financial high rises are the temples of iniquity, and a paranoid wrestler is the little guy with a trusting black dude at his side. They even have their own drones.Seriously, the first half could not be more pertinent to what the US is suffering today. But no notion that people are mostly good, and that we should collectively adjust for the bad - just kick ass and every man for himself. Pfff.I sympathise with the socialism, enjoy the parnaoia - but the story is clunky, derivative. There is a mighty fight scene, but the heroes get done over by a bitch with startling eyes. The only original notion is that you can insert contact lenses with fingertips encrusted in crap. "},{"Title":"Has ambitions but fails to deliver on nearly every level","Date":"8 July 2014","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I think one of the things I hate most about films is when they seem to set-up these grand political ideas or social commentaries but never actually follow through with them. They Live directed by John Carpenter is absolutely one of those films that I was shocked to find that it had actually pretty great reviews online and is seemingly well received as a whole. John Nada (Roddy Piper) is an unemployed drifter who gets work in Los Angeles and becomes friends with another construction worker Frank Armitage (Keith David) and they both live in a local soup kitchen. Nada notices strange things going on with a church nearby and a helicopter flying above them in more than one instance. But the main strange thing happening is the TV signal being constantly interrupted with a warning about those in power. But suddenly the police come and bulldoze and attack the soup kitchen and leave the viewer confused but I guess&#x85;curious? I'm still not entirely sure that bulldozing an entire place without context was a smart choice right from the start but that's a minor complaint compared to the rest of the film. Nada escapes but he also stole a box of sunglasses from the church and he discovers that putting them on causes him to see many different things, for one thing, black and white cinematography is used for the POV shots of Nada and I actually quite enjoyed that artistic choice but beyond that, Nada sees what everything in the city is really telling him. The advertisements that are lies to make you purchase things change to the words OBEY or CONFORM and all the products around him instead show the words of CONSUME and all the sudden I was getting excited. I thought maybe this film was going to be great but everything pretty much falls apart within ten minutes. Nada also sees certain people with skeleton/alien-like faces and without any indication Nada just starts shooting the living hell outta them. And just wait a damn minute, isn't there a problem with that? He hasn't a damn clue what is actually going on but his first plan is just shoot the living hell out of everyone who is supposedly an alien but he actually has no idea? It's absurd and ridiculous.The movie then completely devolves into a generic 80s action flick instead of having anything smart to say politically. The characters are bland and two-dimensional and many of the actors are mediocre at best. We have plenty of bad one-liners that only get soft chuckles. We have scene after scene of admittedly well-directed action scenes but they become boring when they just come one after another. John Carpenter is (was because let's be honest, has he made anything of merit in like the past 15 years or so?) a competent director and his movies have actually explored decent political or social ideas through Escape From New York (one of my favorite films of all time) or The Thing and the dude helped invent the slasher genre with Halloween. What happened here? This movie could have been incredibly smart. This movie could have said plenty of great things about the effects of advertisements on the human brain, the effects of television and how it can actually very much negatively effect people or influence their thinking in a bad way, and essentially could have made some very serious comments on how many people lack thinking for themselves or real independence. I do admit that maybe the movie was ahead of its time especially considering this movie could easily be remade nowadays with the effect of the Internet on people, which goes far deeper than television with social media outlets. Oddly, I would love a remake of this film but with much deeper ideas and exploring the content it should have explored instead of boring me with action sequences that are a dime a dozen in Hollywood. I need less of this Hollywood with its action scenes and more important commentary on the state of the world and humans as a whole&#x85;that's why I love films in first place. They Live is a film that could have been but failed to deliver on almost every level. "}{"Title":"forgotten Hollywood classic","Date":"7 November 2013","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Philosopher Slavoy Zizek calls this movie a forgotten Hollywood classic. I just love sarcasm. Now I admit that the basic plot, people are kept dumb by the ruling class (in this case infiltrated aliens (of really bad design, but OK, this is the 80's)) is interesting and an indictment against society. The fight between the two hero's to make John's friend wear the sunglasses so he can see the truth is metaphoric for the struggle (fight) to become free (according Zizek violence is required to become free). But the plot is completely ruined by bad acting, ridiculous fight scenes (two guards jump out a corridor blazing their guns missing everything and the hero's kill them with a single shot, the police raids the church and take everything but fail to locate the simply hidden boxes with sunglasses, the hero's fall into the hidden underground base of the aliens, all dirty, and make it to a black-tie conference of the aliens and collaborators; and get a tour by one of the participants that explains everything and are brought to the main control center. And of course in the moment supreme the hero has a gun hidden in his sleeve. Right. "},{"Title":"Very entertaining but it is hilariously bad","Date":"19 March 2013","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I've come here to chew bubblegum and write reviews. Don't get me wrong, I like this movie. It is entertaining. It is fun. But we all have to honest with ourselves here and admit that this movie is hilariously bad. Everything from its minuscule budget, lack of explanations from scene to scene, and overall bad choreography makes this movie pretty bad... and yet... it pulls it off somehow.This is one of those movies that is surprising because you would expect a bad movie to be boring and not interesting but this movie IS INTERESTING AND ISN'T BORING! The concept is around a guy who finds a pair of sunglasses that allow him to see the truth that Earth is actually populated by aliens that are controlling us. This is a neat concept and throughout the movie I was constantly interested about what was going to happen next. I can see why people really like this movie because it is entertaining and you can tell that it is purposely being cheesy... but...That isn't a full excuse. Just because it is entertaining that doesn't mean it isn't bad. Troll 2 is extremely entertaining and it is still a bad movie and deserves all of the hate it gets. One of the main problems with this movie is that it is way too short. Because the movie is so short (for an action film) it seems like a lot of scenes were rushed so there aren't a lot of explanations or any real character development. The action sequences are okay, though a couple of shootouts were cool. To me I thought it was just annoying how quickly the plot progressed because if it were fleshed out a bit more I think it could've been a much better movie. Let's not forget that the special effects are pretty merp and the aliens only placed one satellite dish apparently to cover their appearance.Overall They Live is an entertaining action movie. It is campy, has some nice one liners, low budget, and is overall enjoyable. I would suggest watching it and there isn't anything really inappropriate in it until the last 15 seconds of the movie. Go and watch it! "},{"Title":"Some one remake this movie before I have a cardiac arrest","Date":"1 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" All I can say about this movie is that it is one of the greats and excessively neglected movies of my era , ATTENTION FILM MAKERS ! STOP VAMPING MOVIES THAT NO ONE IS GOING TO care about or SEE (EG Land of the dead ) That was the most ridiculous movie about zombies that I have ever seen GEORGE , ,,,Buddy , ,,,Pal ,,,, this Idea can not be improved ! until you come up with a new and more meaningful and lets not forget entertaining plot , stop remaking something that has absolutely no appeal anymore, ITS BORING , HELLO SCREEN WRITERS AND MOVIE BUFFS ,,,,,,I predicted that a they live remake will be extremely popular its got all the necessary elements for a great story , all it needs is some good ILM and CGI , the possibilities are endless , Oh yeah and The Matrix was an excellent movie ,the last one was disappointing and not well written , that's what happens when you rush something that needs plenty of time on the heat , those of you who don't agree are just ignorant and did not get the plot , sorry buts it's the truth .gEo "},{"Title":"Take 2 Excedrin before you watch this one!","Date":"29 April 2012","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I saw this film on its original release. I still remember that the soundtrack was so obnoxious that I really did have a headache when I left the theatre! I believe that this was Rowdy Roddy Piper's first, and hopefully only venture onto the screen. The poor man is an actor on the screen in the same mode as he was in the Wrestling Ring.I see that many of the reviews here rate this film rather highly...well everyone has there own tastes in film. Honestly I would never watch this again. I still remember sitting in the theatre and wishing for the end to come ASAP.I never walk out on films in the hope that they may redeem themselves before the end. This one does not. "},{"Title":"Awful and Confusing","Date":"30 October 2003","Score":"7 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"   What?! That was a question I kept asking in my head throughout this whole movie. It is completely awful. I don't even know where to start but I'll give out examples of this chaotic movie. The 'hero' of the movie just appears on screen and doesn't let us know where he comes from, who he is or ANYTHING about him. He is working at a construction site and spying on a group of religious people. On the conveniently placed TV there is a family watching a show which is interrupted constantly by a man telling everyone about 'they' and spouting off comments that make no since. One night while he is watching the church groupies take boxes into cars and leave, the cops come and start beating everyone up. Of course, while everyone is screaming from being tortured, our Hero is just walking around like it's an average day. Not being attacked, he stays the night in an empty room with some other strangers who managed to escape. That morning we see Roddy Piper walking around and it seems as if nothing has really happened. Confused?     -Oh, but it gets better! Piper goes into the church, knows exactly where a box of these glasses are, puts them on and starts shouting out comments on how some people look different. Of course, the 'aliens' know that he has the sunglasses from him rambling on about the robotic-looking people and start to chase and hunt down him. In an instant Piper goes from being a stupid jerk to knowing that these are aliens and he must kill them!  Thus goes our story down the drain full of meaningless fights where Piper forces his 'friend' to put on these glasses and how can we do with out killing those aliens.   The only reason why i gave this movie 2/10 stars is because the concept of wearing glasses and seeing that signs, books you name it are brain washing us is in fact a good plot. If it didn't have that much to it, I would have it be at 1. Our director might not be the best but, come on John, how much were you in debt that you had to direct this movie to pay it off?  "},{"Title":"a stupid Hollywood movie about hegemony!!","Date":"11 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Here Carpenter gets back to his first cinematic calling, goofy sci-fi. It's also a living leftist legend, the tale of a box of sunglasses from outer space that allow their impoverished wearers to see the hegemony. That's seriously what it's about. And striding gamely through the lead role, of course, is the great Rowdy Roddy Piper! At first you think he's acting or something, but as soon as things heat up he's spluttering and ranting like he's having Piper's Pit flashbacks. Formaldehyde Face! Or I'm here to kick ass and chew gum et cetera. So yes, ideologues, this movie is a total hunk of cheese, and no, classbound snobs, it doesn't matter, it actually helps, because lowbrows need this allegory more than you do. And of course, EVERYBODY benefits from the greatest fight scene of all time. Put the glasses on! "},{"Title":"chewing bubble gum and striking a blow for the exploited common man","Date":"17 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Given how we're constantly barraged by advertising and such things, it was inevitable that they'd make a movie like They Live; and specifically, that only John Carpenter could make the movie. It features wrestler Roddy Piper as a drifter who, after putting on some strange sunglasses, can suddenly see that various advertisements are actually telling people to obey authority, and that many people in high positions are actually aliens enforcing the status quo.It seems that this is probably an allusion to the exploitation of the common man by the rich and powerful (as a previous reviewer suggested), even if the movie takes a horror-comedic approach to everything - namely the bubble gum quote. I'd call it worth seeing. Also starring Keith David and Meg Foster. "},{"Title":"Not the best Carpenter film","Date":"24 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I have just finished watching this film and I'm left feeling disappointed because the hyped-up reviews (claiming this to be the best movie directed by John carpenter), are completely misleading & untrue. As a Horror & Sci-fi fan, I enjoyed it - it's OK! but it does not deserve the rating that some fans are crediting it with. It's very slow to begin with and takes about 30 minutes to kick-in with the the main theme of the film, which is very good by the way. The story line is excellent, and ahead of it's time, but it could have been so much better. I would not try to put-off anybody from watching this if your a sci-fi fan, you will patiently watch it & enjoy some of the movie's better moments & like me, look forward to a possible remake. "},{"Title":"...only if you've got a passionate crush for bad (and I mean real bad) movies","Date":"26 November 2012","Score":"5 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Watching this joke of a film was an unforgivable waste of my lifetime so I feel much too obliged to help others no to waste theirs. Do yourself a favor and stay away from it, particularly if you happen to admire and respect (as I do) some of John Carpenter's others works, unless you've got a passionate crush for bad (and I mean real bad) movies. OK, the world is under the dominion of a dystopian alien shadow government of evil looking extraterrestrials infiltrating the society at all levels (though you can't see them unless you happen to wear specially crafted sunglasses), and this implausibility may sound and look good enough in any sci-fi movie, but even more implausible are the stupid things terrestrial rebels do at every step in order to fight back the ET scum. Characters are totally flat, very poorly acted, and the script just sucks, just so as the special effects do. I'm giving it just two stars and only because I know there are some movies worse than this one out there. "},{"Title":"Carpenter was capable of making a better job...","Date":"25 July 2005","Score":"7 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" God bless the eighties! ... even though we had to put up with artifacts just like this The Live! some action (and probably the most absurd and crazy fight sequence ever filmed), some human-disguised-space-invaders, a working class hero which will beat the hell out of them... Hilariously pathetic dialogs, the actors a such a disaster... it is not a bad movie in the funny way, if you know what I mean. It is way tooooo boring. The only remarkable thing about it are the eyes of Meg Foster (just amazing).Some will think this is a manifesto against the capitalist society but... come on!! Mr. Carpenter knows how to make a better job, no doubt about it.*My rate 2/10 "}{"Title":"Cult Classic","Date":"26 May 2013","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I mostly saw this movie because of Roddy Piper. He can't act. At all. The story is run of the mill sci-fi, albeit one with a timeless message. Of course there are people in charge who are doing things most of us will never know about. The one interesting idea this movie had was the glasses that let the wearer see who the aliens are. It worked really well when we first get to see all the hidden messages in the magazine and billboards. The story was enough to keep me watching to see how it would end, but ended up reminding me of the old radio dramas from the 50's. In fact, I think I would rather listen to an episode of Lights Out than watch this again. "},{"Title":"Hey, formaldehyde face.....","Date":"6 April 2013","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Nada is a man without job who walks around a big American city trying to find something to do. He finally finds a job as a worker and a place to spend the nights, but something happens to him. Nada discovers a pair of sun-glasses through which he can see the true face of people. Many in this city are in fact aliens from the Andromeda and most of them are important members of our society. They keep humans in ignorance and they rule our world as they like. Nada must find the rest of the men that know what's happening and join them in the fight against the aliens......It was a brilliant idea, and some of the film is good, but its not as good as I remember, and in my humble opinion, doesn't deserve he cult status it has garnered. Key scenes yes, but the film as a whole, no.Piper is an odd choice for the lead, but he looks like your typical white collar American who struggles to make ends meet. And this is the fundamental part of the narrative.Read between the lines, and the film is a dig at capitalism and consumerism. After all, it's the eighties, and yuppiedom was rife.It does drag in several places, and some of the acting is abysmal, Meg Foster in particular, but its watchable, and does feature possibly the longest and funniest fist fight ever made.In one sense, its a brilliant satire on consumerism, and how people get sucked in to advertising and gullibility.And on the other, it could be just a silly conspiracy movie about a nutty drifter who thinks he can see aliens when he puts glasses on, and goes for a killing spree.Either way, its more average than I ever thought.... "},{"Title":"Highly overrated","Date":"17 September 2011","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I was expecting something thoughtful and clever but instead I was treated to a very slow paced yawn of a movie that suddenly gets going at the end and then finishes abruptly. There are one or two good scenes but the majority of this movie is coma inducing.Lots of time during this movie is spent on shots that seem to last an eternity of actors doing not a lot. To add to this, the music is constantly this slow waltz which continues even in the actions scenes?!, destroying the mood.It may be a clever movie but it's not engaging.If you do watch this movie, be careful not to submit to authority and stay asleep. "},{"Title":"Awful and Confusing","Date":"30 October 2003","Score":"3 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"   What?! That was a question I kept asking in my head throughout this whole movie. It is completely awful. I don't even know where to start but I'll give out examples of this chaotic movie. The 'hero' of the movie just appears on screen and doesn't let us know where he comes from, who he is or ANYTHING about him. He is working at a construction site and spying on a group of religious people. On the conveniently placed TV there is a family watching a show which is interrupted constantly by a man telling everyone about 'they' and spouting off comments that make no since. One night while he is watching the church groupies take boxes into cars and leave, the cops come and start beating everyone up. Of course, while everyone is screaming from being tortured, our Hero is just walking around like it's an average day. Not being attacked, he stays the night in an empty room with some other strangers who managed to escape. That morning we see Roddy Piper walking around and it seems as if nothing has really happened. Confused?     -Oh, but it gets better! Piper goes into the church, knows exactly where a box of these glasses are, puts them on and starts shouting out comments on how some people look different. Of course, the 'aliens' know that he has the sunglasses from him rambling on about the robotic-looking people and start to chase and hunt down him. In an instant Piper goes from being a stupid jerk to knowing that these are aliens and he must kill them!  Thus goes our story down the drain full of meaningless fights where Piper forces his 'friend' to put on these glasses and how can we do with out killing those aliens.   The only reason why i gave this movie 2/10 stars is because the concept of wearing glasses and seeing that signs, books you name it are brain washing us. If it didn't have that much to it, I would have it be at 1. Our director might not be the best but, come on John, how much were you in dept that you had to direct this movie to pay it off?  "},{"Title":"Somehow it's a cult classic","Date":"14 February 2000","Score":"10 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I finally got around to renting this on DVD after hearing so much about it from sources that I considered reliable.  Normally I'm a fan of John Carpenter, but this movie is really weak.  Slow, long, dull, with really stupid characters, Carpenter seems to know he's only got enough story to fill a 1/2 hour Twilight Zone episode...so he stretches every single scene to the maximum.  He can't show a guy walking up to a building, then cut to him inside; no, he has to slowly pan with him as he walks down the sidewalk and up to the door.  Then we cut inside and watch as he walks through the door and looks around...slowly.I guess if I saw this when I was 14 it would've been fun.  Good thing DVDs have fast-forward buttons.  That way I got to the predictable ending much sooner. "},{"Title":"WTF!?... Is This Really Our God!? => $$$$$$$$","Date":"23 April 2012","Score":"1 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Fave Movie quote - The Golden Rule - He who has the gold, makes the rules. Director John Carpenter once claimed that initially They Live wasn't a success because a vast number of people just didn't want to be enlightened.(Oh! Really!??) Like - If enlightening us poor, pathetic ignoramuses was really Carpenter's mission in life (and not to make piles of money) - And if this film's message failed to accomplish said goal - Then why the hell didn't Carpenter (feeling so strongly as he did) go for a second attempt at illuminating the ignorant masses? Eh? Why? (He certainly had the resources to do so) And, besides that - What's it to Carpenter whether a vast number of people chose not to be enlightened, anyways? Eh? What's it to him? I mean - If Carpenter had actually went ahead and spent a few extra bucks on some decent looking make-up effects (instead of having his aliens look like a bunch of frickin' Kermit the Frogs on speed), then maybe, just maybe, a vast number of people might have paid attention to this film's message and actually been enlightened.... No? Released in 1988, They Live's story was basically already 25 years old before Carpenter got his grubby hands on it and adapted for the screen in the most cheesy fashion imaginable. Its ideas essentially came from Ray Nelson's 1963 novella called Eight O'Clock In The Morning.Personally, I don't know why people view They Live's story as all that intelligent, anyhow. If intelligent aliens really wanted to wipe us out (non-violently), then what could be a more simple (and intelligent) course of action than to put us all to sleep - And once asleep - Presto! - We die - And just dispense with all of this subliminal brain-washing rigmarole. (Like - Spare me!) As I see it - They Live was pretty much a poor-man's Sci-Fi/Comedy, where guns never empty, fights are poorly choreographed, production values are at an all-time low, and our tough, pretty-boy hero (whose name literally meant nothing) only understands the state of the world through chewing bubble gum and kicking ass.Don't get me wrong. I didn't hate They Live. As far as its entertainment value went, I found it to be about on par with the likes of Plan 9 From Outer Space. Yep. It was no better, or worse, than that. "},{"Title":"Wish I had been drunk enough to think it was a 7...","Date":"3 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" ...like the rest of IMDb with this average rating.How? Everyone is railing about how it is Carpenter's commentary on consumerism and capitalism, etc, etc...Please.The imagery and symbolism of his commentary are literally as blunt and insulting as the imagery in Boxing Helena.Add to this that the movie must be pulled along by a professional wrestler...and that the script is written with dialogue about as natural as...Boxing Helena...and I feel charitable giving this one a 4.It is not boring. It just isn't too bright and it is pretty cheap looking the whole way through. I guess it is successful in its campiness.I don't really recommend against watching it. Go ahead, it's kind of fun. But don't go in expecting anything deep or even anything particularly competent like the COUPLE of good movies Carpenter has done. "},{"Title":"Potentially Interesting Flick Torpedoed.","Date":"5 May 2012","Score":"4 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" It has a couple of good one liners of the sort that kewl youngsters will find inspiring.I'm here to chew bubble gum and kick ass -- and I'm all out of bubble gum. Life's a bitch -- and this one's in heat. That's about all it has, this clumsy rip off of Invasion of the Body Snatchers. The general notion is that the world has been taken over by aliens. I can almost believe that about Los Angeles. Roddy Piper, unemployed laborer and weight lifter, wanders into town and winds up at a settlement of homeless people. He's not bitter about his humble status. As he tells an acquaintance, Keith David, I believe in the American dream. And who wouldn't? Here's a homeless bum who is always clean shaven by the studio barber and has carefully styled and blow-dried hair.Anyway, Piper, who cannot act, finds a pair of sun glasses that reveal the true nature of the society he lives in. It's run mainly by aliens who have skull-like faces. Without the glasses they look like ordinary people except richer. There are subliminal messages posted all over the place, visible only when the sun glasses are worn, that have seduced the humans into ant-like workers who never question anything or have independent thoughts. Somehow this is all controlled by a TV antenna.I don't really want to get into the plot because it's absurd to being with and no apparent effort has been made to turn it into anything other than another paranoid vision that justifies violence.Well, I'll give one illustration of what I mean. When Piper picks up the glasses and tries them on for the first time, he discovers what's up at a magazine stand. Stunned, he wanders unthinkingly into a drug store. He puts the glasses on again. Most of the customers and staff have the skull faces of aliens. He takes them off, points to a woman behind one of the counters, and remarks with a smile, You know what? You look like you just stuck your head into cheese dip. If that's what you would do and say if you'd just discovered the world had been taken over by aliens and the humans had been hypnotized into acting like obedient zombies, then this is the movie for you. "},{"Title":"Very bad, severely overrated!","Date":"17 May 2002","Score":"7 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When I first saw the description of the film, I thought the sunglasses were cool and it would be a cool movie.  Well, to avoid laughing hysterically, let me just say I was a bit off.  Okay, I'm laughing hysterically anyway. While not as bad as something like Hell Comes to Frogtown, it is in the same league (if that is possible).  The sunglasses are a cool idea, and the premise of the film is actually kinda cool (if cliche), but the script, acting, direction, and effects are some of the worst in history, ruining any chance the movie may have had.  The script has more holes than I thought any movie (even Sci-Fi) could get away with, and it is not entertaining.  The acting is typical for a B-movie, noticeably awkward and silly.  The special effects are neither (to say the least).  As for the direction, I don't think there was any.  If there was a director I don't know what he was doing. The film is badly patched together from bad shots like some hideous Frankenstein's monster.  I know this movie has a gigantic following, but even after talking to several fans, I can't figure out why.  Go watch a 70's Sci-Fi movie with MUCH better effects, brilliant acting, and a beautiful script, like The Lathe of Heaven instead of a horrendous 80's B-movie. "},{"Title":"Completely mind-rotting","Date":"26 April 2006","Score":"4 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Okay, the word to describe this flick is the word ridiculous! First, special effects. Is it just me, or do the effects in this thing look like stepping back in time to the black-&-white B-films of the 50's? Especially the aliens as seen through the corny-looking sunglasses.Second, plot. Aliens disguised as people secretly own the planet and have hidden messages on everything around us to keep us in line, and then 1 guy--a construction worker from the city--finds a pair of sunglasses that see past the illusion and reveal everything for what it is. Then, let's not forget the finale two men storm the base to shut off the signal that keeps the veil drawn and die in the process. Oh, PLEASE!!!There are only two reasons to see any of this movie one, the gunfight in the bank (I love Nada's (dumb name) line); and two, the fight between Nada and Frank--awesome street brawl.If you want to see this thing all the way through, I suggest getting drunk first--which is bad because I do not condone drinking ever ever. Waste of time, waste of money, waste of brain matter. "}{"Title":"SPOILER ALERT  Worst film I've ever seen","Date":"2 September 2001","Score":"6 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Production and acting are adequate to the job of communicating the story, but that's where the problems reside.  Suppose you put on some special glasses and saw the secret subliminal messages of all those advertisements?  THEN discovered that the people in office you didn't vote for are aliens, since you saw their real faces through the glasses (the action of which is conveniently unexplained)?This is the tale that the filmmakers treat with a straight face.  It's the devil-in-the-bottle theory applied to consumerism, stating that advertising can CONTROL YOUR MIND.  First, if it could, you wouldn't know it, and second, if you want a serious portrayal of anticapitalist viewpoints in action (as perceived by their advocates), try the Richard Dreyfuss pic The Big Fix, 1978, I think.  At least you don't have this problematic viewpoint presented as a conspiracy theory. "},{"Title":"John Carpenter's alien invasion movie.","Date":"4 April 2011","Score":"4 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" As far as alien invasion movies go; this one has got to be one of the most original ones out there.This movie made me realize how much I'm missing the 'old' John Carpenter, even though I'm not even a big fan of just all of his early work. His last truly good movie dates back from the early '90's. He seems to have lost his touch off lately and his recent movies also seem to lack relevance. Early Carpenter movies always meant something and had a deeper underlying meaning to them, as this movie also does for instance.You could say that this movie is being more of a social commentary and satire than a serious straight-forward science-fiction flick. And I like the movie for that! Luckily it really doesn't take itself too serious and also deliberately goes over the top at times. If you look at this movie too seriously, it will come across as a very silly and perhaps even lazy written movie. Really not that much gets explained and lots of stuff simply doesn't make sense. But yet as a social commentary of its era it really manages to work out very well. The aliens in this movie aren't here to conquer the Earth or to steal or women but they are here to get rich fast, over the backs of the mindless consumers living on Earth. Everything in this movie is a clear statement against capitalism and just the Reagan-era in general and I must say its done in an amusing and creative way, without ever becoming too ridicules as a movie.It's definitely a movie with lots of cult potential, which makes it a shame that this movie is any better known than Carpenter's other work. As most other Carpenter movies, this one is being made with limited resources, which forces it to become creative and to come up with ways to stand out, without having to feature any spectacular or big moments. Like often, he does this with his characters as well as with a whole bunch of subtle little moments.It's funny how the main character is blowing away every alien that comes in his sight, without asking any questions about what they want or why they are here. He has no moral problems with it, even though the aliens are all human looking and acting. This is also what I often like about Carpenter movies. He is not afraid to show any violence and to make his main 'heroes' some tough, over-the-top, action heroes, that you are always yet capable of relating to.The main character in this movie is being played by professional wrestler Roddy Piper, who really fits the role well and even manages to act his way through the movie. Of course he also gets to show some of his wrestling skills, though he's mostly using some big guns throughout the movie, as does the always likable Keith David.Even though the story to some will come across as simplistic, it actually is one that has some really clever moments in it. I for instance liked how the movie fooled you a couple of times with who were going to be the good and bad guys within the movie.Something that also makes this movie stand out and memorable are the looks of the aliens, that only can be seen when wearing special sunglasses or contact lenses. They are really ugly and grotesque looking, though all you see of them are their faces and its effects for it aren't even that convincing looking.An unique movie for sure, especially to be enjoyed by the fans of John Carpenter's early work.8/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Respect My Authority!","Date":"15 April 2010","Score":"3 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Brother, life's a bitch...and she's back in heat. - George NadaOne of John Carpenter's better films, They Live is an unashamedly silly tale about a downtrodden blue-collar worker (George Nada) who nevertheless has faith in the American Dream. I believe in America, he says, I deliver a hard day's work for my pay, I believe that one day my chance will come! One day, however, George finds a pair of magical sunglasses which allows him to see the truth of the world around him. His previously Technicolor world now looks a morbid black and white, the words OBEY, BUY, WORK, PLAY, SLEEP, REPRODUCE, CONSUME, DO NOT QUESTION AUTHORITY suddenly stencilled on every billboard, wall, sign and poster.But it's when George realises that certain human beings, when viewed through his magical sunglasses, are really monstrous alien creatures who control the economy, that he freaks out entirely.In one swift instant, George realises that his patience and hard work were all for naught. Like a casino gambler who suddenly realises that the game is rigged, that it is merely the unlikely expectation of winning that keeps one playing and therefore losing, George suddenly has a moment of profound enlightenment. A critique of trickle-down economics and monopoly capitalism, They Live has George promptly losing faith in the system and then doing what any ordinary person in his situation would do...grab a shotgun and start kicking alien butt!7.5/10 &#x96; So bad it's good, this film's central flaw is that it isn't ridiculous enough. Despite its silly mullets and hokey one liners, They Live needs to be far more insane, far more violent, and a couple doses more outlandish; think Sam Raimi's Army of Darkness or Carpenter's own Big Trouble In Little China.Worth one viewing. "},{"Title":"A great Sci-Fi horror film with a strong message.","Date":"23 September 2005","Score":"5 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" They Live starts with struggling labourer Nada (Roddy Piper) who drifts into Los Angeles & finds work on a building site. With nowhere to sleep fellow construction operative Frank (Keith David) offers to show him the way to a basic camp for the homeless. While there Nada notices some strange activity in a nearby church involving a blind preacher (Raymond St. Jacques), Gilbert (Peter Jason) the campsites leader & a guy with a beard (John Lawrence) who keeps hacking the signal from Cable 54 so he can get on telly to preach his weird theories. Nada also witnesses the local police raid the church & destroy the campsite, upon closer inspection of the church ruins Nada finds a box full of sunglasses. However, these are not ordinary sunglasses as they allow the wearer to 'see' aliens that have infiltrated our society & their mind controlling techniques. With the help of Frank & the few remaining revolutionary's, Nada sets out to expose the alien race before it's too late & Earth is completely taken over!Written under the pseudonym 'Frank Armitage' & directed by John Carpenter They Live is a unique film that almost works to perfection, almost. The script obviously has heavy social & political overtones, the rich & powerful join forces with the aliens whom promise wealth & protection. While the idea of society being control & brainwashed through the use of subliminal messaging, TV, magazines & billboards is unnervingly all to plausible considering the barrage of imagery that we see each & every day of our lives. The first half of They Live really plays on this & works extremely well, unfortunately the second half plays more like the standard Sci-Fi/action/horror film that you may have expected with various shoot-outs, fights, revolutionary's, silly special effects & alien technology taking over & dominating the proceedings. Having said that They Live moves along at a good pace & never becomes dull or boring & both aspects of the story, the action & the subtle social commentary, are engaging & entertain as the alien plan unfolds on screen. There are very few character's in They Live as the story is told almost entirely through Nada's (which means 'nothing' in Spanish, so now you know!) perspective as They Live also takes a nice swipe at how self obsessed & selfish modern society is. Things become a bit silly at the end with watches that make people disappear, various unlikely coincidences & it felt too rushed as if Carpenter didn't quite know what do do with the ideas. With a supposed budget of about $4,000,000 They Live is technically a pretty decent film, the widescreen cinematography is fine, the music is easy going & as a whole it's very well made throughout. The aliens look a bit odd & for the most part are only ever shown in black and white, the violence & gore is as restrained as it gets with a few gunshot wounds & a cool five & a half minute fight between Nada & Frank. The acting is OK but nothing outstanding, Piper does a more than acceptable job considering his wrestling background although I'm not sure about that hair style! Meg Foster turns up as the love interest Holly Thompson but despite her near top-billing in the credits has very little screen time. I liked They Live a lot, I thought it was an original & somewhat brave piece of film-making from John Carpenter that works very well for most of it's 90 odd minute duration. A great film & a must watch for all horror/Sci-Fi/John Carpenter fans alike! "},{"Title":"* *1/2 out of 4.","Date":"14 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  No named character finds a pair of special sunglasses that allows him to see things that he would not be able to normally see, like that a lot of people are really aliens bent on taking over earth. Good premise with an interesting first half and some humor and original moments simply falls apart in the second half and is a by the numbers, caculated effort. Usually solid Meg Tilly is terribly used in a weak romance sub-plot.Rated R; Violence and Profanity. "},{"Title":"Terrific concept, mildly disappointing execution","Date":"17 December 2007","Score":"5 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" They Live benefices, without exaggerating, from one of the greatest basic horror/Sci-Fi premises ever, but regrettably enough the wholesome doesn't even rank as one of the greatest movies of the 80's decade. The idea of highly intellectual alien having taken over the world, gradually incorporating the wealthier social classes and inconspicuously oppressing the remaining humans with subliminal advertisements is fantastic (at least, in my humble opinion), but sadly the execution too much revolves on spectacle instead of suspense and the whole thing quickly reverts to an almost ordinary fistfight & shootout action movie. This was to be expected with a wrestling star in the lead role, but still it's somewhat unfortunate to witness how overlong action footage has to compensate for more thorough plotting possibilities. Halfway through the film, for example, there's a fight between Roddy Piper and Keith David that goes on for nearly ten minutes, yet the only purpose of this scene is for Piper to convince his pal to wear the special sunglasses and see the world how it really is. The setting is California around the turn of the Century, late 1990's, and Piper stars as John Nada, an unemployed construction worker who moved from Detroit and befriends a few people at the campsite where he finds a new home. Life as he knew it drastically changes finding a box of sunglasses that reveal the painful truth the rich people in the streets and on TV are skeletal aliens disguised as humans and we're continuously surrounded with billboards spreading eerie commands such as Obey, Consume and Marry & Reproduce. Nada and his friend Frank (Keith David) subsequently join an underground movement and join the battle against the aliens, but they are super powerful and everywhere. The 20 minutes, namely the scenes prior to Nada's discovery, are slow but very atmospheric as John Carpenter clearly suggests there's something very wrong; only you have no idea what exactly. The sequences of the world as seen through the sun goggles are shown in creepy black and white, but this effect is overused and rapidly loses its impact. In fact, the B&W is genuinely creepy just once, when Nada finds himself surrounded by skeleton-faced aliens inside a supermarket. The plot continuously gets sillier and fairly large holes begin to appear near the end, but since Carpenter clearly always seems to indicate that we shouldn't it all TOO seriously, They Live nonetheless remains a fun and memorable genre effort. "},{"Title":"Not one of John Carpenter's best, in my opinion","Date":"30 March 2008","Score":"2 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Some find it to be so, but to me it feels almost like a throw-off. Too simplistic. But that doesn't mean it isn't entertaining. Roddy Piper, the WWF wrestler, plays a drifter who stumbles upon a huge secret the powerful elite on Earth are really aliens who exploit the working man. They are disguised as people, but with a pair of special sunglasses, he can see which ones are which. Without a second's worth of questioning, he grabs a shotgun and starts blasting away at every one of the ugly s.o.b.'s. It's silly, but entertainingly so. As an action picture, it's serviceable. Unfortunately, there are long stretches where nothing much happens, and it takes forever for the plot to start moving, instead treating the whole thing as a mystery for about a half-hour, which Carpenter executes badly. By the time Piper starts to see the aliens, I was the only person of four watching it left awake. "},{"Title":"It Slowly Dies.","Date":"30 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Drifter Roddy Piper discovers special sunglasses that show that the Earth is literally being over-run by dangerous aliens from outer space that are disguised as humans to the normal naked eye. There are also subliminal messages galore as it is obvious that the government, media and business world are not quite what they seem to be. Piper tries desperately to get new best friend Keith David to wear the shades to prove to him that the world is a rapidly changing place. David of course is not easily persuaded, dismissing Piper as a crazed psycho. Ultimately it may be up to the unlikely duo to save the Earth forever. They Live is an immensely interesting film that sadly loses its way late as it struggles to wind to a suitable conclusion. The ending is a huge let-down as it lingers on being down-right dumb. Screenwriter/director John Carpenter just does not know what to do with what he has. 2 stars out of 5.  "},{"Title":"wow does this movie NEED a remake!!","Date":"11 June 2005","Score":"4 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie has many flaws, but underneath them all it has the basic core of a fantastic sci-fi movie. Remaking it could easily take is from slightly above average to GREAT.The flaws 1. One reviewer says this movie is a cheap shot at the Reagan era. That's probably true, but despite my being a conservative, I didn't mind this underlying tone. 2. The machismo, at time, is so over-the-top it's like watching a WWF wrestling match--which shouldn't be surprising due to Rowdy Roddy Piper (a pro-wrestler) playing the lead character. This probably was much of the reason they included the completely inane and mega-stupid fist fight between him and his best friend. What were they thinking? The only way the movie could have gotten more off track was if Vince McMahon or Hulk Hogan had made an appearance!Despite this, the plot is FANTASTIC!!! The notion that the Earth is being secretly run by aliens who appear like us (due to amazing high tech devices) as well as humans who knowingly work with them simply because it pays well is so jaded and paranoid but so cool when you see it in action in the movie.So, my advice is to watch it on tape and speed through the stupid fight sequence. Without that, the movie should get a 9. "},{"Title":"Silliness Ruins Premise","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This has a really good persausive idea that aliens from another dimension are infiltrating the Earth and colonising it through the media , politics and free market economics. With globalization and neo liberalism being the political words coming out of radical mouths at the start of this century how can a film like THEY LIVE fail ? Well it seems not too difficult to ruin the premise , all you have to do is camp it up , have a really overlong and pointless punch up between two of the characters, underdevelop the pollution aspect of the conspiracy , and have a laughably silly final scene . Hard to imagine that Carpenter made the bleak and ultra downbeat THE THING a mere six years before. Mind you PRINCE OF DARKNESS was absolutely dour and humourless and perhaps fearing another box office flop Carpenter decided to inject a lot more humour into this project to give it more appeal , bad idea . But that`s not to say THEY LIVE is a major disaster , it`s not but with so many great and topical ideas involved it should have been much better .Trivia point Arch conspiracy theorist David Icke has made a fortune writing and lecturing on the theory that shape shifting lizards from another dimension are behind globalization . They are doing this by taking control of this planet`s banking systems , industrial bases , governments , and media. If I was Icke I`d be more worried about John Carpenter`s lawyers than about shape shifting lizards from another dimension  "}{"Title":"Dead on arrival...","Date":"15 January 2006","Score":"11 out of 74 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Rock-bottom science-fiction thriller from director John Carpenter (who also adapted the screenplay from Ray Nelson's short story under a pseudonym) concerns aliens disguised as humans taking over a large city. Thank goodness for the thoughtful drifter who ambles into town and sniffs out the mystery! Real-life wrestling star Rowdy Roddy Piper actually does the outlandish material a favor by playing it so low-key, but Carpenter never did show a talent for handling actors and everyone in this cast comes off looking bad. C-players Meg Foster, Keith David, George Buck Flower and Jason Robards III are strictly on their own, stuck with a script which is a grab-bag of sci-fi clichés. NO STARS from **** "}]