[{"Title":"Who Needs Gremlins?","Date":"4 April 2006","Score":"20 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" In a small suburban town, a group of college students visit a mysterious wax museum, where they encounter several morbid displays, all of which contain stock characters from the horror genre.Can't a girl get laid around here without being burned at the stake? Let me start by saying Anthony Hickox is a brilliant man. This movie was his first time as a writer and director and he did it perfectly. Going on to make a Warlock movie and a Hellraiser film, he has established himself (though still remains under-appreciated).The film stars the kid from Gremlins and his group of friends who encounter the guy from The Omen, who along with a midget and a Lurch-like butler manage a wax museum full of horrible characters. Dracula, the Marquis de Sade, a werewolf, the mummy, and nine other nasties. Well, the museum offers a portal to each of these horrible worlds -- but if you die in the portal, you die in real life and become part of the museum.This film is brilliant because of the perfect combination of horror and comedy. You will get spraying blood, mutilated flesh, and a dismembered hand that lives on its own (see Waxwork II for more on this and its connection to Evil Dead II). You will get a girl sexually aroused by being flogged (sado-masochism goes hand in hand with horror). But yet, it is funny. The midget is cute, one of the kids is just weird and you should hear the way Dracula says steak tartar or the scene where the AARP (old people) raid the place.I could complain about the really odd plot and lack of sense. I mean, there is a part where the origin of the museum is explained. Not only does this make little sense, but there is no reason the man telling the story should know anything about it. Then there is the bit about the sculptures needing relics from their real-life bodies to become alive. Yet, there are sculptures of The Fly, the Invisible Man, and a scene from a zombie film. These things never happened, so how can they have real relics? But you know what? It is so much fun, you just ignore things like this (especially compared to the complete nonsense plot of the sequel or House II...) Recommended? Heck yeah. Great comedy, great horror, great 80s film. Dana Ashbrook appears before the day of Twin Peaks. Oh, and the professor from Sliders is in it, too.My only concern is that allegedly the film was cut by the MPAA due to gore in the vampire sequence. I would love for that sequence to be put back together (and a director's commentary never hurts). This film would be even better with more blood. "},{"Title":"A Damn Good Episodic Gorefest","Date":"29 March 2004","Score":"17 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  There is something about episodic horror movies that I love.  Maybe it harkens back to  my youth, when I devoured the EC Horror Comics reprints.  Something about each  individual character having his or her own interesting death always has been a kick ass  idea to me.  This movie is great.  Each character faces his/her own nasty (extremely  gory) death scene in different exhibits in the wax museum.  A darn good time and  some seriously great gore FX!  Loved it.  8/10 "},{"Title":"Step Over The Rope And Abandon All Hope...","Date":"5 December 2008","Score":"14 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" The Eighties...what a great, fertile, inventive time that was for horror. When the major studios discovered back in the late Seventies that indie horror flicks were cheap to make or just buy outright and distribute, they started crankin' 'em out...by the DOZENS. Way back when, THE EXORCIST turned the faucet on. The movies that would launch long-term franchises filled the tub. HALLOWEEN. Friday THE 13th. A NIGHTMARE ON ELM STREET. And then the tub started spilling over. CHILD'S PLAY. THE HITCHER. THE LOST BOYS. NEAR DARK. FRIGHT NIGHT. Every company, great and small, started looking for the next EXORCIST, ALIEN, JAWS...the next big thing that would make millions. Enter Vestron Video. Vestron had started out doing some of the first direct-to-video pictures ever made, discovering that the market was HUGE. So big, in fact, that they started a movie division, Vestron Pictures. Their strategy was simple make good (if not great) genre pics that would put asses in the seats, that they could then distribute through the video arm later on. One of Vestron Pictures' first releases was a little number called WAXWORK. The plot of the old horror classic MYSTERY IN THE WAX MUSEUM was such a tried and true staple, the studios kept falling back on it again and again, finding fresh ways to retell the story. WAXWORK took a little different approach from the straight-ahead versions, with a cast and a sensibility for horror that still screams Me Decade even today. Check out the victim's list Zach Galligan (GREMLINS.) Michelle Johnson (BLAME IT ON RIO.) Deborah Foreman (VALLEY GIRL). Dana Ashbrook (TWIN PEAKS). Miles O' Keefe (TARZAN THE APE MAN). Then you throw in vets like David Warner, Patrick McNee, J. Kenneth Campbell, John Rhys-Davies, tap Bob Keen (HELLRAISER) to do make up effects, and you have yourself an Eighties' classic!Like most films of the period, it starts off with a group of bored, young slacker-types looking for thrills, something...ANYTHING that would be a little more exciting than getting high, getting drunk, getting laid (well, ALMOST more exciting than that), and definitely more of a kick than going to college classes!They find it, alright - in the form of an invitation to a brand new kind of museum. And this one is not your garden-variety, Madame Tussaud's-wannabe. The wax figurines are so lifelike that the displays seem to draw you in...Well, okay, they DO draw you in. Here's the kicker the displays are dedicated to some of the most well-known figures in the history of horror Dracula. The Wolfman. The Mummy. The Marquis de Sade. Reenactments of their most horrible deeds as they drained blood, hacked and tore off limbs or crushed their helpless victims to death. Seeing the scenes gives patrons the feeling of being in the moment...but if they give in to the compulsion of stepping across the velvet rope around each display, they will find themselves living in that moment...FOR REAL.And here's the REALLY bad news...if the monsters in each display kill you in the 'waxwork dimension', you become a permanent part of the display...FOREVER. So once that happens, the situation couldn't get worse...could it?Oh, yeah! The proprietor of the museum has a darker agenda than just dispatching troublesome teens, as our heroes and victims discover with each person who 'disappears' into the museum. And seeing how that plan gets foiled is only part of the giggly, gory fun.Remember that I mentioned that Bob Keen was the effects guy on this? He got his start as a modeler for movies like STAR WARS, SUPERMAN and ALIEN, cutting his teeth as he worked up to projects like HELLRAISER and THE UNHOLY. But he really served up his calling card with HELLRAISER and with this movie. Gore-wise, this is where the retelling of the Wax Museum story gets more interesting...because thanks to Bob, the visuals go where they never had before.In a manner that would've made the suits at Universal flinch back in the Thirties, Keen and writer/director Anthony Hickox do away with the quaint violence that Famous Monsters used to wreak upon their poor victims. No camera pull-aways here, folks. Where somebody might only threaten to rip off your head and crap down your neck, these boogeymen take that threat to its most intense extremes. No CGI fakery, either. This was back-in-the-day where almost all the effects were practical, live and in-ya-face...the way we like it!Okay, so the clothes, the music, the casting and even the acting squarely establish this as what could be considered a period piece for horror, I guess. But like his colleagues David Schmoeller, Ted Nicolaou, Stuart Gordon and on occasion Charles Band himself, Hickox knows how to get the action going and keep it that way. This is one of those gems that might've slipped under your radar, but definitely worth seeking out, hunting down and dragging back home to mount in your DVD library. "},{"Title":"Would you like a closer look?","Date":"24 January 2005","Score":"14 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" ANTHONY HICKOX made his directorial debut, with this really fun, classic monster movie that should please all horror fans, with it's originality & wild ideas. Four friends enter a wax exhibit that seemingly just popped up over night in their neighbourhood, amidst a rash of disappearances of many of the townsfolk. ZACK GHALLIGAN heads off the cast as MARK, a rich boy who doesn't treat others as something he just stepped in (sadly his mother who treats him like a little kid, doesn't feel the same). Entering the museum with his friends, TONY, SARA, & snobby ex-girlfriend CHYNA for a midnight showing (although they are the only ones there). Upon arrival, they are greeted by an odd ball midget butler & a LURCH (From THE ADDAMS FAMILY) like servant & a charismatic English gentlemen named MR. LINCOLN (A wonderful performance by David WARNER). As each kid discovers, the wax exhibits are that of famous literary monsters. Some of which have victims in their throes of death & some that don't. Those that don't, can be accessed by a person who steps over the belt separating them from the exhibit, only for said person to wind up in whatever horror tale, the exhibit is depicting. When Tony & Chyna go missing & never return home, Mark & Sara contact the police. The detective on the case scoffs at Marks explanation that they may have been killed & turned into wax figures at the museum, but soon changes his mind, when he realizes that a lot of the victims in the missing persons photos, bear a striking resemblance to the victims in the wax exhibits. When both he & his partner then go missing, Mark & Sara then visit his wheel chair bound Uncle (Played wonderfully by PATRICK MACNEE) a former hunter of the supernatural, who has a chilling explanation about the history of the museum's owner & what may happen, if each exhibit is soon fitted with a victim, unless Mark & Sara can burn down the WaxWorks museum. They then try to prevent an eventual apocalypse by breaking in & doing so, but as they soon find out, getting into the museum after closing hours to perform such a deed is easy, pulling it off will be impossible. When the creatures & their now evil victims rise out of their worlds, the war between good & evil is truly on, but only one side can walk out.I loved WAXWORK! it's easily one of my all time favourite horror movies! Even when I was a little kid, I rented this movie quiet a lot & it still never bores me, even though I've seen it countless times. WAXWORK is a film made with heart & it shows. It's a horror film for horror fans, by horror fans & really that's the best kind of horror film any fan can ask for. It's a very imaginative & fun piece of work. The performances are great & the special effects are tremendous (Courtesy of HELLRAISER'S own BOB KEEN!). Director ANTHONY HICKOX turned out to be a really good director & the film is a very impressive debut. Hickox manages to mount a considerable amount of tension, suspense & even some creepy atmosphere throughout the film. The kills are disgusting, with plenty of blood shot all over the place, squashed & pulled off heads etc. Hickox clearly had a ball writing the script & it shows! The film is littered with various pokes at famous horror films & famous movie monsters, such as THE MUTATED BABY (IT'S ALIVE) AUBREY (LITTLE SHOP OF HORRORS) FRANKENSTEIN'S MONSTER, THE MUMMY (This mummy is no skinny mummy either! he's massive & very scary!) THE WOLFMAN (You have to see this thing, it's scary & make the werewolves in THE HOWLING look like poodles!) Dracula & his BRIDES, an AXE MURDER, THE INVISIBLE MAN, THE PHANTOM OF THE OPERA, NIGHT OF THE LIVING DEAD, The GOLEM, A WITCH, JACK THE RIPPER, a VOODDOO PRIEST, the MARQUIS DE SADE, CIRCUS FREAK, even DR. JEKYLL & MR. HYDE! The set designs are really good & well captured. Amazingly accurate & professional looking, considering the films low budget & the score changes depending on which monster or era were in & is done in the classical scores of the famous UNIVERSAL horror movie scores of the 30's/40's. Despite it's subject matter, WAXWORK also has some laugh out loud moments & dialogue. My favourite being the one where Mr. Lincoln is showing a jealous football jock (who has come in to look for his missing girlfriend) a sculpture of the PHANTOM OF THE OPERA, with the Jock saying how much he loved the movie. Mr. Lincoln looks at him bewildered & says They made a movie about the Phantom Of The Opera? & after they chat a bit more, Lincoln pushes him through into the Phantoms world, where he then re-appears as a wax victims. Lincoln then walks away & says They'll make a movie about anything these days! Hysterical!Look at the top window in Dracula's castle as the heroine is coming down for dinner, it's in the shape of a pentagram. All in all, I highly recommend WAXWORK to any genre fan, it's the perfect type of horror film, that you can gather a bunch of friends together & watch. As the original VHS box art stated WAXWORK is more fun than a barrel of mummies! Followed by WAXWORK II LOST IN TIME**** stars "},{"Title":"Decent teen horror movie.","Date":"6 April 2005","Score":"16 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" The teen comedy horror genre isn't exactly popular with the critics. But people watch them because, well, they can be fun. And that's just what this is. Nice, neat fun.It's especially impressive considering it's from a first-time writer/director, Anthony Hickox, who later went on to make decent werewolf TV movie Full Eclipse in 1993. Here he gives his own homage to a wide variety of horror movies. You've got your werewolf movie (the very first waxwork, incidentally), your vampire movie, mummies, zombies and an trashy period piece about the Marquis de Sade ... all of these are in waxwork museum along with brief appearances from aliens, Jack the Ripper and more.At first I expected it just to be a Dr Terror's House of Horror style piece with six different stories involved, but it turns out the film has more than enough original ideas to keep itself going. It all ends with every waxwork piece in the place coming to life for a final battle. Which is nice. The actors playing the teenagers all give fairly decent, entertaining performances and you have notable cameos from the likes of Miles O'Keeffe, John Rhys-Davies (as the werewolf), David Warner and Patrick Macnee (who was in The Howling). The script is pretty well structured and very little about the storyline is disappointing.All in all, this is among the most entertaining movies I've seen in a while, and I'd recommend it if you're after an ninety minutes of light-hearted, slightly twisted enjoyment. "},{"Title":"Would You Care for a Closer Look","Date":"10 April 2001","Score":"12 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Six souls must be gotten and given to various monsters in a magical/mystical waxwork museum in order for anarchy and evil to swallow the world.  Well, that is the premise of the film, but don't let it deter you from some good solid fun.  The plot is at best swiss cheese-like, but the film has style and creativity to make up for its shortcomings.  Most importantly the film is loaded with generous doses of humour throughout.  David Warner plays the owner of the museum and, like almost all of his performances, is a joy to watch as he slightly hams his way through this film.  Some of his lines are the most memorable, particularly as he talks to a jock about his wax creations, staring at a representation of The Phantom of the Opera saying, They will make a movie out of anything, having just heard that it had been filmed multiple times.  The rest of the cast is adequate.  Zach Galligan gives his mediocre best in the male lead, but two stunning beauties supply something to visually feast on despite their lack of acting breadth.  Michelle Johnson and Deborah Foreman do their level best to entertain.  The film is an obvious homage to the horror genre with all kinds of visual allusions to former horror films.  Anthony Hickox, the director, creates a fun horror film that I think his father Douglas Hickox, the director of my personal favorite horror film Theater of Blood with Vincent Price, would certainly have been proud of for its ability to mix chills with fun.  The film also has a nice cameo by Patrick Macnee, the old avenger himself.  Two minor flaws for me are the ending, which is somewhat too forced, and the bloodletting which may be a tad overdone at times.  Notwithstanding this criticism, one of my favorite scenes in the film is the one where the man who came to Dracula's dinner table(albeit minus much of his leg)agonizes in pain as he is prodded, poked, chewed, etc.. whilst a fight is going on around him.  A fun, fun film. "},{"Title":"Silly, but not a total waste of time","Date":"17 April 2004","Score":"15 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" If you can get through the first half hour of this film, which features bad dialogue and stiff performances, you may just enjoy it. A small group of spoiled teens (and one nice girl) go into a mysterious wax museum after hours and each succumb to a different, and dangerous, display. John Rhys Davies (long before his now famous Gimli the Dwarf days) is here as a tortured, dramatic werewolf. Miles O'Keefe (whom hardcore MST3K fans will have no trouble recognizing) is a hair product dependent Count Dracula, who seduces the rich-bitch of the group into a nasty, bloody, gross-out dinner party. The Nice Girl (Deborah Foreman) is drawn into the S&M world of The Marquis De Sade (as played by the too seldom seen J. Kenneth Campbell) and it is up to the rich boy turned nice guy to save her before she is whipped to death. Once all of the displays are filled, the characters within are unleashed, and it becomes a war within the wax museum as the remaining heroes must now battle the wax monsters and their transformed friends. All in all, this plays more like a comedy than a horror film, but the violence, when it appears, is so over-the-top that splatter fans won't be too disappointed.Followed by a pretty good sequel filled with numerous references to classic horror. Worth checking out at least once. "},{"Title":"More funny than scary...","Date":"5 December 1999","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This one is really enjoyable and fun to watch.I don't care that the story is a little bit silly;horror films are not supposed to be an art movies.What do we have here is a great galore of the famous monsterswerewolf,vampires(their leader Count Dracula is played by MilesSilent HunterO'Keefe),mummy,Marquis De Sade,zombies,Jack the Ripper and even living hand(just like in Evil dead 2).Special effects(Bob Keen)are good and there are also some nifty gore scenes.This flick isn't scary at all,there are only a few creepy scenes but it doesn't matter.Take your bowl of popcorn,invite your friends and enjoy. "},{"Title":"Funny, Gore and Cult","Date":"4 March 2014","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" While walking to the high-school, the teenagers Sarah (Deborah Foreman) and China (Michelle Johnson) are invited by the owner of a wax museum, David Lincoln (David Warner), to a private exhibition at midnight and he tells that they may invite four other friends to come with them. China invites her former boyfriend, the wealth Mark (Zach Galligan), their friend Tony (Dana Ashbrook) and two other schoolmates to come to the museum, but the two last ones give-up.Mark, China, Sarah and Tony are welcome by a dwarf and they separate in the room during the tour. Soon Tony crosses the security rope of the display and he finds in a cabin trapped with a werewolf. China also crosses the security rope of another display and she finds in a castle with several vampires. Tony and China are killed and become part of the exhibition. Mark and Sarah leave the museum and soon they find that their friends are going missing. Mark goes to the police but Inspector Roberts (Charles McCaughan) does not believe in his words. Mark and Sarah find in the attic of his mansion an old newspaper and they learn a dark secret about David Lincoln. They visit Sir Wilfred (Patrick Macnee), who is a friend of Mark's family, and they learn that David is near to unleash evil on Earth.Waxwork is a funny and gore movie with an absurd story, silly dialogs, but also a cult movie. The Waxwork Museum mysteriously appears in town and soon teenagers, the police inspector and several people disappear in the wax museum, but nobody in the town seems to care. The 80's is a fertile period of horror movies and Waxwork is among my favorites. My vote is seven.Title (Brazil) A Passagem (The Passage) "},{"Title":"characters in a wax museum come to life; not original, but enjoyable","Date":"4 June 2005","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Pretty fun horror movie! It's not the newest idea in the world there'd been a German silent horror anthology movie set in a Waxwork. In that, a man is hired to write stories about some of the characters in the wax museum. In each segment, we see the story played out, and the author, the owner and his daughter appear in the segments as well. In the last segment, they're menaced by Springheel Jack.In this film, a Waxwork appears in what seems to be a residential neighborhood - strange place to try to do business. It is filled with various death scenes involving werewolves, vampires, zombies, mummies, and so on. Some characters we don't see too much of seem to include the Invisible Man, Jack the Ripper. A group of young people are invited to a party at the Waxwork, and some of them step onto the displays, and find themselves transported into a live action scene where their lives are in danger.I had a good time watching it. Some of the effects in it are good, as in the vampire one, but the werewolf is one of the worst I've seen. I liked it enough I'll definitely check out the sequel. "}{"Title":"This is a fun spoof of horror movies!","Date":"2 March 2007","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Not exactly an Academy Award winner here, but this film is just fun. Director Anthony Hickox set out to make a fun horror spoof and he succeeds very well at it. Zach Gallagan once again stars as the almost nerdy unlikely hero. The film pays homage, firmly tongue in cheek, to the classic horror movies of long ago, and David Warner shines as the demented owner/creator of this wax palace of horrors. Yes the plot is predictable, but who cares? This is a film meant to be fun and it is fun. Patrick MacNee is delightful as always. Johyn Rhys-Davies is sort of wasted in the small role they give him, but is good as ever. Dana Ashbrook could have used a little more screen time but he is at his smart-ass best in this film. All in all just a fun evening. Anyone looking for something more needs to see the original House of Wax(1953) with Vincent Price. "},{"Title":"Acting and writing almost kill this one","Date":"2 June 2004","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" This is about an eerie waxwork museum run by a strange man (played by David Warner--so you KNOW he's VERY strange )). Mark (Zach Galligan), his girlfriend China (Michelle Johnson) and best friends Tony (Dana Ashbrook) and Sarah (Deborah Foreman) go check it out. Tony is drawn into a waxwork and gets killed by the wolf man; China gets drawn into another and is killed by Dracula. Mark and Sarah don't see it happen but realize something is going on. They go to the police for help but the police officer is ALSO pulled into a waxwork and killed by a mummy. Then Sarah gets pulled in to face the Marquis de Sade and Mark is pulled in to face the living dead...As you can tell this is a VERY strange movie. It's well-directed, beautifully atmospheric with some gorgeous sets and a wonderful music score. There's also a neat, truly scary black & white sequence. And there's TONS of blood and gore. But I didn't really like it. The script is silly (especially in the explanation of what's going on); this is actually a horror comedy--but the comedy is painfully unfunny and the horror too explicit to laugh at; the acting is TERRIBLE (Galligan is the worst offender) and they cast Miles O'Keeffe as Dracula!!!! Even worse his voice is dubbed--and looks it. Basically the violence, gore, special effects, score and settings are great--everything else blows. It's really too bad--this film does have potential but it doesn't have the talent to carry it out.I saw two versions of this--the R rated and the unrated. The R rated is bloody but the unrated is just unbelievable. There's a LOT more blood and violence (especially in the Dracula sequence). There is a sequence where blood is literally covering the walls! If you really want to see this the unrated is the one to see. "},{"Title":"A real monster mash","Date":"9 November 2010","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Everyone loves a good monster movie, but nowadays they seem to be fewer in numbers and that's a shame. They always make a comeback though like with this year's reboot of 'The Wolf Man.' One thing that's been done a few times, though not always successfully is crossover monster movies, which have been happening since the days of Universal's classic Horror movies. In 1988 director Anthony Hickox came up with his own take on this little slice of the genre, also blending in the old evil wax museum plot. The result is a really entertaining romp that isn't without flaws, but is still a good achievement.Pros Performances are good all around, everyone obviously having a good time here. A cool, if somewhat familiar story. Great make-up and special effects that have held up well. Fast-paced. Grand and memorable score. Has a good share of humor. Really good production design. Made with an obvious affection for the kind of movies it's paying tribute to. Awesome set pieces.Cons Some dated aspects. Lacking in the scare department. A few cheap looking sets.Final thoughts It's such a shame that films like this don't get made anymore. There's a lot more imagination and goods in this film than there is in a lot of mainstream Horror today. A perfect example of a film made with a lot of heart and that can watched again and again.My rating 4/5 "},{"Title":"My all-time favorite horror movie","Date":"28 August 2005","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" WARNING! THIS REVIEW INCLUDES MAJOR SPOILERS! IF YOU HAVEN'T SEEN THE FILM, PLEASE DON'T READ THIS REVIEW!Still with me? Good. Waxwork is, quite frankly, my favorite horror film ever. It has a clever, original story, memorable monsters and the lovely, talented Deborah Foreman as the leading lady. Really, what else could you possibly need in a film?The plot starts out simply enough six college seniors get invited to attend a late-night showing of the exhibits in a new waxworks building. But the characters in each of the displays are much more lifelike than they seem and when you step past the railing into the displays, you're taken into an illusionary world where the characters live, breathe... and kill.Pretty creepy, huh?Among the main cast members are Zach Galligan as Mark, Foreman as Sarah, David Warner as the Waxwork's owner Mr. David Lincoln, Dana Ashbrook as Tony, Michelle Johnson as Mark's ex-girlfriend China, Miles O'Keeffe as Count Dracula (or, as he's known as in this film, The Count), John Rhys-Davies as a werewolf, J. Kenneth Campbell as the Marquis de Sade and Patrick Macnee as Sir Wilfred, Mark's godfather. While Ashbrook and Macnee give good performances with their roles, it is Foreman and Warner who give the best performances. Galligan, though, gives as good wooden acting as any actor in the modern day Star Wars prequel films.Among the many good moments in the film, we get a few good one-liners in the mostly serious horror flick, good acting, a clever plot, likable characters and a truly frightening, though brief, black-and-white sequence with zombies! The musical score by Roger Bellon is also especially impressive for such a B-budgeted horror movie (particularly the main theme and the Mark and Sarah theme which is heard twice, when Mark is with Sarah outside her apartment and then when Mark takes Sarah's hand in the de Sade exhibit and leaves the display with her).Of the bad parts, we get some less-than-impressive cardboard sets, a werewolf that looks like a Muppet on steroids, lipstick-looking lashes on Sarah's back when she is whipped in the Marquis display (and the mentioned injuries curiously disappear when she leaves the display) and plot holes big enough to drive cars through. For example, the Marquis display hypnotizes Sarah when she stares at it and steps inside of it, but the others do not get hypnotized by their displays. Also, some gore is unnecessary (do we really need to see a hunter being torn in half by a werewolf?).Still, despite its flaws, Waxwork is a wonderful horror film that scares as much as it entertains. It may not be that scary by today's standards, but it goes well with popcorn and soda. So, dim the lights (if you dare) and enjoy watching this fine, lesser-known horror film.Would you like a closer look? "},{"Title":"Hugely enjoyable 80's horror splatter outing","Date":"13 March 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" A group of college students stumble across a waxworks museum where the displays come murderously to life. Writer/director Anthony Hickox uses the entertainingly simple premise to pay nifty,witty, and affectionate tongue-in-cheek homage to such classic horror creatures as Dracula, the mummy, the werewolf, and even the shambling cemetery zombies from Night of the Living Dead. Moreover, Hickox certainly doesn't skimp on the gloriously graphic and excessive gore, with a juicy head squishing and the vampire sequence in particular providing the undeniable gruesome highlights. Zach Gilligan makes for a likable hero as nice rich guy Mark, Deborah Foreman is her usual adorable self as sweet virginal innocent Sarah, the foxy Michelle Johnson burns up the screen as the brash China, and Miles O'Keeffe projects a potently brooding sexuality as a suave Dracula. The scene with the Marquis De Sade (splendidly played with lip-smacking wicked relish by J. Kenneth Campbell) whipping Sarah and giving the comely lass her first intense orgasm registers strongly as a genuinely sexy and erotic set piece. Seasoned vets David Warner as the waxwork's sarcastic owner, Patrick Macnee as jolly crippled eccentric Sir Wilfred, and John Rhys-Davies as a tormented werewolf give the picture an extra buzzing energy and a sense of true class. The lively and exciting climax totally smokes as well. Both Gerry Lively's glossy cinematography and Roger Bellon's robust score are up to speed. A seriously fun fright flick. "},{"Title":"Fun Monster Flick","Date":"9 March 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" WAXWORK is a really fun, well-done, stylish horror flick. It's not very serious for a horror movie but it's not a total horror-comedy either. It's loaded with cool monsters and famous horror villains (Werewolves, Vampires, Mummies, etc. etc. etc.) There was some other rad looking monsters/evil dudes I didn't recognize, but what was with that goofy @$$ African warrior mothaf#%ka? I watched the uncensored version and although it did have some really bloody parts (especially the vampire scene) I gotta admit i expected a bit more as far as gore. Even so it's still a very good monster flick. If it woulda been a little bloodier and gorier it probably would have received a 9 out of 10 and maybe even a solid 10. I'd recommend this one to not only fans of cheesy '80s horror like myself but any horror fans, just don't expect it to be hella serious. "},{"Title":"An Instant Cult Classic!","Date":"12 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" This movie is the perfect addition to any cult collection. It's one of those movies that's so cheesy (no doubt due to the timeframe in which it was created) There were many scenes that were hilariously funny due to the absurdity. When the rich kid was sitting at the table with his mom and he says When are you gonna let me have coffee?! I NEED THE CAFFEINE!!! It was soo great...but all absurdities aside, There were many great tributes to famous horror films and legends. I was particularly intrigued by the portrayal of the Marquis De Sade...Most of the performances in the movie were rather bad, but it all adds to the appeal of the movie as a let's sit around and laugh at this movie Check it out with some friends, Surely you'll have some good laughs! (9/10) "},{"Title":"This is a classic eighties film.","Date":"1 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" This movie has always been one of my favorite eighties movies. I love the eighties feel it has to it and I really like the plot. I recently purchased this movie after finding it in a discount bin. The acting does leave something to be desired. However, I think the story line more than makes up for it. The special effects are cheesy, compared to todays standards. Considering the time period, its still a pretty decent film. It is definitely worth watching. As long as you keep in mind, it was made in the eighties. You might find it interesting if your into low budget, grade B horror films. Also, don't expect it to be like House of Wax. They are two different films entirely. "},{"Title":"Can't a girl get laid around here without being burned at the stake?","Date":"8 May 2009","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" First time writer/director Anthony Hickox pays homage to the classics of horror in this film where a waxwork museum comes to town, and a mysterious man invites some teens to come to a special showing at midnight. Once the visitors enter, the exhibits come alive -- which doesn't bode well for the libidinous teens.It starts as a typical teen movie where the patter is boring, but soon changes as they enter the museum and, one-by-one, are drawn into the exhibits.Is the first exhibit, we are treated to John Rhys-Davies (Gimli in LOTR) as a werewolf. He kinda looked like a gremlin, but he was ferocious enough. Goodbye Tony (Dana Ashbrook).In the second exhibit, China (Michelle Johnson) falls prey to a vampire (Miles O'Keeffe).Mark (Zach Galligan) and Sarah (Deborah Foreman) leave in time. She was almost taken by an exhibit featuring the Marquis de Sade (J. Kenneth Campbell). What is it with women and those puffy shirts? Too many Harlequin romances, maybe? They return later when they have figured out what is happening. It seems Mark's grandfather and assistant were involved in some black magic, and the assistant was the man in charge of the waxworks. Sarah succumbs to the Marquis de Sade and Mark is fighting zombies before he figures out the secret that will save them.A final battle occurs when all 18 of the demons are let loose.Will the world be saved? Lots of blood and gore in an exciting movie. "},{"Title":"Great fun movie","Date":"19 June 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" heard about this movie but I didn't read the plot before, As was thinking, this Wax people will come to life and kill off teens one by one,I was really shocked that it's wasn't what I was expecting, which is a good thing, I liked the movie takes some times so you get to know teen before going into the movie.I really liked some first Wax story about werewolf was good effects in that movie, that part and I didn't like second that much at all and third the police man was funny. There were some very funny moments in this movie, that made me laugh out loud.I really liked how the movie flowed never once did it get boring and at a lot of stuff was happening, Great fun and movie "}{"Title":"All-time great late '80s video funtimes","Date":"29 March 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" One of my all-time favourite horror flicks, eagerly rented from the late lamented Ken Vision's Videos when i was but ten years old, to revel in the fun, the gore, and - yes, oh yes indeedy! - the scenes where the lovely Deborah Foreman is chained up and whipped into a frenzy of sweaty ecstasy by the Marquis de Sade. Powerful stuff indeed, which had a profound effect on my hormonal adolescent self, producing very powerful sensations in my brain and body.A great cast for those of us who waded through many an '80s fantastique flick at the time Zach Galligan of Gremlins fame, Dana Ashbrook, soon after to star in Twin Peaks and Sundown the Vampire in Retreat, the aforesaid vision of loveliness that is Ms. Foreman, also a Sundown alumnus as well as the brilliantly cheesecore Lobster Man from Mars, Michelle Johnson of Werewolf, and David Warner and John-Rhys Davies, both from... pretty much everything! We are treated to a gourmet feast of horror tropes werewolf, Count Dracula and his alluring vampy brides, Night of the Living Dead zombies, and a standout performance from J. Kenneth Campbell as the Marquis de Sade himself. The old video box called it 'more fun than a barrel of mummies' and i really can't put it better than that myself. Genius. "},{"Title":"Excellent concept, decent execution.","Date":"31 March 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" That sums up what happens with writer / director Anthony Hickox's film Waxwork, which puts its own '80s spin on the classic wax museum horror story. A delicious David Warner plays an evil waxworks owner with very special displays - they draw people in, the people are taken back in time, get killed, and then become a permanent part of the displays. The displays feature such classic fictional and historic monsters as a werewolf, Count Dracula (Miles O'Keeffe), a mummy, a group of zombies, the Marquis de Sade (J. Kenneth Campbell), Audrey II, etc. Warner is all about destroying the world here, because, as he puts it, somebody's got to do it. Among the heroic characters who catch on to his scheme are Gremlins star Zach Galligan as Mark and '80s sweetie Deborah Foreman as Sarah, who worked again with Hickox on Sundown The Vampire in Retreat. Fortunately, Mark has an ally in his fight against evil, his godfather Sir Wilfred, or Wilfie if you prefer, (ever delightful Patrick Macnee), who joins in the final big battle with a tricked out wheelchair. The movie is good fun, from start to finish; it's spirited entertainment that's nicely realized visually with fine production design (by Gianni Quaranta), costumes (by Leonard Pollack), and cinematography (by Gerry Lively). In true Night of the Living Dead tradition, the zombie sequence is in black & white, which only adds to the appeal. A good supporting cast also features Michelle Johnson (Blame It on Rio), Dana Ashbrook ('Twin Peaks'), Clare Carey ('Coach'), Charles McCaughan as the exasperated detective, and a too briefly seen John Rhys- Davies (Raiders of the Lost Ark) as the human incarnation of the werewolf. True enough that Galligan isn't playing the most engaging or likable hero here, but Foreman more than makes up for that with her sunny presence. O'Keeffe is of course stiff as always, but Warner and Campbell are great villains. Hickox gets things off to a highly amusing start with an unlikely choice of music for the opening pre-credits bit, and keeps things interesting and entertaining. When the final battle takes place, with Sir Wilfred and his associates taking on their formidable opponents, the results are too hard to resist. Makeup effects are by the talented Bob Keen (Dog Soldiers, Hellraiser, Candyman) and his Image Animation company, and are generally pretty good. By the time this movie is over, it literally brings the house down, and while it could have used a little bit of tightening, it still manages not to overstay its welcome, and has some nice moments along the way. Please note that director Hickox appears in a small role as the depraved English prince. Followed by Waxwork II Lost in Time in 1992. Seven out of 10. "},{"Title":"Funny and Sexy - In a Scary Way","Date":"11 February 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" I thought the movie was scary, funny AND sexy, especially the Marquis de Sade part. That actor J. Kenneth Campbell is HOT! Portraying an evil person in such an erotic way was very different and VERY exciting (to me anyway) -- and his hair was PERFECT. HOWEVER, why did he have an English accent? Wasn't it an English accent? You know what, who cares! He's hot! ALSO, loved watching him sword fight. I just wish the parts with him in them were longer. I've seen many House of Wax, etc. movies that are similar but this one was so cool because the people actually went into the wax scenes. And that guy on the table with the half-eaten leg! Yeah, it was actually funny! I also saw the Waxworks II movie and thought it was funny but where was the Marquis?? Definitely LOVED this movie better. "},{"Title":"Cheesy and delightful, but not something everyone will enjoy.","Date":"21 May 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" I won't waste my breath recapping the movie because all of the other reviews do an excellent job of that already. So, I will just dive right in and say this movie is campy. And I mean campy. The acting is rather horrendous and the story is odd and confusing at times. Still, I am drawn to it. Waxwork is hilarious, has excellent gore, and has situated itself as one of my most favorite horror movies of all time. There is so much that keeps me laughing and interested. I loved every moment of it. Still, it is not a movie for everyone. If you can't stand movies like Evil Dead or Dead Alive, this movie is definitely not for you. It is, without a doubt, a terrible movie, but that is part of the fun. If you are up for it, give it a chance and see if it entertains you as much as it did me. "},{"Title":"Fun fantasy","Date":"13 January 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" I watched Waxwork may times in high school. It's not scary or particularly funny, but it works well as a fantasy movie. I mean, how cool is that, to step into a wax display of a classic horror tale and be transported into that scenario to take the place of the often-unfortunate protagonist? The story goes that the owner of the waxwork museum needs 18(?) people to be trapped in the various horror displays so that they can all come to life (or something like that) and thus we get to see a bunch of the displays in action. What we don't get to experience, we later see in the big climactic, orgiastic fight scene. Like I said, all good fun. "},{"Title":"Horror movies have some of the neatest soundtracks","Date":"24 November 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" By all accounts, Anthony Hickox's Waxwork is a true B movie. And a mighty cool one at that! Gremlins star Zach Galligan plays an LA teenager who, along with his friends, discovers that a newly opened wax museum is actually part of a diabolical scheme.As anyone can probably guess, there are some really gross scenes in this flick. But that's part of what we like about these movies they're not afraid to do anything that they want! To me at least, one of the neatest aspects is the soundtrack. During the mummy scene they play the Swan Lake theme song. When they played it, I figured that it is the right kind of music for that type of scene. But what they play during the closing credits is a real surprise. Other horror flicks with really neat soundtracks are Down (aka The Shaft) and Blood Diner (probably the only horror flick that brings to mind Chuck Jones's cartoon What's Opera, Doc?).All in all, this has got to be one of the coolest movies of all time. Also starring David Warner, Patrick Macnee (of The Avengers) and John Rhys-Davies (of the Indiana Jones and Lord of the Rings series).I noticed that the credits thanked directors such as Spielberg, Landis and Dante. I guess that it really is my party after all! "},{"Title":"unexpectedly good!!","Date":"18 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" I didn't go into watching this B horror movie expecting a masterpiece so I was definitely surprised by how good this movie was. The concept is so ridiculous you wouldn't think this movie could be as awesome as it is. You can't take the movie too serious because it does have it's over the top goofy moments at times but that's all part of it's charm really. The make-up/special effects are what make this movie really affective, they are better than most all the horror movies in theaters these days (Why do movie makers think computer animated/simulated monsters are scare?!?! it's beyond me!). Maybe if they saw Waxwork they could get it right. Anyway...this surprisingly unique and clever little film is a real treat if you like 80's scary movies like me!! "},{"Title":"What do you expect?","Date":"12 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" The thing with waxworks is that it really wants to be the sum of its parts, the cast (with the odd exception) are generally pretty good, especially warner (why oh why was his part not bigger), the effects are just fantastic for most of the time, (you can see the waxworks moving) especially bob keens creature effects, the wolfman is awesome as is the mummy, there's even a fairly good bit of erotic sadism thrown in for good measure. OK so the story is nothing new at all, and the acting can be pretty atrocious at times but its just all so bonkers you cant help but fall in love with it. i saw this movie when it had just come out on VHS back in the day when i was to young to rent it for myself and thought it was the coolest, i had not seen it for at least 10 years until i bought it the other day and you know what, its still cooler than it has any right to be. "},{"Title":"Much better than I used to think","Date":"1 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  As a kid I thought Waxwork was a decent movie. I actually liked the sequel better. Recently I watched the first one after 6 years of just leaving it on my shelf and was suprised to find that it was WAY better than I had remembered. If you love the films about Frankenstein, Dracula, The Wolf Man, and The Mummy, then I recommend you pick up this film.!!!POSSIBLE SPOILERS!!!6 friends are invited to the local wax museum by a mysterious stranger. They arrive at midnight and start to look around at the displays. What they don't know is that the figures are actually real monsters that are frozen and will unfreeze once a certain number of people are sacrificed after entering their lair. Great story, acting, and effects. **** out of *****. "},{"Title":"Perhaps it shouldn't, but Waxwork works!","Date":"9 January 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" For a horror fan planning to make their first film, it must be hard to decide what type of scary film to start with; zombie, werewolf, mummy, vampire, maniac they all have their own merits and distinct appeal.Anthony Hickox solves this dilemma by cramming several sub-genres into one film! His directorial debut, Waxwork, features a variety of impressive horror vignettes based on his favourite scary movies; these are loosely linked together by a spectacularly scrappy (but still pretty fun) plot about a creepy wax museum curator (played by David Warner) who intends to bring his exhibits to life by luring victims into the supernatural displays.The final few victims required to complete this evil plan are a group of happy-go-lucky teens who are invited for a private viewing at the museum; one by one, they step over the rope barriers, only to find themselves becoming characters within the display.This fun setup allows Hickox the opportunity to have loads of fun paying homage to several classic horror movies of old, and the novice director definitely rises to the challenge, successfully mimicking both the atmosphere and style of each there's a great werewolf vignette starring John Rhys-Davies; a lavish and very gory Gothic vampire chapter featuring busty blonde Michelle Johnson; a mummy tale that also features quite a bit of bloodletting; some silly black and white zombie mayhem with Gremlins' Zach Galligan; and a deliciously erotic episode in which a sweaty and very appreciative Deborah Foreman is whipped by the Marquis De Sade (as the Marquis puts it, 'What a slut she is').Throw in an evil dwarf, a giant, and some bonkers action at the end of the film with a wheelchair-bound Patrick Macnee and pals kicking monster ass, and what you have is a very daft piece of popcorn horror that shouldn't really work, but does.7.5 out of 10, rounded up to 8 for IMDb. "}{"Title":"A forgotten classic horror movie","Date":"19 February 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  When I think of my top ten list for the best horror movies ever made, Waxwork always comes to mind near the top. It is sometimes funny, sometimes scary, and always fresh and entertaining. It actually seems to get better with age. I love the way that all the classic movie monsters and madmen have been put into one movie. It doesn't matter what your favorite monster is (be it vampires, werewolves, mummies, etc.), you will see it in this movie. There is something for ever horror nutt in this little classic. I love the characters, especially Deborah Foreman, Zach Galligan, Michelle Johnson, & Dana Ashbrook's roles. This movie is tons of fun. I recommend that you rent it ASAP (and try to get the uncensored version).  "},{"Title":"Can we hurry this up a bit please, I'm a little worried about my maids knowledge of Lithuania. Fun 80's horror homage!","Date":"27 December 2005","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Waxwork begins with two Los Angeles teenagers Sarah Brightman (Deborah Foreman) & China Webster (Michelle Johnson) on their way to school & noticing a waxworks. They are puzzled by the location, the strange owner David Lincoln (David Warner) pops up from nowhere & invites them to a private showing at midnight. Along with two friends, Mark Loftmore (Zach Galligan) & Tony (Dana Ashbrook) they decide to give it a go. Once there a strange midget butler named Hans (Mihaly 'Michu' Meszaros) answers the door, invites them in & says they can take a look around the waxwork models all of which depict various monsters including, Count Dracula (Miles O'Keeffe), an Egyptian Mummy (Paul Badger), the Marquis De Sade (J. Kenneth Campbell), a Werewolf (John Rhys-Davis), a circus freak, zombies & aliens. The four split up & have a walk around, only Mark & Sarah leave the waxwork as Tony & China are nowhere to be found. The following day & Mark becomes worried when no word is heard from either, he contacts the police & Inspector Roberts (Charles McCaughan) but isn't taken seriously. Mark does a little digging & discovers that Lincoln has in fact sold his soul to the devil & intends to resurrect his exhibits & spread their evil throughout the world, unless Mark & Sarah can stop him...This American German co-production was written & directed by Anthony Hickox, who also has a small role in the film as the Prince in the Marquis De Sade segment, & I personally think Waxwork is a fun & original horror film. The script doesn't take itself too seriously, moves along at a nice pace & pays homage to a whole host of horror films & monsters, Dracula, Frankenstein, Alien, a demonic baby, a deformed snake creature, the Mummy, the Phanton of the Opera, Werewolves, a man eating plant, Jack the Ripper, Dr. Jekyll & Mr. Hyde, the Invisible Man, flesh eating zombies, the Marquis De Sade &, of course, the wraparound story about using real people in wax exhibits. All of these monsters can be traced to other classic horror films, I also really liked the mini films within the overall film. The idea that once you step into one of the exhibits you are transported to that particular location. From the log cabin & spooky woods of the Wewrewolf segment to the huge Gothic castle featuring Count Dracula. From the ancient Egyptian tomb & the Mummy to the the graveyard & the zombie attack even presented in black & white (just to add that extra realistic touch to the homage). Some of the dialogue is a bit annoying especially all the boyfriend/girlfriend rubbish that populates much of the first half of Waxwork. The character's are thin & the final battle between good & evil feels very out of place & cartoonish especially when Patrick Macnee turns up in an armoured wheelchair although it reminded me of peasant villagers wielding pitchforks, yet another homage?Director Hickox films with competence & even manages to bring a little style to it. The gore is plentiful, someone is ripped in half, a sliced up leg, exploding heads, Vampire staking with gallons of blood spraying everywhere, impaling, squashed heads, beatings, severed hands & all sorts of monsters. Apparently special make-up effects man Bob Keen spent 18 hours a day for eight weeks working on them, the results are mixed with some very impressive ones like the cool Mummy & gory Vampire sequence while other's are less so like the flying rubber bat & some of the minor monsters.Technically Waxwork is solid & is well made throughout & I especially liked the catchy cool sounding music. However the burning waxworks at the end looks well fake. The acting is variable, some good some not so good but this adds to the fun rather than distracts & generally speaking it's not too bad.Waxwok is an original, fun & entertaining horror film that I enjoyed. It's different enough to stand out in a world of soulless clichd copycats & any horror fans will feel instantly at home with all the lovable homages of our favourite films that Hickox includes. Despite a few problems with the script & one or two silly special effect's I still highly recommend Waxwork, surely one of the best horror's to come out of the sequel driven 80's. Definitely worth a watch. Several years later a sequel Waxwork II Lost in Time (1992) was made. "},{"Title":"A gem when it comes to campy horror movies","Date":"7 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" A group of friends attend a private showing at a new Waxwork museum, but the owner has a sinister plan that involves the wax figures. The museum has displays of the most sinister creatures known to man and once a person steps onto the display, they enter the creature's world. I thoroughly enjoy this movie every time I watch it because it is very creative and set out to do something completely different. The only negative thing I can say is that the effects and editing are fairly poor. However, it doesn't stand out that much or ruin the movie at all. It is full of dark humor and gives nods to great horror movies. Of course, it wouldn't be a campy 80's movie without Gremlins star Zach Galligan and several other memorable actors from the decade showing up. It should also be mentioned that this is Anthony Hickox's first feature-length film, which makes it even more impressive. This is a gem when it comes to campy horror movies and is a definite must-see. "},{"Title":"I like my 80s horror as I like my pizza...","Date":"22 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" ...cheesey with a load of hot spice! A real blast from the past, frankly if someone invites you into a wax museum in a horror film no good whatsoever can come from it! Hilarious to watch the 80s fashions and haircuts now, very much dates it if nothing else. Great cast with some top notch British actors, the great David Warner, Steed himself Patrick McNee (in a camouflaged wheelchair!) and John Rhys Davies. The special effects now seem pretty lame but everyone seems to be having such a good time it really doesn't seem to matter at all.I wonder if Joss Whedon ever saw this? The final scenes with the monsters released seems very reminiscent of the final scenes of 'Cabin in the Woods'? We have a very Buffy like heroine fighting vamps and a very Angelus like villain (and indeed the actor who plays The Marquis de Sade plays Angel's father). Of course halfway through this film stops being a Fright Night style horror comedy and takes a 90 degree turn Meridian/Phantoms style into some fairly outrageous porn. We have the sexy bad girl surrendering herself to Dracula in a scene that must have had a million goth fetishists drooling through their black makeup (she certainly 'gives good neck'). If that wasn't enough we then have the good girl who isn't quite sure what she want's from her boyfriend? Turns out what she wants is to be chained up and whipped by the Marquis de Sade, orgasming like crazy, begging him not to stop or let the hero rescue her! And you thought the poster for 'The Entity' marked the death of feminism? Of course this was the era of the New Romantics so men with long hair, puffy shirts and posh accents were very much in vogue at the time. One point of order, the Marquis de Sade was a real person from the 18th century and was famous for his outrageous sexual escapades and love of inflicting physical pain on his partners. However in real life he was French, never killed anyone or even inflicted real injury upon them and was never considered evil. The term 'sadism' is derived from him. Ironically de Sade survived the French Revolution which killed so many of his contemporary aristocrats because he was in an insane asylum at the time due to his perverted exploits and what were regarded at the time as obscene publications on sexual matters.All told it's a very fun film, I'd love to see the sequel and surely it must be ready for a remake with some more convincing special effects. "},{"Title":"This is a must see title for any Bad Movie Night.","Date":"16 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" If you're a film connoisseur, you know that one particularly delightful delicacy is a movie so awful, so corny and weak, it's actually fun. In this vein of indulgence, we have the McDonald's of movies Waxwork!From start to finish, this movie hilariously disappoints. It's a cascade of clichs, expertly amateur, and so derivative it becomes an homage. The list of little to explicit rip-offs would stretch to hell and back. This is a must see title for any Bad Movie Night.The cast of would be heros (Zach Galligan, Michelle Johnson, Deborah Foreman, Dana Ashbrook) is a well-seasoned synthesis of 80's bitch/douche-baggery. These kids define stuck up. And there's no love lost watching them smug their way towards death. I do what I want, when I want. Dig it or f*ck off.John Rhys-Davies makes a surprising and profound appearance. This movie was well beneath him, and his short but captivating performance proves it.One thing I have to say For the real Marquis de Sade lovers out there, this movie is a disgrace. Pinning de Sade next to Jack the Ripper and Dracula - he was never so seductive or so cruel. Most of his works, though shedding light on gross and inhuman perversions, end with justice and the restoration of a kind of modern morality. De Sade was not a monster who got off on killing. J. Kenneth Campbell and Anthony Hickox - you should be ashamed of yourselves.Look for The human chicken leg Cpt. William Wonka of the RAF, or the 6th Doctor got a hair straightener No, it's not Fantasy Island Yes, there is a sequel...Cigarettes in hand, our posh protagonists each declare they're on the wagon. I wouldn't recommend it for this one. "},{"Title":"Great fun","Date":"7 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" One of my favorite escapist horror movies of the 80s along with April Fools Day, They Live and Night Breed. Reminds me a bit of the old Amicus/Hammer anthologies. This one has everything Buckets of blood, cheesy effects, thin ties, mullet haircuts, camp humor, midgets, Patrick Macnee, Deborah Foreman, DEBORAH FOREMAN! It also has genuine scares and copious gore, promiscuous smoking, and a who's who of Hollywood villains and monsters. Speaking of smoking, did I forget to mention that Deborah Foreman is in this film? How many more reasons do you need to see this movie? Run screaming to your local video store, rent it today and be thoroughly entertained! "},{"Title":"A camp-tastic 80s horror flick","Date":"8 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  With gratuitous gore (seriously, it gets rough) and a plethora of punchy (though campy) dialogue, Waxworks is a fine slab of visceral cinema. The camera angles and mise en scene are more artistic than usual for horror films, and the sets from all of the different periods that victims are taken to are convincing enough. Hey, it even has that guy from Sliders and Indiana Jones who always said INDIE! playing a werewolf in it. It doesn't get better than that! "},{"Title":"Finally, A Good movie with Zack Galligan besides Gremlins!","Date":"3 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  While I find this not as good as the sequel, this film has a place in my heart!  While Zack Galligan, Michelle Johnson, David Warner, and Patrick Macnee head up the cast, it's the wax creation segments that are the star of the film.  No major stone is left unturned.  It's Alive,  American Werewolf in London, Hammer films, The Thing, Jack the Ripper, The Invisible Man, Argento's Phantom of the Opera, Night of the Living Dead (yes!), and even, Deranged (movie based on Ed Gein) are tributed in the film.  With numerous references, this is a predecessor to films like The Dead Hate The Living. "},{"Title":"Terrific fun all through!","Date":"12 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Okay, I like my horror flicks, no, I love my horror flicks. This one plain and simply kicks-ass. It has Dracula, the mummy, the werewolf and zombies all rolled into one and more! It's funny and the acting is good. David Warner is a superb baddie and Zach Galligan is a great hero. But the most fun comes from the action packed ending. A huge battle royal with the waxworks themselves vs Patrick MacNees OAP club! If I could watch a horror film over and over again then this would be it! Oh yeah and Demons and Idle Hands and Maniac Cop and.......... "},{"Title":"pretty cool","Date":"22 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  pretty cool little flick is quite entertaining decently made and well acted and i liked the whole concept of this it had tons of gorenaked babes hot chicks what more could a horror fan ask for ????? **** out of 5 "}{"Title":"An excellent update of 'House of Wax'","Date":"18 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I was quite impressed with this movie, which I have just watched for the first time.  It pays tribute to a lot of the old Universal and Hammer movies from the 1930's to the 1970's.  It is very similar to House of Wax, which starred Vincent Price.A group of students are invited to a 'showing' at the local wax museum, little knowing the owner wants them killed for his display.  Each display contains monsters from the classic horror films, including the Wolf Man, the Mummy, Dracula and other vampires, the Phantom of the Opera, Jack the Ripper and some zombies and walking dead.  This movie also includes a dwarf to complete the picture.  When the owner has all his victims, fighting starts between all sorts of monsters and ghouls and local OAP's!  This is probably the best part of the movie.  The museum burns down at the end, but the two main characters survive.The movie has a good cast, which includes Zach Galligan from the Gremlins movies and a trio of well known British stars David Warner (Time Bandits, Titanic), Patrick Macnee (The Avengers, A View To A Kill) and John Rhys-Davies (Raiders Of The Lost Ark).  Warner plays a great part as the owner of the wax museum. If you are a fan of the old Universal and Hammer horror movies, you will enjoy this.Rating 3 stars out of 5.   "},{"Title":"A disappointment but not too much of one...","Date":"18 February 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I expected more from the cast and the great plot.  While watching this, though, that feeling of uneasiness didn't settle over me like it does for many movies.  It was great but the main character really should've been thought out more since it was who it was.  Character development was overlooked, yet again, and that brought down the level.On the upside, though, the movie was good since it had a good supporting cast and the scenes were creepy in their own way.  Not TOO creepy, though... I liked the idea towards the end, though it seemed a bit odd.  It was probably more aimed towards a higher body count.  The methods were cool, however, so I had to give this film a 6. "},{"Title":"Step into my parlor...","Date":"20 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" I usually prefer cheese in my food&not in my movies,but this movie is well done&quite entertaining. I'm not going to go on&on about actors&directors&such because I don't care about all that. The movie is what I'm interested in&it is quite interesting. Waxworks are not a new concept for movies no,but this movie is the best one about waxworks,that I've seen. It just seems to have the right mix&the cheese while certainly present,is not done to that annoyingly childish 'over the top' level like newer movies do too often. Plus,there are some nice tributes to some classic characters,real&fictional. Everything from a Jack The Ripper-like character,to a suave 'Dracula'&his pretty,hungry brides. And of course,Mr. S&M himself,the Marquis De Sade,who ironically gets the virgin of the group visiting the waxwork museum,into chains&she finds she likes it,quite a bit.(; Some nitpickers may loathe the few plot gaps there are,but since the movie is so well done,you hardly notice them,IMO. You step into the display&you will assuredly pay...with your life. BWAAAAAHAHAHAHAAAA! "},{"Title":"Just okay ... But not a classic 80s cult teen film","Date":"19 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Admittedly I barely got through the latter half of this, before temptation dared me to sit it out to the end. Darned it. Definitely not Galligan's, Johnson's, Foreman's or even Warner's better work. But I blame that on the bad scripting, the horrible directing, the rather lazy production technique. And Lord knows, I have long respected and admired David Warner's work. Gifted villain is he, especially opposite his classic Jack the Ripper icon, opposite Malcolm McDowell in 'Time after time'. And certainly, one of the finer, solid English talents of our century. Thankfully his talent wasn't entirely wasted in this. He was allotted some grandeur evil moments; similar to the setup of Vincent Price's classic 'House of Wax'. Most inevitably, a few of the latter scenes curiously depicted those classic scenes,like the vat room and the staircase.This film certainly started out decently, but some of the pacing was a tad slow. By the time the kids actually step inside the 'wax museum', and then walk around the exhibits, much just turns goofy or mindless from thereon. Eventually action becomes rather boorish. The special effects are mediocre if that, most of the period actors can barely act a wink, and the editing is just awful. Several of the slasher-gore action shots get goofy or make zero sense (or out of sequence), and the ending 'battle' scene between the 'monsters' and the good guys is laughable. Perhaps this was intended to be a teen suspense comedy-drama. And it almost held the same quality humor as the Evil-dead series. However, with the awkward pacing, much of the intended visual effects fell either flat or victim to bad editing. "},{"Title":"Fun and flawed in equal measures","Date":"29 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" (56%) A rather silly, yet entertaining comic horror that offers more than its fair share of cheap laughs and a quite large amounts of blood and gore. The thin plot and half ideas may have better suited a short, but if it's a variety in monsters you want then this has a good number featured in small sub-plots, though as usual with these things some are better than others while none are actually very good. There's a few famous faces popping up here and there, a good dose of quality throughout, and the direction has the feel that it was done by someone who actually cared. Overall a worthy, though not essential light-hearted sit for any 1980's horror fan. "},{"Title":"It gets better","Date":"12 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" For the first half of this film I was contemplating turning it off. It was the acting that got me. I know you should never expect Oscar-worthy performances from slasher films, but this one was even worse than usual. Plus it seemed to be more like a clipshow from lots of horror films than a single story.Guys, if you're ever wondering how to attract women then this film has the answer wait until you're about fifty then stand in the street wearing the most garish clothes you have. Do your hair in a comb-over then when two teenage schoolgirls pass by, invite them to your midnight show at a waxwork museum that's located in your average suburban street. Don't worry, they won't call the police on you - amazingly, they'll show up (and even bring their friends!).Again, that was another aspect I didn't like. The teens enter the wax museum and end up being picked off one by one in a different 'horror setting.' But, bear with it, there is a story somewhere in there.However, I stuck with it and I'm glad that I did. It's no classic, but it was silly and entertaining - which is all I ever expect from a horror movie. It wasn't that horrific, but it had plenty of rubber monsters being impaled on things (hey, it was made in the eighties after all - what do you expect!?) which is all most people want from their horror. So, if you can ignore the many plot holes in the first half, the second half is daft enough in a good way to be entertaining.Plus at least it doesn't have Paris Hilton in it (unlike the remake) "},{"Title":"Not as good as I'd hoped, but not bad.","Date":"22 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" WAXWORKNow this is one cheesy horror film.2 girls stumble across a wax museum that they had never seen before. The proprietor offers them a midnight viewing for them and 4 of their friends. When the go, they find out that the waxworks are not quite what they seem. It is a macabre looking place where people don't always leave.The story was actually not too bad. I like the idea of the time travel and the victims turning to wax. When the victims step into the compound of the wax figures, they get transported into the time of the wax figures and have to play out the scene, but generally that ends in their deaths and they end up as wax figures in the display. The effects were terrible, even for its time. This film was made in 1988. I know the effects were nowhere near as good back then as they are now, but Gremlins was made in 1984 and the effects on that were far superior. The wax figures were clearly people dressed up&#x85; and at times you could even see them moving slightly... It did contribute to the comedy of the film though.The acting was terrible from everyone&#x85; I am not sure if that was done on purpose or if they intended to be convincing, but wither way it was bad. The movie stars Zach Galligan. I think Zach is a good actor. He was very convincing in Gremlins, but this is weak. His acting could not be more wooden. All of the other actors were just as bad too. Other cast members were Deborah Foreman, David Warner and Michelle Johnson.The best character in this film was the servant that opens the door. He is such a brilliant character and the funniest guy in the film. He was played by Mihaly 'Michu' Meszaros. He is mostly famous for playing the alien Alf in the classic TV series.I thought this was going to be a serious horror film, but it was clearly made tongue in cheek. It is a silly comedy with horror elements. It is worth a watch if you want to laugh at an 80s film.It was entertaining but not brilliant, so for that I will give this film 6 out of 10.They'll make a movie about anything nowadays. For more reviews, please like my Facebook pagehttps//www.facebook.com/pages/Ordinary-Person-Movie- Reviews/456572047728204?ref=hl "},{"Title":"Cheesy Goodness","Date":"6 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Anthony Hickox is a man who knows how to work a budget and he's in his wheelhouse here with this fun, frivolous horror-comedy with some surprisingly gruesome makeup effects.With a cast of twenty and thirty somethings portraying teenagers you know you have to suspend disbelief almost instantly but this is a very entertaining way to kill 100 odd minutes.It's also a very clever way to milk what's essentially a threadbare script into clever little vignettes. This is not a criticism but a compliment, maximum bang for minimum effort in the screenplay department.Waxwork also looks more expensive than it really is which seems to be a trademark of all Hickox' films. The always welcome David Warner steals every scene he's in and the film builds to a fun frenetic climax. Horror film-makers of today could learn a thing or two from this. Keep the fun in horror films. "},{"Title":"Waxworks are out of date. This is the video age.","Date":"2 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Wasn't too crash hot on it the first time I saw it, but after this repeat viewing it was kind of better, but still not without its problems. Genre director / writer Anthony Hickox makes his debut with the morbidly tongue-in-cheek horror Waxwork, which is a very silly, if gimmicky shocker with some impressively creative scenarios like when our heroine (Zach Galligan) finds himself transported into the black and white world of Night of the Living Dead. Mark and a group of friends pay a midnight visit to a strange waxwork museum which has opened up in their neighbourhood overnight. The museum if filled with horrific displays of classic monsters; Dracula, the Wolf man, The Mummy, Phantom of the Opera and so son. Before they know it they find themselves drawn into the displays and becoming apart of that world and also possibly a victim. The concept is ambitious and downright inventive (in how it brings it's monsters alive and breaking the narrative into abrupt segments), but what occurs is conventional and there's a real uneven tone that turns what could have been disturbing into a ridiculous, eccentric and stupid outing that caps it off with a cheesy climatic showdown. It doesn't hold back, especially on the blood and gruel. It's vigorous in details and somewhat cruel. Hammy acting by most (led by David Warner and Patrick Macnee), but Zach Galligan and Deborah Foreman were agreeable with Michelle Johnson and Dana Ashbrook rounding off the cast. Also look out for Miles O'Keefe and John Rhys-Davies in bit parts. In all a fun cast working with a smarting, if smug script filled with references, self- parody and goofiness. Where the highpoint arrives from is the use of colourful make-up FX, waxwork designs and stylised visuals despite its limited scope. The project feels like a labour of love for Hickox. Someone who enjoys old classics of the genre in reviving them to post- modern times in Waxworks. This isn't my idea of fun. "},{"Title":"Take a closer look......","Date":"16 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Wealthy slacker college student Mark, his new girlfriend Sarah, and their friends are invited to a special showing at a mysterious wax museum which displays 18 of the most evil men of all time. After his ex-girlfriend and another friend disappear, Mark becomes suspicious. What he doesn't know is that they have been made a part of the exhibit, by first living out the scene and then being murdered in it......Back in the day, this was one of those bizarre horror movies that you caught on TV and never saw again.There were very few scenes I remember, but I remember I loved the film and it's sequel. Finally getting a chance to see it again, the rose tinted specs did not help the fact that's found this a little too average.The references to 'something wicked this way comes' are rife throughout, and all I see in Galligan is Billy Peltzer acting the pathetic fool.It's a very bizarre movie, with great make up and cheap sets, but it redeems itself come the finale with its bonkers fight between old men and titular characters.After seeing this finale again, I really wonder how original Joss Whedon is, because it's so much like 'Cabin in the Woods'.All in all, it's average stuff with a couple of good scenes, but nothing special. "}{"Title":"Slightly Uneven Horror/Comedy, but still worth a look...","Date":"26 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Quick true story about Waxwork before I dive into the meat of my review I went to a test screening of this film when I was in high school, circa late 1987/early 1988. I thought the film kicked all kinds of butt, and I remember filling out the little comment card at the end of the show (What did you like about the movie? What didn't you like?) raving about the makeup and gore effects, and I probably told them that the blonde who played China was freakin' hot or words to that effect. (I have always wondered if that comment got back to her. Some geek in Jersey thought you were hot, babe.) I don't recall if Waxwork ever got a legitimate theatrical release after that test screening, but when I rented it on VHS some time later, I was dismayed to find out that much of the kick ass blood and gore shots that I'd grooved on at the free preview had been edited. I am, however, happy to report that the version of Waxwork on the double feature DVD released by Artisan Entertainment appears to be that original, uncut version that I saw many years ago. (Though both films are in fullscreen, not widescreen...SIGH! I guess you can't have everything...) End of commercial. Okay then!! Waxwork is a mostly forgotten lil' gem of '80s horror comedy. The plot is pretty simplistic in a nutshell, Zach Galligan of Gremlins fame and a bunch of his fellow spoiled, rich California friends get invited to a preview showing at a soon-to-be opened wax museum in their town, only to find when they arrive that they're destined to become part of the various sculptures. The waxworks of such famed evil doers as the Marquis De Sade, Jack the Ripper, Dracula, etc., etc. are actually portals to other dimensions, where the young cannon fodder becomes trapped as part of some sorta convoluted voodoo worshipping plot to unleash Evil on Earth and bring around the End of All Things, or something like that. So the story's ridiculous, but the various set pieces and segments featuring the Waxwork characters are like a sampler platter of some of horror's greatest moments, particularly the Werewolf segment and the scene set in a den of vampires (where blood literally paints the walls!!!). All Galligan cares about is rescuing his virginal, never-had-it-but-really-wants-to love interest from the grip of the Marquis De Sade, and by the time his godfather (Patrick MacNee of The Avengers no less!) and his merry band of British supernatural fighters arrive to save the day, you're either gonna be laughing your head off or you're going to be saying I hate this movie. I personally would've preferred it to lean harder on the horror end and less on the comedy but when Waxwork gets nasty (as in the aforementioned Werewolf and Vampire scenes), it provides a decent amount of shocks and some killer old-school creature and gore FX. First time writer/director Anthony Hickox has become a genre veteran, having gone from Waxwork to films like the underrated Full Eclipse, Hellraiser III Hell on Earth, and Warlock The Armageddon to name just a few. Perhaps Waxwork is still a little rough around the edges but it shows that even at this early stage in his directing career, Hickox already had an eye for cool set pieces, interesting staging, and of course plenty of bloody action. Waxwork is an entertaining little time capsule that should bring a smile to the face of any '80s horror fan. They really don't make'em like this anymore. "},{"Title":"80s Cheesfest","Date":"8 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Waxwork is a fun and enjoyable 80s cheese-fest with a lot going for it.**SPOILERS**Gathering after school, Mark Loftmore, (Zach Galligan) Sarah Brightman, (Deborah Foreman) China Webster, (Michelle Johnson) and Tony, (Dana Ashbrook) decide to explore a waxwork museum hidden in their town. Looking through the exhibits at the behest of David Lincoln, (David Warner) owner of the site, they all decide to look into a specific wax exhibit, not knowing they are crossing over into the world of the exhibit through a spell around the exhibits, and they come into contact with monsters from the past, as well as real historical figures that have tortured mankind for centuries. Not knowing that they are in their worlds and figuring on it being just a dream, they never realize the dangers that lurk being in contact with such monsters as Count Dracula, (Miles O'Keefe) the Werewolf, (John Rhys-Davies) and The Marquis de Sade, (J. Kenneth Campbell) among others throughout history. When those that never entered realize that they're missing, they go back and find out what has happened, vowing to stop it before others go missing.The Good News There's not too much wrong here, and there's plenty to like. The fact that this one is so enjoyable from the raucous display of cheese in the film. From the incredible storyline to have an excuse to have all the different creatures come out, and the different amount of creatures on display in here is simply spectacular. From the werewolf to Count Dracula to the mummy and much, much more, there's no shortage of monsters in here, and that each one is taken up with a single segment is what preserves their fear, since it's just a stand-alone moment that isn't connected with what happens later other than the outcome. These are just packed with cheesy goodness, and are just a lot of fun to watch. There's also a large amount of rather fun action present in here, with most of the encounters with the creatures coming through pretty well, with the werewolf encounter being rather creepy and coming in with a spectacular confrontation with the creature, the Dracula version containing some wonderful scenes down in the basement dungeon, an encounter with a mummy has some great fun to it, the Marquis de Sade entry having some nice sleaze through a whipping scene to keep it fun, and then there's the full-on wonderfulness of the finale. This is just too exciting and energetic to keep track of, containing so much joy and wonderment that it's a real shame it's hard to track of. This one has so much excitement and action that it's impossible to keep track of it all, but there's fist-fights, stabbings, impaling, brawls and much, much more within the framework of the scene. With a giant fire brought into the fray and a ton of blood and gore unleashed, there's just no stopping the fun in here. The gore in here is also really great, with a literal ton of it on display. From having a head squished under a foot and a floor, impaling with wooden stakes, a head split open, decapitations and several set on fire, and the huge body count here means that there's so much more in here. These here are the film's best moments.The Bad News This one here doesn't have a whole lot of flaws. The main one here is that it's way too cheesy at times for it's own good. From the rather goofy story to the one-liners that are uttered to the extreme amount of action, there's really nothing in here that gives the film anything other than a cheese-fest, and while it revels in that part, there's a sense that some might not get into it that much. The other flaw in this one is that there's a couple of segments in here that run too long or don't need to be there at all. The zombie encounter never needs to be there, since it doesn't offer up anything of value, other than the zombie make-up and probably could've been cut out. Also really should've been cut was the length of the Dracula segment, since there's a huge amount of time in this one that doesn't amount to much. From the long dinner-room scene to the rather dull and tortured revelation scene, this one goes on for a little longer than necessary. There's a few other small things here and there, but otherwise, these here are the film's true problems.The Final Verdict With a lot of great cheesy 80s action going for it and only a couple of flaws, there's not a whole lot that will hold this one down. Highly recommended for those who have a big appreciation for the kind of cheesy quality this represents, or fans of the genre, while those who don't enjoy those should still enjoy this one.Rated R Graphic Violence and some Language "},{"Title":"Entertaining Homage","Date":"17 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Waxwork is a series of homages to classic horror films involving a story of wax displays that come to life. This movie is quite entertaining with some good gore and the makeup effects are well done considering the low budget. Also there's some humorous bits, some nice atmosphere, great 80s music, and some great homages. Though the fact that you can tell that the waxworks are actually actors trying to hold a pose is somewhat annoying and the pace does lag a little in parts. Also the acting, while not bad, isn't anything real worthy. Basically this is an entertaining little homage that does lag in a few places but is definitely worthwhile. "},{"Title":"see it if you're a fan of horror","Date":"30 October 1999","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  A movie with a plot strong enough to survive the bad acting and horrid casting decisions.  See it for the cinematography and the effects, as well as for the amusing and clever takes on the horror milieu.  Don't be put off by the actors--they're only there to take you on the ride.  Not excellent, but not bad, either. "},{"Title":"Great movie paying homage to other horror creatures/movies!!","Date":"22 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This movie is about a waxorks musuem whose owner lures unsuspecting teens into his house of wax. One by one, the innocent teens go into the exhibits. Eventually two of the teens escape and discover the owners real plans. The owner is played by David Warner(Titanic). The owner wants to take over the world , but needs human deaths to do it. The climax of the movie is when the good guys battle the evil wax monsters and victims(now under David Warner's control). The ending was a suprise even for me!But if you like a fast paced, semi gory horror movie with miminal swearing you will like the movie!!It can be campy at times, but at least it 's a fun horror movie to watch!!!This movie also had a sequel made after it!!Waxwork aslo stars the guy from Gremilins, I cannot remember his name though!!Go rent ,buy this movie and have some fun with this one!!! "},{"Title":"Before there was Cabin in the Woods, there was Waxwork! It was OK.","Date":"25 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Directed and written by Anthony Hickox, the movie has everything that a horror movie fan might love. Often cited as the first self-referential horror movie. Its showcase in a waxwork museum own by a mysterious, Mr. Lincoln (David Warner) and his midget & lurch like minions. These aren't your typical Vincent Price's 1953's House of Wax figures exhibit though, each one depicts a different story of death and murder by evil creatures. Nearly all the classic monsters are in this movie, ranging from the werewolf (John Rhys-Davies), Count Dracula (Miles O'Keeffe) to etc. stock characters. Some of them worth mentioning are Frankenstein's monster, the mummy, Phantom of the Opera, and zombies. There are some homage to other movies characters in the film such as the pod from Invasion of the Body Snatchers (1956), the killer plant from The Little Shop of Horrors (1960) & the demon baby from It's Alive (1974). They even added the villainous real life historic figure Marquis de Sade (J. Kenneth Campbell) to the mixed. Warner & Campbell give the best performances from all the villains. It's too bad, the actors acting like solid wax models couldn't act still, as they were blinking, and slightly moving. They are not supposed to look alive, until the victim looking at the exhibit, overstep the borders of the exhibit. If they do, they're transform into the world of the display. If you die in their world, you die in real life. The movie is full of the 1980's horror clichs cheese archetypes, as a group of most unlikeable spoil rich university yippee students enter the evil museum. I found Mark Loftmore (Zack Galligan) as a great lead, but he was such a jerk. Mark's need for caffeine is introduced early in the first film, then it's promptly dropped and never goes anywhere. Plus, how on earth is he getting his facts about killings, before there isn't any clues of the crimes? It's like his character just jump over the script. The way, Zack acts is so wooded. Then there is Sarah Brightman (Deborah Foreman), the 'good' virgin girl who all for sadomasochism pain humiliation. It's really bugs me that she is a stupid damsel in distress type of a character, who not only doesn't want to rescue, but beg the bad guy to continue to torture her because she got an orgasm. She is like the wet dream of wife beaters everywhere. No strong feminism here. Even China Webster (Michelle Johnson) the archetype whore character, who seems like she is against vampires at first, gives up and surrendering herself to Dracula. Why, because women will fall in love with dangerous abusing men as long as they are handsome! What crap message is that!? The acting from these two are mediocre, at best. The only good thing about them are both women are just beautiful. Tony (Dana Ashbrook) come off a drug- addict idiot who you knew, is going to get killed off, first. So, no surprised there. Since Writer/director Anthony Hickox wrote the screenplay in only 3 days, the plot doesn't make much sense. The movie tries to explain more, through wheel chair bound Uncle, Sir Wilfred (Patrick Macnee), a former hunter of the supernatural, but it just set up more questions than answers. Then there is the bit about the wax sculptures being from the most evil men from the past, and they need victims to come back alive. Excuse me, this doesn't make any sense. Nearly none of those horror characters were alive, besides Jack the Ripper & Marquis de Sade. Somehow, I think the movie was trying to put Adolf Hitler in the film; seeing how much they mention fascism in the film. The movie made no more mention about Mark's attic and the glowing book of the Marquis de Sade in a trunk. What was that about? The ending is kinda weird, as the most evil creatures that ever live is against a group of old people getting their butt kick. I thought these were the most evil creatures that ever live? Also, what are the victim now bad guys? I can understand those who turn into monsters, but I can't see the old hunter teaming up with the werewolf that he just try to kill earlier in the film. This film is OK with its combination of horror and comedy. The movie has this weird hate/love relationship with smoking cigarettes that you will probably catch on. There is a Phantom of the Opera joke, that was supposed to be meant for Jason Vorhees from the Friday the 13th films about people making movies about anything these days, but they (the producers) couldn't get the rights for the character. The dialogue is full of cheesy one liners. You will get over the top gorn, spraying blood, mutilated flesh, and people getting rip apart. In some versions, the film was cut by the MPAA due to gore in the vampire sequence. It's badly edited, so just find the original copy. The set designs are really good & well captured. I love the black & white look of the zombie sequence. Amazingly accurate & professional looking, considering the films low budget. The score by Roger Bellon changes depending on which monster or era were in & is done in the classical scores of the famous Universal horror movie scores of the 30's/40's. The music choices are pretty hip. Look out for other horror movies references like the missing posters that looks like the posters from 1987's Lost Boys or the painting from 1989's Lobster Man from Mars. There is a sequel, 1992's Waxwork II Lost in Time worth checking out, but it's not as good as this movie. Still, despite its flaws, Waxwork is a wonderful horror film that scares as much as it entertains. Waxworks is a film made with heart & it shows. It's a horror film for horror fans, by horror fans. "},{"Title":"You'd be a dummy to look too close.","Date":"22 May 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Anthony Hickox, in the late 80s and early 90s, made a number of movies that I still enjoy to this day. Waxwork, his first feature as director, is one of them.David Warner is the untrustworthy owner of a strange wax museum that suddenly appears in the middle of an American suburb. A bunch of teens (including Zach Galligan, hilarious as rich, spoilt Mark) are invited for a special, late-night viewing. But stepping over the threshold of any exhibits takes curious onlookers into the world depicted and can end up taking their soul, with a certain number of souls needed to unleash horror upon the world.For the first half of the movie this works almost like an anthology movie, and works well. There's an enjoyable werewolf skit, a fun vampire moment and even an old-fashioned mummy. But as things grow increasingly preposterous (and as the plot developments are spouted by Mr Exposition aka Sir Wilfred, played by Patrick Macnee) they also grow a little bit tiresome as we head towards a finale that should be exciting and full of tension.Zach Galligan trying to fend off zombie hordes and Deborah Foreman (as Sarah) being punished by the Marquis De Sade are highlights in a finale crammed with just a little too much considering what the small film can manage. Homages abound and there is still enough fun to be had but it's all a bit anti-climactic in the last ten minutes or so when it should have stayed just as enjoyable as it was in the early scenes. Strangely enough, the unfolding of the plot and tying up of loose ends drags the film down slightly compared to the unreal madness that was so much fun before we received any explanations about the working of the wax displays.See this if you like La Casa Del Terror, The Monster Squad, Waxwork II Lost In Time. "},{"Title":"More than just life-like exhibits in this mini-horror fest. (spoilers)","Date":"30 October 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" 'Waxworks' is a combination of witty cynicism, mildly dazzling array of special effects, and unfortunately, all of it marred by a dismal plot standard of the horror villain's motives.Four wealthy friends (either high school or college friends, I don't know) attend to a private late-night exhibition at a local Waxworks to which they are invited by the mysterious owner. But, the unsuspecting guests soon realize that the displays of familiar horror tales involving werewolves, vampires, and zombies, among other things, are more than life-like. Each are transported into something of a physical warp (maybe a time warp) in which they are transported into the scenes which culminate in the final display (and usually, their death and transformation into wax figures). The creepy Waxworks owner of course, intends for the guests to become part of his collection.So, the four friends enter the exhibit, but only two leave. And Mark (Zach Galligan), trying to link all of these disappearances to the Waxworks, is about to find out what's going on, especially with the help of a friend of his eccentric grandfather.These mini-horror movies within the main horror movie are semi-entertaining, at least up until the point when you find out that the Waxwork's motives have become a horror plot standard in which he is collecting something as part of a ritual needed to unleash previously inactive evil upon the world. Somebody's got to do it, the owner claims in jest. And the movie certainly becomes far too ridiculous when Mark and his grandfather's friend, Wolfy, find out what the owner is up to. Think Frankenstien with the fiery mob and pitchforks and everything. Although the film was an interesting the idea, the execution is mostly laughable by the end. "},{"Title":"Utter, Albeit Enjoyable, Crap","Date":"11 January 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" My sister has watched this movie once per year since she was in college, and this year decided to share it with me. I am so glad that Waxwork has come into my life.From the moment where the little person in the tuxedo says, Welcome to the Waxwork! in a high-pitched voice, to the part where an old man in a camouflage-painted wheelchair bursts into the waxwork with his army of septuagenarians, every instant of this masterpiece of Western cinema shines with quality.The story begins with a team of archetypal teenagers in what I think is supposed to be a community college. The four main characters are Bad Girl, Good Girl, Bad Boy, and Hero. They end up at a waxwork run by the worst-dressed man in history, a little person, and a really tall guy. However, the waxworks there are magical, for they suck each of the characters into a tableau....of EVIL.The definite climax of the film is when Good Girl exposes herself as a stone-cold freak, and is subsequently sucked into the world of the Marquis de Sade. Hilarity ensues.As a real movie, I give Waxwork a score of 0. But to judge it on a scale of general enjoyment and unintentional funniness, I give Waxwork a 10, resulting in a score of 5. Enjoy the excessive gore, girls getting whipped by men with bad French accents, and one of the stupidest premises in horror. "},{"Title":"Monster mash-up in wax.","Date":"18 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Waxwork is written and directed by Anthony Hickox. It stars Zach Galligan, Deborah Foreman, Michelle Johnson, David Warner, Dana Ashbrook, Miles O'Keefe, Patrick Macnee and John Rhys-Davies. Music is by Roger Bellon and cinematography by Gerry Lively.A sort of portmanteau horror film made on a TV standard budget. Plot in simple terms has a bunch of pretty young adults unwisely accept an invite to visit the mysterious new wax museum that has suddenly appeared in town At midnight! What follows is a number of stories that find members of the group magically transported into the realm of an exhibit, such as werewolf, vampire etc, and end up as part of the exhibit themselves. Can the hero in waiting save the day?It's a fun homage of a movie, playing very much firmly with tongue in cheek. The presence of some horror stalwarts in the cast is reassuring, and the effects work isn't half bad. Some of the acting is poor from the younger cast members, and while it's not hard to forgive a low budgeted movie its failings, it's still annoying that the actors playing the wax models can't keep still, while the set nearly falls down at one point. The photography is also too cloudy at times, Gerry Lively's filters straining for colour ambiance.Still, it's a decent time filler that's made with love by a horror fan for horror fans. 5/10 "}{"Title":"Early entry in bloody teen bump-off movie stakes","Date":"16 March 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" I generally think of Zach Galligan as being fairly indistinguishable from David Naughton - both were personable young American leads who played the main protagonist in the 80s in highly successful horror/comedy movies (Naughton in An American Werewolf In London, Galligan in the more juvenile Gremlins and its sequel - Naughton's character didn't survive long enough for a sequel, of course), and both went from those successes to a gradual spiral into increasingly rubbishy films, mainly low budget horror, until their careers more or less petered out.Waxwork is early in Galligan's spiral. It is not complete rubbish. Even though the story (teens loose in a wax museum where the exhibits come to life and the young friends die one by one in gory fashion) was not exactly original even then, it has moderate production values, some well known names in the cast, committed performances, and is very professionally made.But the spiral continued, and what followed was not as good as Waxwork. "},{"Title":"Weird one","Date":"16 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Waxwork is a weird little movie that could only have been made in the late 80's or the early 90's. It incorporates so many different elements that don't go together at all wacky comedy, a silly combination of Dracula, the Mummy, the Werewolf, black-and-white zombies and the Marquis de Sade (!), half baked gore effects, a cheap sounding score... It's a rather childish movie for lovers of the obscure. Who would even consider realizing such a script? I don't know, but I have to say that I'm a little intrigued by it.The best part of the movie is the showdown where there's a big punch up between monsters and some guys who are, eh, against monsters and stuff. Waxwork is adorable for its wackiness, but you're probably gonna ask yourself more than once why you're even watching it. "},{"Title":"A Great Wax Museum Movie","Date":"18 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Okay, there aren't that many.  But Waxworks manages to pay homage to a number of genres, while retaining an engaging, campy humor about the whole thing.  "},{"Title":"Pretty bad, yet enjoyable.","Date":"7 January 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" It must be because I like horror, since otherwise, this is a pretty bad movie, with a weak, silly story, that besides isn't that well made.But despite all of the criticism I have about this movie, I still could really enjoy it. It was silly, it was bad but luckily they did not forgot to make the movie entertaining to watch. Plenty is happening for the horror fans and the movie is basically showing every classic horror character you could think off.It's really a very simplistic movie, that thrives on its concept. What you could say about its first half is that the movie is being a bit like Tales from the Crypt. It features different 'stories', characters and time periods, every time a character enters the world of a certain wax figure. Because of this concept, the movie can show off with featuring as many horror characters as possible. So, there are vampires, a wolf-man (played by John Rhys-Davies), zombies, a mummy and even more. This is fun and good all, though I would had still preferred if they put some more efforts in these separate stories as well. There really is no story to any of them and it besides doesn't make this the most consistent movie to watch, especially when the second half of the movie is starting to take a more different approach.The movie is also still lacking a good main character because for most part the movie seems to want to focus on multiple characters, rather on having one of two main characters. Or at least this is the case for the movie its first half. In the second half the movie seems to be more focused and it turns more into a good versus evil type of plot, with David Warner as the evil villain. Neither half of the movie is that great or original but both are still good and enjoyable, each in their own way.The movie is featuring some pretty decent gore as well, despite being more of a comedy than a straight-forward horror flick really. But some of the effects are really good and the movie isn't afraid to spew out some blood. It's highly enjoyable and surprising as well at times, with its gore.Not well written and not even all that well made but yet it's a very enjoyable movie, especially when you are into horror.6/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Garbage","Date":"14 August 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" I love a bad movie. Some hokey, poorly acted piece that you can just laugh at how silly it all turned out. But sometimes, I just leave a movie angry. Cabin Fever, Transformers 2, and now, Waxwork 1 and 2.It's a frightful mix of bad comedy and bad horror, flawed on a conceptual level by an inablilty to decide if it wants to use famous evil-doers from real life, or villains from far better movies. Rules and themes are established, then quickly forgotten. David Warner and John-Rhys Davies are -slumming- it here. The bad guy's scheme is so convoluted that Bond villains would send him back to the drawing board. In fairness, there is an awesome scene involving a vampire bat near the end, but it simply isn't worth watching the movie to get to it. Shame on everyone who watched this in theatres in 1988. Waxwork 2 Lost In Time is your fault. "},{"Title":"The sauce makes the dish, but the aftertaste is pretty lousy","Date":"23 April 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Waxwork is one of the most frustrating offerings you're likely to come across if you explore the '80s splatter movie canon. On one hand, the film boasts a very cool concept, several splendid in-jokes for horror fans, and some delightfully grisly gore effects that every genre devotee will relish with fiendish glee. However, to enjoy those fantastic elements, you also have to contend with some truly wretched acting, atrocious dialogue that makes the fact that someone was actually paid to write this movie seem like a mortal sin, and a climax that spirals into absolute nonsense. One's enjoyment of the film as a whole will depend on how enthused you are by the former and how forgiving you are of the latter. However, if you don't mind seeing a prime slice of classic B-movie horror disintegrate before your very eyes, Waxwork offers enough moments of genius to merit a viewing, even if it doesn't earn a glowing review.Perhaps best described as a loving tribute to the genre, the film takes a largely anthological approach, delving into portions of several legendary horror films throughout the course of its padded running time. The initially simple plot involves a group of wholly obnoxious and blatantly stereotypical teen archetypes attending a shady midnight tour at a wax museum that specializes exclusively in macabre exhibits. One by one, our attendees cross the velvet ropes and step into the displays, at which point they become immersed in the world portrayed by the wax figures.Each exhibit represents an legendary icon of horror's past, and, though the segments refrain from crediting their direct sources, throughout the course of the film we visit homages to the werewolf, vampire, mummy, and zombie genres. The vampire installment is overwhelmingly the strongest, presenting a witty and splatter-fueled twist on the classic Dracula formula, and this deliciously twisted subplot would have been perfectly suited for an episode of Tales From The Crypt. In fact, the segment is pretty much worth the entire movie by itself, and the over-the-top gore on display presents a thrilling and pretty much amazing bit of parody.The winks to horror enthusiasts are smart and subtle, such as the black-and-white staging of the obviously Night Of The Living Dead-influenced zombie episode and the use of music from Boris Karloff's original Mummy film in the segment that echoes that classic. If Waxwork lived up to the promise implied by its sharpest moments, we would probably be dealing with a classic here. However, at some point the film-makers decide that they want a more cohesive plot, and that is precisely the decision that makes the film veer way off track.The absurd purpose attributed to the lethal museum is downright stupid, and once we find out that the malevolent curator is actually instigating a plot to bring his sculptures back to life, the film instantly stops being clever. You see, the titular waxwork is actually a gallery of infamous villains whom the curator wants to resurrect and unleash upon the world. Since the horror movie-referencing displays are placed alongside real-world historical figures like the Marquis de Sade and Jack The Ripper, the concussed logic of the master-plan not only suggests that there was a zombie outbreak at some point in history, but that the events portrayed in Invasion Of The Body Snatchers actually occurred as well.The denouement, where the wax sculptures do indeed come to life, erupts into a battle between the forces of evil and a band of elderly defenders (please don't ask), and any lingering pretensions we have of Waxwork living up to its nifty premise come to a screeching halt along with the film. And when a decidedly sissified Maquis de Sade becomes one of the most prominent villains, the highlights in the first half of the movie fade into a distant memory. On that front, the de Sade segment is an awkwardly misogynistic bit that completely derails the mirthful tone the movie maintains up until that point, and once the Marquis makes his entrance the film ceases being fun and starts becoming tedious.Since the thin budget clearly didn't allow the film-makers to build a gallery of wax sculptures, the actors are called upon to, literally, stand in. This turns into a problem when not a single member of the cast can hold still even for a moment, and any time we see the wax figures on the screen, they end up invariably flinching before the shot is through.Though it eventually devolves into a ludicrous mess, Waxwork has enough hints of genuine inspiration to make it a memorable affair. However, considering the promise it shows during its better moments, the end result is a certifiable disappointment. To quote the dwarven doorman who admits the characters into the world of Waxwork, we verr achspuckting more. "},{"Title":"Some scenes are worthwhile.","Date":"28 November 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" I think that Mr. Galligan is in competition with Mr. Furlong to see who can grow up to be the worse actor. Unfortunately, Mr. Furlong wins.Which doesn't make Waxwork a winner. You may expect things to perk up when Patrick Macnee is introduced, but don't get your hopes up. David Warner is OK, but I think he's the only actor who even tries to be convincing.Nothing in this film makes much sense, but I'm not sure it's supposed to. You can figure out the rules as the movie plods along.One brilliant touch is the sound effect that goes along with swinging one's hair. You'll know what I mean when you get to that scene.Not the best 1980s slasher flick. "},{"Title":"Lame and silly attempt to spoof horror movies...","Date":"2 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" 1st watched 7/12/2009 - 3 out of 10 (Dir-Anthony Hickox) Lame and silly attempt to spoof horror movies in this story about a possessed wax museum visited by brainless teenagers. A couple of them get swept into the exhibits and the story that revolves around the exhibits, and then they get killed and become permanent parts of it. This is the basic storyline but they add a rule the world theme concocted by the leader of the museum. He believes that once each exhibit has had it's chance to kill they will all come to life and conquer all !! Mu ha ha!! The movie has a campiness that makes you think initially it will be a comedy but it really just turns into a slow moving horror movie. The exhibits include the werewolf, a vampire, the Marquis de sade and an alien that isn't really explored. This is where the movie tries to pay tribute to these type of movies but fails. At least the movie didn't turn out to be a kill all teens slasher movie and they tried a different style in the storytelling to put away the worthless teenagers but it still doesn't really work as an interesting movie. "},{"Title":"* out of 4","Date":"19 May 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Gathering after school, Mark Loftmore, (Zach Galligan) Sarah Brightman, (Deborah Foreman) China Webster, (Michelle Johnson) and Tony, (Dana Ashbrook) decide to explore a waxwork museum hidden in their town. Looking through the exhibits at the behest of David Lincoln, (David Warner) owner of the site, they all decide to look into a specific wax exhibit, not knowing they are crossing over into the world of the exhibit through a spell around the exhibits, and they come into contact with monsters from the past, as well as real historical figures that have tortured mankind for centuries. Not knowing that they are in their worlds and figuring on it being just a dream, they never realize the dangers that lurk being in contact with such monsters as Count Dracula, (Miles O'Keefe) the Werewolf, (John Rhys-Davies) and The Marquis de Sade, (J. Kenneth Campbell) among others throughout history. When those that never entered realize that they're missing, they go back and find out what has happened, vowing to stop it before others go missing.Stupid, loud horror film with unsympathetic characters and an illogical finale.Unrated for Extreme Graphic Violence and Profanity. "},{"Title":"This kind of movie Killed the horror genre of the 80's","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Sure, it features popular monster creatures but they look soo cheesy that you would think it's a spoof. The only scary thing about this movie is it's dialogue. I have to admit that the zombies looked kinda cool, but dumb. The weak special effects, the acting, and a terrible ending make this a terrible movie to watch. Don't give this movie a chance, it's a waste of time. "}{"Title":"i think dictators are the bad people.they have the shouting voices and the small moustaches","Date":"29 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" this is one bizarre movie.it's sick and twisted and perverse.and it has to be dun tongue in cheek.there's just no way this was s opposed to be a serious movie.i guess you could call it a black comedy/horror-if you really wanted to.most of the movie is atrocious,including the very hammy overacting,the even worse dialogue and the even worse than that script.yet it is oddly(very oddly,)entertaining at points,and very boring at others.it's between 95 and 97 minutes,depending on whether you watch the rated or unrated edition,not including credits.the one positive thing about this movie is that the makeup effects weren't half bad.still,i'm glad it ended when it did.i don't think i could've taken anymore inane dialogue.the most i ca give this thing is a 4/10,for it's entertaining moments. "},{"Title":"Pathetically poor gore-filled horror film","Date":"22 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  WAXWORK does have one distinction - it contains the stupidest looking werewolf I've ever seen- more resembling a deranged pekingese than any member of the canine family. It is also a grade z attempt at a horror film.Everything about this production is sub-awful. Lousy acting from everyone on board, awful script that consistently makes no sense, dumb direction, cheesy sets, and the editing seems to have been done with a hatchet. It is full of blood and gore and disgusting sequences - the worst of which occurs in the Dracula sequence. The make-up attempts to recreate famous monsters is so bad I would imagine high school students could have done a better job. There is however one saving grace - Miles O'Keeffe as Dracula - out of all this mediocrity this stunningly beautiful face with bone structure for days rises up and with a few seductive, breathy and well accented lines, becomes the only thing worth looking at in the entire film. I saw the full version and wish I hadn't. Avoid this piece of schlock - it's revolting and disgusting.  "},{"Title":"pretty good????","Date":"4 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This movie was somewhat good but I hated it it  was better than some movies I mean the special  effects were also pretty good I really would not recommend this to anyone and give it a 2/5 "},{"Title":"Waste of time.","Date":"24 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I did not like this. Sure, there has been much worse, but there was nothing that good about this movie except for the special make-up effects, witch were quite good. The cast was also decent, but the rest of this movie was way to slow and has poor lighting, (there was not a single light in this movie that burned more than 10 watts.)And the music and the finale were quite weak. Passable at best. "},{"Title":"Could have been better, but no, it just HAD to be made like this!","Date":"6 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Warning this review MAY CONTAIN SPOILERS.  But there's a good chance you're not going to want to see it anyhow.This is a boring movie.  Exactly why one of the characters had to find a doorway out of a waxwork is beyond me because it would at least have ended the movie quicker.  What happens is a magician invites six teens to his wax museum, which houses waxworks of scenes from famed horror films like Dracula, Frankenstein, The Wolfman, Return of the Living Dead and...........*drum roll*...........Little Shop of Horrors.  The scenes have one character missing and the teens are able to enter the waxworks.  For each waxwork, there is a sequence based on the lead-up to whatever the waxwork represented.  At the end of each sequence, the waxwork is completed (using a nice edit that is the only thing I can applaud in this movie).  With that premise, the film could have been A LOT betterUnfortunately, one of the waxworks is, as I mentioned, based on Return of the living Dead or some other zombie movie, and there is only one thing you can do when faced with a horde of zombies.  Pity.  This movie could have been over a lot quicker.As you've gathered from the above review, this movie was a disappointment and not worth wasting the $4 on in the rental store "},{"Title":"Fun","Date":"14 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Waxwork (1988) ** 1/2 (out of 4) Most horror fans growing up during the 1980's were too young to check their favorite slashers out on the big screen so those weekend trips to the rental house is where he got our entertainment. The 80's was a blessing and a curse for horror fans because while there were some classic films these here opened the floodgates to some of the worst films ever made, which usually went straight to video. Some of the straight to video stuff was actually pretty good but most of the time they were simply forgotten.I first stumbled upon Waxwork on Cinemax, which was a horror fiends best friend. I had heard that this was a very good, old fashioned horror film that had all of the good stuff. I don't believe the film ever got a theatrical release, although some claim that it did. Either way, this is the perfect example of a film finding its core audience on video and cable showings. Fourteen years after being made Waxwork has built a huge cult following. Of course, since there were fans producer's got the idea for a sequel, which happened six years later in Waxwork 2 Lost in Time.In the first film a group of teenagers are invited to a special midnight screening of a new wax museum being hosted by Mr. Lincoln (David Warner). The six friends show up and immediately split up to look at the exhibits. These aren't your typical Vincent Price wax figures though, each one tells a different story of death and murder and when the guests cross the ropes they are transported to the strange and deadly world, which the exhibits showed.Tony (Dana Ashbrook) crosses the ropes and enters the world of werewolves. The slut China (Michele Johnson) gets her wishes granted when she is thrown into a beautiful castle with a beautiful man but unfortunately this man turns out to be Count Dracula himself. When the two don't show up at school the next day their friends decide to go to the police who turn out to be no help at all. So, with nothing left to lose they travel back to the wax museum where more horror stories come to life.Waxwork is a decent little chiller, which certainly deserves the cult following its gotten over the past decade or so. The film is far from perfect but God knows the horror community has had to suffer through a lot worse. While there are some bad things in the film the good outweigh them, which makes the film worth viewing. The best thing about the movie is the short stories that deal with the characters going back to deal with various monsters ranging from vampires, werewolves, mummies and even the living dead. These segments are very short, which is a good thing because they leave the story behind and get down to the action, which is delivered in good gory fun.Another good aspect is the actual effects, which are pretty damn good especially considering the budget of the film. The werewolf transformation, while not in the same league as The Howling, is still very good looking. The best sequence is the one dealing with the mummy, which is full of wonderful atmosphere and a good little chill as the mummy comes to life. The one bad thing about the movie is all the time spent outside the wax museum. The very stupid plot about the investigation is useless, boring and takes away from all the fun. Had the film been trimmed by ten or fifteen minutes Waxwork would have been a lot better. "},{"Title":"Someone wake me when it's over....","Date":"15 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Sigh, OK let me be blunt...this is a movie that only a strict horror movie fan would watch and a movie that only a drunk horror movie fan could enjoy.The concept and idea is decent but the film's overall plot is so absurd that by the end of the film, if you are still awake, you are squirming in your seat hoping none of your friends find out you watched it.The movie starts with a good setup and heads in the right direction. But it doesn't take long until it finds itself so over-the-top that it is insulting. The audience is left shaking their heads at some of the poor acting and silly dialog. While gore fans will be pleased by some of the effects, that isn't enough to make it a decent horror film. The ending is so absurd that it takes a real trooper to keep from turning it off.There is nothing scary, nothing interesting, nothing entertaining about the film. It to poorly written, toooo silly (unintentionaly), and toooo much of a waste of time to recommend. "},{"Title":"Waxwork Does Not Work.","Date":"12 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Unwatchable horror flick about a group of teens who are invited to a wax museum and are viciously attacked by monsters is just as dumb as the other B-horror movies.  A wasted cast and an unsatisfying premise are enough to make this movie extremely pretentious.  Very typical and totally empty.  A movie that's not worth watching and should be avoided like the plague.0 out of 5 "},{"Title":"* out of 4.","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Teenagers invited to a special midnight showing of a mysterious wax museum find out that once then they enter whatever the exhibit displays, that they are thrusted into another world where they are forced to act out the exhibits and battle for their lives. Stupid, loud horror film with unsympathetic characters and an illogical finale.Unrated; Extreme Graphic Violence, Sexual Situations and Profanity. "},{"Title":"Dumb. Avoid it.","Date":"26 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  A group of high school students are invited to attend a midnight showing at a wax musuem. But once you enter the exhabits, there is no way out, because the exhabits are really bloodthristy monsters. A rather nasty horror film, with annoying characters and an overbearing score. The ending is really something too; dumb, and stupid, like the rest of this film. Rating 4/10 "}{"Title":"The museum of cheesy horror through the ages...","Date":"2 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Waxwork is a somewhat hesitant attempt to bring back the omnibus-style storytelling (which was hugely popular in the seventies) and, at the same time, to blend it with typically 80's splatter-horror. The combination isn't always successful and the stories are a little too short to value them properly, but nevertheless Waxwork is an entertaining and reasonably well-made movie. Writer/director Anthony Hickox surely knows his genre classics and he's also smart enough to add a lot of comedy, homage and tongue-in-cheek situations to his screenplay. If this subject matter had been intended as a serious horror film, it would have failed miserably, that's for sure. A bizarrely cloaked man invites the usual crowd of brainless teenagers to a private showing of the exhibits in his wax museum (that seemly appeared out of nowhere) around midnight. Each morbid exhibit depicts a familiar horror tableau, but the role of the victims is reserved for the teenagers that get sucked into the exhibit and catapulted back in time! As soon as the awkward museum owner (played by a clearly amused David Warner) completed his tableaux with six fresh wax-victims, he has the power to bring the world to an end! Now, many horror villains have tried to destroy the world over the years but at least this guy has a good reason, namely Someone has got to do it. The little in between tales are imaginatively presented and revolve on horror's greatest classics, such as Dracula, The Wolf Man, The Mummy and Night of the Living Dead. They're also surprisingly gory and literally buckets of blood splash over the screen. Eventually the wraparound story, with the remaining teenagers and a troop of old guys fighting the forces of evil, gets uninteresting and far too hectic. The whole climax battle really got on my nerves, actually. The acting performances are overall quite lousy and I at least expected some nudity coming from Michelle Johnson. She even unscrupulously took her top off in random TV Tales from the Crypt-episodes so why not here? Oh well&#133; "},{"Title":"Not a walk in the park. Is it a haunted house or wax works?","Date":"9 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  German produced horror. Directed and written by Anthony Hickox. Not exactly interesting, so it really takes an effort to sit through this. Some preppy students are lured into a neighborhood wax museum. Some veteran actors lend their talents, half heartedly I would imagine. This is just not intense enough for me. If you like bland horror...relax and enjoy.Cast members Zach Galligan, Deborah Foreman, Michelle Johnson, Patric Macnee, John Rhys-Davies and Miles O'Keeffe. Kudos to the set designers that provide at least an anxious atmosphere.  "},{"Title":"Waxwork","Date":"19 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" David Lincoln(David Warner)sells his soul to the devil and murders the ancestor of Mark(Zach Galligan)at the beginning by putting his head in the fireplace as it was burning wood. Mark, Sarah(Deborah Foreman), China(Michelle Johnson) & Tony(Dana Ashbrook)decide to got to a Midnight showing of a Waxworks..this is a museum whose proprietor is Lincoln who hasn't aged a bit. Each museum exhibit is actually a gateway into another time where the classic monsters of horror await those who enter and are gullible to believe that these creatures can harm them. You have the worst Dracula in the history of cinema in Miles O'Keeffe, horrible werewolf costume representing John Rhys-Davies, J Kenneth Campbell as the Marquis de Sade turned into a cartoon, and the Mummy. Other creatures such as an alien, zombies, and Frankenstein's monster never get their full due because director Hickox can not slow the movie down enough to provide us with any kind of substance to hold a hat on. I swear this film is held together by plywood and string. Poor Patrick Macnee must do with a character called Sir Wilfred who has been planning an attack on Lincoln for sometime.The film is episodic showing what each character faces as they enter(..or are thrown into)each exhibit. There's plenty of gore and the lovely Deborah Foreman is probably enough to give this film a go. Obviously lovers of the classic Universal horrors might find some worth in this drivel, but I have a feeling they will find the make-up work of these creatures as laughable to the point of disrespect.The whole film ends with Wilfred's unit of soldiers doing battle with the monsters once they are released from their cages after the museum is provided with enough souls by those who venture into the other world. It's a mess of bodies and violence that can become unbearable. "}]