[{"Title":"An underrated look at U2 during a pivotal time in their career.","Date":"5 August 2002","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":" This movie delivers U2 doing what they do best (touring), experimenting with new types of music in America and showing us that they're truly the nice guys they're projected to be. I see nothing disappointing about charismatic interviews, solid musical performances and meaningful reflection. Those who disliked this departure from the band's usual style can't recognize the importance of musical growth we see here. Looking back to what The Joshua Tree was and what became Achtung Baby, it's easy to see Rattle and Hum was a necessary expression of their progress at that time, and a humble look at a band celebrating their artistic heroes. "},{"Title":"A 480 min. Directors cut?","Date":"28 July 2004","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  Tens of thousands of feet of film were shot during the making of 'U2 Rattle and hum', Most of it in black and white. Some of this was intentional, but allot of it was due to the fact that director Phil Joanou had a limited budget to work with and black and white film at least at that time was less expensive. Shooting in 16mm as well as 35mm was another reason that this film was shot almost entirely in black and white. About 90% of the footage was done in that format rather than color. From Watching the final cut of the film it would seem to suggest that it was more like 80% of the over all footage, but keep in mind there was allot more black and white footage cut from the film than color. I obtained a great amount of the footage that was never seen in the original version of 'U2 rattle and hum', 480 minutes of it to be exact. When I first saw 'U2 rattle and hum' In 1988, I was fortunate enough to see it at a 'century theater' complex in San Jose Ca. On the biggest screen they had out of the 2 blocks of 'century theaters' lining one side of Winchester blvd. There in San Jose. They even had a special concert PA system temporarily installed for this special feature. It was truly the best way to see this movie, and the experience has stuck with me ever since. For many years I have felt that this movie could very well be the best film about a band ever made. Maybe even possibly the best music related film ever made with the exception of 'Woodstock' or perhaps 'The last waltz'. The movie has at times a real gritty look to it due to the 16mm footage. It feels earthy, grounded, cultural, important. Especially the portion of the film where U2 put on the 'Free the yuppies' concert at the 'embarcadero center' in San Francisco. This was the portion of the film where the band performs 'All along the watch tower'. This concert was monumental (no pun intended) for the history of music in many ways. For one this concert was announced 2 hours prior to the performance over San Francisco's 'Live 105' fm alternative station. The concert was not scheduled prior to the two hour announcement. Bono, the edge, larry mullen jr., adam clayton as well as their management decided to put the show on the day before it actually took place. I was living in San Jose at the time and heard the announcement on the radio that day. I didn't have to work that day so I could have easily made it but a problem came up and to my bitter disappointment I was unable to attend the show. The entire show is truly wonderful (I have the entire performance on video). The monumental thing about this performance was of course the point in which Bono paints the Monument erected many years before in the embarcadero square by a french artistic designer. The now infamous rock and roll stops the traffic slogan that bono spray painted on the monument is one of the greatest moments in music history. What most don't know is that bono never left the stage during all along the watch tower, the monument was painted during another song. which one was it? Well you'll have to find out for your self, I'm not telling. I went to see the monument the next day late at night. A friend and I climbed the thing to see the painted area. It was already painted over but you could see where it had been painted from the color shades being off a bit. I did make it to the performance at Oakland Stadium the next day. This was of course the 'Joshua tree' tour. Bono managed to find the french artist who created the monument that bono had spray painted just the day before. After a short 'wave hello' the artist proclaimed U2 can spray paint anything I create any time they want!. This was in retaliation to the mayor of San Francisco who banned U2 from returning to San Francisco for the deed. Later the ban was lifted. But now back to the footage cut from the final film released through 'Paramount pictures'. It is anybody's geuss as to why some of the best footage was cut from the film. Most notably 'the voices of freedom' performance at 'madison square garden'-performing 'still haven't found what I'm looking for' with the band. It is truly touching and would have been 'hands down' the best part of the entire movie had it made the final cut. directly after the group of church singers leave the stage U2 kicks into a rare live performance of 'Spanish eyes'. It is really a shame that these performances were left out of the fianl cut. I have 40 minutes of footage of U2 on their van ride to the church where they were to first meet the 'voices of freedom' as well as 40 minutes of footage after they arrive at the church. Also the entire graceland tour was filmed which I also have. I can understand why joanou left most of this out, it can be rather dull to watch, but it was interesting to hear allot of U2's questions and comments as they went along the tour. Hours of other precious moments are also seen in the deleted footage. 'U2 rattle and hum' is a true classic music film, but if phil joanou and U2 wanted to share those precious moments with the rest of the world they might think about releasing the entire thing in a directors cut. I had to pay allot of moola for the footage I have, and I mean allot!, all 480 minutes of it. Having seen it for myself in my opinion it is a crime to hide this footage from the public. U2 'rattle and hum' is a great movie, a complete directors cut would make it a landmark in the history of the cinema.  "},{"Title":"A triumph, a disaster, a lesson. Probably the finest music film there will ever be.","Date":"9 October 2007","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":" At the time of writing, this film is almost 20 years old. When I first watched it I was a half U2 fan, a U1 if you will. Joshua tree was one of my favourite CDs, but despite being a frequent listener of the earlier stuff, I'd remained unhooked. But after seeing Rattle and Hum I was almost literally breathless. It became one of a small handful of VHS music videos that I made the effort to take with me as I moved through life.When I discovered the concept of digital movies, it was the first tape I digitised so I could watch it on my computer, and when video CD came along, I bought that too because the quality was much better than my amateur 'rip'. Naturally when DVD came along I had to have the quality offered by that too. And when I got my first portable video player, well Rattle & h Hum was the first DVD I ripped so I could play it on that (although Pink Floyds pulse had become it's constant companion too).Today, I took delivery of my iPod Touch, and, sad bastard that I am, Rattle and Hum is the first movie I'm watching on it.Why is it I love this film when the music press and the band itself seem to dis this film? I once read an article that suggested the band almost split after the release of the film. Instead they went off and regrouped into their post Achtung baby period. Better they had split and then reformed once whatever itch was out of their system, I think. I still hope they still will.I love this film because it presents the band a their absolute peak. Every inch of concert footage is tight. Bono sounds amazing, much better than I ever saw him. The Edge soars, Larry beats perfect time, while Adam holds everything together. If that isn't enough, the photography is stunning. There is not a single scene in the whole film that would benefit from a different point of view, lighting setup or depth of field (except perhaps the Bono scene 31 minutes in where he tries his hand at graffiti backed by watchtower, personally I'd have made that blurred I think). The visuals are completely stunning and reinforce the bands stature already perfectly presented by just enough short of perfect performance.If I last another 20 years, I'm confident this film will make the Journey with me. "},{"Title":"Left me wanting more.","Date":"27 November 2003","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  I have been a U2 fan since the days of Boy and October. I was very excited to see this movie about the band when it first came out but after viewing it I left the theatre feeling strangely flat. And wishing I had seen alot more.The footage was different then what I was expecting and maybe I just had different expectations of what I was seeing. The film, in my eyes, lacked depth. I wanted to hear about the band themselves  but U2 the band came across as almost feeling a little awkward-that was my interpretation anyway. I had no problem with the black and white footage, that sort of reinforces the band's haunting brooding qualities anyway, but the movie didn't TELL me anything and thats what I was looking for.The best CONCERT footage of U2 I've ever seen is U2 at The Red Rocks which blew me away and which I guerentee the same response from  any fan who may not have seen that. Rattle and Hum wasn't a bad effort, I had no problem sitting through it and staying focused. After all it was about a talented and brillient group of individuals. But the film lacked the soul I was looking for. I wouldn't call this truely great. It didn't give me the feeling I knew anything more of U2 the people and likewise didn't give me any musical enrichment I hadn't already gotton TRIPLE from watching U2 at Red Rocks. I'd give this 6.5 of 10.  "},{"Title":"Depends What You Think Of Late 80s U2","Date":"24 August 2004","Score":"10 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  The only concert I have ever attended in my life was the U2 concert held at Murrayfield Stadium in Edinburgh on the first of August 1987 . This was part of the band`s Joshua Tree tour and I was slightly disappointed with the concert possibly down to the fact that The Joshua Tree is the band`s most Americanized album and as a die hard fan I much preferred their first three albums U2RATTLE AND HUM is the movie release made to tie in with the album of the same name that when it was released in the Autumn of 1988 became the fastest selling album in British chart history . It consists of interviews , concert footage (and the occasional track being recorded in the studio , nothing groundbreaking or radical and what you make of this documentary all comes down to what you make of late 1980s recordings from Bono and the boys since most of the concert tracks are from The Joshua Tree . In its favour it`s far better directed and edited than the 1983 release UNDER A BLOOD RED SKY but if like me you prefer early 80s U2 then you`ll be disappointed with what`s missing , stuff like Gloria ( Not the Van Morrison song ) , I Will Follow and Electric Co . Bizarrely the best track from the album HawkMoon 269 is conspicious by its absence  . I say bizarrely because Bono is on record as saying at the time it was his all time favourite U2 track and is the stand out track from the album . As it stands the movie`s highlight is the rendition of Sunday Bloody Sunday played on the night of Sunday 8th November 1987 hours after an IRA bomb had murdered 11 people and maimed scores more at a remembrance service in the Northern Irish town of Enniskillen where Bono explodes a few myths of  The glory of the revolution I got the DVD for my Christmas a couple of years ago ( Thanks Michelle ) and I was very disappointed since it basically contains just the movie and a choice of subtitles with no extras    "},{"Title":"this is a song Charles Manson stole from the Beatles and we're stealing it back!","Date":"31 May 2005","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":" When U2 arrives in the fall 1987 to start the second leg of their American tour to promote The Joshua Tree (1987), they already filled with enthusiasm millions of Americans with their masterpiece and they were showered with praise by virtually all musical critics but also important newspapers (the magazine Newsweek even put them on the cover!). The amount? Bono and his band were crowned the biggest rock and roll band in the world. A status which isn't easy to assume and when one has a rock and roll masterpiece under one's belt, delivering it a follow-up is a difficult task. Maybe that's why the most famous Irish quartet had the idea to make a film accompanied by an album to try to forge ahead and to take a new musical direction.So, U2 Rattle and Hum (1988) is a documentary which goes back over the band's tour in America where they alternate concerts and cultural discoveries (the visit of Graceland). Their album the Joshua Tree had already expressed their fascination for America, the movie Rattle and Hum confirms it. The director Phil Joanou (Martin Scorsese turned down this role) also filled his work with interviews and recording sessions which took place after the tour in 1988. Each member's disposition is revealed in these interviews but also throughout the movie and during their tour especially with concerts. So, in Joanou's opus, Bono and his men reaffirm their positions on a social, cultural and above all musical point of view while not forgetting their Irish roots. Concerning music which constitutes the backbone of the movie, the band explores several facets of American music. The Stax-soul tribute Angel of Harlem, the blues When Love Comes to Town with a prestigious guest BB King, I Still Haven't Found What I'm Looking For in a gospel version show a progressive Americanization of the band. But in parallel, not to lose their identity, the four members remain faithful to their musical influences; either it is the sinewy Desire or the atmospheric Heartland that sounds like a the Joshua Tree outtake. Hence an impression of hodgepodge the tracks cut in studio are rather badly linked up. It is difficult to let oneself rock with beautiful heavenly flights then to follow with unusual tracks for the band without losing the thread.That said, the musical trimmings that somewhat hinders the movie didn't stop Bono and his men to write some of U2's best songs. On another extent, Phil Joanou's technical feats enable the spectator to attend the concerts as if he were on stage with the band. The latter is presented in this state like we would imagine them for the ones who have never seen them in concert fiery, feverish, passionated by their music and ready to make a declaration aiming at peace in Northern Ireland and why not in the rest of the world (Bono's words in the middle of Sunday Bloody Sunday). And I address the fans of the band who may have the album but not seen the movie and the casual listeners a good part of U2's hits of the eighties and notably from the Joshua Tree are performed on stage Bad, Where the Streets Have No Name, With or Without You.I also think that having shot the movie in black and white and in color gives it a arty side. At the end of the day, it's a worthy but suicidal undertaking. Indeed, the limited commercial career of Joanou's opus clearly shows once again that this kind of film is seldom successful in the theaters in spite of the fact that the video was a best-seller in the Anglo-Saxon countries. And for U2, the eighties ended in a little rough way but fortunately, the nineties will begin (and for me end) triumphantly with Achtung Baby (1991). "},{"Title":"a concert film featuring MUSIC, as opposed to interviews","Date":"3 June 2003","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  I love this film, and have for years. Some were unhappy with the lack of documentary-like footage concerning who the band really are and such...but since it is described as a concert film, i got what i expected...footage of and about the formation of key songs and song adaptions. I never saw the film as self-congratulatory, and i think that's just a swipe by bashers of the band.......they (u2) just seemed to be enjoying themselves delving into the new musical forms they were discovering and paying homage to those forms. If you like music, see this dvd. "},{"Title":"See the DVD","Date":"1 September 2002","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"     I knew little about U2 in the 80s.  I was still a pre-teen, and I was probably listening to what my parents put on like Michael Jackson, Joe Cocker, John Denver, Janis Joplin, and Willie Nelson.  However, little by little, I grew to be a fan of theirs, probably especially after I first heard the song Bad on the radio as my parents drove me to college for my first year.   I bought the DVD of this on a total whim and was greatly rewarded.  The opening sequence with Helter Skelter establishes a somewhat otherworldly yet gritty intensity for the b&w sequences.  I agree that the film doesn't do a good job of getting at the personalities of the singers, and besides these guys are so used to the camera that they'd be able to manipulate the coverage anyway.       What Phil Joanou does get wonderfully is the passion for the music in these guys and how they inspire others those moments when they stop and listen to the Harlem blues man singing Freedom for My People or the Gospel choir that takes flight with Haven't Found what I'm Looking For are something pure with a hint of magic.  This is also well-played in the GORGEOUS transition to color in the Super Bowl-size stadium for Streets Have No Name.  You'd think Jesus himself was about to come on stage.       My only qualm the music and lyrics themselves have enough social meaning of their own.  Bono really doesn't need to interject much more on stage.  Their performance of Bullet the Blue Sky gets at the social points with greater force, Pelting the women and children/Pelting the women and children, than Bono's well-intentioned commentary.    I give it four stars though because it hits all the right notes.  PHIL, WHY HAVEN'T YOU DONE ANYTHING LIKE THIS IN YEARS?    "},{"Title":"top notch concert film","Date":"14 March 2001","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  An outstanding documentary/concert film detailing the irish rock band U2 on a tour..of course the band plays their greatest hits and some other known songs, including a duet with blues great BB king..Great cinematography and the black and white usage makes it all that much better.A must see for  any U2 fan.. On a scale of one to ten.. 8 "},{"Title":"It's a Musical Journey","Date":"25 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":" Rattle and Hum is a great movie for both hardcore and casual U2 fans. It's an interesting look at U2's musical exploration in the late '80s, and for younger U2 fans, like me, it's almost a way to experience The Joshua Tree tour. Seeing footage of some of their most popular and biggest songs being performed live is both fascinating and enthralling. U2 is probably the best live band still around today, and seeing them where they are most at home, on stage, is an experience in itself. Emotion is a big factor when it comes to their music, and you can feel it throughout the film. The black and white footage adds a nice touch of rawness, of sincerity. And although Rattle and Hum is essentially a concert film, it's also a glimpse at U2's growing maturity as a band. Rattle and Hum is a fun, fascinating, intense U2 experience. It's quite funny at times--like the first, hilariously awkward interview at the beginning of the movie--but it's also very serious. I think that the most powerful performance in the movie is Sunday Bloody Sunday. Bono's angry, outraged speech both before and during the song are stunning. I was left both in shock and awe at the sincerity and absolute frustration the band displays while they perform it....it's sure to give you goosebumps.My only complaint--and a minor one at that--was the shortage of interviews, but I can understand why they might have left it out to make room for more songs. So even if you're only a casual fan of U2, you should see Rattle and Hum. It's powerful, entertaining, and interesting. It's a look back at a much younger U2 (you might even laugh at both Bono and The Edge's hair, and at Adam Clayton's birdlime strut on stage) and a good one at that. To quote Larry Mullen Jr., It's a musical journey. "}{"Title":"Stunning Documentary","Date":"19 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":" At first when I noticed this title on the cable menu, I wasn't sure what to make of it. I just didn't understand what it was. Was it a movie, a biography, what? I sat down to watch it after I had recorded it, expecting little.This turned out to be the best documentary I've ever seen on a band. I've always loved U2 and their music, but this made me fall in love with them all over again. The live performances, beautifully filmed in black & white, were the BEST VERSIONS of some of the songs that I've ever heard. 'Bad,' 'Sunday Bloody Sunday,' and the gospel version of 'I Still Haven't Found What I'm Looking For' were raw and powerful.But mostly what I enjoyed about this movie was that is was 99% music and little talk. The commentaries were short and the songs played all the way through. It was an intense two hours of nothing but great U2 music! I recommend this for any U2 fan, it will not disappoint! "},{"Title":"Great documentary about a great band","Date":"30 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":" I have recently watched this DVD again for the countless number of times. It just gets better and better. Rattle And Hum takes you on a journey with U2 as they talk about their music, current tour and thoughts on various subjects.This Music/Documentary gives a great insight to how U2 emerged into one of the most influential bands of all time. The selected songs, which include some of music's classics like With Or Without You and Pride are a must to watch. The brief but frank interviews give a somewhat comic and emotional look at the individual band members.This is simply a must have for all U2 fans and a must see for all others. "},{"Title":"Outstanding songs","Date":"27 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":" One of my favourite movies of all time. The songs are fantastic. Starting with a cover version of the Beatles hit Helter Skelter then moving on to the beautiful Van Diemen's Land (sung by guitarist The Edge) and Desire which I also loveThe movie is filmed in black and white and this is my only criticism. There is a bit where the Band visit the grave of Elvis in Graceland which is very moving, especially as drummer Larry points out how unhappy he was about seeing his hero's grave with the eternal flame flickering and how he thought it would distract from the rest of the tour. (incidentally the song Heartland, which I loved was left over from the Joshua Tree)You also get a cover of Bob Dylan's All along the Watch Tower which I enjoyed plus U2 staples such as With or Without You and Where the Streets have no Name.I could go on and on about this film. I love it. "},{"Title":"Corrections- has sort of a spoiler I suppose","Date":"9 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":" I love the movie- and U2- and that review I just read was excellent, I would like to ask whee you got the footage from?! Also , just because it's annoying me, it's not 'Rock and roll stops the traffic', it's 'Rock and roll- Stop the traffic.' I have loved U2 since I was about 10 and ATYCLB came out. My favourite album is the 'Rattle and Hum' album though, and my favourite song is 'Heartland.' I've loved that song ever since seeing it in the film with them on the hill looking over the river. I think that Rattle and Hum is good, but some videos purely of U2's concerts- such as Live at Red Rocks and U2 Go Home- are almost as good, if in a different way. "},{"Title":"Sweet","Date":"17 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  A must see for any U2 fan, which I am. From a filmmaking standpoint, the stark black and white photography provides an appropriately timeless quality. It's a concert film on an epic scope, and Bono and Co. are our great heroes. Might seem a little pretentious to some, but when you're U2 you have a right to a little egomania. "},{"Title":"Long on music and short on talk","Date":"7 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":" If you're expecting some sort of meaning in a documentary sense, you'll be disappointed. The movie reveals very little about the band, their thoughts or what life on the road is really like. At one point the interviewer asks the band about what's been going on lately and they all respond, I don't know. The rest of the interviews don't get much better. Having been a U2 fan for years, I'm not sure why the band members seemed so shy in this film. They sure don't seem that way now. Oh well, who watches this movie because they want to hear interviews? The music is what matters and this movie is long on music and short on talk. And the music is great. Basically, Rattle and Hum is a really well-shot concert movie with great cinematography and some outstanding live performances. U2 fans will love it. "},{"Title":"Rock and roll, stop the traffic!","Date":"22 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  The Irish band originally wanted a small, self-financed documentary of their landmark 1987 tour behind their outstanding Joshua Tree album and the songs they wrote and recorded after the tour.  But, things got slightly out of hand as that small documentary turned into the idea of it being a full-blown concert film. Paramount came on board as a partner when the costs got out of hand.Directed by Phil Joanou, Rattle and Hum's black and white documentary footage is slightly grainy, while a bulk of the concert footage (from their Denver shows at McNichols Arena) was filmed in high conrast black and white. But, the footage dramatically morphs into the glorious color footage from tour's last two shows at Arizona State's Sun Devil Stadium.The musical journey focuses primarily on songs from U2's War, The Unforgettable Fire, and The Joshua Tree albums, and a behind the scenes look at the band recording material that showed up on the Rattle and Hum album from an abandoned train house in Dublin, Sun Studios in Memphis, and a black church in Harlem to rehearse and record a gospel version of I Still Haven't Found What I'm Looking For with the church's choir, who joined them later for the band's Madison Square Garden show.The major complaints of the film that I've heard seem to be that it's moody and over-dramatic at times, but I think that Joanou wanted it to be that way intentionally, but the humor is pretty much limited to the documentary portions.Of course, the music is the most important thing.  I'm normally not a fan of artsy films, but the artsy-looking shots of Bono walking across the stage at the top of U2 classics With or Without You (the best live version of the song I've ever heard) and Where the Streets Have No Name works well and sets the mood for the songs perfectly.  Another high point, their incredible performance of  a revamped Sunday Bloody Sunday the day after a bombing in Northern Ireland.It's a shame the film was panned.  As it is, Rattle and Hum ushered in an era where U2 took a huge financial hit by building complex stages and taking technology to overkill on tours supporting Achtung Baby and POP.  U2 bassist Adam Clayton calls the film a mistake, but I disagree.  The film is awesome and a must have for any music fan.My only real complaint  Why didn't the U2 include the awsome live version of One Tree Hill?  I saw it on their Greatest Video Hits package and fell in love with the song. "},{"Title":"What a great experience!","Date":"6 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  This is a truly great concert movie/documentary by U2. It captures the Joshua Tree tour with much great concert footage, and interviews of the band! The movie is in black and white, and the music is the essential part of the film! The film includes the best version I have ever heard of With Or Without You, which includes an extra verse not on the studio version which puts this song at stratospheric heights and on the top as the best live song ever, in my opinion. The live songs included are seven songs from The Joshua Tree (1987) (Where The Streets Have No Name, I Still Haven't Found What I'm Looking For, With Or Without You, Bullet The Blue Sky, Running To Stand Still, In God's Country & Exit), tree songs from The Unforgettable Fire (1984) (Pride (In The Name Of Love), Bad & MLK), one from War (1983) (Sunday Bloody Sunday), and All Along The Watchtower (Bob Dylan cover). I Still Haven't Found What I'm Looking For, is actually a live-in-studio-in- church recording, with the Harlem Gospel Choir backing up, and is almost worth watching the movie itself. This track is not the one on the album. The movie also captures two studio recordings which is on the album Rattle And Hum (Desire & Angel Of Harlem) although Desire also is another version than the album version. Don't hesitate checking out this incredible musical experience! As Larry Mullen says It's a musical journey, really. . . . "},{"Title":"Looks amazing","Date":"13 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  Being a big U2 fan I was really looking forward to a moving and meaningful experience, however what you get is great cinematography and a film with nothing to say.This is a great shame as the first hour is a combination of fly on the wall snippets and concert footage. With the documentary style clips giving the impression that the U2 boys are roaming America, soaking in the culture. You wait and hope they will comment on their travelling experiences but...nothing. Random clips of small incidents is all that the documentary sequences have to offer.What the film does offer though is beautiful visuals. Never has there been more breathtaking concert footage, which is mainly due to the use of light. A must see for any up and coming directors! It's inspired me!Though it could be argued that the cinematography makes up for the lack of substance, it is still a pity that a film which looks so good has no point to make.  "},{"Title":"Fantastic for what it is","Date":"7 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  As a concert documentary, Rattle and Hum is second to none; however, as a movie it doesn't quite make the grade.  It is widely understood that it was a mistake for U2 to hype this as a cinematic experience equal to a great narrative film; there's no story and sadly, little insight to the personalities and music-making process of U2.  However, what Rattle and Hum DOES provide is a brilliant look at the communally emotional experience that U2 provides in concert.  The cinematography is absolutely outstanding, and the sound is glorious (Bad and Where the Streets Have No Name shine in particular).  This film in retrospect operates as a wonderfully produced, engaging snapshot of the band in the late 80's, before the U2 of the 90's emerged.  It's a must-see for any fans of U2, and fans of legendary music by legendary bands. "}{"Title":"The DVD is outstanding.","Date":"18 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  I received this picture on DVD for Christmas and have watched it a number of times already, the latest being last night.  I am amazed each time and have started considering this as my musical demo disk.  Both the sound and the picture is amazing.  Although there are no spectacular effects with the sounds jumping from speaker to speaker, the 5.1 channels are used to create a flawless soundfield.  The b/w portion of the film is so crisp that you can see individual beads of sweat rolling down Bono's neck and flying from his hair.  The color portion of the video is somewhat grainy, but the colors are vivid, particularly the reds in Where the Streets Have No Name.Rattle and Hum has been criticized in the past as being pointless and arrogant (see Leonard Maltin, among others).  I disagree.  The Edge states in the film that it was meant to capture a feel of who the band was at that point in time (as Under A Blood Red Sky did earlier).  This is certainly accomplished.  It also shows a group who seems to have little love for the American establishment, trying to understand the music that has come from that country (hence the trips to Graceland, Memphis, and Harlem).  The raw energy and emotion of the band also comes through loud and clear.  If the high level of technical performance of this DVD doesn't knock your socks off, watch Bono sing Sunday Bloody Sunday.  It makes my spine tingle, every time. "},{"Title":"A capture of the band at the pinnacle of success and their discovery of America","Date":"3 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  U2 Rattle & Hum is one of the best rock documentaries ever produced because it not only showcases a band at work on stage and in the studio at the peak of their success, but also because it shares with us a rock group in the middle of a discovery.  That discovery is U2's first wide-scale American tour, in which they start to explore American roots music, namely Elvis Presley and B.B. King, among unmentioned others.  Aside from the blistering live performances in Denver, San Francisco and Phoenix, the band makes 'holy pilgrimages' to Graceland, Sun Studios and a Harlem church.U2 were criticized for supposedly saddling themselves up against American musical icons (B.B. King collaborates with them on a tune, they record 5 tracks at Sun Studios, and haggle a Graceland tour guide into letting them photograph one of Elvis' motorcycles), but once the mechanics of the band's relationship are understood, it's obviously clear they are only peeking into this world in an introverted manner instead of trying to include themselves in it.  U2 have always been a band with sharp detractors because they place an importance upon music to suggest that it can BE more than just music.  This attitude has enabled them to arguably remain the most consistent and important band of the last 20 years.The live performances are just amazing.  Exit, Bad, Pride, Bullet The Blue Sky, and Sunday Bloody Sunday are delivered with ferocious energy.  The film is mostly in black-and-white, which lends itself that needed 'documentary' feel, except for 5 songs performed in color.  The energy of the band onstage guarantees this to be a film that will sustain its liveliness no matter how many times you see it. "},{"Title":"Miles better than its given credit for","Date":"14 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  This film was over - hyped at the time of it's release in the USA - it was supposed to make the biggest band in the world even bigger. But rock documentaries (Spinal Tap excepted) rarely work. It's not like seeing a film with a story line. Nevertheless this is a supurb documentary of a supurb band. Filmed mostly in black and white, it suddenly turns to colour two thirds of the way through - and it's like seeing colour for the first time. It's also the momonet we see Where the Streets Have No Name played live. Wonderful. Get the video and play it loud with the bass turned up. You'll love it.... "},{"Title":" Musical Bliss...","Date":"14 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  This is by far one of the best movies made about a band and how their music and performances have effected the mind of a culture, not to mention the social and political impacts of the their actions. Few bands have touched so many as U2 has, nor have as many bands inspired others to follow in their footsteps, by creating social change.Songs like Pride in the Name of Love, about the assassinated political leader Martin Luther King Jr, and Sunday Bloody Sunday, about the slaughter that took place in Ireland, ring with heart and passion that not many performers could pull off these days. When I saw them live in 92' there was a stock footage tape played of MLK Jr. after they performed Pride in the Name of Love, and it was one of the most moving moments I have ever experienced at a live show. These experiences and moments shine through with brilliant imagery and sonic guitar rifts. You can't get much better than this as far as this genre is concerned. "},{"Title":"Great For Fans","Date":"25 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  Phil Jonau's Concert Footage captures the best of U2's passionate 80s Rock, particularly renditions of 'Sunday Bloody Sunday' and 'Where the Streets Have no Name'. Newer material and covers of old songs are disappointing apart from 'All I Want is You', while the visit to Graceland in particular seems a bit pretentious. However, purely for the music, Rattle and Hum is worth a look for music fans and a 'must have' for U2 devotees. "},{"Title":"A great 80's rock documentary free of MTV-style edits.","Date":"7 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  When this first came out, I saw it five times (two on opening night, three the next night).  Besides the powerful music, the cinematography from Phil Joanou is just amazing.  See the disgust in Bono's face during With Or Without You, feel the cold air during Exit, be hit by a dose of Coltrane in the awesome Bullet The Blue Sky, smell the carpet as The Edge walks to stage right in Where The Streets Have No Name... this is everything a concert film should be.  If anything, U2 Rattle And Hum should be an example of what a concert film can be like in the 21st century.The music is great, the band is in top form during their 1987 Joshua Tree tour.  Recently released on DVD, the sound and visuals shine just as bright as they did when I saw them on the big screen. "},{"Title":"It's a musical journey","Date":"4 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  Well, at first i wasn't too sure. The acting was a bit wooden, and the plot was almost negligible. But what a soundtrack! Excellent. Those boys from Ireland can really wail. I would have given it 10, but for the lack of actual story, so i ended up giving it 8. "},{"Title":"Review of Rattle And Hum","Date":"9 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  For the U2 fan, a self-indulgent movie, for the rest, a chance to see what it's like to be the biggest band in the world. From the grainy opening credits sequence containing shots of dockland Dublin, to the vertigo-inducing first splash of colour with the aerial shot of the huge Sun Devil stadium, black-and-white/colour mixing has only ever been used to better effect once in the movies (stand up, Mr. Spielberg). Of course, this was U2 pre-irony, so it's back to monochrome for Bono's rant against the IRA and their famous eulogy to Martin Luther King to close the film, as if the director knew that this was the closing chapter on the 'preacher' band before they went for the visual overload of their 1990s music.Whether you like U2 or not, Rattle & Hum is a superbly crafted documovie, so much so that the music is often fighting with the direction for the attention of the viewer. "},{"Title":"Great Movie!","Date":"13 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  I am a U2 fan, and when i saw this movie, i was amazed. It is a funny, and serious movie. The music in this movie is great other than anything else. All of the band members (Bono, The Edge, Adam and Larry) look so young and great in this movie, especially Larry. I almost cried when Larry was talking about Elvis, and how he didn't like the fact that they burried him in the backyard. Larry is, hands down, gorgeous, but he never ages. I love the part of the whole movie when they were first being interviewed, it was so funny. A great moment to look for in this movie is when they are all sitting down in Tenessesse adoring the boats and The Edge falls and then Bono tells The Edge to go look around. That music playing in the backround is so nice. i give this movie *** out of ***** "},{"Title":"The rock documentary, Raging Bull-style","Date":"20 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  As filmmaking, the U2 documentary Rattle and Hum is astonishing. Director Phil Joanou doesn't do the old point at the stage and shoot routine used by so many other concert films; rather, his camera moves about fluidly, using tracking shots, slow motion, etc. And it's a beautifully photographed film as well - the black and white sections are stunning and the color sequences are just as amazing. This is the film that actually caused a lot of the rock media establishment to turn against U2. But what do they know? Does Bono speechify a little bit? Yeah - but for God's sake it's Bono, what do you expect? Just sit back, enjoy the wonderful music, marvel at the direction, and forget what the pseudo-intellects say. A great concert film. "}{"Title":"One of the best Rockumentaries ever","Date":"29 April 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  U2 is one of my favorite bands,  and to see them at such a unique  position in their history has always  been a treasure. Before the huge  tours, before the renown, and before  the Super Bowl, seeing the band as  a group of guys still trying to cope with  their meteoric rise in popularity. Always  a good film to watch, especially the  beginning when they do a rendition of  Helter Skelter. Some might say the black  and white nature of the film makes it  dated and old, it helps create a world  before their ZOO TV years, where all the  bright colors and electronic looping changed  the band forever. "},{"Title":"It's a musical journey?","Date":"19 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":" Scattershot, unfocused concert film, largely shot in grainy black-and-white 16 mm film, (some of it is very high contrast) filmed during U2's September/ October 1987 North American tour. The band claims this was filmed in black-and-white to give the film a Raging Bull-type of look and feel, but what that film has to do with the band or the music is unexplained.Film also documents, for better or worse, the band's side trips to Harlem to record with a gospel group, a tour through Graceland, and a good recording session in Sun Studios to record a version of Angel Of Harlem. In between is footage of the band in concert in NY and (in the only colour footage in the film) about a half an hour's worth of footage from the performance in Tempe, Arizona.The high contrast black-and-white filming works well during Exit, and In God's Country, but other scenes could have benefited from colour film.Good music and performances, but what's the point? Even the band seems uncertain of film's purpose, as evinced in some bewildering interviews with them. It's a musical journey says drummer Larry. We just wanted to document this time in the band ... to ... ah, f*ck it, I dunno says bassist Adam. Did the band want to document the tour, or put forth some type of antiwar message? The film is too preachy to be merely a concert film, with Bono's meandering posturing and antiwar rhetoric given a priority in several numbers. Much less name-dropping (The Beatles, Elvis, B.B. King, and more) and more focus on the band itself and their own music would have helped also. It also would have helped to include the superb Hawkmoon 269, perhaps during the closing credits.Hours and hours of outtakes are available online, some of that is more moving than what made the final cut of the film. For example footage of Larry during the soundcheck of Bad, before the performance in Foxboro on 22 September 1987. Later, Bono is shown being driven to the hospital after being injured during the same performance, and in the hospital; Paul McGuinness talking about Bono's injury after the fact. Various snippets of other tunes (Unforgettable Fire, Pride) Bono walking in to backstage areas, which segues into the start of Where The Streets Have No Name/ I Will Follow (Bono with arm in sling) / 'Bullet The Blue Sky' in Philly, and a good performance of Stand By Me, with Bruce Springsteen in Philadelphia. This number should also have made the final cut of the film. "},{"Title":"Own it now!CERT 15","Date":"7 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":" I am a massive U2 fan and i have been since i first saw this fantastic rockumentry in 1988. I am now the proud owner of every CD U2 have released and i have almost all DVD releases from this fantastic Irish band.My favorite song from Rattle and hum is With or without you, The haunting voice of Bono and the passion of the guitar echoing from the Edge leaves me with goose bumps right up my arms.U2 have gone through a lot of transitions over the last 16 years, But this movie has recorded the band through the best years of their inspirational music. Long live U2 and all that they stand for...10/10Shame their concert tickets are not so easy to get hold of! Only seen them live twice as i can never get a ticket in time! "},{"Title":"Opening of Streets alone is worth the price of the DVD!!","Date":"24 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  I've owned this movie for 12 years now and it still can give me chills, make me laugh and make me cry! I really enjoyed U2 before I saw this movie, but after watching it, I absolutely fell in love with them & have loved them ever since. Granted, Bono has his periods of ranting, but that's just part of what makes them U2. As I said in the summary, the opening of Where the Streets Have No Name, filmed in Sun Devil Stadium in Tempe is absolutely breath-taking...truly incredible cinematography! I still get goosebumps every time I see it. And the live version of With or Without You, with an extra beautiful verse added in is the best version of the song I've ever heard. Sunday Bloody Sunday has always brought tears to my eyes, but to actually SEE it and see the passion Bono has as he's singing  it makes it just that much better. Probably one of my favorite parts of the film though, is at the very beginning when the Edge sings Van Diemen's Land. It's a beautiful song and I really enjoyed hearing him sing solo. If you're a true fan, this movie is an absolute must-have. If you're not, you probably won't be able to enjoy or truly appreciate it.  "},{"Title":"A U2 fan's dream come true","Date":"24 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  Although I was not a U2 fan in 1988, Rattle and Hum was an unexpected surprise.  When I found out U2 had a movie released in the 80's, I assumed it would A hard day's night revisited.  I was wrong.  Rattle and Hum is a concert movie and an excellent one at that.  I am a huge fan of U2, only for about 2 years now, and seeing some of my favorite songs performed live was a thrill.  A lot of these songs U2 will never perform live in concert again and it was a good look in the life of U2 in the 80's.  I would recommend this movie not to just fans of U2, but to fans of music.  When you watch this, you understand how U2 became the biggest band in the world  through hard work and excellent songwriting.   "},{"Title":"Excellent Film!","Date":"12 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  As an incredibly avid U2 fan I am somewhat biased toward liking this film, but it really is good.  It is a chronicle of their Joshua Tree tour and includes many live performances.  the black and white filming style applied to most of the film adds to the atmosphere wonderfully.the definite highlight is definitely the poignant performance of their hit Sunday Bloody Sunday which is a cry for the end of the violence in Northern Ireland. "},{"Title":"U2 goes America (DVD)","Date":"27 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":" Actually, i read together all my books about this favorite band of mine. I change the book when i reach the same time-line, usually the release of the new album. By far, U2 by U2 is the definitive book because it's the more complete and personal.If i watch this DVD, it's because i have read all books until the Joshua Tree album. This is the moment when U2 becomes the number one band and this movie shows that they were worthy of it i got a lot goose bumps here, despite i still don't know why music is the only experience to give me such.R&H was the first U2 album i listened back in 1993 and the one that got me as their fan.VDL, Desire, Heartland, AOH, AIWIY are terrific songs and Bad, RTS live versions just touch a weak point. I find the black and white very warm here and when it turns to colors, it doesn't change things because it's about shadows and big white light.It's true that U2 doesn't talk very much here and that they seem a bit dumb when they try but their music is so wonderful! Now, with this reading, i understand two things that climaxes in this movie first, U2 was rootless musically thus this musical journey (as Larry says it) was essential for them. Two, as an Irish band, they are strongly attracted by America and i think we can read their love songs as their unconscious feeling about this country (and maybe their celebrity, too!) Next stop Zooropa ! "},{"Title":"One of the best rockumentaries ever","Date":"14 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  U2 RATTLE AND HUM (1988) ***1/2 Excellent rockumentary directed with style by Phil Joanou about Irish rock super group U2's U.S tour and their powerful stage presence as well with gorgeous mix of black & white and color photography.  Bono for once doesn't appear like a total twit.  Rock on!! "},{"Title":"Great as a Concert!!! Not as great as a movie","Date":"29 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":" U2 Rattle and Hum focused on the Irish Band's 1987 Joshua Tree Tour in America. There is little plot in the movie, but pretty much the band tries to figure out America. The movie starts with a nice (some may say egotistical rendition) of the Beatles Helter Skelter where Bono tells the crowd Charles Manson stole this from the Beatles and were stealing it back. The film does have it's low moments such as a Church-inspired rendition of I Still Haven't Found What I'm Looking For which sounds like a total mess and features very minimal vocal interpretation from Bono. We are paying to see U2 sing lead!! Not the Church. Despite this the inspired rendition of Angel of Harlem is very exciting, as is Exit, Bullet in the Blue Sky (One of the tracks features in Color), Pride In the Name of Love, Desire, Bad, Sunday Bloody Sunday a haunting With or Without You, Where The Streets Have No Name, Silver and Gold and a nice collaboration with BB King called When love comes to town where even BB King even admits that he is amazed at Bono's ability to write songs. As a concert the movie is great but as a movie, it literally follows no sequence but showing the band perform songs with very little transition and sort of makes them look more idiotic as they Try and Look For America rather then the rebellious figures of change in the mid 1980's. Still though the songs are probably better then most of the U2 albums and Bono's voice is at a level I don't think it's ever been since which is great for a U2 purist. In a way I feel bad for the band because this was a big budget picture (really a concert) and after this U2 soon lost their puritanical edge of the 1980's as they shifted into a more of darker and deeper sound featured in their next album Achtung Baby. Which is a benefit of this movie being made, but overall it's a great concert flick but not so great as an actual feature length motion picture. "},{"Title":"Pompous Mess","Date":"29 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  Much more professionally shot than the Red Rocks concert video (in which the inept cameramen kept shooting at a 45 degree angle and burned the camera lenses by aiming directly at the spotlights), but lacks the energy that made that one so much fun.  Instead, we have a pompous group of Irish twits whose energy and ideals have been replaced with arrogance and obnoxiety.  The only enjoyable part is when Larry Mullen talks about why he liked Elvis movies.  The lowest point in the film has to be an insufferable scene where Bono reads his ham-handed blues song to BB King and King feels obliged to tell a self-proud Bono and the rolling cameras that those sure are some heavy lyrics.  Also look for Bono's on-stage rant about the Irish revolution.  Bleah.  Concert sequences are well filmed, but are typical arena rock fare.  U2's performance of Bad at Live Aid beats the snot out of anything here.  For die hard fans only. "}{"Title":"Rather tosh.","Date":"20 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":" It's actually not quite as pretentious as generally believed - I was hoping this movie would make me want to punch Bono in the gut, though strangely, it never quite provokes an especially intense disgust.In fact, I'm almost completely indifferent to everything the whole way through - except during the whole B.B. King event in which I'm laughing too hard to pay much attention. Though cringeworthy, (B.B. seems to be there against his will and Bono is essentially an idiot) it's definitely worth a rewind or two.Another of the few highlights includes Larry Mullen Jr. talking about the Elvis Presley cinema experience. Wankery is scattered in between black and white live footage that takes up the majority of the movie. The performances are a mish-mash of sweat, swaggering and the same three notes played on repeat. If this tickles your fancy, you'll love the film! It's pretty awful, but it could have been a lot worse. Don't even consider watching it if you couldn't care less about U2. If you happen to like U2, grab a beer, watch the first 15 minutes and make up your mind. "},{"Title":"the egos are in the building!!!","Date":"9 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  In BROADCAST NEWS, William Hurt plays a dimwit news reporter with only the looks to get him through the day. Albert Brooks is clearly the more talented and deserves to be on screen, but is clearly not cut out for it as much as he should. When Hurt asks him 'What do you do when your real life exceeds your dreams?' Brooks replies 'Keep it to yourself'A film that should have been kept in the U2 closed circle should have been RATTLE AND HUM, which like SONG REMAINS THE SAME is a disjointed home movie masquerading as an important motion picture.U2 are first and foremost a rock band with a specific and loyal following and as with all rock stars who decide to try and go beyond what they are, it is not to everyone's taste. It is one thing to preach from the stage about bad things in the world, it is quite another to become mutton dressed as lamb on screen. This occasion, they are lambs ripe for the slaughter.The fact that it didn't last much longer than a few weeks at the US Box-office says a lot. It plays better as a movie on video and one where you can skip to specific performances of the songs. The mixture of colour and black and white doesn't help either, although the cinematography in each case is first-rate. However, having said all that, the digital soundtrack is the best thing about the film, doing justice to songs like BAD and WHERE THE STREETS HAVE NO NAMEWorth looking at, worth making, but overall an honourable failure and a curiousity.  "},{"Title":"Just Rattle","Date":"25 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  Spoilers herein.It is almost impossible to make a successful movie of a concert these days, because the  choices are so few and most have all been done superbly the first time around.This one is hampered by a decidedly unimaginative filmmaker who apparently used  pickup talent as he went from town to town.Too bad too, because there is a story here that would have provided good, healthy  filmmaking grain. Before the period of this film, these guys had one good idea and were  able to leverage it to success in standard pop fashion. That idea was to shift the  continuity of the line in their music from the usual to a slightly unusual.The usual had been a matter of riffs or drum/bass line or both. What they did was  substitute closed short phases there and move the continuity to either the lead guitar or  the vocal, depending on who wrote what. You can even see it in their costumes the two  rhythm guys look like stevedores and just plink out standard phrases. The other two  affect musician hair and madeup one word names.So far, not very interesting except in the history of pop. But by the time of this film, they  were tired of this simpleminded shift and began experimenting with all sorts of different  permutations on the same theme. This film is the record of their experiments.They announce at the beginning what they are up to. When the Beatles created Helter  Skelter is was devised as a way to exploit the fact that each of them could pass off any  thread to any other Beatle and have it seamlessly continue. The title is literally from a  board game (in the US called Chutes and Ladders) where rises and falls are passed from  one player to the next. It -- as performed by The Beatles -- is a masterpiece of woven  handoffs. There are five threads being passed around.Now listen to the version that starts this film. Everything about it is choppy. They  deliberately throw away every element of continuity. Every phrase by every player comes  to a dead stop before the next one begins.Now step through each chapter in the story and you encounter different, sometimes very  novel and appealing ways of tying the local continuity together, They do it the old way.  They do it with blues echos. They do it with overwhelming choir. They do it with a  haunting, balledic chant. They try everything they can think of and all the existing tricks.  Clearly, the music is much more articulate than they are about their music.Folks, this sort of thing is the bread and butter of filmmaking. In fact, architecting a film  is a matter of selecting just this placement of narrative continuity and what relationship  that narrative has to who owns the tone.But this filmmaker was either blind to the possibilities presented, or incapable of using  them. A shame. A real shame. Ted's Evaluation -- 1 of 3 You can find something better to do with this part of your life. "},{"Title":"Documentary or vanity project?","Date":"4 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":" Perhaps a bit of both... Turbulent Irish rock band U2 is followed into the recording studio where they lay down some new tracks, and then onto the stage where they wow VERY APPRECIATIVE audiences. All this business is broken up by a lot of self-conscious talk from band members less charismatic than they think they are. B.B. King's bit with the band is the standout moment--where the film actually has some musical lift--but much of the rest is (intentionally) gritty and grounded; this might be hypnotic for fans, but it's rather tough on the uninitiated. Filmed in both black-and-white and color, for that extra MTV-like kick. ** from **** "},{"Title":"Self-Indulgent Trash..","Date":"23 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  Even people who consider this group to be musicians should be turned off by this smarmy pat-on-the-back documentary about the Irish embarassment known as U2. That's the letter U and the numeral 2.This exercise in poor film making about uninteresting subject matter will rob you of two hours of your life that you will never get back.  Avoid this if you like music or films. "}]