[{"Title":"The best come-uppance story ever!","Date":"14 April 2001","Score":"52 out of 64 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" You know you've had a boss like this. Someone who stole your ideas, used you to advance their career, and did everything to keep you from getting the credit you deserve. I think of him every time I watch this movie, and although he got his come-uppance, as such people usually do, this one is still more satisfying.Griffith is a little annoying as the giggly secretary with ambition, but it works. Weaver is the greatest comedic villain since Cruella DeVil. You know she's going to fall, and she does in more ways than one. While she's mending broken bones from a ski trip, her secretary finds a memo capitalizing on her idea the boss had pooh-poohed as a secretary's notion.In her boss's absence, Tess (Griffith) uses her boss's name, her office, her home, even her clothes, to break into the rarefied New York mergers and acquisitions world. She even falls for the boss's boyfriend.Alas, the boss is a fast healer and comes home early. She finds an entry in her secretary's day planner, and it hits the fan.It's hard to believe this gem was written by the same writer who inflicted Meet Joe Black on us, but we can forgive him. Harrison Ford is at the top of his game as the boyfriend, but Joan Cusack almost walks away with this one, as usual. Joan is the best comedic supporting actress around. Weaver has one of the the greatest one-liners of all time. When asked if she's sure her boyfriend will propose, she says We're in the same city now. I've indicated I'm receptive to an offer. I've cleared the month of June. And I am, after all, me. The go-go 80's may be long gone, along with the power suits, the BIG hair, the Perrier, and the bull market, but this hilarious and heartwarming comedy still works without relying on nostalgia or sentiment! "},{"Title":"A dated but enjoyable satire","Date":"25 March 1999","Score":"45 out of 62 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Watching Working Girl ten years after its release, it's hard not to dismiss it as a dated satire of the corporate world of the 1980's. At the same time, that's part of the movie's charm. Even though ten years has made the costumes, hair, and production design irritating, the charm and intelligence of Mike Nichols' Cinderella story still shine through. As does the quality of the performances, which are also revealing a decade later. Harrison Ford makes a perfectly likable romantic lead while Alec Baldwin and Kevin Spacey offer amusingly smarmy comic performances. But the actresses walk away with the movie. Joan Cusack is hilarious in a scene-stealing turn as a Staten Island secretary, and Sigourney Weaver is great as a shrewd and conniving career woman. The brilliance of Weaver's performance is how slyly and genuinely she plays her villianous character, often decieving the audience as she decieves the characters in the movie. And finally there is Melanie Griffith who gave a star-is-born performance as the big-haired secretary who falls in love with Ford's merger specialist and smartly climbs her way up the corporate ladder after Weaver stabs her in the back. Griffith earned an Oscar nod for this performance (as did Cusack and Weaver for theirs) and it's a testament to how funny, sexy, and wonderful she is in the part that even after numerous flops and odd career moves, she's still a well-known movie star ten years later (For an opposite side at this scenario look at Jennifer Beals in Flashdance or Jennifer Grey in Dirty Dancing, both of whom became big stars and then fell off the face of the earth). Nichols' direction is smart, as is Kevin Wade's clever screenplay, and the light and funny romantic comedy leads up to a surprisingly suspenseful and enormously satisfying climax. All-in-all, a satisfying and amusing entertainment. "},{"Title":"Bright, feel-good comedy...George Cukor - move over!","Date":"10 September 2007","Score":"32 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" It's up there with any of screwball comedies of the 30s... Carole Lombard, Jean Arthur, Margaret Sullivan. a modern classic...and that's not hyperbole!I've been watching this movie every now and again for almost 20 years (ye gads!), and it's always entertaining. Tonight, I noticed how effective and subtle an actress Melanie Griffith can be when she's directed well. She's a real jewel in this film. Sweet, sexy, smart with a brain for business and a bod for sin. Mike Nichols clearly loved filming her. Her expressions are priceless. Watch for the wonderful scene when Harrison Ford and she are walking to the elevator and he's asking her out. That face of hers as the elevator doors close is just heavenly. That's Mike Nichols craft/artistry.Sigourney Weaver also does a masterful job as a two-faced shark business woman. What's so wonderful about her character, the writing, is that Katherine doesn't have a conscience. She's crafty and slick and manipulative, but she's not out to hurt anyone, just put herself first. It's too bad if anyone get's in her way. She's not nasty, but there is no question that she is the most important person in the universe. It's interesting, too, how her duplicity is reflected in her wardrobe. Most of the professional women in the movie are dressed in ultra-conservative boxy business attire, but Katherine/Sigourney dresses sophisticatedly and elegantly. She knows how to play both sides, the professional yet still sexy professional. She's so powerful in herself that she doesn't feel like she has to dress like a man just because she's in a male- dominated career (mergers/acquisitions). yes, she's a monster/ogre, but as she states, This is BUSINESS.Harrison Ford is his usual witty, slightly befuddled nice guy. He's the James Stewart of the baby boomer generation.Joan Cusack is a phenomenon with her iridescent eye-shadow and Bozo hairdo. I think has the funniest line in the movie-a warning to Tess You know, sometimes I sing and dance around the apartment in my underwear. Doesn't make me Madonna....never will. that's rich.Look for Ricki Lake at the wedding.I put this movie in the same category as Moonstruck, Educating Rita, Shirley Valentine. Transformation movies. I suppose you could call them modern day Cinderella Stories, but it's more about the women saving themselves as opposed to waiting for Prince Charming.It's a pleasure to see this movie. I hope you enjoy it as much as I do. "},{"Title":"One of my favorite comedies is sweet and funny.","Date":"7 November 1999","Score":"24 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  How can you go wrong with this delightful comedy?  Besides having a great cast headed by Melanie Griffith, there's Harrison Ford (in one of the rare romantic comedies that suits his talents), Sigourney Weaver and wonderful Joan Cusack.  And Olympia Dukakis, Alec Baldwin and Kevin Spacey are in it too (don't blink)!  A great musical score and Oscar winning song by Carly Simon, all directed by Mike Nichols, I give this two thumbs up, and a 10! "},{"Title":"Wonderful, fun, feel good comeuppance tale","Date":"2 April 2006","Score":"23 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a fabulous movie. Maybe not rocket science, but clever enough! It has an engaging plot, an extremely empathetic heroine, a villainous boss, a cheatin' boyfriend, and a handsome new love interest just stepping into the picture. Get your popcorn ready for the comeuppance story of a lifetime.The tale revolves around a smart secretary named Tess McGill, who wants to get ahead in the Big Apple but is beaten down by her nasty boss, Katherine, who steals her ideas and passes them off as her own. Fortune smiles on Tess when Katherine breaks her leg during a skiing holiday and Tess is able to 'take charge'...that is, until her boss, who recovers all too quickly, returns. Of course there is also a romance brewing here in the form of a handsome investment banker named Jack Trainer, who just happens to be her boss's boyfriend.Harrison Ford is his typical dashing, magnetic self in the role of Jack Trainer, but it is the two ladies that make this movie. Signourey Weaver is absolutely villainous as an employee's 'worst nightmare' boss, a lady (no, not a lady) high up the corporate ladder, but lacking any semblance of integrity or kindness toward anyone below her in that ladder. You will be itching to see this nasty snob get her comeuppance.Above all, Melanie Griffith is brilliant in the role of Tess, every viewer's favorite downtrodden secretary. She's a woman with all the intelligence and skills needed to succeed in the corporate world, but is ill used by those above her who put her down. Many employees out there will identify with Tess, having at some point in their lives been ill treated by a boss, whether male or female, with at least shades of Katherine. Furthermore, Tess will surely gain viewer sympathy regarding her unfortunate experiences with her sleazy live in lover, Mick.The scene featuring the Staten Island ferry is beautifully done, accompanied as it is by Carly Simon's wonderful Oscar winning song, 'Let the River Run'. What an amazing voice! This is really a fantastic, fun movie. You can't help but love it. "},{"Title":"Coffee, Tea, Me?","Date":"10 July 2000","Score":"20 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  With a cast that includes Melanie Griffith, Harrison Ford, Sigourney Weaver, Alec Baldwin, Oliver Platt and Kevin Spacey, its a minor miracle Joan Cusack got any attention at all.  But she did get attention, and a well-deserved Oscar nomination.  She is completely hysterical and is one of the best reasons to see this fairy tale set against the big bad world of Wall Street. Her best scene is when she masquerades as Melanie's secretary and makes an offer to Harrison Coffee, Tea, Me? "},{"Title":"Career Women with Big Ideas and Even Bigger Hair","Date":"27 July 2008","Score":"14 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" A pure fantasy served up by Mike Nichols, but a vastly entertaining one.Melanie Griffith is the secretary with massive hair who pretends to be a corporate business woman when her boss is layed up with a broken leg. The catch is, she finds out she's pretty good at it, and things get complicated when she ends up spearheading a business deal and falling in love with her key partner (Harrison Ford), all the while trying to keep what she's doing from her boss (Sigourney Weaver). It's the kind of movie that could just as easily have been made as a screwball comedy in the 1940s, perhaps with Barbara Stanwyck in the lead role.The film is a classic in its own small way, one of the best comedies to emerge from the 1980s. Griffith is matched well with her role, so her limitations as an actress don't draw too much attention to themselves. But it's Weaver who steals the show as Griffith's imperious boss. She's a riot as a confident and powerful career woman from hell. And Joan Cusack steals a few scenes of her own as Griffith's best friend and fellow secretary, who sports hair as big as Griffith's and a Joisy accent to boot.Nichols knows how to direct a comedy so that the funny bits speak for themselves.Grade A "},{"Title":"Brilliant, characterful romantic thriller","Date":"29 October 2008","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I'm not a notable Melanie Griffith fan by any means but it must be said that she is brilliantly cast in the role of the small time heroine in the Big Apple. Harrison Ford is surprisingly effective as the hunk-on-a-stick; it is not surprising in the slightest bit that Sigourney Weaver is an effectively insidious megalomaniac bitch. This is also the first in a slew of flicks for Joan Cusack's long line of effective supporting girlfriends.Mike Nicholls is a sharp director and succeeds in not only capturing the look of the trapping and tawdriness of the free market explosion but also its unutterably tedious underbelly. Kevin Wade's script is the snappy dramatic and satirical motor at the film's heart to which Nicholls defers. A unimpeachable feelgood movie - although I can't help feeling a sorrow from Nicholls on behalf of his characters who, as in Billy Wilder's The Apartment remain trapped even after the happy ending. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Delightful uplifting tale for any decade.","Date":"4 March 2008","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Firstly let me say that I'm stunned at the mediocre rating this film has on this site, secondly I disagree with those users who say the film is too 80s and hasn't aged well because it's central theme fits into any time frame, it is in fact universal in life.On the surface the film appears to only operate purely as a romantic feel good movie, but scratch away the surface and you find that a great deal of intelligence is coursing thru the veins of this Mike Nichols effort. Dealing with the harshness of trying to get on in the world of business, I found that the film is saying that grit and determination can get you breaks if you have the brains to seize the opportunity, be strong and maybe you can prosper, now it may not always be the case that such endeavours are rewarded, but at least you can say you tried.A never better Melanie Grifith plays Tess McGill with much heart and passion, and I'm sure that is in no small part down to the adroit people skills that director Mike Nicholls obviously has. Sigourney Weaver & Joan Cusack are equally impressive, with Weaver seeming to relish the role of dastardly boss woman Katharine Parker, whilst Harrison Ford is simply spot on as the love interest with the smart business acumen helping Tess in her quest to make it in the often harsh world of business.A film with appeal for both sexes, and this particular macho viewer punched the air at the end in appreciation for a fitting finale, good work all round here, 8/10. "},{"Title":"Brilliant film comedy (warning spoilers below)","Date":"27 August 2002","Score":"13 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Right from the opening burst of Carly Simon's magnificent theme song, the audience is taken on a fairy-tale comedy ride with one working-class girl and her striving to get ahead in the competitive business world of New York's money market.Tess McGill (Melanie Griffiths) is a Staten Island Secretary working for a pair of sleazy bosses in an uptown New York shares company.  Never once taking her astute business ideas seriously, they set her up with what she thinks is a job opportunity, but is really an opportunity for a lecherous colleague (a then unknown Kevin Spacey) to try and sleep with her. Angry, she publicly humiliates them and is fired but a sympathetic Personnel Director (Olympia Dukakis) puts her to work for a female boss Katherine Parker(Sigourney Weaver), who works in Mergers and Acquisitions.  Although apparently helpful and sincere, Tess discovers her new boss has been stealing some of her ideas and claiming them as her own.  When her boss is injured in a skiing accident, Tess takes over her office and sets about putting together a deal with one of her own ideas........The acting is excellent on all fronts in this picture.  Melanie Griffiths imbues her character with an increasingly confident but very genuine charm.  Sigourney Weaver is perfect is her stuck-up, patronising superbitch of a boss.  Harrison Ford is also on form here as the man in both their lives, a charming yet almost stuffy man who constantly fears losing his job.  Odd, however, that he should receive top billing when he only appears about half-way through the film.The three leads are given tremendous support in the form of Joan Cusack as Tess's best friend who fears she is getting left behind in the wave of her friend's ambition.  Other notable players include Nora Dunn as Katherine's snooty colleague and Philip Bosco as an industry tycoon, who gets the film's funniest line at the film's satisfying finale.The script by Kevin Wade is excellent, with plenty of funny one-liners and double-entendres.  His portrayal of office life may seem a little bit too romantic at times, in spite of the rich business detail with which he imbues it, but this a comedy so this is entirely forgivable.The whole movie is wonderfully accentuated by a rousing score.  Carly Simon's theme tune beautifully captures the film's themes of hope, ambition and fair play.Enjoyable and exhilarating comedy.  "}{"Title":"Working Girl","Date":"22 April 1999","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Wonderful romance-comedy in the tradition of Capra and Sturges with Griffith perfectly cast as a woman posing as a business mogul to get ahead in the corporate world and spite  bitchy boss Weaver, who is simply divine. Ford is especially precious in a rare romantic-comedy as Griffith's partner in business and love interest. The story is creative and witty. Mike Nichols' direction is sharp and in the highest form. The fine supporting cast also features Cusack and the always durable Phillip Bosco. Carly Simon's wonderful song won an Oscar.  "},{"Title":"Who's afraid of Sigourney Weaver?","Date":"28 April 2003","Score":"11 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Working girl Tess McGill (Melanie Griffith, sporting some serious hair) is continuously being mistaken for a coffee, tea or me? kind of person when in fact she works hard, reads widely and studies nights to get ahead in the business world. But the sexist, class-conscious business world just won't take her seriously. Finally she hooks up with Katherine Parker (Sigourney Weaver), a successful but vulturous deal-maker with an elevated opinion of herself who knows how to use people. They set up a mentor relationship with Tess getting the coffee and Katherine spouting the words of wisdom. When Tess comes up with a good business idea, Katherine steals it.Enter soon after Jack Trainer (Harrison Ford) and we have our triangle. Katherine has broken her leg skiing and Tess has to fill in for her. When Tess discovers that Katherine has ripped off her idea, she decides to assume Katherine's accouterments, including her lavish apartment, her wardrobe, her hairstyle, and as it turns out, her boyfriend. Will she succeed, and will she find true love and happiness with the leading man? Inquiring minds want to know.Director Mike Nichols, auteur of a number of film land successes of more than average sophistication, including Postcards from the Edge (1990), The Graduate (1967), Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf (1966), etc. with help from screen writer Kevin Wade and Melanie herself, manages to create enough sympathy for Tess that we want her to win. Sigourney Weaver does such a fine job of being a kind of sociopathic villainess that we want her to lose.Guess what happens?While this is not on the same level as the three Mike Nichols flicks mentioned above, either in terms of cinematic significance or craftsmanship, it is clever and witty at times, and the story is one that most American women will find easy to identify with. And of course the winner gets Harrison Ford, displaying his usual bodice-busting charm. Only problem (aside from some smarmy pandering to a chick flick audience) is that the chemistry between Melanie Griffith and Harrison Ford is lacking.See this for Mike Nichols whose direction here can be described as just a working guy trying to make a buck and not doing a bad job of it.(Note Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote! Get it at Amazon!) "},{"Title":"Yeah, Right!","Date":"9 July 2006","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" How could someone that directed The Graduate, Carnal Knowledge, Catch-22, Biloxi Blues, heck even Silkwood, put out such mindless fluff as this. The idea that all those people at the bottom of the organization chart can do as good a job or better than those at the top if they just get the chance should be left to Frank Capra. At least Capra could put a sentimental spin on the story to make it appealing.Ford, Weaver and Griffith aren't Stewart, Hepburn and Grant but their talents could be put to better use than this story.The best part is seeing the hairstyles from the 80's. You just don't see big hair like that anymore. Anyway, this is a long way from The Graduate or Virginia Woolf. "},{"Title":"Working Girl","Date":"12 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" However outdated the costumes and settings, outmoded the corporal cooperation business, I believe the ethic of WORKING GIRL is abiding, at least until this moment (24 years later), resembling a 1980s version of THE DEVIL WEARS PRADA (2006), however collected 6 Oscar nominations with 1 win (for Carly Simon's theme song LET THE RIVER RUN) at its time (including the weighty BEST PICTURE, BEST DIRECTOR and 3 acting nominations), we may hark back to the oldie saying Miracle happens!. I watched the film twice in a row, and its sensational effect of its initial release may have been bleached by an eon 24 years of our generation, but I appreciate the film in conspiring an ingenious plot of this crowd-pleasing dramedy, Melanie Griffith's role effectively resonates with a widely broad working class not only in 1988 but also nowadays (white collar office suit probably). The cast is excellent as well, many complain Griffith's deficiency in stretch as an actress, but Mike Nichols surely helped her to dig into a full blown, a hardball hidden inside her feeble flesh (the nude or underwear scenes are just expendable bravura though). Billed as a comedy, which admittedly is not Griffiths-Ford pair's strong suit, Weaver and Cusack bulges out for the rescue, both I adore so much in the film (Weaver was a double nominee that year, and I think it deserves my win at least in the supporting category, haven't seen GORILLAS IN THE MIST 1988 yet).WORKING GIRL is clearly not the BEST PICTURE material gauged by the current Oscar barometer (Mike Nichols' big name helped then, which failed to push CHARLIE WILSON'S WAR to fetch the coronet 20 years later), but it is a strong contender to be memorized as a film to remind us how the fashion alters in our fast food world (haircut, clothes, architecture, etc.), USA particularly. "},{"Title":"Working Girl Works Its Way into Your Heart ***1/2","Date":"13 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Very good film about a young lady, going to night school to get her degree, and further understanding a business career. Melanie Griffith is absolutely delightful in the lead role as that girl. She sees that along the way, you need a push to get ahead and also be at the right places at the right time under the correct circumstances with the people in the know. She also sees a tyrannical boss (Sigourney Weaver) who will take advantage of you and even borrow your great ideas to accomplish her own goals.Harrison Ford is great as the man in the corporate world, who also is attached to the Weaver character. Philip Bosco is the big boss you want to please and Alec Baldwin, so young and thin, represents the life Griffith wants to get away from.The wonderful film is almost a more serious How to Succeed type of picture. Griffith and Weaver were nominated for Oscars as best actress and supporting actress, respectively. "},{"Title":"Dick Whittington on Wall Street","Date":"7 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Like Wall Street, which came out the previous year, Working Girl is set in the world of world of high finance, but whereas Wall Street is a satire on greed and corruption (it famously invented the phrase greed is good), Working Girl- a romantic comedy set in a big Wall Street corporation- takes a more positive view of the capitalist system.The main character is Tess McGill, one of the corporation's employees. Tess works as a secretary, but is ambitious to rise higher within the corporate hierarchy, especially as she has just turned thirty and has realised that her boss, Katharine Parker, is slightly younger than her. (In reality, Sigourney Weaver is eight years older than Melanie Griffith, but she looks attractive enough to make this plausible). Tess, however, is held back by her lack of formal qualifications and by her working-class origins, which are betrayed by her accent, by her clothes and most of all by her hairstyle. (To say that Tess has Big Hair would be an understatement; make that Enormous Hair).At first Tess's relationship with Katharine is a friendly one. Encouraged by her boss, Tess even starts suggesting possible deals on behalf of the firm's clients. Things change, however, when Katharine breaks her leg on a skiing holiday and is forced to take time off work. During Katharine's absence, Tess discovers that her boss has stolen one of her ideas- involving the takeover of a radio network by a client company- and is trying to pass it off as her own. Outraged, Tess decides to try a deception of her own. With the aid of a new hairstyle and Katharine's smart business suits she passes herself off as an executive in the firm and tries to put the deal together. (Tess can't do much about her Staten Island accent, but no-one seems to notice). In the process she meets, and falls for, Jack, a handsome executive with the client company- who just happens to be Katharine's fiancé.I must admit that Melanie Griffith has not always been my favourite actress. Her breathless, little-girl voice served her well as a teenager in films like The Drowning Pool, but can sound irritating for a woman in her thirties. Working Girl, however, is one of her best performances. (It deservedly brought her only Oscar nomination). The plot has some similarities with another Griffith film from a few years later, Born Yesterday. In both films Griffith plays a working-class girl who is assumed to be dumb, but who proves to be a lot more intelligent and resourceful than anyone gave her credit for.The film also showed us a new facet to Harrison Ford's talents, as he played the hero of a romantic comedy for the first time. This was not only his first venture into this particular genre, but also probably his best- I was never too impressed by his attempt to re-create the Humphrey Bogart role in Sabrina or by Six Days, Seven Nights. His steady, dependable and decent screen persona, however, serves him well in Working Girl. Weaver makes a suitably detestable- if desirable- villainess as the devious Katharine, and Joan Cusack gives a good performance as Tess's friend and confidante. There are also some similarities with Pretty Woman, another romantic comedy from two years later with a Wall Street background. Neither film might please a strict moralist; indeed, many moralists took great exception to Pretty Woman on the grounds that the Julia Roberts character is a working girl in the other sense of the term. In the case of this film, the moralists would insist that two wrongs do not make a right and ask why Tess is treated as the heroine when she is just as guilty of deception as Katharine is. Such moralists would miss the point of both films, which give new twists to old stories. Pretty Woman is a modern dress version of the Cinderella legend about the poor girl who falls in love with a prince. Working Girl casts the heroine in a less passive role- one who achieves success through her own efforts rather than through winning the love of a powerful man. The working class girl ends up on top, while the Ivy League-educated yuppie is cast as the villainess. It is essentially the Dick Whittington story with a modern setting and a woman in the leading role, a poor girl rather than boy making good.I also liked Carly Simon's theme song, Let the River Run, even though it did not seem to have much connection with the story. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Come run with me now the sky is the colour of blue you've never even seen in the eyes of your mother","Date":"27 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  That's a a line from the title song, New Jerusalem. One of the best bits of the movie. This is just such a happy, inspiring movie that you have to like it. Harrison Ford is brilliant (when is he not?) and you really feel sorry for Melanie Griffith. The characters are easy to understand. Not the most intellectual film ever but so what. It's fun and a great script.  "},{"Title":"She's your man","Date":"29 November 2011","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Although the 60s and 70s are thought of as the age of feminism, it wasn't really until the 80s that women really achieved a bit of equality in movie land. But this being a less radical time, the dramas about powerful women tended to be a synthesis of Women's Lib and Reagan era entrepreneurial optimism. This is after all what success meant in that decade. But of-its-time as it is, Working Girl is still an entertaining and uplifting picture.Written by Kevin Wade, Working Girl is a nice, neatly-constructed story. On a broad level it could be seen a black-and-white tale of good guys and bad guys. But what saves the characters from appearing one-dimensional is that they are written with a great deal of knowing realism. Who hasn't worked for a boss like Sigourney Weaver's character, or been cheated on by a jerk like Alec Baldwin's? One thing that keeps Working Girl engaging is that, while not an out-and-out comedy it is often tentatively funny in the way that real life is funny, such as Alec Baldwin's futile claim that This isn't what it looks like.The effectiveness of Working Girl often hinges on the way its characters are projected. On paper, Tess McGill isn't necessarily sympathetic, and neither is Katherine Parker necessarily unpleasant, at least not in the first half of the movie. However, Melanie Griffith portrays the lead with enough drive to appear credible as a go-getter, but all wrapped in a kind of sensitive charm that makes her likable. It's lucky she didn't inherit her mother's steeliness. And Sigourney Weaver manages to convey a smug and patronising manner that is only hinted at in the script, but never quite overdoing it so it is still believable that Griffith initially warms to her. Harrison Ford is at his best too, moulding the role round his limited range by giving a business-world version of his usual level-headed action hero type.If you're a fan of the look of this era, Working Girl will be a real treat for the eyes &#x96; everything from glorious cityscapes to pouffy dresses. I'm glad director Mike Nichols puts such an emphasis on places and props, without loosing sight of the people of course. The changing fashions of the decade are even woven into the movie's themes, as Griffith swaps her hairsprayed bouffant and dangly bangles for an elegant, simple look. Working Girl is an incredibly 80s movie, but it's also the death of 80s extravagance we're witnessing there on screen. Of course, she still wears a pair of pink glasses with rims the size of beermats, but there you go. 80s extravagance died hard. "},{"Title":"Punch The Clock","Date":"16 May 2006","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is Nine To Five all over again, just without the fun. The predecessor contains 'the movie within the movie', i.e., each bit about how the seething secretary envisions a little Roman justice inflicted on the boorish boss.But this movie has no brains in its visual narrative...it's reduced to a collection of characters bouncing off of each other in trajectories guided by stereotypes. The motif is class warfare, muddled with an isosceles love triangle.Griffith has to be the most physically unappealing actress to be given the star treatment. The attraction to her (by any movie audience) is quite baffling. If you must watch, watch it for Cusack who at least goes for broke with the character excess. "},{"Title":"Entertaining","Date":"9 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Entertaining comedy-drama. Ending is a bit Hollywoodish but the setup and plot development are good. Also has a bit of female-corporate-empowerment message, though not a very powerful one.Solid performance from Melanie Griffith in the lead role. Signourney Weaver, especially, and Harrison Ford outperform Griffith though. Decent support performances from Joan Cusack and Alec Baldwin. Interesting to note that the cast includes Kevin Spacey, Olympia Dukakis and Oliver Platt in minor roles and David Duchovny in a very minor, fleeting, role. "}{"Title":"Love this movie but there's an enormous flaw....","Date":"20 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Despite Melanie Griffith's weak characterization and other quirk's, I still love this movie. Usually have to watch at least some of it when it finds it's way to my TV once again.Here's the quirk that has always bothered me (Don't think it's a spoiler, so I have not checked it as such) Cyn is her friend at the very beginning of the movie. The opening scene has them walking to work. Tess leaves that job and goes to work elsewhere. Funny, she's in the exact same secretarial pool as Cyn? Neither of them mention it, yet Cyn is always there in the same office. That's quite a convenient coincidence! Also, it's fascinating how much business has been demonized in recent years. What used to be a triumph of feminism...that women can be just as effective in business as men, has now become a hatred of business all together. How sad. This limits women's choices, rather than broadens them. There was a time when women longed to use their brain in a setting like this. Sure, it's not for everyone, but isn't it allowed to be for someone?The movie itself, is a great piece of fluff that's just plain fun to watch again and again "},{"Title":"katharine's office","Date":"17 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" If Katherine and Jack are so close to being married why does Jack not know that Tess is in Katherine's office? I would think that if a couple is that close to being married they would be quite familiar with each others offices. Anyway, I do like this movie. I've probably seen it 7 or eight times. I'm a heterosexual male, I love women and consider myself to be a gentleman and I feel so sorry for Tess in the horrible way that nearly everyone treats her! The character of Tess is that of a good woman and it hurts me to see a good woman mistreated. With the exception of Jack and her fellow secretaries almost everyone treats her like dirt! Including her sleazy boyfriend played by Alec Baldwin, her low as pond scum male co-workers not to mention the quintessential bitch Katherine! All of this, of course eventually results in a great feel good ending which causes me to cheer for Tess's triumph! "},{"Title":"Pleasant fare","Date":"21 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Entertaining movie that is worth watching again and again, especially for the climatic comeuppance finale... Good performances by Harrison Ford, Sigourney Weaver as the back stabbing conniving boss, and Melanie Griffith, smart but naive in the ways of this fictional corporate world.Still, most of us wonder why women like our heroine continually choose low life degenerate losers the likes of those portrayed in this film by Alec Baldwin--- selfish, demanding, abusive, unfaithful... I mean, is it for the female viewers? Is Nick the type of guy most women generally fall for and would like to see as the boyfriend? So anyways, Tess comes up with a brilliant plan to get a large corporation to acquire a radio station, shares it with her boss who promptly steals it with the intention of selling as her own, the truth eventually comes out and our villainous boss is hung out to dry, and Harrison Ford and Melanie Griffith live happily ever actor. "},{"Title":"Working movie (rental)","Date":"19 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a rather an original American movie because on two points first, the main character is indeed down the ladder for one time. Sure America still doesn't seem to have factory workers but at least we escape the successful and wealthy characters that Hollywood keeps feeding us. More accurately, we have this kind here with Sigourney but this time, this upper class is seen for what it's really a bitchy one! The second originality is that the hero isn't male but a woman! And what's funny is that woman does what she want from our Indy! I'm not really a fan of miss Griffith but here she was OK and as it's a 80s movies where fashion was inspired, diverse and not assimilated with brands, it's very fresh. In addition, Joan Cusak is this perfect and eternal eccentric friend, identical to her « shameless » character 3 decades before. Harrison is his usual self in other words a soft- spoken buddy but full of kindness and rightness at close hands. In conclusion, it's a really good movie because it has a real moving story and the perfect cast to tell it (i'm not speaking about the one that wears Sigourney -) "},{"Title":"fun 80s fashion in good 80s rom-com","Date":"12 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Tess McGill (Melanie Griffith) is a smart, plucky, investment worker. She tries to climb the corporate ladder, but she's constantly held back by the sexist environment, and her night school college degree. When she is assigned to be Katharine Parker (Sigourney Weaver)'s secretary, she hoped that things would finally change. She shares a business idea with Katharine. When she finds that Katharine is claiming the idea for herself, Tess takes matters into her own hands.The subject matter, the style, and the humor is pure 80's. The hair is insane. And there is no accounting for the fashion. It is jaw dropping and unintentionally funny.As for the story, it's a fairly good happy rom-com from veteran director Mike Nichols. This is possibly Melanie Griffith's best work. She has just enough pluckiness and is a complete sweetheart. Sigourney Weaver is showing her comedic chops. And Harrison Ford is actually a great rom-com leading man. "},{"Title":"Highly entertaining study of the glass ceiling.","Date":"13 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Mike Nichols got a brilliant performance out of his leading lady Melanie Griffiths (pre-face-lift version). She must die looking at this picture now her bum was enormous, her breasts were too small (just like most actresses'), her face and neck were all puffy and OMG! that appalling hair-do at the start it really stank and could have put you off the picture for all time. However, it gets really good as Nichols lets a strong script speak and teases good performances out of his players. It's all about the glass ceiling that prevents secretaries ever breaking out of their shitty jobs and getting into the executive ranks, and it savours an extra element in showing a female executive (guess what?) stealing a great idea from her secretary. It gives a horribly clear glimpse of the sectionalised American society (workers, executives, super-rich) that makes a mockery of the Statue of Liberty past which the working girls sail in the ferry in the opening scene. All-in-all, a strong satirical film that has stood the test of time, even with its idiotic haircuts. "},{"Title":"A nice little accurate ride","Date":"1 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I was pretty shocked to learn, after watching this film, that Mike Nichols was the director a lighthearted, linearly-plotted chick comedy from the man behind the absurdist Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf? and the character-driven The Graduate, both very heavy drama indeed, is not at all what one might expect.However, the same quality craftsmanship from the aforementioned two permeates the entirety of this deceivingly simple movie. Though Tess McGill's achievements may seem a bit far-fetched, the story works because its depiction of the New York business and finance world in which she navigates is extremely accurate. The highly sensitive maneuvering in the cutting details is played to a T. We are also treated to the insecure porcine antics of nerdy male big-name school alumni desperate to cover up for their lack of real virility or machismo, as well-as the self-conscious vacuousness of many of their female counterparts, so beautifully incarnated in Tess's boss, Katherine Parker.Tess's plight, as well, as a frustrated woman but especially as an aging (she's 30) Bright Young Thing frustrated in her attempts to get that seal of validation for her competence and style, ring very true. It doesn't matter whether you're a man or a woman anyone who has had to work with/for Ivy League alumni without having an Ivy League degree himself, or report to someone younger or barely older than himself, as I have, will begin rooting for Tess quite swiftly.Harrison Ford's acting doesn't particularly stand out, but it wasn't bad. It helped that Ford was given a role with some degree of substance, though Melanie Griffith clearly outshines him. The omnipresence of Katherine's energy threatening to darken Tess's work, even when Katherine is absent, is quite remarkable, and it's almost frightening how well Sigourney Weaver, herself a Yale alumna, seemed to understand the territory in which she had to play Katherine.All-in-all, brilliant work. Two thumbs up! "},{"Title":"Reflections from YLS Capitalism + Film Seminar","Date":"6 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Your labor earns while you're awake; your capital, even while you're asleep&#x97;in tension with the Protestant work ethic. Mike Nichols' Working Girl (1988) explores that tension through two interlocking earning- without-quite-working case studies an industry, and a young woman.Fox released Working Girl in the heyday of the 1980s buyout boom and associated Hollywood lionization of M&A, just a year after Oliver Stone's Wall Street. Investment bankers were Masters of the Universe, for they had cracked its code earning capital-like income without capital. By steering CEOs' use of balance sheet cash to buy other companies and taking a percentage commission, advisors generated fee income that scaled with capital without having to carry the capital themselves, as in the underwriting business. And unlike their Harvard and MIT classmates toiling away in cubicles as engineers at IBM, these Wall Streeters did it all with snappy suits and cocktail party banter, or so the meme went. Capitalism without capital, work without work.Enter B&T'er Tess McGill (Melanie Griffith). And how else? Through the madding crowd, via the Staten Island ferry, past the Statute of Liberty&#x97; for, the dream of Manhattan is nothing if not a meritocracy to all- comers. Cast and caste as the new ingénue, Tess exudes the charming naiveté of imagining that success in investment banking rides on hard work (as opposed to&#x85;) and thus that it's gender-blind. Nichols wastes no time dispensing with this notion. When Tess, a secretary, tracks down her boss (Oliver Platt) in the men's room to run a short sale idea by him, we hear another man's voice There's no paper! For a split second, we and Tess think he might be replying to the short sale idea in Wall Street jargon. But no, he's just looking to wipe his ass, and we feel Tess deflate.Of course, even in a gender-blind meritocracy, toilet paper is the sort of paper one would ask for in a men's room, and if a woman comes in, she can hardly begrudge being the target of the request. So maybe that's it if only Tess didn't think she had to break the rules to get ahead, she have a fair shake at career advancement, we speculate as she walks back to her desk. Not so Tess's boss arranges a supposed job interview with a colleague, but he turns out to be a coke-addled molester (Kevin Spacey, disturbingly believable as usual, in a bit part). At least she manages to even the score, spraying his bottle of Dom all over him and his limo.And here we encounter one of Nichols' core themes for expressing the thinness of the work of investment banking it's just a smokescreen for recreational sex. Impotence, then, amounts to professional incompetence. Hence when Tess storms back to the office and gives her boss his comeuppance by programming the ticker tape to read that he's poorly endowed, his work there is done, and off he goes. Indeed, the most gender parity to be found in Nichols' Wall Street is that men are sex objects as much as women. The object of Tess's professional and (eventually) romantic aspirations, fellow i-banker Jack Trainer (Harrison Ford), is ogled by the women in his office when he changes shirts, and we ultimately suspect he intended to sleep his way to the top with his romance with Tess's new boss Katherine Parker (Sigourney Weaver, in a sharp turn as a woman who climbed early with no intention of helping others do the same). But he resists any temptation to take advantage of Tess's Valium- and tequila-induced stupor the night the two first meet (I have a head for business and a bod for sin, she tells him in a line that surely made the trailer editor rewind his VCR), preserving his status as the light at the end of Tess's tunnel.The rest of her striving is thick with thinness, too. A new suit and a lower voice (the latter which Trainer comes to borrow from her, in a nice touch by Ford and Nichols) and, voilà!, she's a senior investment banker. Who needs to sweat over spreadsheets for underlings when you can crash the CEO's daughter's wedding? Who needs a team when you can fly solo? Who needs numbers before you've gotten the client excited about the concept? Who needs to tell colleagues and lovers the truth when you've got a better narrative? Nichols leaves us to try and sort out whether it's M&A advisory that's flimsy or Tess, whether she corrupts the practice from its analytical moorings or perfects its fundamental vapidity.None of the above, it turns out. Nichols' Hollywood ending vindicates the core values with which Tess embarked on careerism resourcefulness, diligence, and most of all, creativity. From that foundation sprung her idea for a Trask radio acquisition, and from it now springs proof that the idea was hers all along. (Contrast Katherine's flat Let's merge! marital command to Jack.) And this is where the investment banking industry ultimately earns it keep new perspectives on how to deploy capital at greatest marginal productivity. The bow that Nichols ties here is big enough to wrap up the interrelated theme of uneasiness at whether the softer sex is really working in the workplace indeed they are, and the new perspectives brought by this previously excluded segment of the workforce offer the greatest marginal productivity to their firms. To make clear that that's about a lot more than following Page Six, Nichols closes on an earnest scene of Tess explaining to her new secretary&#x97;she's a newly minted Trask executive&#x97;how she is ushering in her more respectful brand of leadership. Having shown that she can be trusted with other's capital&#x97;physical and human&#x97;she's moved from advisory into industry and been put in charge of some of her own. "},{"Title":"Good Cast in Uneven Film","Date":"26 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" After a secretary's idea is stolen by her boss, she plans revenge. The cast is great. Griffith has the role of her career as the secretary with big business ideas, with her limited acting skills perfectly suited to the naiveté and vulnerabilities of the character. In a departure from his usual tough guy roles, Ford shows a nice flair for light comedy. Weaver sinks her teeth into the role of the villain. While it is enjoyable and Nichols is good at this sort of thing, the script is somewhat of a letdown. The far-fetched situations in the plot would work fine in a screwball comedy, but seems silly in a film that is more drama than comedy. "},{"Title":"Cinderella Inc.","Date":"23 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" From its opening aerial shot of the Statue of Liberty and the Staten Island ferry on which Tess McGill (Melanie Griffiths) makes a wish for a chance to take a bite out of the Big Apple, to the closing aerial shot of her chatting with her best friend Cyn from her new office digs at Trask, Working Girl is a wonderful example of the Cinderella fairytale retold by a virtuoso filmmaker. Griffiths makes a charming Cinderella, full of wit, wiles and chutzpah, while Harrison Ford makes a dashing Prince Charming and Sigourney Weaver is incredibly good as the Evil Stepmother. Going back to that impressive opening shot in which a graphic match effortlessly joins an external helicopter shot of the ferry with an internal dolly shot inside the ferry, I just want to state how magical I think this sequence is as it immediately and effortlessly moves us into a film that is essentially a propaganda piece about the American dream. The American dream is a very old idea about America as the land of opportunity and for a long time I suppose that was true for everyone except its indigenous population, its African American population, its Hispanic population ... For centuries people from all over the world have traveled to America in the hope of working hard and accumulating wealth and living a life they could never have had in their own country. It is not a coincidence that Nichols starts his film with his impressive aerial shot of the Statue of Liberty. When immigrants used to travel from Europe to America by boat, she first thing they would see when they reached America. The camera moves around the statue and as it pulls away we see the Staten Island ferry and the camera moves closer and closer until we are inside the ferry and see the mass of commuters on their way to Manhattan Island. This image recalls the thousands of immigrants arriving in America by boat. When we are taken inside the ferry, we meet Tess and her best friend Cyn. It's Tess's birthday and as she blows out the candles on a cupcake and Cyn asks Tess if she's made a birthday wish, we see a look of longing and determination on Tess' face, indicating that she has indeed made a wish. We come back to this wish at the end of the film when we see that, through hard work, determination and good business sense it has been granted. Office towers have a hierarchy that is organised from outside in. The window offices are reserved for managers while the corner window offices with those impressive panoramas go to upper management and partners. Inside the office, away from the windows and closer to the elevator shafts are the secretarial workstations and clerical functions that serve management and carry out their decisions. In the final sequence of the film, Tess arrives at this typical configuration ignorant of the fact that her status has changed. This actually makes her all the more charming and endearing. She is surprised to find that she has moved from inside the secretarial pool and been given a window office, demonstrating that she has at last successfully made that significant first step into management, moving up the corporate ladder. An important shot/reverse shot in this sequence shows Tess standing up against the window while Alice, her secretary is positioned in a corner with walls around her. The two are discussing manager/secretary protocol and Alice, who is at first defensive, quickly warms to her new unassuming boss. Alice is now where Tess used to be, reminding us where Tess has come from and how she has managed to achieve the American Dream. This is virtuoso use of the shot/reverse shot as Tess, framed against the window, is now in a world that is open to new possibilities - the world is now her oyster while Alice remains enclosed by walls, demonstrating the difference in the two women's status. Once alone in her new office, Tess calls her best friend Cyn, but unlike the start of the film where they are side-by-side, now they are separated by geography and status. A cut to Tess and a crash zoom outwards shows her still stuck in a cavernous, heavily crowded office, nevertheless elated for her friend and celebrating with us the endless possibilities available to those willing to risk it all to achieve their dreams, with a head for business and a body for sin. "}{"Title":"A Timeless Stand Up for Yourself Romance","Date":"23 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" When a secretary's idea is stolen by her boss, she seizes an opportunity to steal it back by pretending she has her boss's job. Along the way she learns about love, lies and the hows to taking risks in life.I believe right from the opening you are exposed to just what she's up against a male dominated management where women are secretaries and little else. I think this environment really worked because it wasn't personal. There was no vendetta, ulterior motive or manipulation. Men honestly thought women should remain secretaries and their place was in the bedroom. The movie's setup went quick we knew the story's main focus was in the workplace and her career. When Mick was eventually introduced you knew he wasn't as keyed into her as he ought to be and that this didn't bode well. The secondary plot line of her love life and where she'd live quickly trotted along and you knew everything was on the line now.Tess really captured the feeling that she was playing everything by ear. You knew she wasn't afraid of risks or trying out an opportunity even if it didn't end well &#x96; that was the beauty of the opening scenes. I loved Melanie Griffith. To me it doesn't matter what else she's done or will do. She'll remain an actress to watch due to this role. Sometimes freedom to act on instinct is just what is needed for a role to come together.Harrison Ford though really added so much from his end as Jack Trainer. Right from his first meeting to his defense of her at the elevators he had this humor and earnest appeal that can't be faked&#x85;I know how much irony that holds but it's true. His character felt genuine with equal measure to her gutsiness.Sigourney Weaver really outdid herself as the manipulative boss who steals her subordinates ideas and set back women everywhere by several generations. She took Tess under her wing and made the woman bloom into awareness of her un-career worthiness. She even provided Tess an opportunity to grow by breaking her leg and loving it instead of hurrying home to work and boyfriend. Weaver embodied career women everywhere and her negative traits took her down.There were so many good scenes in Working Girl. From subtle moments like in the elevator scene I mentioned&#x85;Or when Tess had the chandelier cleaned in Katharine's apartment&#x85;To edge of your seat is she going to carry it off like in the wedding crasher scenes or the morning after meeting where she pitched her idea. Much of this movie stands out in my mind due to the dialogue. Every interaction snapped with tension and emotion. (Read some of the quotes!)Writing wise I hearken after the skill utilized to make each scene important to understanding the characters, to moving plot along and foreshadowing why and what is coming. To this end each of the main characters Tess, Jack and Katharine, were treated as protagonist in their own stories. They each had setbacks to their plans, both good and bad sides to their character, triumphs, and goals they worked toward. What makes the protagonist in our story is simply a matter of outcome and maybe screen time.As a women in her twenties it's hard to know what dreams to pursue and what to let the universe and God decide. Overcoming obstacles and pursing opportunities are the choices you make that define who you are and how you'll turn out in the end. Working Girl is a prime example of how things work out when you have worthy goals and a gutsy attitude. Even today I can watch this movie and feel it's rightness, that life does fit together like a puzzle and part of the fun is putting it together through thick and thin.With divorce fracturing our families and homes, it's great to have an example for us that with the right outlook things will come together in our lives, no matter our history or backgrounds. As a child of divorce I find myself questioning motives and pondering actions to see if they need a light shone on them. This movie helps give me hope that I'm just being paranoid.To read more of my reviews http//yaykisspurr.wordpress.com/ "},{"Title":"The Best Chick Flick Ever","Date":"25 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":""}{"Title":"Farfetched premise, but entertaining","Date":"18 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Tess McGill (Melanie Griffith) is a naive secretary working in the rough world of mergers and acquisitions on Wall Street. Her new boss, Katherine Parker, (Sigorney Weaver) may be just the mentor she needs to realize her dream of getting into the entre program to advance professionally. Tess takes an acquisition idea for Trask Industries -- a company looking to move into television -- to Katherine and asks for her help in getting the idea considered, which Katherine promises. But, later, when Katherine is laid up by a skiing accident and asks Tess to take care of some personal things in her apartment, Tess plays back a tape recording revealing that Katherine is passing off Tess' idea as her own. At that moment, Tess loses her naivity and decides to fight back. She impersonates her boss and orchestrates the merger deal on her own. Along the way she inadvertently steals Katherine's fiance (Harrison Ford). When Katherine recuperates and discovers Tess' ruse, the fireworks begin. A terrific film that deals with treachery in the workplace, and one trusting soul's gutsy efforts to fight the odds. Highly recommended. Directed by Mike Nichols. "},{"Title":"Super movie!","Date":"18 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A smashing movie.  Terrific acting, especially Melanie Griffith, a very finely constructed performance. And Carly Simon's sells the movie beautifully. "},{"Title":"Unconvincing & boring","Date":"18 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Tess McGill (Melanie Griffith) starts a new job with Petty Marsh who are a mergers & acquisitions company. Her boss Katharine Parker (Sigourney Weaver) breaks her leg in a skiing accident and asks Tess to take care of things in her absence. However, when Tess discovers that Katharine is passing off one of Tess's 'acquisition' ideas as her own, she assumes Katharine's position whilst she's laid up in hospital and with the help of Jack Trainer (Harrison Ford) Tess is intent on sealing the deal without Katharine.Aside from being boring, the screenplay for this film is so badly written & unconvincing that it's just laughable. Let's take a look at a few examples;1) Katharine tells Tess that she can be in charge of the company whilst she's laid up in hospital (even though she's only been in the job 5 minutes). Is this really believable?2) Katharine allows Tess to access her apartment to sort out her dry cleaning etc even though she's left audio evidence of her deceit and has also left evidence of her deceit on her home computer. Why would she allow Tess access to her apartment knowing that this evidence is there in her apartment and knowing that Tess could access it? It's just stupid beyond belief.3) Tess and Jack end up hooking up together even though their initial encounter is based on deceit, deceit and more deceit. Yeah right!! It just got worse and worse as it went along.Aside from the scripting problems, the film was just downright boring. The story wasn't particularly interesting - in fact it got so bad that I was considering stopping watching this film at about the 1 hour mark. I decided to persevere hoping that it would improve, but it never did. Griffith & Ford just shared no chemistry, their romance was ridiculous and all of the characters were nasty and unlikeable.The only very slight positive is that it's a 'feel good' film in the sense of getting one over on one's boss and it's certainly noteworthy. However in this film it takes a long, boring and ridiculous route in order to reach its rather obvious conclusion. "},{"Title":"Dated fun.","Date":"3 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This was pure '80s fun. It's totally dated already, with it's wild hair and clothing, but it feels like a capsule into that era and that's half of the fun of it. It's so delightfully '80s in the best of ways, which is probably my favorite decade for comedies. The premise is a standard one, but what makes it special comes in way of it's characters.Melanie Griffith is so endearing and easy to like, it makes it practically impossible not to root for her and the ending left a huge smile on my face. Sigourney Weaver steals all of her scenes, although I do wish they had let her be a little more sinister. Still, it was played a lot more naturally the way that they did it. Harrison Ford practically steals the movie for me, in a role unlike anything I've seen him do, goofy and charming and at times a bit of a nerd. It's also got one of Kevin Spacey's first roles and he's only in one scene but had me aching with laughter.Everyone in the cast has delightful chemistry together and they all make for an enjoyable, comfortable viewing that kept a smile on my face the whole way through. It's one of the easiest viewings I've had in a while. "},{"Title":"Even Flawed, One of the Best Romantic Comedies of All Time","Date":"26 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This move is one of my all-time favorites! I never get tired of watching this David-and-Goliath-themed adventure with a feminist twist. And, although it has some LOL scenes, I always choke up over the final scene and closing credits with Carly Simon's fabulous score.The entire cast is excellent, and I agree that this is the best romantic role ever for Harrison Ford, and one of the best roles, period, of his career. Harrison has often looked uncomfortable playing domestic roles,but he is at the top of his game in this one. Sigourney Weaver is spot on as the beautiful and polished, but underhanded boss. Joan Cusack is hilarious, as always, as the heroine's loyal best friend in the secretarial pool; she has the bimbo look and routine down. And, Melanie Griffith is wonderful as the vulnerable yet steely 30-year-old secretary at a crossroads in her life and career. It is not surprising that the movie garnered one Oscar, Oscar nominations for Melanie, Sigourney and Joan, and Golden Globe awards.The film is so inspirational and charming that one can overlook its few flaws (1) Apparently Jack never contacts is alleged girlfriend, Katherine, when she has a skiing accident; the two seem on the verge of becoming engaged but yet they obviously have not spoken the entire time she is laid up outside the country with broken bones. Even if Jack was planning to break off the relationship with Katherine, surely he would have called to inquire after health! (2) As Tess lives with her cheating boyfriend, where does she hang her hat between the time that they break up and before she, at least temporarily, moves in with Jack? (3) How does Katherine manage to bluff her way into Tess's and Jack's deal when she does not have all the facts? Surely, she would have been found out earlier than the film indicates.Despite these strange oversights, the film manages to make sense in the way the way that fun, audacious plots often do. And, the best part is that even today the film provides feminist history and inspiration to a new generation of young women. "},{"Title":"Still charming and insightful","Date":"31 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" After a fifth or sixth re-watching - even on video - 'Working Girl' retains a charm and offers some funny and correct insights into the world of work. Having just seen 'Up In The Air' it amazes me how Hollywood ignores the world of organisations and work - I don't count the numbing slacker genre of Rogen, Stiller et al or the glossy magazine sagas of the last couple of years - when it is looking for freshness and humour. 'Working Girl' smolders and pokes fun at pretentiousness and self-importance - and the noughties seem to have repeated the glossy over the top eighties in finance terms! The acting from its three leads is excellent, the Cinderella plot works as well as any other aspirational movie (certainly better than 'Rocky' et al), and the writing has just the right amount of truthfulness to carry it off. Nichol's direction is measured and not overbearing, pulling the big visual compositions into the foreground only sparingly. A good laugh and a heartwarming feel good film that will outlast the petty crud that has been passed off as 'funny' recently. "},{"Title":"The best film of 1988","Date":"11 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" How can you not love this movie? It's easily the best movie to come out of Hollywood in 1988, not just because of its winsome charm and observant hilarity, but because you can watch it over and over and still find freshness in the story.Melanie Griffith, in her only great role, is Tess McGill. She's smart, good on her feet but suffers from being taken as a tart, mainly because she's a good looking blonde and talks like Marilyn Monroe. She works as a secretary in New York, but quits when her first boss turns out to be a sleaze. Her next job is also that of a secretary, but her boss is more like able. Enter Katharine Parker, played by the brilliantly endowed Sigourney Weaver, who Tess warms up to more because a) Katharine is a woman, and b) Katharine seems inclined to help Tess move up.But the cards are changed when Katharine is in a skiing accident, and Tess is forced to take over. She doesn't mind, until she finds out Katharine was going to steal one of her ideas to turn the industry they work for into a radio network. Now it's payback time. After also discovering her boyfriend, Alec Baldwin, is cheating on her, Tess goes into high gear to get her idea heard by the big leagues- even if it means posing as a boss- before her boss gets back.All of this may sound very predictable, but director Mike Nichols is so wise in making the characters seem fresh and fun that you never worry. The stakes are set on high ground, and Tess is competing in a sexist society where men treat secretaries like dogs and women are expected to marry jerks like Baldwin. Enter Harrison Ford, who is perfectly toned down for the occasion, who finds himself involved with Griffith because he's the guy who can pull the strings to close the deal Tess needs. The two form a partnership, and affair, that is both brisk and entertaining. Joan Cusack also has a fabulous role as Tess's best friend who has a money-stealing scene where she poses as Tess's secretary and can't help but liven the scene a bit more.Working Girl was nominated for 6 Academy Awards in 1988, winning a deserved song trophy. But It should have taken a few more. While Griffith was charming and cute as Tess, I do think Jodie Foster deserved the Oscar more for The Accused (and Meryl Streep should have won for A Cry in the Dark if we're being frank). But Sigourney Weaver was robbed the Oscar for best supporting actress for playing the snooty, conniving boss. It suits Weavers perfectly that she only is in the first and last parts of the film, but every second she's on screen she owns. She radiantly plays it coy and sheek, and submerges into more deviant tactics without going over the top. Watch, for example, the scene where Weaver coolly explains to Griffith that she can't get anywhere in life waiting for opportunity to come to her. It's subtle but strong in the message that indicates Weaver knows she's better then Griffith, and will always have the thrown of success. Weaver lost to one of my favorites, Geena Davis in The Accidental Tourist. I love Davis in the role, but I love Weaver more. Davis should have won for Thelma & Louise. Working Girl is one of best comedies ever made. The pacing, timing and accuracy of all the characters and their motives are perfectly matched. "},{"Title":"Qualified College Grad Secretary Skipped Over--Scenario True to Life--Only the Resolution is Fantasy!","Date":"3 February 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a movie some teen girls (and some clueless men) will not get! Melanie Griffith's slightly irritating little girl voice and her fragile puff of smoke will blow me away demeanor means that many will not see her as strong and as smart as the tough corporate exec that her boss Sigourney Weaver plays. (The film shows that there's a bit of class snobbery at work in such firms then---and now!)But many such delicate appearing women are as tough as - lionesses - in desiring to achieve success. My manager sister, for instance. If you do not KNOW this from observation, you are simply too young, too sheltered, or too clueless! What makes this film NOT dated (except for the big hair, 80's styles) is that many women out there have ideas, opportunities spoiled by exec. WOMEN (as well as exec. men). (I know a ruthless female boss who stole an underling woman's ideas...What could she do??? It was at a firm dealing in mergers like this one, also!!!) Sigourney Weaver's patronizing superior treatment of Griffith's character is DEAD ON ACCURATE for how I (and some friends) have been treated by exec. women!Maybe only the office males trying to trade sex for work opportunities are dated since they are a sexual lawsuit target waiting to happen nowadays.So---I really like this film but wish it did not have the gratuitous brief sex scenes which add nothing to the main, powerful story line.An edited version of this film - viewed on a family friendly channel - might be a great discussion starter with both your teen son -and Daughter! "},{"Title":"A Cinderella and fairy tale of underdog success, and a sexy and all time best performance from Melanie Griffith.","Date":"30 December 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Mike Nichols in 1988 certainly had one of the better films both critically and commercially as Working Girl clearly captured the times of the late 1980's well. As seen in the film by showing New York City's rat race, big hair, skirts, and high heels along with the cold and toughness of the cut throat big business world. Yet it is most remembered and respected for the acting especially the sexy and sweet performance of Melanie Griffith as a down on her luck secretary who finds success in a most uncommon way. Melanie is in her greatest role ever as Tess McGill a 30 year old secretary in the big apple who wants to find success and move up the corporate ladder yet she knows and will see that many roads are blinding and full of pit falls.Finally when she starts working for a witch of a boss the classy and elegant yet sarcastic and cold Katharine Parker(Sigourney Weaver), Tess is clearly at first an office slave. Yet her luck will change when as by happen chance and fate while as Katharine is gone away on a ski trip she suffers an injury. Therefore this opens the door for a window of success for Tess. As at first her idea of a merger was rejected, yet she will later find thru open eyes and open ears her merger idea was oddly enough stolen so therefore Tess becomes eager and ambitious enough to fight back with her big thoughts and dreams.Basically Tess takes on the role of Katharine by moving in to dressing into her wardrobe and even attending parties! Now enter the real triangle of the film enter a handsome investment banker Jack Trainer(Harrison Ford who always gives us good performances) this meeting of visual lust turns to romance and passion for Tess will this take her and her merger thought to the top or will her plans be revealed and will it finish off her work life and love? Also noted are some good supporting performances from Joan Cusack as the best friend of Tess and Alec Bladwin was okay as the cheating boyfriend of Tess. And Kevin Spacey very young in his acting days has a short appearance as a cocaine snorting womanizer. Griffith's performance is beautiful her best ever especially since the role was that of a down on her luck underdog fighting for success. Plus her performance was very sexy especially those lingerie scenes were very memorable especially the one of her in that black strapless bra! Overall Working Girl is one of the best films of the 80's even though it seems like a fairy tale it's theme of an underdog obtaining success is well remembered and liked. Remembered it's not always how hard you work, many times those who gain the most have their eyes open at the right time and ear volume turned up just right! Great film to watch many times and a must view to see the performance of Melanie Griffith. "},{"Title":"Bad hair decade.","Date":"10 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Tess goes from job to job and never stays long because of sexual harassment from other employees. Soon she gets a job where her boss is a female but it isn't easy because her boss goes to ski and ends up in the hospital. Tess decides to take over but discovers some startling secrets and winds up in a huge mess.I thought that this movie was just average. I wasn't moved by the whole women in the workplace thing because the female roles could have been a lot stronger. I just see Tess as taking over and not really going for her own. It seemed manipulative to me. Tess doesn't confront her boss, she goes behind her back. Plus, I hated the hair in this movie. I have never seen uglier hair in any movie. Ugly hair, sexist movie. "}{"Title":"If you wanna be taken seriously, you need serious hair.","Date":"18 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Bubbly New York fantasy set in the advertising business world gives Melanie Griffith her finest couple of hours as an actress. Put-upon secretary, involved in a disheartening relationship with a jerk, finds the opportunity to improve both her work situation and her love life when she masquerades as her own boss and teams with a handsome business exec to land a major account. Mike Nichols-directed fluff has some wincing, mean-spirited jokes and a female boss from hell, played by Sigourney Weaver, whom we never quite understand (she's sneaky and she's shallow, but is she vicious? and does she deserve the harsh treatment the screenwriter levels on her?). Griffith seemingly had her role as Tess tailored to her innate, golly-gee perkiness, and she has some very fine scenes with leading man Harrison Ford and gal-pal Joan Cusack, but the gist of the plot (attempting to sell a conglomerate on radio advertising) seems a bit thin, and the wrap-up is pure sitcom. ** from **** "},{"Title":"Working Girl still works.","Date":"3 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Working Girl sticks Griffith in the title role as a soft-spoken, self-doubting but determined secretary trying to keep her principles in tact while determined to get ahead in both romance and finance. Director Nichols crafts a charming and sweetly sentimental Yuppie-era girl-makes-good tale with good old school Hollywood style in this much lauded film which is a break-through for Griffith with early peeks at Kevin Spacy, Oliver Platt, and Ricki Lake and a poignant look at the Manhattan skyline behind rolling credits. A fun blast from the past on the broadcast circuit. "},{"Title":"Cinderella","Date":"17 September 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Beautiful aerial photography and music.  It's another Cinderella story.  No wonder that story has been so popular all these centuries.  Tess McGill strives upward and onward in Corporate America because she has a fire in her belly.  Everyone in the cast is perfectly suited to their roles and Mike Nichols' direction is seamless. "},{"Title":"hasn't aged well...","Date":"10 September 2006","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Unfortunately, some films do not transcend the times, and still teach us something new or different. Any film that is a drama/social commentary should be something helpful for the audience, or if it is a romantic comedy, should have novel actors, or at least can give us a laugh which is unexpected.I can remember when this film came out, and a colleague asked me if I had seen it, saying it accurately depicts women in the workplace. (Yawn) More generalizations.Melanie Griffith was (at that time) too much the stereotypical dumb blonde, Harrison Ford, the eligible CEO (as always), Sigourney Weaver the educated taskmaster boss. Actually the stereotypes in this film are so rampant and predictable, it may take too long to delineate.Wall Street is a much better film which at least has an interesting story from this era. Working Girl tries too hard to be funny, and to make light of a situation (job turnover) which today is commonplace, the premise is too far-fetched, the reality is the Griffith character would have moved on to several other jobs, as everyone does. No one would tolerate a boss like Weaver today. This film reminds me of The Secret of My Success (Michael J. Fox) and Baby Boom (Diane Keaton), funny at the time, but do we really want to reminisce about it?. No. "},{"Title":"Insipid crud . . .  I expect more out of Mike Nichols","Date":"6 March 2005","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I just saw this movie again today after seeing it the theater years ago and became so angry that I had to write. Insipid doesn't begin to describe the plot or the acting. Uninspired, flat, affectless, bland, these are all adjectives that lack the punch necessary to give this movie its just due.Melanie Griffith stars as a secretary cum executive who mixes work and pleasure on her women-empowerment rise to the top. Melanie looks puffy and out of her element here in the grrlll-power role. Maybe that's because she got most of her roles on her looks and by riding on the back of her mother's career. I guess the moral of this story is hang out on enough movie sets with a famous mom and receive an acting career of your own. If I had only known...Harrison Ford puts in a workmanlike performance as the business executive charmed by Melanie's character and her go-getter, feminist attitude. Alec Baldwin has a small role as Melanie's scumbag boyfriend/fiancée. David Duchovny and Ricki Lake also have bit roles.All in all, I would expect better out of Mike Nichols, who gave us The Graduate and Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf, and even such original films as Catch-22. This movie can't decide if it wants to be feminist propaganda or a romantic comedy, and the result is a mess. I guess this is what we get when someone with Nichols' talent is paired up with the writer who gave us such gems as Maid in Manhattan, Junior, and Meet Joe Black. Don't avoid this movie so much as give it a wide berth. "},{"Title":"Joan Cusack Steals This Movie","Date":"6 January 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" An Oscar nominated Joan Cusack steals this move out from under the lead cast, all of whom are excellent. Especially Melanie Griffith and Sigourney Weaver, both of whom were Oscar nominated too. Ford is Excellent too in a rare romantic role.Plot In A Paragraph When a secretary's idea is stolen by her boss, she seizes an opportunity to steal it back by pretending she has her boss's job, when her boss breaks her leg in a Skiing trip.I'm surprised at the billing of this movie having Harrison Ford (who does not appear till half way through the movie) first, Sigourney Weaver (who disappears after about ten minutes of screen time) second and Melanie Griffith (who is the core and heart of the movie) third. "},{"Title":".  In the movie, Working Girl, Tess McGill (Melanie Griffith) makes a proposition the good old guys could not resist.","Date":"18 September 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" An aggravated secretary, Tess McGill, (Melanie Griffith) was tired of working hard to move up in a man's world. In the movie, Working Girl, Tess McGill (Melanie Griffith) makes a proposition the good old guys could not resist which lands her at the top. Tess McGill has a strong business sense and worked hard to be included in the program for business leaders but she was never taken serious. She was informed by her supervisor that she did not make the class again, but he told her of a friend that was looking for an assistant, but it turned out to be a dead end because the man was looking for a call girl.When Tess gets a new job working for a mergers and acquisitions company she felt this would be the opportunity that she needed. This was the first time Tess had the opportunity to work for a woman, Katherine Parker, played Sigourney Weaver. Tess trusted the Katherine to groom her to become a business leader and she also shared an idea for a merger with her. The two was getting along fine until Katherine breaks her leg skiing and had to be in traction for six weeks. Tess listens to a tape recording about the merger idea that she had presented to Katherine and figured out that Katherine was going to present the idea as her own.The discover y of the file made Tess is fighting mad. She decides to follow through with the plan to meet with Jack Trainer (Harrison Ford) and lay out the details of the merger. Jack agreed to work with Tess in pulling all the details together for the merger. This was Tess' chance to prove that she had what it takes to more than just a secretary. This is exactly what she did until the thriller ending, when Katherine finds out that Tess was interested in Jack and was meeting to talk about the merger.Katherine tries to discredit Tess by making it known to everyone that she was her secretary. Tess runs out of the meeting to go back to the office to clear her desk. She is leaving the building when the people from the meeting were entering, Tess tires to go another way when her box was knocked out of arms. This was the opportunity Jack needed to show Tess that he would have her back. Oren Trask (Phillip Bosco) had an opportunity to listen to Tess and how she came to believe there could have possibly been a merger. To find out the truth about the merger, Oren Trask asked Katherine how did she get the idea about the merger and she could not answer. Oren Trask knew that Tess was telling the truth and he was impressed with the lengths that Tess had gone through to make the merger happen that he offered her an entry level job with his company. "},{"Title":"It's Not Even Leather!","Date":"27 August 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Working Girl is simply a wonderful film. The plot is pure fairy tale, Tess McGill, an up by her bootstraps secretary has gotten her business degree, but absolutely no one will help her advance her way up the corporate ladder. After her boss tries to pimp her out to a colleague under the guise of helping her career, she is fired and gets a job working for a female executive in mergers and acquisitions, Katherine Parker. Katherine is refined and elegant where Tess is raw and working class, but she promises Tess that her hard work will be rewarded. However Tess soon finds out that Katherine stole her idea for a merger, and while Katherine is indisposed, Tess hatches a scheme behind her back to put the deal forward on her own. Along the way Tess partners up with Jack Trainer to help put the deal together and falls in love, but not without some bumps in the road to contend with in the form of Katherine.Melanie Griffith convincingly carries the movie and deserved her Oscar nomination. Sigourney Weaver is excellent as the cold, calculating Katherine Parker and Harrison Ford is great as a romantic lead. Perhaps the biggest scene stealer of this film may be Joan Cusack as Tess McGill's big haired best friend, Cyn.The only two things that detract from the movie are Katherine claiming to be 30 when Sigourney Weaver looked nearly a decade older, and the idea that Katherine and Tess could possibly wear the same size clothing. Other than that, this is a highly recommended flick! "},{"Title":"Tess McGill, played by Melanie Griffith, is a secretary within a brokerage firm, trying to move her way to the top.","Date":"22 March 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" In the movie Working Girl, Tess McGill, played by Melanie Griffith, is a secretary within a brokerage firm, trying to move her way to the top. Tess finds that it's a difficult journey to travel, with lots of road blocks, pot-holes, and bad directions. She has been in and out of several firms, because she has trouble working for her male bosses that treat her like a piece of meat. After leaving yet another firm, she goes to work for a female boss, Katherine Parker&#x97;played by Sigourney Weaver, that is condescending, catty, and ultimately steals her brokerage ideas.When Tess finds out that Katherine stole her idea, she decides that she's going to act like the boss and carry-on with the deal, while Katherine is out of town. Tess begins working out her plans, professionally and romantically with Jack Trainor, played by Harrison Ford. Things go good until Jack's girlfriend and Tess' boss, Katherine, returns from her trip to find that the business has been moving forward without her.Things really hit the fan at this point and Katherine exposes Tess for who she really is in front of all the top people involved in Tess' business deal. Tess leaves and begins to pack her things when Jack and the other business men want the truth from both Tess and Katherine. When Katherine isn't able to produce the truth, she's fired and Tess gets hired and promoted to a dream position.Tess worked hard and never gave up hope on her dreams even when she was working for male-chauvinistic pigs and a jealous witch. Nine to Five is another movie with much of the same theme, featuring Jane Fonda, Lily Tomlin, and Dolly Parton. It came out eight years earlier than Working Girl. The women in each of the movies decided to take things into their own hands and do what had to be done to set things right and move to the top.One of the techniques used in Working Girl was the use of its music to emphasize the emotion that's going on with the actors, especially Tess. From the opening credits, singer Carly Simon sings her song Let the River Run. It is a very moving song that gives the listener a feeling of strength, hope, and empowerment. Throughout the movie the viewer watches Tess travel the ups and downs of her journey and feels the pain that she does. Whenever Tess, seems to be on the road back up, the instrumental soundtrack version of Let the River Run, plays. This effectively gives the viewer the same feeling that Tess feels&#x97;strength to carry on and achieve the goal of getting to the top.Another technique that was used was fast motion. Fast motion was used in one of the sequences in which Tess is riding the ferry, looking toward the World Trade Center. The speed of the film was sped up to shorten the time span of the ferry ride and transition into the next scene.Working Girl is a fun movie to watch especially since it was filmed in the '80s. It'll take you back to the days of big hair, funky clothes, and wild make-up. The best thing though is being able to see the underdog come out on top. Working Girl will keep you cheering Tess on; from the opening credits, to the very end. "},{"Title":"working girl","Date":"16 March 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The plot of the movie is that of a young inspiring business woman trying to make her way to the top of the business world. Tess McGill played by Melanie Griffith is trying to make her way out of her secretary role and into the business world. But en route to her dreams her boss Katherine Parker played by Sigourney Weaver steals her idea and takes full credit for the work. But in an ironic twist of fate Tess falls for Jack Trainer played by Harrison Ford, who is not only a prominent player in the business world but also Katherine's boy friend. The theme is that of Jack and Tess falling in love while trying to get by the evil boss Katherine to push through Tess's idea to the owners of the company. There are many pitfalls for these two young business people to overcome. The love they must hide after they realize they are in love with each other all while trying to push Tess to the top of the business game while trying to prove the ideas Katherine is presenting are actually ideas that Tess had come up with.Lighting and color are used extensively to set the scene of the movie. While Tess is just a secretary she is dressed in bright colors and her hair is brighter along with the lighting is brighter. When Tess is clad in her business attire the tones and lighting are more netural earth tones. In one scene Tess and Jack become lovers the lighting is low and seductive alone with the dress of Tess to help set the tone of the scene and also to get the audiences imagination flowing. The use of lighting and color are used heavily in this movie in a very smart and imaginative way to bring you into the scene, you actually feel like part of the movie.Overall this is a very well written and directed romantic comedy. The cast of Melanie Griffith as Tess McGill, Harrison Ford as Jack Trainer and Sigourney Weaver as Katherine Parker was a brilliant cast. All fit the roles in which they played the cast made you feel as if this was happening to you, great movie great cast and great directing this is a must see. "}{"Title":"Melanie Griffith is a true Working Girl!","Date":"15 March 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Working Girl has a very universal theme that I feel anyone can relate too. The movie stars Harrison Ford as Jack Trainer, Sigourney Weaver as Katherine Parker, and Melanie Griffith as the Working Girl Tess McGill. Joan Cusak co-stars as Cyn, Tess McGill's best friend.Tess McGill (Griffith) is an upcoming working gal. She works for a temp service and has already had three jobs prior to working for Katherine Parker. As Tess begins her new job she is very ambitious and eager to work for Katherine. Katherine has promised that she listens to new ideas and that she works as if everything is a two way street. However, after Tess comes up with a brilliant idea for the company, she quickly learns that Katherine isn't as nice as she seems to appear.So after Katherine has an unfortunate accident, Tess takes on the task of selling her idea to Jack Trainer and gets the ball rolling on her idea. This movie is universal in appeal to everyone, because I feel that at some point in time in our lives we have had the boss that will use our own ideas as their own and take credit for something they haven't done.The director did a wonderful job capturing the true essence in Tess McGill. One scene that I remember where the director showcased the true nature of Tess McGill was when she was escorting Jack to the elevator and turning him down on his proposal to go out with him. I really like the angle of the camera that was used to capture McGill's (Griffith) innocent and sweet facial reaction as the door closed on the elevator.I also liked how the director used different scene elements to showcase feelings in the movie. There is one scene where Tess is getting hit on in the back seat of a limo. It isn't bad enough that she is getting sexually assaulted but as she gets out of the limo it is rainy and dreary and she gets splattered with water from cars that are passing by.It is scenes like this that truly make a movie more believable, and that is just what happens in Working Girl. The acting is on par for this type of movie and helps the viewer feel as if they can identify more with the film and that it isn't something that is over the top and couldn't happen in real life.Overall I think Working Girl is a movie that can hold its own over the years and was a true gem for Melanie Griffith. Her performance here is universal and makes anyone believe that if they believe in themselves they too can be Tess McGill "},{"Title":"Working Girl","Date":"28 April 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Film Review The film I will be reviewing is Working Girl. This film is about a 30 year old woman named Tess (Melanie Griffith) who wants to be more than just a secretary. She gets a new job being a secretary for a big business lady named Katharine Parker (Sigourney Weaver). Tess' boss breaks her leg and Tess has to take over her general duties. Through this she finds out her boss is going to steal one of her ideas and this makes Tess have to act on her idea before her boss gets back from her broken leg. Through this process she hooks up with Jack Trainer (Harrison Ford) who is also a big business man. Little does Tess know, Jack is Katharine's boyfriend. Tess falls in love with Jack and she finally achieves success at the end of the movie along with the love of Jack Trainer.Working Girl shows that through hard work and dedication you can achieve your goals. This theme is a similar theme of Bedtime Stories. In both films someone is getting the raw deal when it comes to promotions. Along with a theme, Working Girl has one main motif. The motif is a song played throughout the film. The song put you in almost the same state of mind as Tess. There were also many different camera angles in this film. The best camera shot I can recall from the film is the very last shot. This shot starts as a close up on Tess' face and zooms out of her office window to show that she has achieved her goal.The theme of Working Girl was great. It sends a great message to society. It shows that you should never give up on your goals because though hard work you can achieve almost anything. Never giving up on your goals is something most everybody can relate to because most everyone has goals that they would like to achieve. "},{"Title":"Wall Street in heels","Date":"6 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Working Girl is a real treat. As long as you can get past the dated hairstyles and garish fashions you will find a really entertaining film about big business. The type of film Wall Street wanted to be but wasn't. Where that film had Michael Douglas playing an absurd caricature for a villain, Working Girl not only has a more realistic villain, but a sympathetic figure at the centre that you really want to see get ahead.Tess McGill (Melanie Griffith) is a put-upon secretary with business sense, but she's surrounded by (male) colleagues that don't take her seriously. Working for men gets Tess nowhere, so she tries her luck with a woman instead. Katharine Parker (Sigourney Weaver) is the department head of a Wall Street mergers & acquisitions firm. And she assures Tess its a two-way street on her team. Katharine can help Tess climb the ladder of success.Tess may be 30 years old, but with her airy voice, clanking bracelets and scary looking hair, she often gives the impression of being a little girl trying to play in an adult's world. Also it doesn't occur to her that Katharine may not be looking out for Tess's best interests.When Tess brings a lucrative idea to Katharine, she's crushed when she discovers that Katharine has no intention of letting a lowly secretary profit from it. She steals the idea, but before she can act upon it she breaks her leg in a skiing accident. Tess takes her absence as an opportunity to get ahead by claiming she is the head of her department, and tries to get her idea up and ready to fly.Working Girl works because its not just aimed squarely at the level of a comedy. There are plenty of laughs to be had. But there is a serious, dramatic thrust that helps the film get its points across. Because its quite a dangerous charade Tess is playing. And you know, that at any moment she could get caught. The fact you don't want that to happen is proof the film is working.Tess McGill is arguably the best character Melanie Griffith has ever played. She's never been this good in any other film. Her acting is perfectly paced and beautifully delivered. She goes from a naive, pathetic trusting fool (her words) to a committed, astute and assured businesswoman with total conviction. Her change in hairstyles is striking too. But convincing!There's a fine ensemble cast too. Sigourney Weaver gives one of her finest performances to date. Her role as the bitchy, power-hungry Katharine is really quite wonderful, even though she spends half the film laid up with broken bones (her words). She can act all angelic and turn cold-hearted and cruel at the drop of a hat. She gets the lions share of all the best lines tooWe're in the same city now. I've indicated that I'm receptive to an offer. I've cleared the month of June...and I am, after all, me.Sigourney Weaver is always interesting when she plays the part of a bitch, because she never has to try hard to convince us. Her monotone voice is dripping with arch, disguised intentions, and you just know she's got something perfectly despicable bubbling away in her head. I wish Weaver would play the part of the villain(ess) more often.Harrison Ford plays Jack Trainer, the man Tess approaches to put her business deal together. It becomes something more when they fall in love, and something more personal when it turns out Jack is involved with Katharine. He just hasn't broken it off yet. Ford is OK in the role. He brings his usual, likable presence to the proceedings. And the scene where he tells Tess the (true) story of how he got a scar is sweet. But Working Girl belongs to the women.Another standout is the absolutely superb Joan Cusack as Tess's best friend Cyn. No matter what film she's in, she always turns in stellar support. And she can often steal scenes right out from under the main players. I'm especially partial to the scene when she's watching a descending chandelier in Katharine's home Why is it doing that?Director Mike Nichols' direction is breezy, keeping the comedy, romance and drama all perfectly balanced. He never puts a foot wrong, and gives Kevin Wade's witty screenplay plenty of room to breathe.As things come to a head, we know inevitably that things will turn out well for Tess. But not before some solid suspense and an initially disheartening finale. But things turn around. Katharine's comeuppance is wonderful. Tess gets her job. And her man. As well as a happy ending. And she truly deserves it too.The closing shot, accompanied to Carly Simon's wonderfully uplifting Let The River Run is the perfect cap on events, and leaves you beaming all the way through to the end credits. Great little speech from Tess at the end too. A quite poetic account of a girl's place in a man's world. Working Girl looks like a cross between Nine to Five and Wall Street, but its better than both of them put together. "},{"Title":"Gotta love the 80s","Date":"5 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Working Girl is one of those guilty pleasures - Sigourney Weaver's Corporate Dominatrix role is priceless, and Melanie Griffith falling naturally in the (not so dumb) secretary role is equally alarming.But what really kills me is this movie shows 80s Big Hair and shoulder pads at their most imposing! It is so extreme that you might think that this was a caricature movie made recently ABOUT the 80s - no-- this was made in 1988 and women really did look like this!Beyond that it is a fairly decent and well made movie - the main strength being Weaver's acting and the aforementioned camp attraction. I am not sure what Antonio Bandares was thinking though. "},{"Title":"not bad, not good","Date":"25 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Working girl is not so much a comedy as light drama; there few laughs to be had here, but in a mindless way it's not a bad film. Sigourney weaver has the best role as the ambitious high flyer about to be brought down a peg or two and she does it well. It was odd seeing Harrison Ford in a nerdy role but sadly the same can not be said of Melanie Griffith who is, in my opinion, a bad actress who also happens to have a very annoying high pitched girlie voice. Nevertheless it's a well directed film, indelibly 1980's and If you don't expect anything either intelligent or funny then this is an OK film. I gave it 5/10, without griffith it may have gone up to 6. "},{"Title":"Perfect '80s Flick","Date":"18 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film captures 1986-1988 New York about as well as any other film.  The big hair, the mix of bland and sexy female female fashions, the classic scenes of closing the big corporate deal, the reality that most of the support staff live in the outer boroughs - other films tried to get this right, such as Bright Lights, Big City and Legal Eagles, but this is the best.  A great satirical representation of New York corporate life at the upper levels in the 1980s, take it from someone who was there.The performances are mostly good, though I don't particularly like Melanie Griffith in the lead.  She seems too bubble-headed and meek to pull off anything close to what her character accomplishes.  I thought some of the shots of her in her underwear are a bit embarrassing, too, she never was the thinnest girl in Hollywood.  Hey, sue me, she's foxy but the camera didn't have to dwell on her bare butt so much!Harrison Ford was good, though a bit mild.  He probably enjoyed making the film, but it sure couldn't have been a strain.  Sigourney Weaver is perfect as the absolutely obnoxious boss, very believable.  People who get too much power and control over other people do become like her, and Weaver plays the ultimate self-absorbed '80s Yuppie to perfection (no, you don't hear that term much anymore, do you).To be a bit of a contrarian, I don't think the Joan Cusack character was quite as smashing as the consensus seems to be.  I found it amusing but a bit over the top and obvious.  Coffee, tea or me - please.  The best part of her performance was her big hair and accent.  I suppose that's enough to get an Oscar Nomination in the Supporting Actress category.  I think she is a much better actress these days, if that means anything.The plot is pretty unbelievable and fairly unoriginal, but this is a female empowerment fantasy, so suspension of disbelief is the name of the game.  If you like revenge tales, this is the film for you.  The score is pretty good, if a bit moody for my taste.The closing scene seemed jarringly out of place when I saw this back then but now seems rather poignant and perceptive.  The working girl realized her dream, which wound up being a small cookie-cutter office in a massive, anonymous office complex.  Nice summing up of the bottom line for those striving to win the rat race, the rewards are never what you think they will be.The best part of the film is the constant shots of the Twin Towers.  If you used to see them every day, seeing them again in their natural glory in this film can't help but make you think of back before.... "},{"Title":"You go girl!","Date":"5 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It is so difficult for me to remember all the scenes from 'working girl now, I saw it so long ago. Thought it was a great movie though, the ultimate you go girl! movie. Plus the movie takes a look inside the ratrace of surviving and getting ahead in the corporate world. And it has some really hilarious moments.How can you go wrong?The other good thing about working girl is how many men there are who love it as well as women. Of coarse that might be because Melody Griffith has the lead role but still..Working Girl is a good movie that's a perfect fun choice' to view-especially in a group, the more the merrier with this one.  "},{"Title":"go Melanie!","Date":"26 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was a fun movie where the audience is rooting for the 'underdog' played by Melanie Griffith. This film has a great cast and is a must-see for anyone who has ever worked in a office environment. Watch for Joan Cusack who almost steals the film. "},{"Title":"EXCELLENT for the genre; 9 out of 10; TWIN TOWERS MOVIE","Date":"10 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  ****SPOILERS****I first watched the movie when it came out in 1988 and I liked it then. I just rewatched it in 2003, post 9/11, and I like it more now! And I'm a 40 year old guy.When I read how other people rated this film, I had to ask myself what were they comparing it to???? Spiderman? The Matrix? First, this is not an action movie, so if an adrenaline rush is the only thing that floats your boat, then save yourself the trouble and go rent The Matrix or a Bruce Lee movie.If, however, you are interested in having characters actually ACT and engage your empathy and emotions, if you enjoy fabulous cinematography mixed with a terrific musical score, then please read on...The movie is a typical love triangle with a twist Katharine (Sigourney Weaver) loves Jack (Harrison Ford), Jack loves Tess (Melanie Griffith... wolf wolf!), Tess works for Katharine. The twist is that Katharine steals ideas from Tess. The witch! The way it all plays out is truly enjoyable.What I liked most about this film The interaction of the main characters. The acting was very compelling (I cannot imagine a more perfect cast). I also LOVED the cameo and bit parts by class actors including Alec Baldwin (Hunt For Red October), Joan Cusack, Olympia Dukakis, Kevin Spacey (Pay it Forward, Iron Will), and Oliver Platt (Three Musketeers, Tall Tale). If you don't chuckle to yourself when you see them you are not human!I ALSO LOVED THAT THROUGHOUT THE MOVIE THERE ARE FABULOUS SCENES OF THE WORLD TRADE CENTER TWIN TOWERS!Did I mention that Carly Simon sings the theme? Wonderful! And the theme reverberates throughout the movie in different forms.What I liked least about this film Adult content and language so you won't be able to watch it with your kids. I use a TV Guardian to filter the language which makes it much more enjoyable for me. It would have to have entire scenes removed to make it child safe. So watch it with your spouse AFTER you put the little one to bed. ;)If you watch the movie and compare it to other mushy chick flicks rather than completely different genres, then I think you will agree that this was an all-around great movie (casting, acting, writing, filmography, music) and possibly will become one of your favorite movies too. 9 out of 10 "},{"Title":"You And Only You Can Make It Happen...","Date":"25 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The best performance of Griffith's career till date. I hated Sigourney Weaver(poor her) after watching this movie which shows just how good she was in her role. Melanie plays sweet (butter wouldn't melt in your mouth) but gritty street girl Tess who needs more out of her life as she turns 30. I learned a lot of lessons about dress sense after watching this movie and it's helped me till date. As Weaver tells Griffiths Dress shabbily and people notice the outfit,dress smartly and people notice the person Working Girl isn't about kill bill, it's about believing in yourself, giving your dreams life and making them come true. The score at the end was brilliant(LET THE RIVER RUN) by Carly Simon has to be one of my all-time favourite soundtracks. Sweet Moving Drama 5/5 "}{"Title":"A film of average quality yet worth seeing!","Date":"4 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A film of average quality,yet you can watch it with pleasure!It is a good entertainment and sometimes it gets really nice and funny! Melanie Griffith however overacts sometimes and in general I have never considered her to be a good actress!But Weaver is really good as the villain and Ford is also good playing a naive and good-hearted guy! "},{"Title":"I've got a head for business...& a bod for sin. - Tess McGill","Date":"9 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is the story of secretary Tess McGill, from Staten Island,N.Y. She wants more out of life but is not taken seriously. I worked in downtown Manhattan during this time period & the film captures the essence of that time & place wonderfully. From the big hair, to the sneakers on female commuters with office clothing, it all rings true. I especially love the scenes of Tess on the ferry. This was Melanie's Griffith's best film & performance. Her character Tess is struggling & you can't help but root for her! Sigourney Weaver is great as the underhanded boss (Katherine) who steals one of Tess' ideas & tries to run with it. Harrison Ford, as the man both women want (Jack), is endearing in a lost, goofy kind of way. Alec Baldwin as Tess' cheating boyfriend (Mick) was at his most attractive (he's a bloated mess now). You'll also enjoy Joan Cusack as Cyn, Tess' best friend. Look for cameos by Olympia Dukakis & Ricki Lake. The theme song Let The River Run by Carly Simon captures the film's theme in a nutshell. (The whole soundtrack album is excellent). When watched now, the scenes of Tess on her way to work at The World Trade Center are bittersweet & poignant. "},{"Title":"The Few Things That Made the Cinematic 1980s Memorable.","Date":"27 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A deceptive charmer that was a box office smash and won enough to support to garner some major Oscar nominations in 1988. Secretary Melanie Griffith (in her best performance which did earn her an Oscar nod) decides to pose as the boss after the real boss (Oscar-nominee Sigourney Weaver) is injured in a snow skiing accident. Weaver had stolen a great idea from Griffith and Griffith decides to make the most of a small window of opportunity and get to the top. Of course she is much smarter than it appears as everything goes her way and she falls in love with businessman Harrison Ford. Joan Cusack earned an Oscar-nod as Griffith's scene-stealing best friend. Alec Baldwin also makes a token appearance as Griffith's husband with a wandering eye. Mike Nichols' solid direction (Oscar-nominated) is the thing that makes the film work as well as it does. Carly Simon's Oscar-winning theme song is quite possibly the thing that audiences remember most about this good, but far from excellent production that has a distinct 1980s feel to it. Watch for a then-unknown Kevin Spacey early on as a big-time executive with a slight drinking problem. 4 stars out of 5.  "},{"Title":"Effective, very entertaining comedy/romance","Date":"11 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I recently saw WORKING GIRL on AMC.  It looked like just another big-name star romance, but, to my surprise, was a great film! Tess McGill (played very well by Melanie Griffith) has just returned home to find her boyfriend (Alec Baldwin) in bed with another woman.  Angry, she finds a new job and joins a company led by Sigourney Weaver.  Weaver steals her idea to make a big company a radio station rather than television, and McGill pretends to take her boss's job while Weaver breaks her leg.The best parts are Carly Simon's theme Let the River Run, and Harrison Ford's hilarious performance as a business playboy. A great comedy/romance, entertaining 'til the last. * * * * * * 7.1 "},{"Title":"Classic late 80's Comedy/Drama","Date":"6 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A classic 80's flick that spawned a short lived t.v. series and is one of the best films that Sigourney Weaver, Harrison Ford, and Melanie Griffith have starred in. It's just like everyone else here says it is, a modern fairytale.!!!POSSIBLE SPOILERS!!!Secretary Tess McGill gets a new job working for Catherine Parker at one of New York's biggest companies. She is told that whenever she has an idea to let Catherine have a look see at her notes. What Tess doesn't know is that Catherine is about to pass one of her ideas off as her own, but while she is on a skii trip, Tess takes the idea to Trask Industries to get it through. Unfortunately she is caught and loses her job. Does that stop her from making her dreams come true? Watch this awesome flick and find out.Great story, acting, and soundtrack. **** out of *****.  "},{"Title":"This is a cute movie, but...","Date":"27 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It's not that Working Girl is a Bad movie, It's just that a movie with Sigorny Weaver, Harrison Ford, Kevin Spacey, Joan Cusack, Alec Baldwin and Oliver Platt could have been a much better one. You couldn't get those people in the same room today for less than 100 million. It's a shame that the talent seems so wasted.  > "},{"Title":"For New York lovers","Date":"20 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I didn't know what New York was and really meant since I saw this incredibly Mike Nichols masterpiece. The city becomes a character on its own, and together with the amazingly song Let the river run (thanks Carly Simon) sets you into a stage never seen before or since. The wonderful Sigourney Weaver (who should have got the Oscar for her performance) shows the best of her in one of the most sparkling performance I've seen for a supporting actress. Melanie Griffith did the best role of her career and Harrison Ford showed he also could be a really funny actor. In conclusion, Working Girl is maybe the comedy of the 80s, that still brights in our heart on this ending of the milennium. Working Girl is the movie everyone of us would like to be in. So, who could ask for more? "},{"Title":"The Best Movie of the Century","Date":"16 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Melanie Griffith is seriously underrated. Sigourney Weaver is a top-notch actress. Harrison Ford is one heck of a movie star. This movie is a real treat. There is comedy, drama, suspense, romance and great music by Carly Simon. Wow! "},{"Title":"A Timeless Corporate Tale","Date":"10 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Melanie Griffith has had a career with sincere hits and disappointing losers. This is one of the winners. This is a wonderful timeless tale regarding the 'corporate' working world. Is it out dated? Not by a landslide. Those who might think so, better get a copy of this and study it well.Griffith plays Tess - a 'secretary' in the mergers and acquisitions department in a big corporation (now known in the 2000's as either as an assistant, administrative, Office Manager or Manager) who comes from a lower end of New York where everyone has an accent and is lower blue collar section, get married, pump out kids and die there. But Tess wants better, she's worked her way to her BA through night school. She wants nothing more than entry into the corporations executive program so she can progress up the corporate ladder to better positions in the company. In her quest for this, she's had male bosses who see her only as the company 'fun-bag' due to her position as a 'secretary', her tight fitting clothes, lower income accent and big hair, telling her that Harvard graduates keep beating her out for the placement. In their eyes, 'secretaries' like her are an easy lay...because most of the 'secretaries' in the company are. How can Tess be any different?Tess's world is even worse, her boyfriend is a two timing sleaze as well. She asks for a department transfer (fourth time in six months) and hopes her luck is about to change. A new department head comes into mergers and acquisition and its a female boss, Catherine, played by Signorney Weaver. Signorney, is perfect as plays the superiority card until she gets into a vacation ski accident, asks Tess to answer her letters and Tess finds out that one of her best ideas was stolen by her female boss. Tess strikes back, taking her idea over by pretending to be a department head. She does well until her boss, Catherine, comes back and 'the lie is exposed' which leads to one of the best 'taking credit for your own work' turns in films.Why this is timeless is because the Tess and Catherine story is played out in major corporations daily. Many folks may not see it because small businesses have taken over, as the major employer against large sized corporations and the traditional corporate structure, clothes styles have changed and the media keeps putting out messages that women have made their way up the corporate ladder. In small business, employees have to wear so many hats as well as the entrepreneur hat itself so it is hard to tell 'the secretary' from 'the owner' and everyone is striving just to keep the doors open.Make no mistake, this is STILL happening in large corporations. Many employers put too much stock into a named university degreed person with a snooty background, a closet full of labels and limited on the job experience --- rather than a hard working, build themselves up the ladder, college second or third tier degree holder that lives in a one room apartment with roaches as roommates, and not enough money to buy the hip clothes of the day - and that is what this story is about.The 'starting from the bottom up' hard working degreed person is usually the most qualified as in Tess's case, but the corporation will hire a Harvard educated, pretentious Manhattanite who does as minimal work as possible because, heck, they have the hard working degreed assistant to make them look good.There are several films in many industries that do not escape this basic tale. The big difference here is that these are two women. One woman thought by leaving the men and working with a woman, she'd get better. She didn't. And there's a lesson too - the grass isn't always greener on the other side. Work is work, and everyone can be a shark for self-preservation. Companies that are men to women, women to women, men to men, blacks to whites, black to black, white to white, etc, it does not matter. Tess learned, took matters into her own hands and turned out with a positive. Message Your BA/MBA degree is as important as anyone else's, but you've gotta compete. It's all about YOU.That's why this film works and the message is timeless. "},{"Title":"Come as you are","Date":"23 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" So what if the hair-do's look awful in 80's? Tess McGill's story is sincere and heart-warming.Tess wants to be heard. Her only problem is that she hasn't got the right education. Every male sees her as an sex object like delightfully sleazy Kevin Spacey who makes a couple of minutes long entry on screen. After Tess gets an assistant job working under a woman (Sigourney Weaver) she has an opportunity to influence.Katharine Parker (Weaver) gets into a skiing accident, and Tess finds out that her boss has stolen her idea she has an opportunity to get even. She pretends to be Katharine.Tess meets an investment broker Jack Trainer (everytime as charming Harrison Ford) and hooks up with him to make a deal with the company she wants.The music of Carly Simon is lively and suiting. Let the River Run is spirit-lifting and warm with choir and everything.There is a lesson You can accomplish anything if you have a good head on your shoulders and guts to stand up even if it is sometimes pretty hard. "}{"Title":"Is there a sequel?","Date":"9 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" If there isn't, there should be! Although this movie took place in 1988, the actors (Melanie, Sigourney, Harrison, and Joan) still look good! I loved this movie, and I watch it when I'm feeling like life isn't working out in my favor. Harrison was his usual handsome,funny, romantic but serious self. Melanie was her usual beautiful, funny, get down to business self. Sigorney, however, was unusually convincing as a bit**y boss. I loved the wedding scene when they first arrive and the man greeted them; gesturing 'come in, come in, tip of the hat, and this is the party!' I also liked how Jack and Tess worked together, dancing around while pitching their idea. BTW, does anyone know the name of the song playing at the wedding reception when Tess and Jack arrive? "},{"Title":"The best movie of all time","Date":"19 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" What a great movie this was- a funny yet serious movie. Melanie Griffith was just amazing in this movie- how she didn't win best actress is beyond me. Joan Cusak was superb as Tess's best friend who tries talking Tess out of pretending to be Katherine, Tess's boss. Harrison ford was super as Jack Trainor helping Tess to complete the deal, all along not knowing Tess is Katherines secretary and Tess not knowing Jack is Katherines boyfriend!! Alec Baldwin did great in his limited role as Tess's boyfriend. There's even a little bit of Kevin Spacey in this movie! My favorite scene was when Tess and Jack crashed the wedding.No movie can touch this one, period. If you haven't seen this, do yourself a huge favor and watch it. "},{"Title":"Top 5 Film Class Movies FILM #3","Date":"28 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" First off, no, this is not a film you have to go to the back room of your local video store to get. It is my number 3 favorite from film class, Working Girl. Melanie Griffith stars as the overachieving Tess, a young woman with great ideas who always ends up with the short end of the stick when it comes to career opportunities. Her new demanding boss Katharine (Sigourney Weaver), injures herself in a ski accident, leaving Griffith the keys to her office and home. When she finds out the deceptive Katharine steals her idea to acquire media outlets for profit, Tess takes matters into her own hands along with the help of the clueless business partner Jack Trainer (Harrison Ford).Corporate life has its ups, buy mostly consists of downs which the award winning Mike Nichols portrays through the dominated young career woman who cannot find a trustworthy friend (besides the ditzy Joan Cusack, who was nominated for an Oscar for this film). Melanie Griffith brings this character beauty and strength, which one would not expect from someone who is so often looked over. She practically has to steal her bosses identity to be heard, which can be seen today in most businesses where it's not what you know, it's who you know. Nichols seems to bring more laughs with this film, showing some stereotypical aspects of unfaithful boyfriends and arrogant successes. The story is perfect and the acting is superb. It is good to see that early in her career, Melanie actually made some good movies. "},{"Title":"Very pleasant surprise!","Date":"5 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Romantic comedy-drama by the very talented Mike Nichols (he has recently made Closer and Angels In America) with an excellent cast (Melanie Griffith, Harrison Ford, Sigourney Weaver, Alec Baldwin and a very small part for Kevin Spacey). Not only was I surprised by the movie as a whole, I loved Melanie Griffith's performance a lot. I'm not really a huge fan of her because she's seldom casted in the movies I watch, but she was wonderful in this Working Girl. Overall the acting was great in this movie. Joan Cusack was nice as well as Sigourney Weaver. The story was excellent and the haircuts really looked funny.The story is about a girl who doesn't have an academic degree, but who wants to get higher on the corporate ladder by making sacrifices and working hard. She is very ambitious and she wants to make it. I think this movie certainly is underrated. It should at least have a 7. I personally gave it an 8. It's highly enjoyable and Mike Nichols has proved he really can make everything. This movie works! 8/10 "},{"Title":"Greed is good.","Date":"13 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Harrison Ford is an ordinary actor with a limited range but a genuinely nice guy. How can you dislike someone who claims in interviews that, as an actor he is Irish, but as a man he is Jewish. (The best of two possible worlds.) Sigourney Weaver projects intelligence in whatever part she plays and whatever else the part calls for crawling fear (Copycat), determination (Alien), or, as here, a kind of good-natured bitchiness. Joan Cusack is magnificent in a supporting role.This is a somewhat delicate comedy with serious undertones. We have Melanie Griffith as a 30-year-old unmarried working-class woman (not that much is made of her despair along those lines). She poses as her treacherous boss, Weaver, and snags both the business deal she proposed and the high-class man she is destined for.In The Benny Goodman Story, Benny's mother, an anti-Gentile (there is no word for such a sentiment because politically it's unspeakable), tells her son, a nice Jewish musician who is falling in love with -- hold on -- a Shiksa, that Bagels and caviar don't mix. We have the same serious undertones here. Can a working-class girl whose primary source of news about world events is the magazine W marry and live happily ever after with Harrison Ford, a fast-lane mergers and acquisitions expert, instead of Alec Baldwin whose tastes run to scotch and floozies? (Oh, sob.)Well -- yes, they can. Or I think they can, anyway. I forgot the question.I ate bagels and caviar once and it wasn't bad. Except -- if I may speak frankly -- the bagels weren't as good as those from Watson's on Bergen Street in Newark. They weren't HARD enough. They were what I once heard a child call round bread.Anyway back to the movie. It's nicely written. And entirely miscast except for Sigourney Weaver and Joan Cusack. Harrison Ford is no comedic actor, I'm afraid. And Melanie Griffith doesn't show the testosterone kind of vigor that the part demands. It's not the performers' faults. They've been good in other parts. But what's required here is a faster pace from the director and the editor. Everyone seems to speak too slowly, even when the lines weep with the desire to be spat out unthinkingly. And there are moony longueurs in which we watch Griffith standing alone in the fog on the deck of the Staten Island Ferry. The music, a subdued version of The New Jerusalem, sniffles along with her.Well, what is all that stuff doing here? It has the potential of being a great comedy. It's got stuff that goes back to Aristophanes and before -- mixed identities, sex, everything. And we get a rather slow story of One Woman's Heartbreak. What was needed was a director like Howard Hawks and a cultural milieu in which the seriousness of the theme could be inherent in its comedic values. If you want an example of what I'm getting at, try Hawks' Monkey Business, a thoroughly hilarious comedy based on one of the most serious themes -- the break-up of a bourgeois marriage. Working Girl has some very good moments but they are based on the script, not the direction or acting. You know who should get some kind of award? Wardrobe and Hair Dressing. My Bog -- those dos the working-class girls wear early on, like bishops' miters. One's eyes are glued to those impenetrable crowns whenever they're on screen.I guess I'll have to take back the implications of the title. It isn't that greed is good, so much as that standing by your principles in the advancement of self is good. You make it happen. I think we can all agree with that, although with a smile that suggests wry bread more than a bagel. "},{"Title":"Entertaining tale of a woman who takes a chance","Date":"15 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Melanie Griffith stars as a secretary working for  a mean manipulative boss (played by Sigourney Weaver). When Weaver breaks her leg, Griffith uses it as an opportunity to strut her stuff..and what stuff she has!! Harrison Ford plays a client she meets for business that of course turns into a romance.. an entertaining lightly paced comedy with great acting by the women leads who were both rewarded, as was Joan Cusack, with best actress and supporting actress nominations.. on a scale of one to ten..7 "},{"Title":"Indiana Jones & The Raiders Of The Lost Briefcase","Date":"6 April 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" OK, maybe not, but it does make the mind boggle doesn't it? Serious review time.As a decade, the 1980's had a LOT to answer for. It was a decade where, if you were a woman, you had to have more hair than an entire herd of Afghan hounds, and if people could still see your ears, then your shoulder pads were obviously not big enough. It was also a decade where we were taught that greed was good and to hell with your neighbour. In short, it was the decade of YUPPYISM.The Hollywood of the late 1980's rightly saw yuppyism as a cash cow that was worth milking at LEAST a couple of times a year. in 1987 we had the very successful but quite boring drama 'Wall Street' and also the not so successful yet quite entertaining comedy 'The Secret Of My Success'. In 1988 we saw Bette Midler & Lily Tomlin tackle their 'Big Business' and later that year it was Harrison Ford, Sigourney Weaver & Melanie Griffith's turn in the wonderful corporate comedy 'Working Girl'.Desperate for success in the world of high finance, Tess McGill (Griffith) is seen by her boss as nothing more than an assistant with a voice that could grate cheese. However, she's a girl that has her wits about her, a girl who can predict the market changes better than any of her superiors and a girl who has a unique ability to spot the next big business opportunities simply by browsing periodical magazines and newspapers. However, without contacts, social standing or proper elocution, she cannot get herself heard by the powers that be.After an altercation with her sexist boss, (played by a young Oliver Platt), she's transferred to a the Merger's & Acquisitions department as an assistant to high flyer Katherine Parker (Weaver), Parker is egotistical, patronising, and thoroughly unpleasant, but disguises it well under a sickly sweet friendly easy going demeanour. It's a front that fools Tess straight away but it's a front the audience sees through, (or should see through), from her very first scene. Parker on the other hand, immediately notices Tess's ability to 'think outside the box'. and intends to use her ideas as a platform for her own progression rather than Tess's.Encouraged to bring her ideas to Katherine, Tess approaches her with a suggestion that TRASK industries, a company who are looking to expand their enterprise into broadcasting , should buy a radio network instead of going straight to television as there are more for sale and they can avoid any bidding wars with other companies looking to buy TV Networks and once there, they can use the radio network as a springboard into TV. Katherine offers to see if the idea could take flight, but disappoints Tess a few days later by telling her that TRASK is only looking at television as an option.After Katherine breaks her leg whilst away skiing in the alps, she calls Tess and instructs her to 'mind the store' in her absence. Tess is sent to Katherine's apartment to collect mail and so forth and it is while there that she finds that her TRASK idea wasn't the dead duck Katherine had informed her it was and that she had already arranged to approach business ace Jack Trainer, (Ford), to arrange the meetings with TRASK but worse still, was going to pass it off as her own brainstorm.Betrayed and slightly deflated by the revelation, Tess decides to 'pull off the gloves' and is determined to give Katherine both barrels by having the deal done and dusted before Katherine returns from overseas. Tess & Trainer are attracted to each other straight away, and the deal starts to take shape, though it soon becomes apparent to Trainer that Tess has some very unorthodox business practices, such as gate-crashing the wedding of the daughter of Oren Trask (Philip Bosco), in order to get the man interested in the concept.Romance starts to blossom but both are trapped in sour relationships. Tess with love rat Mick (Alec Baldwin), and Trainer with none other than Katherine Parker, setting up one of rom-com's favourite clichés, the love triangle.On her return to New York, Katherine finds Tess's diary in her apartment and notices that the deal is to complete that day, realising that Tess has had the jump on her, immediately makes preparations to scotch the works.Will our two heroes complete their deal and find happiness with each other?, or will the baddie win through. If you're left wondering about the answer, then you've obviously NEVER seen a Romantic Comedy before.I can't end my review without special notice to Joan Cusack in a star making performance as Tess's friend and confidant Cyn. She steals every scene that she's in, but then again she does that in every movie doesn't she? Great film, great cast and great direction probably makes 'Working Girl' The very best of the corporate comedy Genre.Enjoy!!! "},{"Title":"Mike Nichols returns--nearly--to the heights the attained with The Graduate","Date":"16 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" For anyone who worked and lived in Manhattan in the 1980's, Working Girl is a tour de force about that time and place. From the infamous 'big hair' worn by Joan Cusack, who was absolutely fantastic and deserved the Oscar, to the pompous, greedy and decadent denizens of the Wall Street investment banking culture, the movie skewers so much so well. Though it does not attain the status of visual equivalence with Tom Wolfe's Bonfire of the Vanities--what could--Working Girl does poke great fun and nail not only the culture, trends, and fashion from the 'Decade of Greed' but even the caricatures of such.One of the few criticisms of the movie that I've read concerned the casting of Harrison Ford as the investment banker. Though he wasn't as bad as some opined--he brought a certain teddy bear-ish charm to the character--he was miscast. He didn't hurt the movie but he would have been the last person I would have tested for the role. He did some strange thing with his accent that too often had me wondering if it was an affectation he brought to the character or a canker sore he was suffering from at the time. In either case, it was distracting and, if a choice, didn't work.The movie needs to be seen and Joan Cusack alone makes it worth the ride. "},{"Title":"Let's Cheer For The Underdog. Melanie's big breakthrough.","Date":"23 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Working Girl a nice blend of romance, comedy, and drama. A great film to uplift someone's spirit. Without a doubt this film was Melanie Griffith's breakthrough it helped make her the actress she is today. Working Girl did more than pave success for Melanie's career, but provided great acting from Harrison Ford as always, and featured Alec Baldwin and Joan Cusack in perhaps their earliest roles. Note Kevin Spacey fans Kevin has a very brief and short scene in a limo with Melanie, but if you like Kevin the scene doesn't disappoint. Sigourney Weaver was very hateable as Melanie's boss. C. Simon's song Let The River Run played throughout the movie helps carry the film along. This film is a tribute to anyone who is in a blue-collar underdog background struggling to achieve success. Hard work and ambition along with an open eye and ear pay off. Every dog has there day, remember always keep hope alive! "},{"Title":"Contains enough truth and enough humor to be entertaining!","Date":"7 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw Working Girl because Sigourney Weaver is one of my favorite actresses.. also because Kevin Spacey is my favorite actor (even though his part in this movie lasts about a minute or two), and neither of them disappointed me.  Neither did the movie, in fact, though it might seem shallow to some.  The story was solid, the characters were well-cast; Sigourney Weaver was hilarious!  Maybe this movie wasn't too deep or realistic, but it was very amusing... "}{"Title":"A pretty tale","Date":"5 February 2000","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Last Monday I reviewed Working Girl and I couldn't help recording it on videotape. Both Melanie and Sigourney are very good, I like them. Harrison, as always, is here as if were in any other movie he has made he always is the same character, I think.The best thing in the movie is Melanie as Tess. You see how she has to stand a situation she never shearched for, but going into in order to get what is hers. At the end, you enjoy how Tess teach Sigourney the lesson.The Best Soundtrack Oscar was very very much well deserved. Carly Simon's `Let the River Run' is marvelous. I recommend to review this movie!  "},{"Title":"Fun, but not worthy of an acedemy award","Date":"11 December 2002","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Working Girl is the kind of movie you can sit back and relax to. The acting is not superb, It's not a laugh out loud comedy, and the plot is rather silly. Melanie Griffith was never a top-notch actress, and this film is no exeption. Harrison Ford is wasted , as he is in other comedies(The Frisco Kid, Sabrina), and he had another much better movie out that year, which was Frantic, which deserved to be more sucessful than Working Girl. I dont want to make it sound like I hated this movie, because I didnt. But I did find it rather juevinille at times, and often poorly acted. Overall an average movie. **1/2 out of ***** "},{"Title":"Melanie Griffith wins you over","Date":"6 May 2003","Score":"8 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The three stars, plus solid direction from Mike Nichols and a terrific supporting cast, put this one over. Harrison Ford is endearingly goofy and Sigourney Weaver is a classic bitch-on-wheels. In the title role, Melanie Griffith wins you over with a charming (if a bit uneven) performance. The script is serviceable but could use more snap and wit. Sights and scenes of the World Trade Center add retrospective poignancy. An engaging--if not completely top drawer--romantic comedy.  "},{"Title":"One of the best romantic comedies of the '80s","Date":"22 March 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" If this isn't the best, WORKING GIRL is surely one of the very best romantic comedies of the 1980s. It's a classic. From the fantastic opening sequence starting with The Statue of Liberty and Carly Simon's Oscar-winning song you are swept-up into the world of Tess McGill and all of the characters in her life.Harrison Ford has never been better in a role the may be over-powered by his show-stopping female counterparts. Sigourney Weaver is hilarious as the boss without a soul. Joan Cusack is unforgettable as Tess' big-haired girlfriend and all of the other characters are perfectly cast down to the smallest role, but the revelation here is Melanie Griffith.Miss Griffith IS Tess McGill. Even twenty years later, I don't see how anyone can say this wasn't the performance of the year. While all of the actors are excellent in their roles, it's Griffith's Tess which holds the entire movie together. It was a star-making performance, and in my humble opinion, she richly deserved the Academy Award for which she was nominated.Mike Nichols has created a movie that anyone can watch over and over again and never be bored. It's completely charming and captivating. It's the perfect movie to watch when you need a pick-me-up. See for yourself, and enjoy! "},{"Title":"Still a classic in the you go girl category, a terrific film about working hard to get ahead","Date":"18 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Tess McGill (Melanie Griffith) lives in Brooklyn with her handsome boyfriend, Mick (Alec Baldwin). Although she comes from somewhat humble roots, she is trying hard to change her situation. While working in Manhattan, crossing the river in a long ferry ride each day, she went to night school and got a degree in economics, with honors. Yet, she is still a secretary to the big money makers on Wall Street, for no one will give her an entry into a more lucrative job in the world of big finance. When her scummy bosses set her up with a high rolling banker (Kevin Spacey), who wants sex in exchange for a promotion, Tess speaks out and gets herself fired. But, needing a new job, she is placed with a snooty, Wellesley-educated egomaniac, Katherine (Sigrouney Weaver), who promises help but promptly steals one of Tess's ideas, for her own benefit. Yet, when Katherine is bedridden from a skiing accident, Tess decides to pose as a colleague of Katherine's and teams up with hotshot financier, Jack (Harrison Ford) to pitch an investment proposal with lucrative possibilities for everyone. Things get complicated when Tess and Jack cast loving eyes at one another, for Jack is Katherine's former boyfriend. Woweeee, what will hit the fan when the furious, scorned Katherine finds out the score? This is a great you go girl movie that will never lose its relevancy. As Tess, Griffith gives a lovely, savvy performance that is very inspirational for women everywhere, for Tess retains her sweetness and optimism in the face of impossible odds. Ford is likewise attractive as the rough-around-the-edges investment banker and Weaver absolutely nails her role as the loathsome, self-centered Katherine. All of the lesser actors, Baldwin, Spacey, Oliver Platt, Olympia Dukakis, and Joan Cusack deliver fine performances, too. The Manhattan setting is beautiful, as are the costumes and the production values. Then, too, Carly Simon's title song is catchy and very appropriate and the script is clever and true. All in all, if you want to see a film where the underdog triumphs over the establishment, through hard work and intelligence, you could not do better than this classic Mike Nichols film. It can send anyone's spirits soaring into the sky. "},{"Title":"A Thinking Man's Comedy and the Surprise Smash Hit of 1988","Date":"3 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" WORKING GIRL was a first-rate motion picture comedy which displayed flashes of brilliance and was the breakaway surprise hit film of 1988. Masterfully directed by Mike Nichols, the film tells the story of Tess McGill (Melanie Griffith) a secretary who wants to be more than a secretary, who has a business idea stolen from her by her current boss and then gets her revenge by pretending to be her boss who is temporarily sidelined. Nichols has a razor sharp screenplay here and has assembled a first-rate cast to pull it off. Griffith is a revelation as Tess, a role that re-ignited her comatose career and garnered her a Best Actress nomination. Sigourney Weaver is perfection as Catherine Parker, Tess' bitchy, self-absorbed boss who smiles in Tess' face but proves she's someone you can't turn your back on. Harrison Ford, in a refreshing change of pace for him, proves to be surprisingly adept at light comedy as Jack Trainer, Catherine's tentative love interest and business associate who finds himself torn when he meets Tess in the midst of her charade. The interplay between these three rich and complex characters makes for one of the most interesting triangles to hit the big screen in years. There are effective supporting bits contributed along the away by Joan Cusack, Oliver Platt, Olympia Dukakis, Alec Baldwin, Philip Bosco, and in blink-and you-miss-them-cameos, Ricki Lake and Kevin Spacey. One of the smartest and most engaging comedies ever made that also received Oscar nominations for Best Picture, Best Director, Best Supporting Actress (Weaver and Cusack)and won Carly Simon the Oscar for Best Original Song. A triumph for Nichols and a flawless comic ensemble. Not only one of the best of 1988, but one of the best comedies of the 1980's period. "},{"Title":"Highflying Drama","Date":"6 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Melanie Griffith stars in this quirky comedy about a secretary who steals her boss's job after her job idea is stolen. Tess McGill (Melanie Griffith) a pretty hardworking young women has just turned thirty and with no sign of her career heading the way she wants it she changes her job and becomes a secretary to successful corporate high flier Katherine Parker (Sigourney Weaver). Pleased that her ideas are received and appreciated Tess thinks her career might actually head the way she wants it, until her boss injures herself and Tess is asked to collect some things. Whilst in her bosses apartment Tess comes across her idea for Trask, a big business that is in trouble, she is thrilled until she realises Katherine plans to use her idea and uses as her own. Incensed Tess plots revenge and places herself in Katherine's office and goes to see the head of Trask and puts her idea to him with the help of financial consultant Jack Trainer (Harrison Ford) who Tess is soon repressing feelings for. Things are made complicated however when Tess discovers Jack is Katherine's lover- the man she wants to and is certain she will marry. But can Tess complete the lucrative deal without Katherine finding out and if she does what will the future have in store for her both professionally and romantically. "},{"Title":"A must-see classic from a time before we knew hairspray could damage the Ozone layer.","Date":"8 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" A film about Tess (Melanie Griffiths) leaving her cheating Baldwin-brother boyfriend in New Jersey and climbing up the work-ladder in the Big Apple. She cuts her big 1980s hair off and gets herself a good job. She discovers her worth with a little help from her mentor Sigourney Weaver and takes control of her life, finding love on the way in goofy and confused Harrison Ford.Fantastic Joan Cusack, who plays Griffiths best friend, has never been better. With a line like Sometimes I walk around in my underwear, it doesn't make me Madonna. and because she keeps her, even bigger, 1980s haircut she can't go wrong. Griffiths is not bad herself with the fabulous line Im not beef, you can't just order me!. This is Hollywood at its feminist best and every minute of it is empowering feel-good watching. "},{"Title":"Coffee, Tea, ME?","Date":"2 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I LOVE this movie. It has an all-star cast, screams 80s style, and has the best make-over ever! It is perfect for a girls night movie and would recommend it highly! Let the River Run by Carly Simon still gives me chills when I hear it when I think of Tess McGill (Griffith) climbing the corporate ladder. It isn't just that, she improves her whole life, including getting rid of her cheating boyfriend (Alec Baldwin!). Joan Cusack is hilarious as always with a few lines that make me laugh every time...coffee, tea....ME?. Sigourney Weaver is good as the bad guy, and Harrison Ford fits the role of manly eye candy rather than good acting. (The part where he changes his shirt in the office, ladies??) The movie is the epitome of 80s corporate America/feminist thinking, but more importantly is a feel good movie with, not to mention it again...the best make-over ever! "},{"Title":"Melanie Griffith Vehicle","Date":"31 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I enjoyed this movie. It contains humor, drama, good acting, and a great plot!It's a Melanie Griffith vehicle; she played the leading role. Unfortunately, this movie doesn't show as much of her as some of her other movies, and she looks older. There's one scene which features her in stockings and lingerie, which should appeal to any hard core fans of her and/or those fetishes.This movie might also be seen as a Sigourney Weaver vehicle, although her character is less endearing; she played the antagonist who abuses and back-stabs Melanie's character. Although she plays part of this movie's love triangle (Harrison Ford's character being the third member), we don't get to see as much of her as we do of Melanie. "}{"Title":"A naieve but amusing film","Date":"1 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Some good performances in this one and nice scripting thanks to the Second City Chigaco experience of Mike Nichols. Also looked like some lines were improvised. i just caught this on TV having not seen the film since it came out. Several things struck me, not just the clothes, haircuts and technology, which seem horribly outdated to modern eyes. No it wasn't all that - its that the whole premise of the film concerns a girl fighting for her dream and to get out of the 'ghetto'. At the end of the movie we see her achieve her dream as she becomes.... just another faceless executive in a huge building full of tiny fake wood offices filled by a million other faceless executives - and this was the 80's dream!!!??? So sad its almost funny. I also laughed unintentionally when Harrison Ford's character admits that if Melanie needed an 'Ace', the 'best', then, yes, he probably IS the best! 80's arrogance or bad scripting?In the end the best thing about the movie (apart from Sigourney Weavers fantastic performance) is the relationship between Griffith and Ford - it feels genuine, and when they finally reveal their feelings for each other it makes for a great screen moment...JM  "},{"Title":"Good Romantic Comedy","Date":"21 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Delightful rags-to-riches, good versus evil, romantic comedy starring Melanie Griffith as small town (or small borough) girl, Tess McGill, looking to make good in the world of mergers & acquisitions.  Sigourney Weaver is deliciously bitchy as McGill's pompous boss and foil, Katharine Parker, who keeps steals her subordinate's ideas and keeps McGill groveling.  Good romantic chemistry between Griffith and Harrison Ford.   Joan Cusack is fantastic in support.  Great musical score.X File fans  David Duchovny makes his debut with a bit part in this movie. Also features small part for Kevin Spacey in one his earliest roles.  "},{"Title":"As a career secretary, here is why this movie doesn't work for me","Date":"17 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'm not going to approach these comments from a standpoint of criticism of the acting, nor even the far-fetched storyline.  My objection is to the entire premise of the film, which is that the only way to be considered successful is to have an office of your own with a secretary sitting out front of it.I was working as a secretary during the years when this film was made, and have in fact been one since the early 1980s.  I consider myself a career secretary and have always enjoyed my work.  The idea that Tess's goal should be to leap to a managerial position, beyond the potential abuse she suffered in the secretarial realm, was offensive to me.  Wouldn't it have been more sensible for Tess to work for better conditions for secretaries?So saying, I have to admit that I have never felt exploited or maltreated in my work, except by a couple of bosses that were exploiting or maltreating EVERYONE, not just their secretary.  There are people like that everywhere, though, and the harm they cause is not exclusive to clerical staff.The message I got from this film was that there is nothing more demeaning than being a secretary, and that the only jobs that matter are ones where you HAVE a secretary, rather than BEING one.  Tess bought into that idea.  More's the pity. "},{"Title":"a real inspirational, feel-good film","Date":"13 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is one of my favourites, not because it is particularly exciting with millions spent on graphics but because it is a story of the under-dog winning and working to do it - maybe its beacuse I'm a Brit and we love the under-dog, but I find this very inspirational. Not only is the film motivational but it has an amazing soundtrack - all based on Let the River Run by Carly Simon. "},{"Title":"Excellent, charming, exhilarating film from Nichols.","Date":"18 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  One of those rare movies than can be watched over and over.  A real treat from Mike Nichols with great performances from Harrison Ford, Sigourney Weaver, Melanie Griffith's best, Joan Cusack and Alec Baldwin.  And let's not forget the wonderful Philip Bosco. A modern Cinderella tale with a very strong feminist statement.  Charming, entertaining, engrossing and with a satisfying Frank Capra happy ending.  Good music too, Carly. "},{"Title":"A film about the girl of the 80's!","Date":"2 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Big hair, running shoes and short skirts were, and still are, a familiar sight, not only in rural America on a Saturday night, but at 845 am on the main street of any urban center.  Working Girl is a fable, a lesson, and a sharp comedy about one such girl.  Melonie Griffith, in her defining role, plays Tess, a girl with ambition, who wants to work in the big leagues.  Job after job, she seems to fail, not because she can't do the work, but because she won't put out for the boss.  Finally she lands a job as an assistant to a powerhouse woman, Katherine Parker, played wonderfully by Sigourney Weaver.  Sadly Tess must learn that women can back stab as good as any guy can.  Tess gets her opportunity to shine, when a skiing accident in Europe keeps Katherine away.  Immediately she partners with lady killer Jack Trainer (Harrison Ford) in order to put to work a corporate merger. Working Girl borders on being dated but it manages to capture the 'me decade' so well that it is still interesting (and certainly relevant).  Supporting performances from Joan Cusak, as the kooky friend, and Alec Baldwin, as the frustrated lover, compliment the story.Carly Simon's now classic song, Let the River Run, plays throughout the film bringing some sentiment to a story that is loaded with laughs. Weaver should have won the Oscar for her role as an over-the-top bitch who smiles as she digs the knife in just a bit further.  It's her performance however, and the story line itself, that suggests a dangerous myth, that women in corporate society are vicious.  I'm not denying that many women are, I just think it ought to be made clear, that they learned their tricks from men! "},{"Title":"Excellent Capra-esque comedy/drama","Date":"1 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  If you are one for those Capra films of the '30s, where the underdog struggles to to top, fighting lies and unjustice en route, 'Working Girl' is your kind of film. Transpose 'Mr Smith goes to Washington' into the late 80s, swap the leads' genders, exchange Washington for Wall St and you are there. The nervous anticipation of Tess as she enters the top-level board meeting with Trask exactly mirrors Smith's first steps inside the Senate. Both characters hit rock bottom and apparent disaster minutes before the end of the film and are then saved and vindicated by a 'miracle'. The seamless blend of comedy, romance, drama and tension is there in both. Even the gift of a new briefcase is common as a symbol of the new status.A major difference is that Tess' motivation is self-improvement and has to break a few rules to get what she wants (although none that no one else is breaking) unlike Smith's passion for the truth at all costs. 'Working Girl' does not have the same serious depth of 'Mr Smith', but that probably to its advantage, and doesn't quite have the 1939 film's breadth of vision or masterful direction. But it is still a superb movie that can be enjoyed more with each viewing and, apart from its portrayal business technology, hasn't dated or lost its edge in over 10 years. A good example, too, of a movie where the theme song and soundtrack augment the characters and story perfectly. There are also some subtle messages about gender identity in the business world. "},{"Title":"Not just a chick flick.","Date":"28 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This film has no action scenes, involves a romance, and tells the story of a working class female and her struggle to better her personal and professional life. On the surface the film may seem as though it is targeted towards a female audience, not so! Basically this film is about an underdog and the underdog's desire to better herself. This is something both males and females can relate to. The underdog, Tess McGill (Melanie Griffith), is not pure of heart. McGill manipulates, lies and deceives people to get what she wants. I think all people, to some extent, have done these very same things at some point in their lives. What is somewhat unique about this film is that the underdog has to come face to face with her moral wrong doings. Once she does this she is able to face the reality of her situation and for better or worse move on. Does she persevere and come out on top? I won't tell, watch the movie.I think Mike Nichols did a fine job of taking a somewhat common story (an underdogs struggle to advance/win), a cast of recognizable but (at the time of the release) non A list actors, and a nice but unspectacular song & score and produced a hit movie worthy of all the Oscar nominations it received, including a win for Best Song. In other words the sum of the parts was greater than a single part. Some movies boast big names or a great song but the film fails to have the emotional impact or appeal that WG does. Speaking only for myself, I heard Let the River Run by Carly Simon before I saw WG and I didn't think the song was all that great. After I saw the film the song took on an entirely new aspect and I loved it.Lastly, with the exception of Harrison Ford, who at that point in his career had not shed his action hero image, many of the actors in this film were not quite famous. Look for Kevin Spacy as a sleazy would be hiring boss, Oliver Platt who uses his supervisor position to act as a pimp, Joan Cusak reminds us why the 80's are known for big hair, and a young Alec Baldwin who was busy trying to establish himself as an actor and not passing on his political ideology. "},{"Title":"A feel-good movie illustrating an honest portrayal of how tough business can be, especially for a woman.","Date":"24 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The movie production, the stars and the music add up to the average 7-something rating IMDb voters have given this film. For me, though, it's a solid 9. When I add to the above the substance and message of this movie, it becomes an underrated sleeper. Yes, the message is stylishly delivered in feel good format. I like that from time to time... sort of like Hoosiers. But like Hoosiers, I'm left with so much more than feeling good, I'm moved. Nicely layered without being too complex, it portrays one of our society's most overlooked problems, even nearly two decades later... how to take smart people seriously when they aren't already connected through conventional means. Harrison Ford delivers his predictably superb performance, but Melanie Griffith has been too often under-appreciated when she has in fact delivered an excellent performance. She does so here, as she does in Shining Through (1992). Here, her gumption and unassuming, all-I-want-is-a-fair-chance ethic is one worthy of her being the role model for many a Working Girl! Carley Simon's Oscar-winning theme is similarly a worthy bonus. Thank you, Mike Nichols and team. "},{"Title":"Great 1980's Film !","Date":"21 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"               This is a great film to watch and enjoy, there are lots of laughs and it is nice to see this great cast of Super Stars looking very young.   Harrison Ford (Jack Trainer),What Lies Beneath,2000, came to the aid of Melanie Griffith (Tess McGill),Shade,03,who was striving to better herself in life and become an executive with a large company and have her own office. Sigourney Weaver(Katherine Parker),Holes,'03, was Tess's boss and tried to cheat her out of her ideas for a big business deal. However, Katherine broke her leg skiing and this gave Tess the oportunity she was looking for which would turn her entire life around!   It was enjoyable seeing Alex Baldwin,(Mick Dugan),Cat in the Hat,03, he had a very small role, but played a big jerk of a boyfriend to Tess and she found out he was not the Soul Mate for her.  This is a very funny film and worth viewing! "}{"Title":"Fun movie every time I watch it!","Date":"25 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  No matter how many times I see this movie, I love it! Watched it recently on a broadcast channel and even though it was edited for broadcast, I still stopped what I was doing and finished watching it! If you haven't seen this yet, you need to. There are some really good quotes from this movie (see the quotes link in IMDb). Enjoy!!! "},{"Title":"Melanie Griffith has never been so good... and never will be again...!","Date":"8 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Directed by Mike Nichols, 1988's 'Working Girl' is a humorous look at trying to get to the top. Melanie Griffith plays Tess McGill, an ambitious secretary who dreams of becoming a 'someone'.  Her chance comes when she thinks up a brilliant idea and puts it forward to boss Katherine Parker (Sigourney Weaver) who steals the idea and tries to take all the credit.  Tess finds this out when Katherine is off on holiday and decides to do something about it -- conjure up a way to get the idea to the 'big boys' before Katherine does (and steal the heart of Katherine's main man, Jack Trainer played by Harrison Ford)Kevin Wade's screenplay gives plenty of funny one-liners and situations and the female leads, (Griffith, Weaver and Joan Cusack) are brilliant.  In fact, the films' main problems are that of the presence of Ford and Alec Baldwin as Griffith's snaky boyfriend.Not bad for an 80's film, if not for the Carly Simon song, the delightful performance of Joan Cusack as a 'dance-in-the-mirror-type' secretary. Glowing.  Warm.  Funny. "},{"Title":"FERRY","Date":"13 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A totally well dressed, and elaborate sexy film that goes big city idea for transit news under corporate mangement for big city law firm, and radio broadcasting for new blood. It's quite amazeing, and quite undertaking for best suporting Actress SIGOURNEY WEAVER, and Melanie Girffith who soon find themselves in making it to the top is not at all that easy when it exspells big city boom Katherine Parker played by SIGOURNEY WEAVER. "},{"Title":"Sweet, charming and very funny!","Date":"30 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I missed this movie in theaters and rented it tonight.  Had pizza and three friends over (two had already seen it).  Everybody loved it!  A great cast headed by Melanie Griffith offered some surprises young Kevin Spacey and Alec Baldwin are in it (briefly).  Great Oscar winning song, too!   "},{"Title":"Just Boring!","Date":"4 March 2002","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Heavyhanded and uncharming romantic comedy about the disadventures of a young and intelligent secretary (Melanie) in the harsh world of finance and business.In this way, she falls in love with a business partner (Ford) who is - by pure accident - the sweetheart of her ferocious boss (Weaver). A thin little plot with cardboard performances by the cast. Kevin Spacey has a little cameo as a drunken executive. I give this a 4 (four). "},{"Title":"Fantastic Little Romance/Comedy, That I Really Really Enjoyed, Harrison Ford And Melanie Griffith Had Wonderful Chemistry Together!","Date":"24 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a fantastic little Romance/Comedy, that i really really enjoyed, Harrison Ford and Melanie Griffith had wonderful chemistry together!. All the characters were fantastic, and i thought Sigourney Weaver was very effective, as the Bitch, plus Melanie Griffith and Harrison Ford are simply amazing in this!. The plot is very simple, however it worked extremely well, and i really loved the ending, plus it was really cool to see Harrison Ford in a different type of role!. I thought the dialog was great, and it had some really good dramatic sequences in it as well, plus Joan Cusack is awesome, as Melanie's best friend!. It's very well written and made, and, the story was really cool as well, plus Melanie Griffith deserved Her Oscar nomination!. This is a fantastic little Romance/Comedy, that i really really enjoyed, Harrison Ford and Melanie Griffith had wonderful chemistry together, and i say It's a must see immediately!. The Direction is fantastic!. Mike Nichols does a fantastic job here, with awesome camera work, and keeping the film fresh and funny at all times, fantastic job!. The Acting is amazing!, Melanie Griffith is AMAZING here, she is extremely likable, stunningly gorgeous, incredible in the acting department, had wonderful chemistry with Ford, deserved her Oscar nomination, and was just amazing overall, i loved her. Harrison Ford is AMAZING as always, and is amazing here, he is extremely likable, charming, had wonderful chemistry with Griffith,is a very versatile actor, and it was just awesome to see him play a different role, he is one of my favorite actors! (Ford Rules!!!). Sigourney Weaver is awesome, as the bitch, she was extremely convincing,and you will hate her!, she also deserved her nomination. Joan Cusack is awesome, as Griffith's best friend, she was very likable, and fascinating to watch throughout!. Alec Baldwin is great as the sleazy boyfriend and did his job very well. Philip Bosco,Oliver Platt and Kevin Spacey are all good in there roles. Rest of the cast do fine. Overall a must see immediately!. ***** out of 5 "},{"Title":"Breaking through class-barrier, charming romantic comedy!","Date":"16 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Melanie Griffith shines as the struggling office worker trying desperately to climb even half a notch on the social ladder. Harrison Ford makes a pass at her at a bar, not knowing that Melanie just started to work for his corporate tycoon-fiancé (played by Segourney Weaver). Melanie thinks that working for a woman (instead of a man) would be different, but soon finds out that a female boss respects her no more than males did, and she even steals Melanie's ideas, then signs her name to them! In the end what is right remains right, Melanie at last has arrived on top of the dog-eat-dog corporate world, and of course gets her man! This movie can be grouped with Pretty Woman and 9 to 5. Although not made to be funny, the script is wonderful and ensures entertainment throughout. Enjoy! "},{"Title":"And Now, the 1980s Movie Cliché Awards, With Your Host, Bitter Film Buff Who Resents Lackadaisical Feel-Good Movies","Date":"16 July 2008","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Good evening, ladies and gentlemen? How's New York? Ah, big deal. Welcome to the 1980s Movie Cliché Awards Ceremony. Announcing the Most Prolific Cliché of the '80s, Whoopi Goldberg.Hey, y'all. Any Republicans in the house tonight? Yeah? Anybody? Maybe we finally phased 'em out! Hoo-rah! The nominees are1. The opening credits big-city montage with uplifting glam rock playing over the soundtrack.2. All female characters either finding themselves to be sexual playthings for higher-ups or seductive back-stabbers.3. The female lead character who has a grungy boyfriend who cheats on her so she ends up falling in love with the cynical cool guy she initially can't stand.4. Acid-wash clothing.5. Shamelessly Hollywood ending that ruins the investment one has in the true-to-life hard knock struggles of the ambitious working class against the ruthless higher-ups.And the winner is&#133; Shamelessly Hollywood ending that ruins the investment one has in the true-to-life hard knock struggles of the ambitious working class against the ruthless higher- ups!!!Say, did you hear about the near-sighted vampire that bit Jane Russell in the NECK? Not so good, huh? Well I know I'm no Whoopi. Announcing the Most Omnipotent Use of Clichés, Al Pacino, everybody!Hello. What is Justice? What is the intention of justice? The intention of justice is to see that the guilty people are punished and the innocent are freed. Simple, isn't it? Only it's not that simple. We have a problem here. And you know what it is? Both sides want to win. We want to win! We want to win regardless of the Truth! And we want to win regardless of Justice! WINNING is everything! That man there wants a win so badly today, it means so much to him, he is so carried away with the Prospect of winning, the IDEA, that he forgot something absolutely essential to today's proceeding. He forgot the earliest and latest portions of his career. He forgot the awards he won for those films. I don't know, I don't see 'em, do you?Mr. Pacino, you are out of order.I'M OUT OF ORDER?! YOU'RE ORDER!!! HE'S OUT OF ORDER!!! He made The Graduate, Catch -22, Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf, and later he did The Birdcage, Primary Colors, Closer, and ANGELS IN America! Mike, you gotta remember, brother. You remember what we did when we made Angels In America, Mike? HAH?Get him out of here. Ladies and gentlemen, the Winner of the Most Omnipotent Use of Clichés goes to Mike Nichols.Thank you. Thank you very much. I really tried with Working Girl. I really did. I really wanted to see how far I could go. I had made so many great films. It was awful. Just film after film after film, I couldn't do anything about it. So I decided to use every pat tune associable to the movie's era and that maybe, just maybe, I would finally make a really lame movie. It's been a tough road since, making so many good movies since, but with this award, I will remember my accomplishment with Working Girl. Thank you for giving me that privilege. Thank you so much. "},{"Title":"How could Mike Nichols do this to us?!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"11 February 2006","Score":"5 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Like the dreadful Flashdance a few years earlier, Working Girl makes it look like anyone can rise to the top through sheer perseverance. YEAH RIGHT. Why did Mike Nichols, after The Graduate, Catch-22, Carnal Knowledge and Silkwood, degenerate into this? Even Ed Wood's movies, while completely moronic, weren't insulting. Working Girl, on the other hand, wastes three perfectly capable leads - not to mention several supporting players - on a fairy tale (and not the kind that the brothers Grimm wrote). Whereas Wall Street took a serious look at the corporate world, this makes a mess of everything. How tragic that Melanie Griffith and Sigourney Weaver had to meet in that part of the World Trade Center destroyed on September 11; it means that that spot can only be known for this swill. "}]