[{"Title":"Very Underrated","Date":"3 June 2000","Score":"50 out of 59 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Many perceive Tequila sunrise to be a routine, formulaic cop thriller with some nice sets, pretty actors, some guns, some sex....etc. Cynics go on to say that Gibson has never acted worse, that the plot twists are predictable and the love triangle is overly cheesy. I, on the other hand, feel that the film profits greatly from expert cinematography, fluent storytelling and convincing(albeit rather undemanding)acting. Pitting Gibson (the now-retired drug dealer lured back for one last deal) and Russell (the reluctant sheriff assigned to bust him) as best of friends on opposite sides of the law was a strong premise, made even more compelling by the fact that the drug dealer (Gibson) is the sympathetic character and the cop (Russell) is the sly, manipulative sort. There is an apparent sense of irony and it goes a long way to making an otherwise average story, interesting and very watchable. Pfeiffer is the glamorous love interest whose character does a lot to intensify the rivalry between the two men. Much of the drama and strength however comes from the late J.T Walsh as Russell's superior, hell bent on bringing Gibson down and his Mexican drug counter-part who nobody has ever seen. A special sense of irony presents itself at the denouement for Walsh unknowlingly becomes a pawn in the drug ring that has now become the talk of the town thanks to his vendetta.The also late Raul Julia never disappoints as the charismatic yet enigmatic Mexican law enforcer. Julia and Walsh complement the film beautifully as side characters with dubious intentions. They are multi-faceted and like all the other people in this film are torn between what they should do and what they want to do, and in fact what they end up doing. Nothing is black and white in Tequila Sunrise; it's a very grey area. With every development we learn more about the people and how they are so far from being what we originally perceived. Hats off to to Robert Towne for his writing. Tequila Sunrise may lack the inventiveness, vision, and dynamism of Chinatown (Robert Towne wrote both scripts), but it should, by no means be discarded as a mediocre cop thriller.It is a very slick piece of cinema with fine acting, glamorous sets, and great dialogue. Furthermore, unlike some of it's predecessors it's a film that can be seen repeatedly without losing it's cutting edge. Under appreciated and underrated, Tequila Sunrise is an excellent film "},{"Title":"vastly underrated noir","Date":"1 June 1999","Score":"23 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Robert Towne, best known as the writer of Chinatown, directed this backstabbing corkscrew of a film from his own script after several notable directors didn't meet interpretation.  A dark brooding piece, that is as meditative and murky as it is tightly written for suspense and twists, Tequila Sunrise focuses on the expectations that conventional mores place upon our freedom to interct and even love whomever our heart bids us.Gibson plays a drug dealer with, if not a conscience, at least a code of some sort of ethics.  He is raising a son and wants to retire from illegal activities so that he may be a good role model.Russel plays a narcotics cop bucking for a promotion.  In order to get his promotion he needs to bust the area's most notorious dealer... guess who. Problem he and Gibson and childhood mates.Pfeiffer is a woman caught between them, each one wanting her for different reasons.  Raul Julia and J.T. Walsh complete the central players in a fine ensemble on people with agendas that may be worth sacrificing the alliances they have made along the way.As the various subplots tie themselves into impossible-to-unravel knots, every character will be forced to question what it is he or she holds sacred.  Tough and even regretted decisions are made.  Friendships are made and dissolved, hearts are broken, revenges plotted...Gibson is at his best here, Pfeiffer brings great depth to what could easily have been little more than a trophy role.  Walsh and Julia are so poker-faced that an audience member who succeeds in reading all the angles should account himself no more than a lucky guesser as they leave you very few clues to work with.Ironically, despite the desires of Gibson and Towne, the ending had to be altered to please test audiences.  Later critics would harp severely on the final shot, the reviews keeping away significant audience.  While the ending may be unsatisfying to the typically cynical noir fan, it does not change the fact that  this a far-above-average genre flick with an excellent cast and a superb script.Worth a watch, worth several.  "},{"Title":"A really good film with an excellent twist.","Date":"29 July 2002","Score":"28 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is all about what was great about the 80's, it has it's own style and all three main actors obviously enjoy there roles. I admit it's not one for challenging your intellect, but it is fun, honest and above all well acted. Great scenery, great story. "},{"Title":"Interesting plot setup and although dated, very enjoyable","Date":"24 December 2004","Score":"24 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I remember this movie for one real thing, the soundtrack. I bought it on vinyl and played a few songs until they were scratched, the fabulous Do you believe in shame by Duran Duran was one of my favourites and remains so to this day.I like this film, I really do. Okay so it now looks dated, but the rest of the film is extremely good. Mel Gibson plays a big time Drug Dealer now trying to go straight but seemingly lined up for one final big deal, or so the Police think, and his old school friend who is now the Chief of Police in the same city, Kurt Russell. Russell rocks, he really does, and they play off each other so perfectly. Michelle Pfieffer is the female caught between them who falls for one, and then the other, each playing the reverse of what you think their character may be and each, in their own way, using her to gain information on the other. That plot device alone makes the movie work for me and I love watching the dynamics between all three characters.Although a couple of plot turns need a little twist of the imagination, it's still very well written and carried through to the screen with these actors giving good performances to take it there. I still have a soft spot for this movie. "},{"Title":"A sexy and complex story about love, honesty, and overall friendship","Date":"15 August 2005","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" All in all, I really like this movie. The chemistry is definitely there, and the cinematography is excellent (I love the scene where Mac and Nick are talking while sitting on the swings, in pure silhouette).Occasionally the dialog does seem stilted, like when Nick's character is telling Joanne how much he wants to see her that night. And you really wonder how Nick has his job, with all of the compromises he makes for relationships (as with Mac and Joanne).But, Mel Gibson's eyes when he tells Michelle Pfeiffer about his interest in her... swoon! And there's a literally steamy love scene involved that is one of my all-time favorites.All in all, the whole movie is a very interesting commentary on friendship and the ties that bind. 1) Friendship is the only choice you have in life (you can't choose your family...) vs 2) at some point friendship's obligations can go beyond the real life of the friendship itself.Raul Julia has a great speech about that in this movie. Seeing this made me miss him all over again! "},{"Title":"An overlooked goody","Date":"2 July 2005","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I think this movie is overlooked as a great one. Great actors/actress and fantastic plot. It's one of my most favorite. The first three times I watched it I got new things out of it each time, so watch closely.Drug dealer gone straight, but no one believes him. His old friend from school is a cop now and he really doesn't believe him. Then there's the romance part with Michelle Pfiffer and she's so elegant in her part; like one of the great actresses of old. Then there's the drug and drug money problem that surfaces and the FBI get involved. It is quite involved and very interesting. Can't tell though, you must watch, you won't regret it. Watch it more than once. "},{"Title":"This is my favorite Mel Gibson movie.","Date":"10 June 2003","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Now after saying that, let me say this. I do not think it is his best movie. I realize he has made much better movies. This movie is flawed but if you look hard enough everything is flawed. The reason this is my favorite Mel Gibson movie is A Mel's performance, it was very good. Probably not his best but he plays paranoid well. B Raul Julia he was awesome in this. Same with Michelle Pfeiffer and Kurt Russell. Next is the story. A tale of a drug dealer trying to clean up his life to impress a restaurant owner, but is derailed by everyone else in his life. His brother is trying to set him up, his high school buddy is trying to stop but not bust him, and steal his would be girl. His other old friend who is supposedly the biggest dealer in Mexico is trying to get him back into dealing. His ex-wife wants his money, the DEA wants him in jail, his lawyer isn't really helping and all his kid wants is his attention. This is a character the has every reason to trust no one and still tries although he is usually right and shouldn't. To me this is a fun film with interesting characters doing what should be uninteresting things. True it all ends in true hollywierd fashion but seeing Michelle Pfeiffer looking great in some power woman suits and Kurt Russell looking like a 50's cigarette poster and trying to be slick is fun. Plus the performance by J.T Walsh (one of my favorite character actors) as the seedy DEA agent makes this worth the time.  "},{"Title":"Eighties classic","Date":"30 September 2002","Score":"13 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one of those guilty pleasures. I still find myself watching it over and over some 14 years later. After a while, who even cares about Robert Towne's serpentine plot twists. The reason this movie still works is simple - it is great entertainment. This movie takes 3 stars at the peak of their physical beauty who were just beginning to realize their acting potential (admittedly, in the years since, only 2 of them realized that potential). Michelle Pfeiffer attained a perfect trifecta in 1988 with comedy (Married to the Mob), drama (Dangerous Liasons), and this melodramatic actioner. The movie takes itself too seriously, but we don't have to. It's a silly fantasy world with stunning beach sunsets, tequila and sports cars, good drug dealers and bad cops, etc. Like Miami Vice, this movie portrayed the late 80s, and for those of us who grew up during that flashy, fun decade, _Tequila Sunrise_ is a fun-filled nostalgic trip. It's about a beautiful people living angst filled lives. It's mindless and fun. So enjoy it for what it is. "},{"Title":"Classic 80's Noir","Date":"22 April 2011","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Three views on three different occasions and ages and it finally worked on the third time. Sounds like the divisions of a play and acts but it was just how my perception over Tequila Sunrise has changed over the years, and now I find it a excellent film, with many positive aspects. The screenplay is smart, confusing at times, it has many terrific things and the actors made this story even more interesting, exciting. This is a film-noir, but not in the traditional almost melodramatic sense, so if you're looking for gunshots, action and chase sequences it's better pick another movie to watch.In Robert Towne's film everyone is divided between love (on someone or something) and friendship, and things isn't always what they appear. McKussic (Mel Gibson) and Nick Frescia (Kurt Russell) are long time pals who have opposite lines of work Mac is a nice drug dealer who has a perfect ability of escape from problems, trying to retire himself from the job; while Nick is a cop investigating a huge drug shipment coming to the country and McKussic might be involved in it. But friendship worths more than anything in the world and one won't be after the other as long things don't turn into something illegal. In the middle of these two there's three things Nick's FBI partner Maguire (J.T.Walsh) coordinating McKussic's investigation; Mac's friend the drug dealer Carlos (Raul Julia) coming from Mexico for a big drug operation; and the gorgeous Jo Ann Vallenari (Michelle Pfeiffer) owner of a successful restaurant where Mac is a regular costumer and both friends are interested in this woman who is divided between the love of both men. The audience must try to hold the pieces together and figure what happens next, who's telling the truth and who's lying in this intricate plot.If the plot itself sometimes wanders a little bit, at least the characters are so well constructed and the performances go in the right direction that the film doesn't suffer one bit, but I must say that attention is required to follow everyone and everything, otherwise you lost yourself with no chance of getting back to the story, and you'll probably hate it. My earlier problems with Tequila Sunrise on other views was exactly that; it was right in front of me, this is a picture made exclusively with dialogs and they matter a lot, it is all well written out. Now, this is a helluva film from the 1980's filled with elements all nostalgic fans from that decade love Gibson in the peak of his career, Russell as well, Michelle beautiful as ever, Raul Julia stealing the show from everybody, Dave Grusin's jazzy music featuring David Sanborn sax solos with the love's theme, the spectacular cinematography from Conrad L.Hall (Oscar nominated for his work here) capturing fantastic sunny shots and the most beautiful sunsets ever captured on celluloid. There's a strange magnetism about Tequila Sunrise that even before the time I like it, there was something good about it, and I'm glad for it because it always made me want more of it, something makes me watch it every time I can (even though I still don't understand the title. Towne played the enigmatic again with the title, remember Chinatown?). Here's a story about the value of love and friendship among unusual friends with more unusual types of work. 10/10 "},{"Title":"A Tale Of Loyalties & Conflicts","Date":"31 October 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Tequila Sunrise is a glossy, star-studded, crime drama in which romance, humour and action all figure prominently but it's the intriguing natures of its characters that provide the movie's greatest strength. These people are not to be taken at face value as their motivations are often complicated by internal and external conflicts that emerge because of issues concerned with their most valued personal relationships and situations that test their levels of commitment, loyalty and trust to the absolute maximum.Dale Mac McKussic (Mel Gibson) and Detective Lieutenant Nick Frescia (Kurt Russell) have been close friends since their high school days but pressure has been brought to bear on their friendship in recent years because they've been working on different sides of the law. Mac, who has recently retired from dealing in drugs, is finding it hard to distance himself from the business as the loss of income involved is causing problems with his estranged wife and this, in turn, could jeopardise the amount of time he gets to spend with his young son. Furthermore, his cousin Gregg (Arliss Howard) is continually pressing him to get involved in some new deals and his long-time friend, a Mexican drug dealer called Carlos, wants him to take part in a very lucrative scheme that he's currently working on.Nick's loyalty to Mac and his obvious unwillingness to arrest him has created tensions in his police work in the past but if Mac has not genuinely retired, then it could transpire that Nick would have no other choice than to arrest him in the near future, especially as his department has received information about a major shipment of drugs that Carlos intends to bring in to L.A. Agent Hal Maguire (J T Walsh) of the Drug Enforcement Agency works closely with Nick and is convinced that Mac is still dealing. The differing attitudes that these men have towards Mac's activities is the cause of continuous conflict between them.Mac and Nick both fall for the beautiful owner of a high class Italian restaurant. Jo Ann Vallenari (Michelle Pfeiffer) is very cool. sophisticated and measured in what she says but is undeniably attracted to both men. Nick makes the mistake of trying to use his relationship with her to illicit information about Mac and Carlos and this makes her turn her attention more strongly to Mac who she finds to be far more sincere. Meanwhile, a joint operation involving the D.E.A. and the Mexican police led by Commandante Xavier Escalante (Raul Julia) is under way to capture Carlos and of course, anyone doing business with him.Tequila Sunrise is a visual treat with great camera-work, lighting and beautiful scenes such as the one in which Mac and Nick are shown in silhouette against a stunning background. Their darkened figures seem to emphasise the closeness of their friendship because when seen purely as two shadowed profiles, the differences and conflicts between them appear to become insignificant.Mel Gibson conveys the uncertainty that his character experiences during a period in his life when he's feeling more apprehensive and vulnerable than he has in the past and Kurt Russell successfully makes Nick's mixture of genuine and manipulative characteristics seem perfectly believable. Michelle Pfeiffer displays great poise but is also convincing in showing her emotional reactions to certain situations and Raul Julia and J T Walsh are terrific in their supporting roles.Not enough attention seems to have been given to the pacing of the action in this movie but overall, it is extremely entertaining to watch and contains some witty dialogue. "}{"Title":"SPOILER *  It Seems Like These Other Reviewers Did Not See The Movie","Date":"7 February 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  In a nut shell this movie is about friendship. It also has some sub stories, such as Michelle and Mel's relationship (Russell is NOT in love with Michelle, he's just pretending to be while doing his job, and looking out for his friend), a traitorous cousin, and a family not to far from the Sopranos theme. This is a wonderful movie that at times shadows a soap opera, only with fewer characters. All the actors are good, but Raul Julia gives the performance of a lifetime as the drug supplier for Gibson's character. The score for the movie is a typical 80's jazz number that is unique and refreshing. All in all this is a chick flick, but with a twist. A very good movie. "},{"Title":"More of a writer's film than a director's one","Date":"26 June 2008","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Tequila Sunrise is sometimes quoted as an example of neo-noir, a genre of film which uses modern cinema techniques while trying to capture the spirit of the classic films noirs from the forties and fifties. Other examples include Polanski's Chinatown, the Michael Winner remake of The Big Sleep, Lawrence Kasdan's Body Heat and Curtis Hanson's more recent L.A. Confidential.The title is derived from the well-known cocktail which has three ingredients, tequila, orange juice, and grenadine. Mel Gibson is seen drinking this cocktail on a couple of occasions, but the significance of the title may be that the film explores the triangular relationship between a cocktail of three main characters, Dale Mac McKussic, Nick Frescia and Jo Ann Vallinari. (The film was advertised in France under the slogan Un Cocktail Explosif).Mac is a former drug dealer who claims that he is now trying to go straight. Nick is not only the head of the Los Angeles narcotics squad for but also Mac's close friend. Jo Ann is a local restaurant owner with whom both Mac and Nick are in love. The two men's friendship is therefore under severe strain, and not only because of their feelings for Jo Ann. There are suspicions that Mac has slipped back into his old ways and may be trying to pull off one last deal with another old friend, a Mexican drug baron named Carlos. If these suspicions prove correct, Nick will be duty-bound to arrest him.Like many examples of both film noir and neo-noir, Tequila Sunrise has a complex plot, one where the motives of all the characters are suspect and where nobody knows whom they can trust. (The writer/director Robert Towne was also the scriptwriter for Chinatown, a film with one of the most convoluted plots in cinema history). Nevertheless, I have never really regarded it as authentic neo-noir. There was always more to film noir than a crime-related theme and a complicated storyline. Atmosphere was equally important; in some cases (such as Howard Hawks' original The Big Sleep) it was paramount. In the eighties it would have been virtually impossible to make a film using the moody black-and-white photography which characterised film noir, but neo-noir directors were often able to give their films an equivalent atmospheric look. Body Heat, for example, has an atmosphere of extreme heat, of sweat, of physical lassitude, of moral decay and of sexual tension, something emphasised not only by John Barry's jazz score but also Kasdan's colour scheme dominated by blacks, reds and oranges.The film stars three of the up-and-coming stars of the eighties in Gibson, Kurt Russell and Michelle Pfeiffer. None of them really give their best performance here, although Pfeiffer is always very watchable. Although in the eighties Gibson was best known for his tough guy roles, especially in the Mad Max series, he does not bring much menace to the role of Mac or suggest his criminal background. Roger Ebert called him the nicest drug dealer you'd ever want to know.In 1988 Towne was much more experienced as a screenwriter than as a director. He had worked on the scripts for more than a dozen films and several TV series, but had only directed one previous film, the very different Personal Best. It is therefore perhaps not surprising that Tequila Sunrise comes across as more of a writer's film than a director's one. Towne inserts all the plot twists and turns that we have come to expect from noir and neo-noir, but there are none of the visual touches we associate with the genre. The film is surprisingly slow-moving and wordy for what is supposed to be a crime thriller, dominated more by talk than by physical action except during the (literally) explosive finale. Towne may have had ambitions to become an auteur director like Polanski, but Tequila Sunrise, a run-of-the-mill crime drama, is not the work of an auteur. 5/10 "},{"Title":"A modern day film noir.","Date":"21 February 2001","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Michelle Pfeiffer, Mel Gibson, and Kurt Russell are the three corners of the love triangle that makes up a significant part of the plot in this tense thriller. Gibson plays Mac, a legendary drug dealer who is trying to get out of the drug business but finds that no one wants him to leave, not even the police. Russell plays the part of the detective who is hot on Mac's trail but is reluctant to capture and charge him because the two men were childhood friends, and Pfeiffer is the beautiful restaurant owner who is torn by her feelings for the two men.The thing that really causes this otherwise unoriginal story to keep up a brisk pace is the question of what everyone's individual intentions are, who knows what, and who told what to whom. Tequila Sunrise is full of effective plot twists that sometimes twist right back to the way they were, even at the strangest times (such as in the boat near the end of the film).(spoilers) Jerry Bruckheimer and Company could take a serious lesson in making romantic subplots work in action films from Tequila Sunrise, in which Gibson and Pfeiffer eventually develop a very effective relationship with each other. The most moving scene involving this element of the film takes place when Mac is telling her about his reasons for teaching his lawyer (who is also her lawyer) to sell drugs. This has a lot to do with both of their skills as actors, because I've already seen Mel do this several times in the hardcore action Lethal Weapon series, and Michelle is so beautiful that she can do anything she wants.Tequila Sunrise is a heavily atmospheric film reminiscent of other modern classic films noir, such as the stiflingly atmospheric Body Heat, and much of the effect is the same. Kurt Russell is the stereotypical male in a film noir, with the slicked back hair, the nice suit, and the ever-present cigarette. Michelle Pfeiffer would fulfill the traditional femme fatale role very nicely, especially given her attractiveness as well as her overall physical fit of the description of the femme fatale, except that she doesn't really drag anyone down. Films noir usually end in death, for the femme fatale as well as the male victim, but Tequila Sunrise doesn't do that. This is one of the ways that the story was made to work so well, because even though you pretty much know that Mac will get the girl (if only because he's Mel Gibson), it twists many other expectations around. This is a thinking person's action film, and it's a shame that these are so uncommon.  "},{"Title":"an unusual mix","Date":"28 December 2001","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A return to adult filmmaking is robert towne's tequila sunrise. There is more here than the average girl gets in the middle of two boy story. This is a very entertaining and intriguing mix of characterizations and the meanings of friendship. Robert towne writes well rounded characters and situations that may on page seem fantastic but come across very natural on screen. The cinematography is top notch by conrad hall further proving his talent. "},{"Title":"Very underrated movie","Date":"2 March 2002","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a very underrated movie about lifelong friends with the bad guys having a lot of good in them and the good guys a lot of bad. The michelle pfeifer part of the movie is actually the worst part but of course a romance plot has to be included. She serves the purpose of dividing kurt russel and mel gibson even farther yet they remain friends because they always have been.  "},{"Title":"It gets you drunk.","Date":"4 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Oh boy, my parents, my girlfriend, my conscience, always told me not to drink several kinds of alcohol. I should have known better when I sunk into Tequila Sunrise... Yes, it is a different kind of movie, mixing genres, but that is exactly why it is so good. Let us talk about its content, its recipe A dose of buddy movie (without the race card.) with Mel Gibson and Kurt Russel, both friends and adversaries, another dose of buddy movie (pulling the race card) with Mel Gibson and the mysterious character of Carlos and his really good lines, a dose of romance with the gorgeous Michelle Pfeiffer dancing between the two frenemies, a father-and-son plot, a sprinkle of investigation, put that all in a shaker and you are ready to serve. But that is not all there is to it. This movie is served with a perfect style. Colors are really great, some scenes are sweets to the eyes. (The Swing scene, shot against the light is really delicious). Last but not least, the music has one foot on each side of the border, jazz and Spanish guitar alternate in perfect harmony. 115 minutes of very good moments that I will not spoil here, I have already said too much, don't be afraid this melting-pot, if you like good old movies you will not regret it and you might even feel dizzy when the credits come... "},{"Title":"Chick flick couched in neo-noir, but a heady mix nonetheless","Date":"25 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Tequila Sunrise is the very definition of selling a movie on the basis of sheer star power. Mel Gibson, Michelle Pfeiffer and Kurt Russell, I mean, you can almost see sparks fly from just the movie poster. But the movie is really about the characters and their tangled relationships . And even though the emphasis is placed on Gibson and Pfeiffer (and their steamy chemistry), I've always been partial to Russell's side of it. I just find him more interesting, and I do love his contemptuous attitude towards JT Walsh.That said, this is a case of one supporting player stealing the whole movie, and that is Raúl Juliá. Don't believe me? Just watch how the movie comes to life when he's around. It's never dull, but the guy's charisma is off the flippin' charts. The man had a gift.On the whole, it's a pretty good movie; complicated plot, surprising twist, great cast.7/10 "},{"Title":"an excellent movie if you view it right","Date":"21 September 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" if you are looking for an action thriller you will be disappointed , but if you view it as a crime drama, its first rate. I have seen it many times and really love it. its gotta very different feel to it and if you get it you will be watching it again and again. its brilliantly done. thanks a lot to the makers. Its got repeat value, the situations are very dramatic but played out in a very low key manner. Interactions between the main characters and the dialogues are a treat. And though you can not compare the two movies, in terms of quality, but if you liked watching Casablanca for the drama that is played out in a charged atmosphere , with excellent scenes of interactions between the main characters, you will love this one too. "},{"Title":"A must-see movie that is still one my all time favorites","Date":"15 August 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I loved this movie when it was first released and I still love it 22 years later. The language was definitely R-rated, but because I loved the movie so much I was willing to overlook that. The characters were perfect, the actors were perfect and the script was great. Mel Gibson has never looked better and exuded a vulnerability that made you root for him throughout the film. Michelle Pfifer is gorgeous, as always, and perfect for the part. Kurt Russell is perfect in his role, too. The hot tub scene was romantic without being raunchy and was tastefully done, (not graphic) allowing one to watch it without being uncomfortable. It is one of my all-time favorite movies, timeless, and still keeping me guessing even though I have many of the scenes memorized word for word. I don't know if it was under-rated when it was released or not, but I recommended it then and still do now. "},{"Title":"Underrated and Mistitled","Date":"19 July 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I would go so far as to say that this very under-appreciated film was the victim of bad titling. I think nobody went to see it in first release because they couldn't understand how the title related to the story. I mean really, Tequila Sunrise? What does Mac's cocktail of choice have to do with anything else in the movie? Except that tequila comes from Mexico and so does his friend/nemesis. I may have missed the dramatic crisis on which his beverage of choice hung, but I don't think so.I've seen this movie many times; in fact it is one of the first videos I bought because I spent so much money renting it. And I am pretty sure that this wonderful tale of love and redemption, justice and loyalty has more to do with with a cigarette lighter than it has to do with tequila.It is sensitively acted by four of Hollywood's very talented actors at the top of their game at the time Gibson, Pfeifer, Russell and Julia bring fully realized characters to the screen that play their sub-text wonderfully. Plus there is great dialog, and even a gratuitous exploding yacht/chase scene that all Mel Gibson fans should have been pleased to experience. (When the climax happens you not only hear the rumble in the bass but see the handrails on the jetty tremble.)All in all a fine film that I think stands up to the test of time twenty years on. "}{"Title":"Chinatown - Not","Date":"31 October 2005","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I knew Chinatown; Chinatown was a friend of mine; you're no Chinatown.Why Robert Towne chose to keep his name in the credits deserves more discussion than the movie itself. The script is really bad. All atmosphere and no substance makes it impossible for the actors to find any emotion, much less the appropriate one, to bring to the story beats. So they end up winging every scene.Each of the actors adopts a different strategy &#151; Raul Julia overplays, Mel Gibson charms his way, Kurt Russell out dresses everyone, while Michelle Pfeiffer just demurs. Hollow, hollow, hollow stuff. And that love scene how does a girl with her head seemingly screwed on right suddenly go that overboard. Okay, you can make together, but I want to marry you.? If you want a film combining substance, atmosphere, plus style, try LA Confidential. Curtis Hanson would have trashed the Tequila script and started over again, but then he's a great director who knows the secret is starting with a good script. Which brings us back to Towne. I guess he just lost his touch. "},{"Title":"Forgetable movie.","Date":"25 August 2002","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  No matter how strong a cast, without a script, the story falls apart. Russel, and Gibson perform strongly, but have too little to work with. One word can describe this film, boring!  I could not rewind the tape fast enough, and get it out of the vcr.  Do not rent it, even if there is nothing else watch. 3/10 "},{"Title":"Tequila Sunrise review","Date":"29 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" My second viewing to this film. It had a good 80s feel to the film, and set in a nice sunny location. The conflict between Kurt Russel and Mel Gibson was good, and kept it interesting throughout the film. There is a decent amount of action involved, but wouldn't say it was an action packed film, more of a film if you just want something to watch and be entertained by. As i said, i liked the 80s feel to the film, and had a great cast involved as well. I think Kurt Russell and Mel Gibson are top-notch Actors, and they both did a great job in showing their talent in Acting within this film. Wasn't the best performance by Gibson over the years, but if you want to watch the film if you like that summer 80's style like Tony Scott's 'Top Gun' then this might be the film for you. I think the best performance given by Gibson over the years would either be 'Lethal Weapon' or 'Braveheart' Overall, i enjoyed this film on my second viewing and could definitely watch it again somewhen. Like i said, if you like that 80s summer feel to a film, then definitely check this one out! "},{"Title":"Genial Dopers.","Date":"10 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Raoul Julia, from Puerto Rico, is Carlos (a name to conjure with in Latin villainy). He's a big drug dealer from Mexico and has been operating for years with his friend, Mel Gibson, whose life he once saved in a Mexican jail. He's now not only a big cocaine importer but some kind of Mexican anti-drug official.He's great, with his big expressive eyes and explosive temper. And he's given the best lines. FRIENDSHIP is the only thing that MATTERS! You can't blame a guy for going where his d*** tells him to. It's -- it's like a COMPASS pointing north! The restaurateur, Michelle Pfeiffer, is Gibson's girl friend. She knows that Gibson and Julia are smuggling dope and she promises to marry Gibson so she won't be able to testify to the cop, Kurt Russell, who is also a lifelong friend of Gibson's. When he hears of this, Julia erupts in disbelief. Man, she would say ANYTHING to keep from getting killed. She'd f*** a SNAKE! Julia is a murderer and a major criminal but he means what he says about friendship, even as he prepares to kill Gibson.The writer/director Robert Towne was one of the authors of the superb Chinatown and it shows. He knows his Los Angeles locations, having grown up there, and the dialog and characters are unimpeachable.Briefly, Gibson is trying to retire from smuggling but nobody really believes him. Julia more or less seduces him into one last big haul. Kurt Russell, local narcotics, keeps trying to protect Gibson from himself and from the zealous federal DEA agent, J. T. Walsh, who is determined to put Gibson away and, if that's not possible, to kill him outright.Michelle Pfeiffer is the sleek and gorgeous owner of a high-end Italian restaurant. She's innocent enough. Just an acquaintance of Gibson's. But she's swept up in events until she becomes so involved in them that she's a danger to the whole enterprise. She can make my quattro fromaggi anytime. She winds up boffing Gibson at pool's edge while Julia secretly peeps. He slaps Gibson on the back and congratulates him. Man, she was GREAT! Can she COOK too? I don't know exactly what Towne had in mind though. Chinatown is sometimes hard for me to get my head around, and so was this. There are inserts of fingers fiddling with machinery. I don't know what end J. T. Walsh came to because it's left dangling, but either Russell is guilty of assaulting a federal officer or -- well, I don't know what the alternative is.In a scene towards the end, Pfeiffer tells Gibson she loves him. Don't say that again. Of course, she says it again and he wallops her across the face. And a third time, and another wallop. I knew why Jack Nicholson was slapping Fay Dunawaye around in Chinatown but I don't know why Gibson is so physical in this scene.The whole film is thoughtful and beautifully done. There isn't a car chase in a cartload. No boat chases either, nor snowmobiles or hang gliders or roller blades. But it doesn't all hang together too well. It's a series of exquisitely done episodes with fascinating characters. Well worth catching. "},{"Title":"A Stylish Story That Is Part Crime Drama, Part Romance","Date":"20 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Tequila Sunrise is a film that has more style than substance, more innuendo than plot. So I can see why some viewers might not love it. But the same can be said of The Maltese Falcon, which has a plot maybe more convoluted than this film.The overall feeling of the film is anticipation, the waiting for something to happen that clarifies the ambiguous intentions and the shady alliances of the characters, because the viewer--unlike in some other films--knows less than the characters.The acting of Mel Gibson, Raul Julia and, especially, Michelle Pfeiffer should be singled out. In a film where intentions are not revealed, the actors need a good internal compass to direct them with integrity in the development of the roles through the story.The music used adds significantly to the film's mood. Especially the unmistakable sax of David Sanborn, which is one of the highlights of the film.I can understand why some might criticize the ending. I think there might be better choices, but that does not negate the value of the entire film. "},{"Title":"Meh","Date":"20 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is so mediocre, it screams to want to be a better movie. So that's the frustration you get as you watch some really good moments get buried in TERRIBLE dialogue, goofy plotting and ridiculous characters. Why did I think it was the middle of the road? It is well made. By well made, I mean it looks and feels like L.A. in the late 80's. It's sweaty, everything looks late afternoon and reminds me of tequila on cocaine. It's the atmosphere of that time. And it's perfect. Then you get these bobbleheads who ruin it with talking. Frankly, I've never seen Michelle Pfeiffer so wooden. She's got as much sex appeal in this movie as a billboard for genital herpes. Russell is grossly mis-casted. Strange how Alec Baldwin was first considered. It would've been an interesting choice.With all the earnest dark brooding noir sense, it becomes slapsticky Mel at the end (with Raoul Julia). While fun, negates the rest of the movie. This thing was a patchwork, not yet fully cooked before production started. Still, love L.A. in the 80's though. "},{"Title":"Star Power The Noir Way","Date":"31 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Robert Towne knows how to write. Chinatown is just as perfect as a screenplay can be, coupled with great acting, it's sublime. Tequila Sunrise is a reflection of the 80's, and it's a bit dated because one doesn't tend to think of this period as noir, but it's a terrific piece, and it works because of the terrific group of actors who give it their best. Towne is not Polanski, yet his effort is commendable.At the heart of the drama is a trio of lovers who don't quite know what the other one is doing. Gibson appears to be trying to get out of the business, but his ties are too strong to just walk away. Russell plays a childhood friend who now must follow the rules of his chosen profession, and in the middle is a woman who is not quite sure what to believe and ultimately choose, or does she? Pfieffer is amazing in that role. If you can't be satisfied with that trio, here comes the inimitable Raul Julia as the oily and showy Mexican character who is even more of a puzzle than the relationship between the woman and her two suitors.Following the structure of noir films, we see events taking darker and unexpected turns, and though the ending might be seen by some as a deviation from the formula, we are willing to let it go because of the intense chemistry between the leads. Maybe the tribute to genre deserves an unexpected turn itself. In the end, audiences might feel just fine with the end product. "},{"Title":"Nobody wants me to quit.","Date":"19 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This 1988 filmmaking effort for legendary screenwriter Robert Towne (of Chinatown fame) is slick, extremely well shot (by the equally legendary Conrad L. Hall), and generally absorbing. It does indeed go far on the charismatic performances by the star trio (that's not to mention the solid work by an exemplary supporting cast). It does boast a compelling theme of friendship, and the things that can put a severe strain on it. The characters are torn between what they have to do and what they would prefer to do.Towne goes with a traditional idea of having two boyhood buddies ending up on opposite sides of the law. McKussic (Mel Gibson) is a drug smuggler who's trying his best to get out of the business; Frescia (Kurt Russell) is a fast rising narcotics detective. Frescia, despite bearing no real ill will towards his pal, is not above manipulating others in order to get to McKussic - and, ultimately, Carlos, a big time drug kingpin who can only be identified by McKussic.All of the major parts are very well cast. Certainly they're all at their sexiest; Michelle Pfeiffer co-stars as Jo Ann, the savvy restaurant owner who comes between the two men. Raul Julia is a delight as the sinister Carlos, alternating between charm and menace. J.T. Walsh is superb as the unlikable, clueless federal agent whose methodology differs from Frescias'. (It's a truly sad thing that both Julia and Walsh are no longer with us.) Arliss Howard is Macs' cousin and partner in his shady dealings. Ann Magnuson has a cameo as Macs' ex-wife and Arye Gross has a small part as a lawyer. (Be sure to watch for a cameo by veteran director Budd Boetticher as a judge.)Admittedly the film is more interesting in its early parts. Towne begins it well but it isn't carried to a really satisfying conclusion. (Apparently the ending had to be changed in order to please the test audience. What a shame.) But thanks to Gibson, Pfeiffer, Russell, Julia, and Walsh, it's never less than watchable.Seven out of 10. "},{"Title":"Sun-down!","Date":"3 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" No other screenwriter is better at twisting and turning and revealing his plots quite like Robert Towne. At his best we get movies like 'Chinatown' one of the best and still most unbelievably twisted movie plots of the past 40 years. When he doesn't try very hard we get movies like 'Tequila Sunrise' a twisty, complicated movie that doesn't add up to much &#x96; it only seems to.We meet a drug dealer Dale McKussic (Mel Gibson) who because he is played by nice guy Gibson isn't just a drug dealer but a good guy drug-dealer who has retired and now fears that he will lose custody of his son. He has a son and that's another reason why the screenplay requires him to be an EX-drug dealer and such a darned nice guy. He has stopped selling drugs and his wife is giving him a hard time because the cash flow has stopped.Meanwhile his former friend, a cop named Nick Frescia (Kurt Russell) head of an anti-drug division of the sheriff's office gets a hint that a huge shipment is being brought in my McKussic's pal Escalante (the late Raul Julia) and wonders if McKussic might be coming out of retirement.This is all window-dressing for a much simpler story. Both Nick and Dale are in love with the same woman &#x96; Jo Anne Vallenari (Michelle Pfieffer) who runs an Italian restaurant. Which man does she love? Their both good, both interesting characters so we don't know.The problem is that Town takes a very simple story and over-complicates it with multiple-layers, twists in time and undercurrents so that we aren't sure what is really going on. That stuff adds up to a lot when you have a payoff that is worth it. By it's end 'Tequila Sunrise' has a headache-inducing plot supporting three interesting characters in a story that should have been a lot simpler. "},{"Title":" Carlito's Way goes Baywatch (rental)","Date":"11 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Well, this movie was released before Pacino's movie and Pam's show but it hasn't their fame in one word, it's about an ex-drug dealer who tries to lead a honest life but his past world wants to drag him back. If CW is a serious drama, this one is rather lighter as it happens in sunny Malibu (even if reading the title, i had always thought it was rather Miami). It allows a beautiful scene with figures against the sun and above all, it has an amazing quartet of cast Mel, Michelle, Raul Julia and Russell, tangled with an interesting love triangle.However, if i don't give 7 but 4, it's because the story was a bit boring and very usual cop vs dealer! For me, when we have watched one movie in this genre, we have watched them all. When we think about how old and how much money this fight has cost whereas the market is still dynamic, you can come to the conclusion that all this is simply irrelevant and wasteful as written in Schiff's book Real Crash, the government should think maybe to legalize drugs and become the one and only dealer. With that, maybe, there would be fewer victims, fewer crimes and fewer empty cop movies... "}{"Title":"awesome movie","Date":"4 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" First off Michelle Pfeiffer in the hot tub scene is worth at least 2 points right of the bat.. Raul Julia steals the show with limited time on screen,, that's 2 points. beautiful camera work and scenery 1 point. interaction between Mel Gibson and Kurt Russel and their constant arguing,, and their solid friendship worth 2 points,, and the storyline,, a drug dealer a cop,, a sexy young woman who both are in love with ,,3 points.. so there is how I get a 10... Mac is looking for one final score so he can retire,, but his best friend is a cop and is highly suspicious of Mac,, they are both in love with a local restaurant owner Jo Anne,, J.T. Walsh also plays a great supporting role in the movie,, but for me Raul Julia just steals the show he plays two parts,, a Mexicali federale and a drug lord.. this movie is great to watch,, part action, thriller drama love story,, "},{"Title":"Tequlla Sunrise","Date":"28 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" One of only five films directed by reputed writer Robert Towne (Chinatown), has some handsome stars (Kurt Russell, Michelle Pfeiffer, and Mel Gibson) to photograph in the striking location of Manhattan Beach, California. The story is truthfully fluff. A difficult relationship develops between restaurateur Pfeiffer and two buddies since high school, Russell (cop) and Gibson (drug dealer). Russell is a charmer with slicked back hair and a cocky bravado. Gibson is a tender-hearted softie pining for Pfeiffer; he's a good father who has attempted to go legit selling equipment and parts. Gibson spends time at Pfeiffer's successful Italian restaurant, hoping he might be able to eventually score a date. But Russell, working from the intense surveillance of DEA agents (led by the late, great JT Walsh), having bugged her restaurant, listening to conversations between Pfeiffer and Gibson, will beat his pal to the punch, seducing her before he even gets a chance. As this romantic melodrama commences, Pfeiffer instead falls in love with Gibson, even after all the dangers that might undermine their relationship like his Mexican drug partner (played by the usually excellent, late Raul Julia; Julia just steals the film, with his effortless charisma, once he emerges as the drug supplier masquerading as a Mexican Federali) appearing surprisingly (unbeknownst to the hapless Walsh, often considered foolish, with Russell often just emasculating him) and serious prison time if Gibson's caught by the DEA. Russell's character, working in concert with the DEA who seem to always botch any attempt to catch Gibson (and ultimately Julia), is placed in quite an emotional and professional quagmire&#x85;if he does his job correctly, his pal must go to prison and risk losing Pfeiffer in the process, but if he doesn't, it will detrimental to his law enforcement career. Seeing Pfeiffer having to decide between Gibson and Russell makes for the film's central dilemma; the ladies might understand how difficult it would be for her to choose. Russell is comfortable as the smooth operator, self-assured and confident at what he does (and he's damn good at catching criminals), with Gibson certain to make the girls swoon as a gentle divorcée longing for Pfeiffer but tied up in his business with Carlos (Julia) which could ruin any chance at happiness. Love triangles in these types of Hollywood romantic dramas are commonplace, but this was 1988 and Tequilla Sunrise has three bonafide stars as the leads. Towne was fortunate to get these three right when they were hot. It is a testament to Julia that he could walk away with the film considering the talent involved. I think the ending, which says that love conquers all even though it appears Gibson's going to jail (and should, to tell you the truth&#x85;), didn't quite wash with me, but I enjoyed how Russell grins in defeat accepting surrender when he realizes Pfeiffer is totally gaga for his pal. Considering Towne wrote this, you'd think there would be some meat on the bones, but this is all about star power; this kind of movie is more of a star vehicle and it seems Towne purposely avoided too complex a plot, instead opting to let his cast woo us with their talent (and looks). That sunset conversation between Russell and Gibson on the swingset is a showstopper of photographic beauty (the sunlight just bathes them, with us seeing just the silhouettes of Gibson and Russell as the talk about Pfeiffer and their dilemma). "},{"Title":"Swing set scene - where?","Date":"31 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" A few years ago I was in Redondo Beach/Hermosa Beach on business and I tried to go to where I thought the swing set scene between Mac and Nick took place. I didn't actually try to find a swing set or anything, figuring that something so obvious would have been a prop set up for the movie. So where was this most likely filmed based on the scenery? Hermosa? Redondo? I assume the cliffs off to the north are near Malibu area? I tried a little work with Google maps but there are no street views immediately next to the beach. Obviously I'm not too familiar with LA and its surroundings. I have seen that shot before in a movie somewhere but I'm not sure where. "},{"Title":"Tequila on the rocks or whisky with a straw","Date":"15 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" If you manage to know who is who and what is what in that film you will be a genius. Cops are cops and at the same time criminal drug dealers. Drug dealers are convicted drug dealers and yet they are friends. Friends are friends and yet they are cops. And you start all over again in any direction. In that business only friendly cops can survive and the best friends will have the upper hands on their lesser friends. Add a spoonful of love in that and the woman who brings that in will be courted, attacked and befriended on all sides and from all sides. She will be a happy girl indeed, and yet she will have to choose and she will choose the one she loves and not necessarily the one who is on the good side of the drug dealing road. That's the main quality of this film and the actors are just perfect for the job because they seem to believe the deep guano they are telling us. Of course everything is false, a lie, a pretense, a shameful shame but we find the rhythm just perfectly Californian, not too fast, not too slow, just good and nice with slow pauses here and there for us to recapture our breath that might have escaped us to go to more peaceful climates. And they manage to make you like the girl, and like her future husband and like the friend of that future husband, no matter which one of the two, the one who will survive of course. Beautiful. Now don't believe one word of what they say about the future of our world and that cocaine is finished and the future is in grass. When I am told that I feel like crossing the road in front of my house and getting on all fours and starting to graze. That's the cosmic dimension of the philosophy of that film.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University Paris 1 Pantheon Sorbonne, University Paris 8 Saint Denis, University Paris 12 Créteil, CEGID "},{"Title":"I liked it.","Date":"2 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  That's all.  I liked it.  I disagreed with the other poster and thought I should say that I found it worth watching.  It was entertaining, had an intriguing plot, and I thought Mel Gibson was cute in it.  I mean, no, I wouldn't rate in the Top Movies of All Time, but it was a fun one to see. "},{"Title":"Very Underrated","Date":"25 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Many perceive Tequila sunrise to be a routine, formulaic cop thriller with some nice sets, pretty actors, some guns, some sex....etc. Cynics go on to say that Gibson has never acted worse, that the plot twists are predictable and the love triangle is overly cheesy. I, on the other hand, feel that the film profits greatly from expert cinematography, fluent storytelling and convincing(albeit rather undemanding)acting. Pitting Gibson (the now-retired drug dealer lured back for one last deal) and Russell (the reluctant sheriff assigned to bust him) as best of friends on opposite sides of the law was a strong premise, made even more compelling by the fact that the drug dealer (Gibson) is the sympathetic character and the cop (Russell) is the sly, manipulative sort. There is an apparent sense of irony and it goes a long way to making an otherwise average story, interesting and very watchable. Pfeiffer is the glamorous love interest whose character does a lot to intensify the rivalry between the two men. Much of the drama and strength however comes from the late J.T Walsh as Russell's superior, hell bent on bringing Gibson down and his Mexican drug counter-part who nobody has ever seen. A special sense of irony presents itself at the denouement for Walsh unknowlingly becomes a pawn in the drug ring that has now become the talk of the town thanks to his vendetta.The also late Raul Julia never disappoints as the charismatic yet enigmatic Mexican law enforcer. Julia and Walsh complement the film beautifully as side characters with dubious intentions. They are multi-faceted and  like all the other people in this film are torn between what they should do and what they want to do, and in fact what they end up doing. Nothing is black and white in Tequila Sunrise; it's a very grey area. With every development we learn more about the people and how they are so far from being what we originally perceived. Hats off to to Robert Towne for his writing. Tequila Sunrise may lack the inventiveness, vision, and dynamism of Chinatown (Robert Towne wrote both scripts), but it should, by no means be discarded as a mediocre cop thriller.It is a very slick piece of cinema with fine acting, glamorous sets, and great dialogue. Furthermore, unlike some of it's predecessors it's a film that can be seen repeatedly without losing it's cutting edge. Under appreciated and underrated, Tequila Sunrise is an excellent film "},{"Title":"Elegant crime picture","Date":"13 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Elegant crime picture about a drug dealer, his best friend (who is a cop) and the woman they both love. Complicated plot isn't always the easiest to follow, and the story is rather convoluted, but Towne photographs everything in warm passionate tones, and Gibson, Russell, and Pfeiffer shine like planets, not stars. Excellent contributions from all involved make this a tasty, romantic piece. "},{"Title":"Definitely underrated","Date":"27 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Great film. It's a script only a Hollywood screen writer could conceive but it works somehow. Its a chick flick and I had fun watching it. The acting is just great... Kurt Russell and Mel Gibson play really nice and vibrant characters and they are young actors in this film, which really gives it some strength. Michelle Pfeiffer is well caught between the two characters.All in all, a highly unrated film...Ben SchleimerPS. Minimum lengths for comments is lame. I just wanted to say something nice about the film without having to write a ton of text. Consider removing the minimum length requirement if you want more reviews submitted "},{"Title":"Hugely entertaining","Date":"24 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is absolutely one of my favourite films- it breaks my heart a little to see it so under-rated. People seem to hold grudges against formulaic films- I cannot comprehend how a film this entertaining can be given such a low rating. I obviously don't think it's in Godfather territory but it appears that voters are far too keen to separate quality and entertainment when the two need not be mutually exclusive. As far as I can see, every box is ticked best friends on different sides of the fence, Michelle in the middle, steamy sex scene, awesome script and possibly the coolest character played by possibly the coolest actor, Raul Julia. This film doesn't really put a foot wrong. "},{"Title":"Just enough mystery with the kind of triangle I'd like take part","Date":"16 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Michele, Kurt, Mel and Raul are involved in a suspensful cat and mouse game, revolving around friendship, family, drugs and truelove.  Robert Townsend wrote a beautifully crafted script for this ensemble cast to perform. Raul Julia steals the show with some of the best lines. And for those that complain Mel isn't acting, these folk are obviously cynics that have either never been in love or have forgotten that those in love always look foolish to us sane folk.  Alfred Hickcock would be proud to have created this film. And it goes on my list of personal favourites that I can watch time after time. "}{"Title":"One of the best movies on the eighties","Date":"21 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The best performance of Kurt Russel ever, maybe the best of Michelle, fantastic Raul Julia and always correct J.T. Walsh.It is definetly not the best performance of Mel but alltogether under the guidance of Thom Mount and Bob Towne these people made a magical job  - they made a movie where every bit, every second and every frame is a masterpiece (well - certainly there were more people involved).One need to see it several times to discard its detective tag - it is definetely not a detective. Than what is it? Just see it and answer yourself... "},{"Title":"Beautiful people, beautiful location","Date":"18 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Michelle Pfeiffer and Mel Gibson have the same eyes! And there's plenty of shots of these two to make both sexes do a little salivating. Every time I watch this film, I catch something new. Die-hard love for the film begins around viewing No. 4. The setting in southern California is captured very well from sunny days at the beach to blazing sunsets to fogged over nights. It's quite intoxicating. "},{"Title":"GREAT MOVIE! KURT WAS WONDERFUL!","Date":"13 March 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The movie was great! Mel and Kurt worked great together... Kurt is a great actor.  Mel was his usual self. Michelle is beautiful - the movie had twists and turns  and I've watched it many times! "},{"Title":"Tequila Sunset","Date":"8 September 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Legendary screenwriter Towne's thriller is a slick, watchable story about honour among friends involved (from various perspectives) in a big drug deal.  Unfortunately, it's also a load of tosh.  The characters are all beautiful (Michelle Pfiffer especially), but completely unconvincing, none more so than Kurt Russell's cop who never seems to do a single day of real police work. The moral complexities of the story lose out to gloss, and a ghastly soundtrack, at every point - even the cleverness of the plot has no impact, so intentionally flat are the characters.  Fundamentally this film is all about aspiration - it sells you a lifestyle (good food, beautiful women, golden beaches) and the details are just a peg on which to hang the ad.  Passes the time, but there's something fundamentally unpleasant in the whole conceit.  A film of the 80s in every sense.  "},{"Title":"Conrad and Raul","Date":"16 June 2003","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Spoilers herein.This film is at root a mess, another rehash of the buddies who end up on opposite sides  of the law. Naturally, they compete over the same female trophy. Drugs, stupid cops  bossing a breezy detective. These are all trotted out as the formula requires. Ho hum. I  suppose the producers thought that attractive Mel and Michelle would gloss over the  vapid framework. At least they are early enough in their careers to energetically try.  Later, they would simply show up. (Michelle obsesses over her unattractive neck and here  has hair that is the perfect solution.)But behind the machinations of the product, two fine craftsmen do their work. Sadly,  both are now gone. Conrad Hall does the cinematography. You can see how blunt the  director is in how things are blocked and how crafty Hall is in getting around those  limitations, even exploiting them. My favorite example of this is Mel answering the phone  after predictably bedding Michelle and leaving her in the trailer. Upstairs, pooltable, the  Carlos-twist, are all visually conveyed.And then there is Carlos himself, an actor leagues beyond everyone else we see and a  character more fulfilled. Raul knows how to act a man that acts, how to live large in a  body that is living large and to have the two largenesses interact internally. A fine man.  Two fine men one the tequila, one the sunrise.Ted?s Evaluation -- 2 of 4 Has some interesting elements.  "},{"Title":"messy crime drama","Date":"8 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" 'Mac' McKussic (Mel Gibson) is a former drug dealer trying to stay clean. His close friend Nick Frescia (Kurt Russell) is in the drug taskforce in the L.A. County Sheriff's Department. DEA Agent Hal Maguire (J. T. Walsh) insists that Mac is involved with faceless Mexican cartel leader Carlos. Maguire tries to get restaurant owner Jo Ann (Michelle Pfeiffer) to spy on Mac but she refuses. Nick gets close to Jo Ann as the task force closes in on Mac. Nick introduces Jo Ann to Mexican Federales Commandante Xavier Escalante (Raúl Juliá).This is a jumble messy noirish hard-boiled crime drama. The first noticeable thing is the need for more setup. It would be helpful to show the childhood friendship and even their relationship when they were cop and robber. They need to build up their story together so the audience can truly feel their closeness. Everything builds on that including the love triangle. The story is both as slow as molasses and as confused as an Iowa corn maze. I like the style and the acting is alright. However, the plot has no momentum and struggles to find any footing. "},{"Title":"Or Sunset","Date":"30 November 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Robert Towne directed this steamy crime/love story that stars Mel Gibson as Mac McKussic, a high class, reluctant drug dealer who wants to go straight. Kurt Russell plays Nick Frescia, a cop who is also an old friend of Mac, but is still determined to bring him down. Both men are attracted to fancy restaurant owner Jo Ann(played by Michele Pfeiffer) for different reasons. Mac is really in love with her, Nick wants to use her relationship with Mac to lead him to a Mexican drug cartel leader(played by Raul Julia) that the DEA(led by J.T. Walsh) desperately wants. All will collide by the finale... Though well cast, and not without some merit, this story is ultimately unappealing because there is nobody to root for, and the story isn't strong enough to compensate. "},{"Title":"Ummmmm, really?","Date":"3 July 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This was a really dumb movie. It's mainly a silly love-triangle romance with a super-thin, drug caper plot. I vaguely remember watching this one as a kid, and being very bored, but I couldn't remember exactly what it was about or anything. Now, here I am, watching it again, and it really is the same boring, stupid movie. It's nice to see Kurt Russell and Mel Gibson along with Michelle Pfeiffer, but not only that, it's also got Raul Julia and JT Walsh, two late, great character actors, from way back. I just wish it were in a better movie. Ironically, of these two film greats, both of whom I, myself, remember fondly, one's character kills the other, immediately before effectively bringing about his own death, while recklessly lashing out at one of the leads.This movie has some good parts, namely the acting, which I could find no fault with, but the nonsense crime plot and silly romance really hang it up.Frankly, I'm fairly amused by all the positive reviews, but also by the fact that the director, Towne, also wrote Chinatown, possibly the best film of it's type, and which was a far, far, better flick than this one. Worth noting in addition to Chinatown, (and despite Tequila Sunrise), Towne is also credited with writing multiple other of my own personal favorite movies, such as The Last Detail, Frantic, The Firm, The Parallax View, Bonnie & Clyde, and even a couple of the Mission Impossible movies. I guess everyone has a bad day, from time to time... "},{"Title":"This is my backyard, Hal! I don't grow weeds in my backyard so I can pull 'em!","Date":"21 March 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I watched this purely because it was on TV, I liked the sound of it from looking it up on here, and because Towne wrote Chinatown(and I don't hold him responsible for Mission Impossible II, he was asked to work around the action sequences that had already been developed; this is the only thing that he's directed that I've seen, and, well, maybe there's a reason he hasn't gotten to do that all that often). This is entertaining enough. The leads, all four of 'em(Raul Julia stole the show), work their own individual charm and it works immensely well. Whilst not the best, this is a nice example of where the 80's could truly deliver something marvelous, as far as films go. The dialog is clever and relatively sharp at its best. Pacing is reasonable, although this has dull portions where the plot could move faster than it does. The cast are clearly enjoying themselves, and the acting performances tend to be quite good. There is some pretty decent tension in this, and it's definitely funny, and not afraid to challenge the ideals of who the good guys and who the bad guys are. There is a bit of strong language, a little bloody violence and a single sex scene in this. I recommend this to fans of anyone involved in making it. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Not a bad film","Date":"4 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" One of writer-director Robert Towne's better scripts (especially when compared to his more recent co-scripting of Days of Thunder with Tom Cruise), yet he still fails to raise Tequila Sunrise above the mediocre.The story is great, and the attentive viewer will appreciate its complexities and mild twists, yet our director does not develop tension, or other moods, very well. Mel Gibson, Kurt Russell and Michelle Pfeiffer are good, but the three way romance is a bit here and there, as is Pfeiffer's tough but morally ambiguous character.A shame about the wasted potential and Raul Julia's regrettably small role as Esperante, however, still not a bad film.Friday, February 26, 1993 - T.V. "}{"Title":"Don't worry, buddy. I won't kill her unless you approve.","Date":"6 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" What can you say about the guy who wrote Greystoke The Legend of Tarzan, Lord of the Apes; Shampoo; Chinatown; and The Last Detail? Do you think that a movie written and directed by Robert Towne might be worth 2 hours of you life? We are talking about a master romantic tantalizer here.A sample Michelle Pfeiffer tells Mel Gibson how sorry she is that she hurt his feelings. He replies, C'mon, it didn't hurt that bad, pauses, and adds, Just lookin' at you hurts more. You can see the love in his eyes as he looks at the shining beauty of Michelle Pfeiffer. Doesn't that make you want to run out and rent this film? It should. "},{"Title":"Pretty enjoyable little flick, that did enough to entertain me overall, as I liked both the story and the wonderful performances!","Date":"4 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a pretty enjoyable little flick, that did enough to entertain me overall, as I liked both the story and the wonderful performances!. All the characters are cool, and the finale is quite suspenseful, plus Mel Gibson, Kurt Russell, and Michelle Pfeiffer are all simply amazing in this!. It took a little while to get going, however once it does, it's quite engaging, and the star power most definitely helps, plus it also helps you are able to feel for Gibson's character. Pfieffer had good chemistry with both Gibson and Russell, and I liked the ending too, plus Raul Julia was good in his role, and managed to make me chuckle for some reason. It's well made and written for the most part, and this will fit the bill just perfectly for a rainy night/afternoon, plus Gibson and Russell added lots of good humor to this as well. It's also a little bit underrated, and all the characters are extremely likable for the most part, plus as always J.T Walsh played a really good prick that you will hate. This is a pretty enjoyable little flick, that did enough to entertain me overall, as I liked both the story and the wonderful performances, I highly recommend it. The Direction is very good!. Robert Towne does a very good! job here, with good camera work,solid angles and keeping the film at a fast pace. The Acting is fantastic!. Mel Gibson is amazing as always and is amazing here, he is usual charismatic self, is very likable, and you are bale to care about his character, he had good chemistry with both Pfeiffer and Russell, and was fun to watch, I loved him as always. (Gibson Rules!!!!!!!). Kurt Russell is also amazing as always and is amazing here, like Gibson he is his usual charismatic self, and while he didn't have as much screen time as I would have liked, he was still a big part of the film! (Russel Rules!!!!!!!). Michelle Pfeiffer is also amazing as always and is amazing here as the love interest, she is incredibly gorgeous, had good chemistry with both Gibson and Russell, and I also felt for her character as well, she was amazing! (Pfeiffer Rules!!!!!!!). Raul Julia is pretty good in his role, he was sneaky, but somehow yet quite likable, I really dug him. J.T. Walsh as always played a great asshole, that I loved to hate, I cheered when Russell flipped the Coffee's all over him!. This is a pretty enjoyable little flick, that did enough to entertain me overall, as I liked both the story and the wonderful performances, I highly recommend it. ***1/2 out of 5 "},{"Title":"I'm a bourbon man, myself","Date":"18 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Okay. I'm going to be a little gross here, but bear with me. You know the ads for anti-gas medicine wherein the folks at the restaurant table all bloat up as if they have been sitting on tire pumps and one of them takes the gas medicine? His gut deflates while the others remain bloated and miserable. Well, have you ever asked yourself where all that gas went? Into movies like Robert Towne's Tequila Sunrise, a fiberless and incoherent, intestinal gas bubble of a movie. I watched this odorless, colorless fart on TNT a few nights ago, the first time since it came out, and was simply amazed at how stylishly, vacantly dumb it was.Since I'm on this gastrointestinal kick, have you ever had a bland diet in the hospital after suffering from something like the stomach flu or gastroenteritis (the ailment that made President Bush's dad barf in the Japanese prime minister's lap)? The difference with a bland diet and Tequila Sunrise is that the food has nutritional value. This movie, with vacuous performances by Mel Gibson, Kurt Russell, Michelle Pfeiffer, and Raul Julia, has no nutrition at all, nothing! I won't even give a cursory overview of the plot. Why bother? I didn't care . . . and neither should you.Now, set me up with another order of broth, rice, and tea! "},{"Title":"wonderful, trashy nonsense","Date":"10 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The movie doesn't really make any sense, but I think that it's clear that it isn't supposed to. It's supposed to be a bunch of scenes between the 3 principals with arch, snappy dialogue, and languorous looks. Comparing this movie to something like Against All Odds is quite instructive. They are both beautiful movies, but AAO tries to have a plot and comes out making no sense in a leaden, boring way (the director is so stupidly earnest about his everyone is corrupt theme that it's embarrassing), while this one is a delight. It's basically a chick-flick, but it's so well done that anyone that wants to soak in the atmosphere of it will enjoy the movie. "},{"Title":"It just doesn't work","Date":"25 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This seems to be one of those films where people either really like it or really don't.  I fall into the latter category.  The script is convoluted, contrived.   The direction is too self-conscious.  Towne tries way too hard to do Chinatown II.  But he doesn't have an insouciant character like Jake Gittes here.  Kurt Russell could have done it, should have done it, but he isn't allowed to cut loose here, really.  Mel, Michelle and Kurt don't strike sparks, in any combination.  It's too hard to buy Mel as a drug dealer; he might be able to take on that sort of part now, but back then when he was around 32, young and beautiful, we are supposed to believe this guy spent 15 years dealing drugs.  Everybody's just too gosh-darn restrained.  Michelle seems to be sleepwalking most of the time.  Even the sex scene doesn't work.  The film's Hollywood ending plays as tacked-on.  J.T. Walsh and Raul Julia were good, though. I'm a fan of all three leads; I think they could do a good movie together; this movie wasn't it. "},{"Title":"Wonderful movie, great cast!!","Date":"26 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  An amazing cast for this wonderful script!! Michelle just lights up the screen with her wonderful performance.  This will prove to be one of Michelle's best films of her career. Michelle and Mel are wonderful together.  "},{"Title":"I'm Mel's biggest Fan","Date":"7 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I simply love this movie.  I have it on tape and watch it whenever I want to see a hot guy and a girl in a passionate love triangle.  The music's not bad either.  It's not the world's greatest film work, but it's very entertaining.  I recommend it. "},{"Title":"My Favourite Movie","Date":"1 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A truly great screenplay by Robert Towne and a great cast highlight this film. Dale McKusic (Mel Gibson) is an ex-con drug dealer trying to go straight, build a small business and raise a son. Complicating things are his friends, a cop Nick Friescha (Kurt Russell) and the druglord Carlos (Raul Julia) and Dales' no good cousin (Arliss Howard). Friescha will do anything he can not to have to bust his childhood friend, Dale. Carlos wants Dale to work for him again. The DEA agent sent in to head the investigation (J.T.Walsh) wants Dales' head at any price and is willing to go through Friescha if he has to. On top of all that he falls in love with a beautiful restauranteur (Michelle Pfeiffer) who wants nothing to do with organized crime and is involved with Friescha.Mel Gibson has never been better as the hero with a checkered past trying to rebuild his life. Raul Julia almost steals the show as Carlos the druglord ping-pong enthusiast.This is not an action film any more than it is a romance. It is the type of crime drama that could have been made in any time period. "},{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"21 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I loved this film. Mel Gibson was excellent and Michelle Pfeiffer was outstanding. Kurt Russell even surprised me with his best performance since Escape... All the characters interacted extremely well with Raul Julia in superb form.Highly recommended "},{"Title":"So many big stars and then such an average movie...","Date":"8 November 2008","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie has a cast to die for; Mel Gibson, Michelle Pfeiffer, Kurt Russell, Raul Julia, J.T. Walsh, Arliss Howard. It makes you wonder though why they all ever agreed to appear in this movie. It's a waste of their talents really, since the movie its script doesn't provide the movie with anything interesting or exciting. Instead it more often confuses and bores.I was real disappointed by the movie its script. While '80's police movies also aren't exactly know for their great or original stories but this story is even worse than usual. In the end you just stop carrying about anything that is happening in this movie or for any of its characters, since the movie has dragged along for far too long. The movie is lacking a certain depth with its story. In all honesty the movie really didn't started off too bad but its one of those movies that gets worse by the minute. In the end it makes you regret you've ever watched it.It's sad that not even the great cast could put some life into the movie and its story. It's also a rather unknown movie from each of the movie its actors. They still try their very best but no, I can't really say it helps much. Although it of course is certainly true that the presence of actors such as Mel Gibson, Michelle Pfeiffer, Kurt Russell, Raul Julia and J.T. Walsh still uplifts the movie. I mean, with a totally different and unknown cast the movie would had been far worse for sure.What the movie is lacking is some good action. It would at least had made the movie more interesting to watch. And when you have an '80's action-star such as Mel Gibson in your movie, why not use that? Instead now the movie feels like a movie done action-crime-thriller movie style but without any action in it and also without much thriller elements, since the movie is just not exciting or original enough to allow any of these elements to completely work out.The movie also suffers from an horrible '80's music curse; the '80's music! It's so dreadful, hearing constantly some idiot playing his saxophone as loud as he can, with an occasional guitar and drums joining in. It's a score you can normally expected in a bad porn-flick.Oh well, it's not exactly as if this is THE worst movie ever made but it also isn't exactly a movie I would recommend to anyone, despite the presence of some good big names in it.5/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "}{"Title":"Doesn't Mix","Date":"7 May 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" The point of departure is Coppola's The Conversation, but just about everyone here is clueless; along the way, the pretenses include stealing the restaurant set up (not the content) of My Dinner With Andre...but this is B movie writing, post-'Miami Vice' and GQ. The objective of close up mug shots and the notion of voyeuristic distance of surveillance don't mix here.It's watchable only when Julia arrives, his tenor (literally!) stealing the show from the tone-deaf would-be celebrities; he's actually the only one with a clue, so he applies the appropriate excesses to show how stupid this is.One frame Towne did get consistent with the distance required for surveillance the conversation on the beach, swing set, silhouettes against the mountains and red sky, dialogue overdubs... "},{"Title":"Fantastic Cinematography","Date":"23 August 2004","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I love this movie, plain and simple. It features a wonderful cast, strong performances (including two excellent smaller roles for the late Raul Julia and J.T. Walsh, both of whom died way too young) and fantastic writing.The scenery seems dated today, but the cinematography work was a masterpiece for 1988. Think Out of Sight but a few years earlier. Dialogue is memorable as is sexy Michelle Pfeiffer.While the plot is fairly simple, the character development is thorough and the characters themselves, believable. Overall, its a great film. I recommend this movie to all viewers.  "},{"Title":"Tequila Sunrise Sunsets Early **","Date":"6 June 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Kurt Russell as the suave, cool, cunning chain smoking cop gives an interesting performance in this otherwise tedious 1988 film. His best friend is Mel Gibson, a drug dealer. How the two really became friends is never adequately explained. Of course, Russell is assigned to investigate Gibson.Michelle Pfeifer is the owner of the restaurant where the drugs are being sold and so she comes under suspicion as well. Michelle spends the balance of this film going back and forth between the Gibson and Russell characters. The bartender in her restaurant seems to be an interesting character, but his character is never fully developed here.I immediately guessed who Mexican Federal Agent Raul Julia really was.For a drug-related movie, there is relatively little action and the shoot out scene at the end, is inane at best. "},{"Title":"Noble Effort That Misses the Mark; Script Still Needed Honing and What Does the Name Mean?","Date":"24 June 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" From beginning-to-end, I never understood how the name Tequila Sunrise had anything to do with the film. I never saw them drink tequila and I am not sure that I ever saw a sunrise. I neither saw a sunrise that looked like tequila nor a tequila that looked like a sunrise. For one thing, the story concerns a drug dealer, not an alcoholic. If the phrase Tequila Sunrise is a metaphor, I missed it. I have always wondered about films with thought-provoking but abstract names that really have little meaning Autumn Sonata, Vanilla Sky, Random Harvest, The Phantom Menace, and my favorite, The Unbearable Lightness of Being. I could even make up a few names that could be used for future films Everest Wake, Shadows of the Forsaken, Lost Eternity, Resplendent Dust, A Handful of Ashes. Sounds like Best Picture material.Sometimes a well-intentioned film with a cool name just doesn't work, especially when given a title that has nothing to do with the story. In the case of Tequila Sunrise, it's hard to pinpoint the problem is it the title or the script or both? The cast is pretty good, with Mel Gibson, Michelle Pfeiffer, Kurt Russell, and Raul Julia. The directing was decent. The sets aren't bad. But it all comes down to the script. When a script is good, it's amazing how many pieces will start to fall into place. When a script is still a few re-writes away from really being there then no matter how many other good things are in place, it just doesn't quite work. Without a fine script, a film can only hope to be mediocre at best. And add a compelling title that seems disassociated with the film, it ends up being a mess.The essential premise is that Mel Gibson is (or was) a drug dealer who has decided to come clean. He is good friends with a narcotics enforcer, Kurt Russell. Part of the problem is that the film never provides neither a flash-back alluding to Gibson's dealing nor his friendship with Russell. Both aspects of Gibson's character seems a bit--contrived. I couldn't quite see him as a drug dealer, and if he was, I couldn't quite grasp that he was such good friends with Russell. I think I needed something more to grab hold of to tell me why these two guys on opposite sides of the spectrum could remain friends.They both hang out at a fancy restaurant owned by Michelle Pfeiffer. And then a strange love-triangle develops between the three. First Pfeiffer has the hots for Russell and then for Gibson. And again, I couldn't quite buy it. Here's a beautiful woman working in a restaurant for years, and the first time she falls for a guy is when Russell walks in. She never met anyone else the whole time? OK, it's a movie. But then she decides she's really in love with Mel Gibson, former drug dealer. He's been going to the restaurant longer than Russell. And only after she falls for Russell she decides she likes Gibson? Part of the idea is that Russell may be using Pfeiffer to get to Gibson, but they're friends afterall...So why does Russell need Pfeiffer and the restaurant? Turns out either for a stake out or a sting operation against a drug dealer looming in the shadows named Carlos, played by Raul Julia. When Raul Julia shows up, the story takes a very unexpected twist but that part of it is never well-developed nor fully-explained. Russell's character figures it out but fails to tell or show us how he came to the conclusion. Seems like the screenwriter just threw it in there to make it interesting but didn't quite think it through. If a film can be said to be discombobulated, Tequila Sunrise fits the bill. But you got to dig the cool name. "},{"Title":"Ain't Love Grand?","Date":"7 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Though I cannot deny that it is unbelievably cheesy, filled with practically every cliché one can imagine and contains tons of embarrassing dialogue (especially Kurt Russell's begging speech) and unconvincing love scenes (DAMN, Mel, will you please kiss her like you mean it and stop squirming!), I LOVE this movie. It satisfies the romantic in my soul. Michelle Pfeiffer and Raul Julia make it worthwhile. My favorite scene is when Mac tells Jo Ann why he decided to go straight. Pure Magic! Don't you love it when a man will reform for the love of a woman? No, it never will be a classic, but I enjoy it all the same. "},{"Title":"The best, most tangled script that I have seen in quite some time.  Excellent film","Date":"26 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is so rich in character that you could really care less if the film sucks in every other way.  Fortunately, it doesn't and what we are left with is one incredible film.What I enjoyed most about the film was how almost every character has a hidden agenda.  From Mac ( Gibson ) and Joanne's ( Pfeiffer ) laywer and the Mexican detective Escalante ( in a brilliant performance by Raul Julia ).  They all have something that they are hiding.  Something that they don't want anyone else to know.Robert Towne, who is one of the great script writers of our time, directed this masterpiece.  He paints every character with many shades of grey and he paints the background of this movie with lush oranges and sunset reds.  It is excellent in every way.  But you have to have your brain working in this film because it is a smart movie.  It treats the viewer as if they are smart and not the typical mindless audience that movies are aimed at these days.A great cast, perfect writing and direction and cinematography make this a treat to watch. "},{"Title":"a very slick and entertaining film","Date":"16 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a very Hollywood movie, even by Robert Towne's standards.  And it's not a pseudo-Oscar pc boredom film either.  It's a mishmash of styles and symbols, but it is entertaining.  What two guys wouldn't fight for Michelle Pfeiffer if given the chance?  That question is the basis of the film. Compound that notion with the fact that the two guys are best friends and you have that Hollywood staple that almost always entertains the love triangle.  The film Against All Odds couldn't pull it off, but Tequila Sunrise does.  Mel Gibson and Kurt Russell are both less over-the-top than they can be and that helps.  Pfeiffer is very winning and the supporting cast, which includes Raul Julia, Arliss Howard, J.T. Walsh, Arye Gross and Ann Magnuson is very good.  Probably a great date movie, since it appeals to women even more so than guys. "},{"Title":"Fascinating failure","Date":"23 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The movie is a fascinating failure. In essence it's an old-fashioned genre piece, with the kinds of ambiguities that characterized the best film noir of the 40's and 50's the main characters are conceived in classically muscular thematic colours, and Towne creates a sometimes absorbing network of shifting perceptions, generally leaving it pretty open as to how we should grade the relative professional and personal failings and compromises of the protagonists. The climax makes this moral confusion extremely explicit, but then is followed by a sappy coda that exemplifies the movie's worst aspect - its capitulation to a Miami Vice kind of visual glossiness (on which it may be trying - but if so without success - to form some kind of commentary). The style looks very dated even after a decade, and the music has fared even worse. The actors seem too superficial to do justice to the movie's thematic ambitions Gibson and Pfeiffer are so one-dimensional as to be outacted by Russell; Julia's character goes far into overdone stereotype and seriously damages the film's later stretches. Given these drawbacks, much of the smart dialogue takes on a rote quality - there are times when the characters seem fated to endlessly analyze and parry, and the nuances sail away along with one's concentration. It still does overall justice to Towne's ambition though, even if it convincingly demonstrates the difference between a great writer and a great director. "},{"Title":"Oh what a web we weave when we practice the art of deceit","Date":"16 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Tequila Sunrise has one of the best scripts ever written, and it is no wonder considering that it is written and directed by Robert Towne.  And overall this movie may seem confusing at first, but after you view it several times, you will realize that this is a masterpiece.The cinematography in this film is beautifully crafted and the direction moves at just the right pace.  But what really makes this film a treasure is the characters and the situations that they are put in and how they resolve them.  One of the best lines in the film ( and there are many to choose from ) is when Joanne ( Pfeiffer ) confronts Mac about his notorious past with drugs.  She notes that he was out with Andy Leonard the night he was arrested but he assures her that he was not selling drugs.  Leonard was. Why were you there she wonders.   I was trying to teach him how to sell them.  What it comes down to is that Andy is smart enough to be a lawyer but way to dumb to be a crook.    So what does that give you, she wonders out loud.  It gives him respectability he replies.  But for who she wonders.  You, so that in case I ever asked you out on a date you'd accept. This is an old fashioned love story that has Gibson as the ultra cool former druggie but when it comes to the ladies he is as shy as a 20 year old virgin that hasn't even been kissed.  The movie develops this plot and many others and then ties them all up nicely at the end of the film.  This is one great film and it is worth seeing if only for the great cast and wonderful script.  "},{"Title":"Tiresome Melodrama","Date":"28 October 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" A cop (Kurt Russell), a beautiful restaurant owner (Michelle Pfeiffer), and a drug dealer who may or may not have reformed himself (Mel Gibson) cross paths, cross swords, argue, confront, compete, and in general size up each other in this meandering melodrama set in southern California. I couldn't get interested in any of these people or their interpersonal drama, despite the underlying theme of moral ambiguity. At times, the film seems more like a soap opera. Robert Towne's 135 page shooting script is heavy on dialogue, and it shows in the long takes and endless talk.One problem with this film is that the story revolves around drug dealing. Through the years this has become such a hackneyed, unimaginative concept that stories like this one run the risk of being stale and tiresome. Second, the plot in Tequila Sunrise shifts back and forth between the three leads. I never figured out who the protagonist was.Visually, the film looks good. Color cinematography is quite impressive. I especially liked the evocative sequence with black silhouettes of two characters set against an orange sky at sunset. And there are some technically difficult outdoor camera shots at night on water in fog. The film's background music is jazzy and rather typical of music from the 1980s. Acting is conventional but acceptable.Tequila Sunrise has a 1970's noir look and feel with a touch of elegance. But I just couldn't get past the drug motif, or interested in any of the three main characters or their personal drama. Despite an impressive visual accomplishment and high production values, Towne's script is the big letdown here. "}{"Title":"UNINTENTIONALLY HILARIOUS","Date":"2 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This loony movie is probably the result of conflict between sensitive author/director Robert Towne's desire to make a serious study of complex relationships, and star Mel Gibson's desire to appear always sympathetic.  The story is consistently distorted to justify his character's actions, and co-stars Michelle Pfeiffer and Kurt Russell after a while seem to be just hanging onto each other trying to ride out the swirling tides of his ego.  The result is a film hilariously unbalanced.  Example  Michelle is torn between her affections for Mel and Kurt.  The first time she confronts Mel, his adorable little boy starts to drown, and Mel rushes into the sea to save him.  Kurt has no son, and no opportunity for heroics.  Another Kurt gets to lay Michelle on top of a big barrel in a basement; Mel has her in a paradisical sauna.  The plot gets lost in its efforts to glorify Mel.  The last half hour is so confusing I had to replay it several times before I could follow it.  WARNING SPOILER AHEAD Vaguenesses pile up until eventually, after a nonsensical scene on Raul Julia's yacht, Towne has to resort to an accidental explosion of some handy ship to give the illusion of a climax.  The stars are so attractive that it's still fun to watch this movie.  It's hilarious to watch the narrative do flip-flops and balancing acts and finally a series of preposterous pratfalls.  Of course, you could just watch a better movie. "},{"Title":"Solid cast, solid director/writer, weak movie...","Date":"3 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Tequila Sunrise is the first film from Robert Towne since 1982's Personal Best. He is best remembered for the man behind the screenplay for Chinatown, the highlight among his other reputable projects. He displays a keen eye for characters and dialogue in Tequila Sunrise, but the film suffers from boredom. There's no explanation for the boredom--it just is.Too bad, really, since most of the time films like these have great pacing and badly developed characters. If Towne had contributed a bit more action and interest into the film it really could have been much better. It suffers from dead weight and uninteresting subplots that have become almost expected of Towne. Unfortunately, they're not needed in a story like this.Mel Gibson plays Dale McKussic, a retired drug dealer living in Southern California who lives on a beach with his young son. By establishing many scenes with Gibson as a caring father figure, he is ultimately presented as a likable character--a script trick not hard to fall for since Gibson is a generally amiable and enjoyable actor.But maybe that's the problem Towne manipulates the audience with his script. A lot. I'm willing to ignore this since all the characters are lovable and nice, but it does hurt the film's impression. Anyway, I'm digressing...Dale is afraid that he will lose custody of his son to his ex-wife--since he is no longer making big bucks. As the critic Roger Ebert pointed out, Only in Southern California would you lose custody because you'd stop selling drugs.Dale has fallen for a fancy restaurant owner named Jo Ann (Michelle Pfeiffer). So has his best friend, Nick (Kurt Russell), who also happens to be a cop. The plot intracicies extend even further when we find out that a big figure in the drug business, Carlos (Raul Julia), is coming to town with a stash of cocaine.So in the midst of both falling desperately and hopelessly in love with the same woman, Dale and Nick must also confront each other in regards to their differences. Will Nick become angered and arrest Dale? Which man will Jo Ann pick to be her future love interest? When will Raul Julia stop choosing bad co-star roles? Oh, too late. Sorry, Raul.Mel Gibson is one of the most likable and easy-going film stars of all time, Kurt Russell is always a good bet in any type of film, and Michelle Pfeiffer is a very beautiful and talented actress. Their interaction, however, seems watered down and pretty dull in Tequila Sunrise, which has good characters but the actors, quite understandably and visibly, have a hard time getting into their roles. Can you blame them? There's something wrong here--it's not a very bad film, but it's not a very good one, either. It is lacking something vital. It's just bleak. Even though the characters are given good introductions and stories, the movie isn't nearly as interesting as it should be.I'm not quite sure what the primary problem of Tequila Sunrise is, I'm not even sure I want to think about it. This is a movie I have sat down to watch twice but have both times become downright bored past the half hour point. It rambles on too long, lacks the hard punch of action, dramatics and humor of Gibson's earlier cop film Lethal Weapon (1987), and is basically a showcase for Towne's ability to craft interesting characters and intriguing subplots given a basic outline of otherwise cliched material. But this is all Tequila Sunrise feels like--a showcase--and that, I suppose, is its biggest fault.2.5/5 stars.- John Ulmer "},{"Title":"Some of the best dialog ever written","Date":"12 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This story of an ex-drug smuggler who's life is turned upside down by the police and the return of his partner, both of whom are looking for his stash of money would be a pretty run of the mill and unremarkable movie if it wasn't for some of the best written dialog I've ever heard. The words breath life in to what is nothing more than a film noir updated and turn it into a bouncy smart ass thriller that is genuinely comic at times. This is a movie that I will often put on in the background while doing other things because as far as I'm concerned the visuals are pointless.See this movie- or better yet, listen to it and hear how movies should sound. "},{"Title":"The sad fact is, the trailer's probably more interesting...","Date":"29 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"     The trailer contains everything a hardcore movie fan could want to see in a movie.  There are the three charismatic leads, scorching dialogue, beautiful cinematography, and even a little sex and some explosions...   Alas, the trailer tells the whole story (It doesn't spoil, BTW, there's nothing to spoil as such) and it does so far more succinctly and far more interestingly than the main feature itself.  This is a film that's ALL about atmosphere, and it builds this up superbly; but after awhile you just want something to HAPPEN.  The characters spend an interminable amount of time playing mind games with each other, so much so that you begin to feel like you're watching an overlong dramatisation of Chinese Whispers.  Yes. film noir is about mystery and treachery, but the good ones like Chinatown make the audience feel like they're going on a journey with the main character. Instead, Tequila Sunrise simply leaves us stranded in a web of intrigue and asks us to fight our own way out.  This is probably because the characters intersect TOO much with one another, so there is no 'main character', just three Hollywood superstars vying for equal screentime.   I can't even believe I'm quibbling with the writer of Chinatown over how to produce a noir, but there it is.  There are a lot of good superficial reasons to see TS, but they're all in the trailer, so watch that and lament over what could have been.  Here Towne has taken a great cast and script and made a slick, but ultimately shallow movie. "}]