[{"Title":"So underrated","Date":"24 January 2002","Score":"60 out of 67 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":"  When I was 16, I used to hang out with a tough crowd and my best friend at the time was a real trouble maker, we would always get into fights with other guys our age and sometimes men, and he was a really tough kid, anyway one night he calls me and tells me that he watched the saddest movie he had ever seen, he said it was the first time he actually cried since he saw E.T. I was laughing at him continuously, until I watched it and got so profoundly effected by it that even thinking about that last scene makes my eyes water. I really feel that this film was a major catalyst for many changes I made during my progression from teenager to young adult.Running on Empty is quite an achievement in filmmaking, it is as real a film as you could watch and everyone involved should be absolutely proud of it. River Phoenix will forever be missed. "},{"Title":"A joy to watch, every time.","Date":"7 September 2002","Score":"52 out of 61 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":"  I have dozens of movies on videotape, but if I could only keep one, Running on Empty would be it. I've lost count how many times I've watched it. It works on every level. Emotionally, you cannot help caring about the characters, all of them. The premise, living underground in ordinary American suburbia, is brilliant and instantly engaging. The story, coming of age on the lam, flows effortlessly, with hardly a slow spot, and keeps me engaged, even after umpteen viewings. The romance, of love and loss and dedication, brings a tear every time, even just thinking about the birthday party as I write this.Plus -- I was a 'red diaper baby' who became a conservative republican 35 years ago, and this film touches every button of my past. A lot of those reds were, in person, truly decent people, just a bit deranged and extremely delusional and dogmatic, all of which Judd Hirsch conveys with perfect pitch. No special FX, pretty tame action (mostly involving music and dancing), only six main characters, but a great entertaining and inspirational film.Rated 9.9 out of 10, in case something better ever comes along.P.S. I just got the DVD. Even better than the tape. Elsewhere I have read complaints about its technical quality, but I can see nothing wrong with it.  "},{"Title":"the first film that made me cry","Date":"15 November 2004","Score":"49 out of 56 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":" I saw this movie when it was first released on video and was astounded that it was not nominated for Best Picture over lesser fare like Working Girl. I was 14 at the time and the conclusion of the movie was the first time I ever cried while watching a film. It's been 16 years and only four other movies have had that affect on me (Shadowlands, Philadelphia, In America, Return of the King). Watching it with my wife tonight (her first time seeing it) and I still cried at the conclusion.This movie, more than any other, even Stand By Me, makes me miss the adult actor that River Phoenix might have become. We have been lucky enough to see the fine actors that Sean Penn, Johnny Depp and Tom Cruise have become, but River might havesurpassed them all. He most assuredly had the potential.I have seen thousands of movies now, have devoted myself to watching every film by 100 great directors (even the horrible ones) and Sidney Lumet has rewarded me as I have re-watched such classics as Network, 12 Angry Men and Serpico, but this might be his best film. Christine Lahti's performance is letter on perfect and she should have won the Oscar (wasn't nominated). I am glad the Academy got the two most important nominations correct River and the screenplay.This is a perfect movie for teens as they can understand the growing pains that River's character is going through and a perfect movie for adults as well, as they can understand what is threatening to tear the family apart. "},{"Title":"Sensitive, Touching Film","Date":"29 January 2000","Score":"29 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":"  Possibly the finest and most underappreciated film by Sidney Lumet, this movie has moments which grab you by the throat -- they are so powerful.  The cast, which is outstanding (Judd Hirsch, Christine Lahti, and River Phoenix in particular), is part of the reason for its power.  The characters are totally convincing.  The young man played by River Phoenix is someone we must sympathize with his dilemma is a lifelong choice between never seeing his loved ones again or continuing to grow as a very talented pianist.  The choice is agonizing, and the ending is sure to bring tears to many eyes of people who are part of a close-knit family.  One scene is particularly powerful and makes me tear up every time I watch it The luncheon meeting between Annie, the mother (Christine Lahti) and her father, played by Steven Hill.  The dialog during this scene is so convincing, and the acting is perfect.  But River Phoenix is the main reason to see this beautiful film, and this simply underscores the tragedy of his death at an early age.  He had already proved he was a talent of considerable promise with in Stand By Me and in Mosquito Coast.  I fully recommend this film to all thinking people with feelings about the inevitable conflict between family and individuality.  This is a small film -- what I call a little gem -- most of which are small budget films with great acting and centered around the subjects of families and their values.  Also see Crossing Delancey, another little gem. "},{"Title":"a heartbreaking and wonderful film","Date":"16 November 2004","Score":"26 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":" This is a beautifully told story. Like one of the posters stated, it seems crazy to reiterate what everyone else has said.This film appealed to me because it concerns the protests that went on in my college days. For me, it's a story about how the choices one makes can change your life, haunt you forever, and affect those you love. The best scene in the movie, as far as I'm concerned, was between Christine Lahti and Steven Hill, who plays her father. Steven Hill has always been a favorite of mine, and in this film, he is magnificent as he comes face to face with a daughter he hasn't seen in years - and to boot, the last time she saw him, she insulted him. The scene is powerful, but what happens when Lahti leaves the restaurant is unexpected and will break your heart. It's unforgettable.There aren't any easy answers in life, and this movie won't leave you with an easy feeling. But you'll be glad you saw it. "},{"Title":"River Phoenix at his best.","Date":"4 January 2000","Score":"20 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":"  The best reason to watch this film is of course the performance by River Phoenix, which now that he's dead, we will never know if he could have topped this.  He was one of the youngest actors ever nominated for an Oscar. Another reason to watch the film is Christine Lahti from Chicago Hope who gives her best screen performance here. She won the Los Angeles Film Critic's award for Best Actress of 1988 and received a Golden Globe nomination but unfortunately she must have just missed when they announced who the five finalists were for the Oscar. She has two scenes in this film where she just tore my heart out, including one with Steven Hill from Law And Order who plays her father. The movie did get an Oscar nomination for Best Original Screenplay and made many top ten lists, including Roger Ebert's. Although it wasn't a box office hit, I believe it will be remembered as one of Director Sidney Lumet's best films and certainly the best one to watch if you want to remember why the talented actor River Phoenix's death was so tragic. "},{"Title":"Doesn't make the mistake of glorifying crime","Date":"19 January 2003","Score":"23 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":"  This is a fantastic movie.  Definitely one of the 5 best I've seen in recent memory.  Someone that wrote a review here felt that the two parents are placed upon a pedestal by the film makers, but I don't think this is the case at all.  They are accountable for their actions and know what they did was wrong.  They have to pay for their actions throughout their lives and will likely turn themselves in as soon as they can be assured that their kids will be safe.  The kids are the ones I feel sorry for, not the parents.I think the main point of the movie is to make people aware of how the actions/decisions they make can hurt other people, including themselves.  People often make rash decisions without thinking about the long term consequences their actions cause for themselves and other people.  "},{"Title":"Fantastic **possible spoilers**","Date":"13 June 2001","Score":"15 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":"  I watched this 5 times in four days. Running On Empty is a moving family drama told through the point of view of Danny Pope, aka Michael Manfield, aka Richard McNally (sp?), played by the very talented and lamented River Phoenix. It's not hard to see why he got an Oscar nomination for this role, but I find it insane that he didn't get the award. His portrayal of Danny was simply touching. Danny is loyal and sometimes awkward boy (notice the way he stumbles when he tosses the bike into the bushes in the first few scenes); he is also musically-gifted. The way he plays the piano is astounding. The audition scene is one of my favourites.Running On Empty has a lot going on for it a good though slightly flawed script, talented actors (Phoenix, Christine Lahti, Judd Hirsch and Martha Plimpton), and BEAUTIFUL music. Also, how often do you have movies involving teen romance that don't make it into something cheesy and unbelievable? Everything Danny does for Lorna (Martha Plimpton) is believable, right down to the confession scene in the woods. Through his actions it is apparent that Danny is really  in love with her, but can't be with her because he has to stick with his family. That alone is enough to bring tears to anyone's eye his dedication to his family and his willingness to give up himself for them. Another great scene is when the Pope family and Lorna are all singing and dancing to James Taylor's Fire and Rain (great song). I think there is a reason why the song was played at the end again. So in short, Running On Empty is simply fantastic. If you haven't seen it, you don't know what you're missing.  "},{"Title":"A Well-Acted, Powerful Story","Date":"24 May 2006","Score":"19 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":" I thought this was a powerful movie about '60s radicals on the lam for 14 years and a crisis that develops when the family's 17-year-old son is talented enough to enter Juliard School Of Music which means , because of identity problems, they may never see him again. Judd Hirsch and Christine Lahti play the husband and wife and River Phoenix and Jonas Abry are their kids.There is excellent acting in this film and particularly by young Phoenix. The story shows us a good portrait of what it must be like to live in hiding. Politically, people will view this movie as they think (conservative or liberal) because it could be viewed a number of ways.To me, it showed the worst of what could have happened to young people in the '60s who believed they were doing the right thing but broke the law....and paid the consequence. The sad part, as this shows so vividly, is how it affects the rest of the family and others. I think the most powerful scene in the film is when Lahti meets her dad after 14 years in hiding very, very emotional stuff and one of the most intense short talking scenes I've ever seen on film. "},{"Title":"Really liked this one","Date":"26 May 2002","Score":"20 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":"  Why this has an average rating of only 7.3 is beyond me.  This is really darn good, maybe not a masterpiece as some of the other reviews have stated, but one of those criminally underrated and overlooked movies.  And, heck, starring River Phoenix for crying out loud.  Why had I never heard of it?  Yeah, it's got a touch of cheesy '80s things about it (music, clothing, etc.) but I've learned to overlook that sort of thing if it's actually a good story.  Take this and another coming-of-age movie, _This Boy's Life_ (starring Robert De Niro and Leonardo DiCaprio -- why hadn't I ever heard of that one either?), and you have a couple of the best great-but-underrated movies in recent memory.  I'd love a good explanation for why this should only get a 7.3 out of 10, given the quality of a bunch of material with a higher average rating.  (I thought 6.9 was the average rating here.  This isn't even close to just average.)  Compared to the body of Sidney Lumet's work, this has got to rank right up near the top, doesn't it?  "}{"Title":"Low key Lumet masterpiece.","Date":"12 February 2009","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":" Art is the most intense mode of individualism that the world has known.- Oscar WildeIn the 1970s, Annie and Arthur Pope were responsible for the anti-war protest bombing of a napalm laboratory. Though the couple expected the building to be empty, a janitor was present and was left severely blinded by the explosion. As a result, the couple have spent the past 2 decades on the run from the FBI, relying on an underground network of activists and supporters to help them financially.Sidney Lumet's Running on Empty focuses on Danny, the couple's eldest son (River Phoenix). Because the family jump from town to town, constantly changing homes and even identities, Danny's found it hard to settle and forge an identity of his own. His life is in a constant state of flux, leaving Danny to find solace in music.Empty opens with an atmospheric sequence in which the Pope family evade the FBI. We then watch as they settle into a new town and enrol their kids in a new school.In one cute scene, Danny arrives late to his first music lesson, and is asked by the teacher to explain the difference between Beethoven and Madonna. Danny's answer (You can't dance to Beethoven!), and his teacher's later explanation, sums up the central theme of the film. Pop songs, we learn, are largely comprised of a series of predictable rifts and choruses. Beethoven, in contrast, constantly thwarts expectations. He sets up a predictable route, then veers off in different directions. The point is, the young need a familiar beat. And so Danny, who is constantly on the move, constantly out of synch with the world, is never given the time or space to develop a dance of his own. Ironically, it is being out of sync which leads to great art. Being out of sync creates a kind of artistic objectivity. An outsiders view, which Danny embodies.As the film progresses, Danny clashes several times with his father, a hippie and anti-authoritarian activist who insists that Danny must give up his music (he's been offered a place at a prestigious university) and stay with the family. What makes the film interesting, however, is that Danny is so soft-spoken and loyal to his family that he agrees with his father. This leads to a sort of internal conflict only recognised by Danny's mother. She senses the pain in her own son, and tries to persuade her husband to set him free.But no, Arthur refuses. If Danny enrols to the prestigious music school he will have to give his real name and real birth details. When he does so, the FBI will track and monitor him, which of course means that Arthur and Annie will never get to see their boy again. It's not a simple matter of forbidding one's son from pursuing art (a common theme in films), but of holding a family together. By setting Danny free, Arthur and Annie effectively prevent themselves from ever seeing him again.And of course, both Arthur and Annie know all to well how painful it is to be separated from family; they were young when they committed their crime and so have not seen their own mothers and fathers in decades. It is thus an act of profound love which makes the family's decision so difficult. Lumet has always been an actor's director, so its no surprise that Running on Empty features a number of powerful conversations. One of the best involves Danny confessing his identity to a girl he's fallen in love with. Another involves Annie's conversation with her father, a man she hasn't seen since she was a child. Danny's final words to his father are likewise powerful.Another interesting theme is the film's treatment of art and political activism. Annie and Arthur both tried to change the world, but in wanting to make the world safer for their kids, they've effectively cut their own children off from society. The film then looks at the way the hippies, radicals and political activists of the 1960s and 70s were enveloped and assimilated into a more dour, suburban life, rendered invisible, not by choice, but by what is essentially a complex blend of fear and threat of violence. For Lumet, art (in this case music) thus becomes a form of neo-activism. A form of potent protestation and personal freedom. Danny, in playing his music, does not cut himself off from his family, rather, he reinvigorates the spirit and ideals they once fought for.8.9/10 &#x96; A love letter to artists, sensitively directed by Sidney Lumet. Worth two viewings. "},{"Title":"The Most Underrated Film of the 80's","Date":"2 June 2000","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":"  I watched this film again last night, having seen it many times before, and was once again bowled over by its subtle power. This is a film composed of powerfully quiet moments that culminate into a final scene as moving as I've ever seen.This is a film that could have so easily fallen into made-for-TV type melodrama, but is written and acted with such subtlety that we do not feel manipulated in the least. Take for instance the scene in which we learn how Michael, the film's protagonist played by River Phoenix, learned to play piano with such skill. SPOILER AHEAD! I'll never forget the image of Christine Lahti's Annie joining her son in a quietly beautiful little duet in the school music room. Instead of an overblown emotional scene, Sidney Lumet and writer Naomi Foner, opt for a moment with no dialogue at all. So many scenes like this populate the film -scenes weighted by so much pain, so much regret, so many secrets, and so little noise.To call this film a hidden treasure is a gross understatement. This is the most observant and moving film about a family I have ever seen. It is one of the great achievements in modern cinema. "},{"Title":"I agree, this is a very fine film, of a flawed but loving family.","Date":"14 January 2002","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":"  Funny how I got around to see this film. Recently Warner Home Entertainment published a whole bunch of old movies on budget DVD, $5.88 each, and one of them I bought, after reading some reviews here, was Running On Empty, referring to their mode of running from town to town to avoid being caught, always one step ahead of the law, as if in a car running on empty, not knowing when your time was up. The DVD is pretty good overall, no features, and mono sound, well worth the price. I recall Judd Hirsh from his Taxi days, and his character here, the father, is totally different. As is Christine Lahti, the mother, River Phoenix as the son, and Martha Plimpton as the girlfriend. Watching the young Plimpton reminded me of watching the young Witherspoon in The Man In The Moon, but Plimpton's career has not been so successful now that she has grown up a bit.In total Running On Empty is a masterful film, has a great story, and guaranteed to bring a tear to your eye as the son is set free, given his chance to live and to attend Julliard for his talent with the piano. "},{"Title":"excellent film","Date":"1 June 2006","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":" Having recently become interested in the work of River Phoenix, I decided to spend almost the entirety of my allowance on the best of his films. After The Mosquito Coast, My Own Private Idaho and Stand By Me, I was expecting great things from Running On Empty. I wasn't disappointed, being very touched by this film, and remarkably found myself crying during the final scene. The film has an interesting plot line; that of a family on the run from the law, while showing the impact on the children; and was something I felt hadn't been done well before. Concentrating largely on the experiences and reflections of the family's eldest son, Danny, the audience can really relate to events within the film. It boasts strong performances by the leads, of course especially the ceaselessly brilliant River Phoenix. Martha Plimpton was also very convincing as the love interest with attitude, and their chemistry was undeniable. Some moments were clichéd and unnecessary; the inclusion of an ex-comrade and war activist who tests Annie Pope's loyalty to her husband seemed rather contrived and out of place. Overall, however, there were many warm moments in an understated, well-written film. I wouldn't recommend viewing for everyone; the film is slow in comparison to modern offerings, but if you're interested in romance, drama, or even just River Phoenix this is definitely a must-see movie. "},{"Title":"A quiet masterpiece","Date":"26 May 2002","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":"  Running on Empty explores the familial relationships so crucial to identity formation.  Annie Pope (Christine Lahti) transmits to son Danny (River Phoenix) her musical gift, but also imbues him with an exceptional sensitivity and appreciation of beauty.  But her own life has gone disastrously astray because of her misguided attempt to protest the manufacturing of napalm, used by American forces in the Vietnam War.  She and her husband (Judd Hirsch) blow up a chemical plant and, in the process, seriously injure a janitor.  The guilt and lawlessness of the event cause Annie to miss out on the promise of her own life.Running on Empty chronicles her childrens' struggle to learn from their gifted, beautiful yet ultimately troubled parents without sinking from the mistakes of the earlier generation.  It is a timeless story that will continue to have relevance for all generations.  For Running on Empty explores one of the mysteries of life.  How do we learn from our elders without destroying ourselves because of their flaws and mistakes?Not only is the theme rich and deep, the execution of Running on Empty is flawless.  Christine Lahti and River Phoenix, particularly, give moving performances.  The filmmakers know how to use music and the sparse, haunting score and use of James Taylor's Fire and Rain are perfect.If you have a mother or a father, a grandmother or a grandfather...and they are imperfect yet still deserving of love and respect, this is a movie for you.  "},{"Title":"Masterful Performances","Date":"24 January 2002","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":"  This is one of those films where the plot takes second place to the performances, but in a good way . It's just that the plot seems to bring out the best in each and every one of these actors.There are great scenes throughout, but a particular poignant one between Christine Lahti and Steven Hill is breathtaking. You feel like a third person in a conversation that you really didn't want to witness.If you want to see great actors act, and see a great director direct, see this film! "},{"Title":"Subtle, grossly underrated masterpiece from Sidney Lumet..","Date":"8 October 2001","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":"  No one makes movies like Sidney Lumet. The man is (in my opinion) one of the greatest directors in the history of film. For evidence see Dog Day Afternoon, Network, Twelve Angry Men, Q & A, Serpico (the list goes on and on..) One of the truly exceptional things about Lumet is that he understands and respects actors, and due to this, always, without fail, gets first rate performances from the actors he works with. (Notice also that all the actors have nothing but gratuitous praise for him as a director. There is a mutual appreciation there.) Read his book Making Movies if you're really not convinced of his genius. However, going by the excellence of this film, Running On Empty, I honestly don't see how you could see him as anything but.Judd Hirsch and Christine Lahti both give wonderful performances as the ex-radicals on the run from the FBI for 17 years (and the worried parents of two fast-growing-up boys,) but the undoubted star of the picture is (a then 18-year-old) River Phoenix as their eldest son. Phoenix plays Danny Pope, a 17-year-old boy on the verge of adulthood, who's never known a life not lived in constant fear of being discovered. Who, for all his young life, has moved from town to town with his parents and younger brother, changing schools, homes, and identity at each stop, so as not to be located by the government and punished for the acts his parents committed before he was born.The film concentrates on the latest identity, the latest stop on the Pope families' never-ending quest to evade the law. This stop, as one eventually had to be, is different. Phoenix's character falls in love with a girl (played by Phoenix's real life girlfriend at the time, Martha Plimpton) and wants to stay. A move that would mean breaking up the family, the one thing that his father simply cannot accept as a possibility. On top of this, Phoenix is offered a place at the prestigious Juilliard school of music (being a prodigiously talented piano player) which presents another good reason for him to stay. The unique family dynamic is brilliantly portrayed. The tension, the strong bond of love, and the eventual acceptance (that every parent has to deal with at some point) of letting go of one's children. It's all there, and it's all handled so subtly, so poignantly, so BRILLIANTLY.River Phoenix's performance ranks among the best I've ever seen from a young actor in my life. If you can picture a subtle mix of some of the best aspects of James Dean and a young Henry Fonda and you're coming close to what Phoenix achieved here.'Running On Empty' is a classic example of great, poignant, affecting, emotional film making (and acting) and I give it 10/10. Without hesitation. "},{"Title":"Outrageous!!!!","Date":"26 February 1999","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":"  I am not gonna say too much, but this is one of the best movies ever made, River Phoenix, deserved the award a lot more than Kevin Kline. Maybe River was young and they thought he will have many other chances to do it, unfortunately you never know and now River is no longer with us. So I think that the members of the Academy should consider this, like when Leo DiCaprio was nominated for Gilbert Grape. Anyway, this is a MUST see movie, it´s definitely a classic! "},{"Title":"A great movie","Date":"14 January 2003","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":"  The main reason i actually rented this movie for the first time was because i am a huge fan of the late River Phoenix.  And after seeing Running on Empty, i'm an even bigger fan!In my opinion, River does the best job in this movie.  But the other actors, Christine and Judd, are wonderful too.  This movie moved me so much! River's performance will really make you think.See this movie!  Do whatever you have to do!  Even if you are not a River Phoenix fan, see this movie!10/10 "},{"Title":"Some great acting, a troubled plot","Date":"9 November 2003","Score":"12 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":" On TV, in the late 1980's, Roseanne and Punky Brewster gave us back-talking, disrespectful kids and anti-hero parental figures. The ratings went through the roof so the media started catering to the lowest common denominator on TV and in films. It has never looked back. I remember seeing this film in the 80's and distinctly thinking it was a harbinger of things to come. At the time it was shocking to hear the profane words coming out of the mouth of a beloved Taxi figure. (Judd Hirsch) Now profanity in place of dialogue has become the norm, and strings of curse words are used to convey deep emotion. This film helped start the trend for films with expected younger audiences.Hirsh plays an Abbie Hoffman type in the film and a drunken nod is given to Hoffman's crisis of self. Of course, it is no wonder, as Abbie Hoffman had recently come out of hiding. The joke was... no one really cared. (I clearly recall a lampoon in the paper about Hoffman coming out of hiding and jokes about no one knowing who he was. Wasn't he in Kramer vs Kramer it read.) Had Hoffman not come out of hiding, I doubt this film would have been made. (I doubt he would have killed himself, as well.)Knowing that the FBI had lost a lot of interest in old radicals by the time it was filmed made the subject matter more palatable to the studios while still seeming hip. The actors perform well but the character of the parents were nearsighted and selfish for most of their lives, and the ending can't really undo that much damage. Thankfully, though, the mother truly loves her sons and she does her best to give her elder son some type of stability in an unstable situation. The younger son seems a throwaway in the plot.The film has more than its share of ugliness (The sleazy blond radical is disgusting) and Martha Plimpton's character is annoying more often than not. Some scenes are beautiful in the extreme, where truths are revealed. River's loyalty seems to mirror his real life experiences, once again. His character struggles to do right when all he has been raised with is wrong. If you live with a lie every moment of your life, your psyche will fracture. Phoenix does a credible job of bringing that fact to our attention as he struggles to find balance. He is both wizened and youthful in the role. Unfortunately it has become impossible to watch the actor through pristine lenses - hindsight being what it is. He was one of the greatest actors ever filmed, and like Hoffman, he has become forgotten in less than 10 years by any but true fans. "}{"Title":"Compelling viewing","Date":"14 May 2013","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":" Outstanding drama with incredible performances. The story it tells of radicals in hiding and on the run while trying to raise a family but actually living the half life of the hunted is compelling enough but contributions of cast, director and script make it something extraordinary. Lumet was an erratic director but when he was on his A game his films are some of the best around, this one ranks up with his masterworks Dog Day Afternoon and Murder on the Orient Express. Taut yet accessible you really care for this family, warts and all.Beautifully acted by all but there are several standouts. Christine Lahti, a great unsung actress, is achingly real in her conflicted duty to her family and sense of frustration at their rootlessness. The scene between she and her father in a restaurant is one of the most moving you'll ever see in any film. Her work her really deserved an Oscar nomination, in my opinion she should have won but an acknowledgment was at least her due. River Phoenix did receive a nomination and along with Martha Plimpton they offer the other really fine performances. His desires to remain loyal to his family and their situation versus his yearning for roots, the exploration of his talents and a chance to find his own way in the world make compelling viewing. The movie doesn't move at breakneck speed but for those viewers willing to invest in it's deliberate pace this is a great film. "},{"Title":"Astoundingly powerful film built on great dialogue and great acting","Date":"14 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":" This shows American cinema at its best - a profound film based on naturalistic dialogue, with love and the nuclear family at its heart, but not ruined by a saccharine sentimentality that could so easily have come to this Hollywood production. The (mostly unforced) ironies are very moving, and while I'm not the hardest nut in the film theatre, this film cracks my shell pretty effectively. Here're a few selected ironies the parents (Hirsch and Lahti) end up in the same situation they put their own parents in; the choice Hirsch and Lahti make contrasts with the lack of choice their choice creates for their kids; the necessity to stay under cover makes the parents appear to lead the straight life they rejected; and not least in order to express their love of River Phoenix's character, they have to sacrifice the opportunity for its expression.Phoenix and Plimpton do well, but I guess it's usual for regular critics to dwell on the young. It's Lahti (in particular) and Hirsch who really make the film though - and quite agree with many comments here, that Steven Hill's scene with Lahti is utterly superb. It's all in the eyes.I'm quite a fan of Sidney Lumet, but many even of his best films (notably 12 Angry Men), have had a slightly distracting proselytising tendency. Here you really have to work if you're going to draw a direct message from the film. I see some other commentators see this as a film with a political message. Isn't it rather a film about love? "},{"Title":"Really well done movie, original concept","Date":"28 February 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":" I was very impressed with the original idea for this movie. The characters were not your average expected radicals, they were normal people with convictions who placed themselves and their children in an abnormal situation.The story line is a family on the run from the FBI. The parents were anti-war activists during the Vietnam war. They had bombed a napalm factory, severely injuring a security guard who was not supposed to be there. The oldest son is now 17 and finding the life on the run hard. He is a gifted musician with a chance to go to Julliard. He also finds first love. Now it is up to the family to deal with this along with other pressures. "},{"Title":"A remarkable film","Date":"25 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":"  There are enough people who have commented on this film and it is exhausting to watch because of the emotional depths portrayed. But there is a scene which must be regarded as one of the most heartrending in the history of film and which sums the whole thing up, that where the father and daughter meet for the first time in 14 years. Steven Hill gives a performance which hurts physically. Quite masterful.  "},{"Title":"A moving portrait of a family paying the price for its  political convictions","Date":"6 February 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":"  This excellent film depicts the lives of political activists and the impact of their convictions not only on themselves but also on the people around them, especially the ones they love the most, several years after they have outlived what they had been fighting against. Running on Empty is a wonderful blend of incisive writing, masterful direction, and brilliant acting. It vividly portrays the price that these people have to pay and the sacrifices they have to make for following their political beliefs. Playing the son of the activists on the run from the law for almost 20 years, River Phoenix gave one of his best performances ever in this film. A must-see.  "},{"Title":"absolutely amazing","Date":"16 November 1998","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":"  This was a wonderful movie.  River Phoenix is just beautiful as a young man who can't escape to become his own person.  This earned him a well-deserved Academy Award Nomination.  Christine Lahti and Judd Hirsch were very strong as parents who wanted but couldn't the best to their children.  Martha Plimpton was also wonderful as the young woman that River Phoenix falls in love with.  It's a truly beautiful and touching movie.  It's got an intricate plot and mezmerizing characters.  It's wonderful.  Don't Miss it! "},{"Title":"A beautifully acted film","Date":"28 November 1999","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":"  Everytime I see River Phoenix on film I just cannot believe that such a wonderful actor had to die at such a young age. His performance in this movie is simply amazing.The movie is about a family called the Popes. The mother and father bombed a napalm lab in the 1970's as a protest against the war. They are running away from the FBI, constantly moving and changing their names. The saddest part of the movie is that they also have to steal the identity away from their two sons. The main character, Danny (played amazingly by the Wonderful River Phoenix) has been moving and changing his name since he was two years old.When the family moves, Danny meets a girl named Lorna (played triumphantly by Martha Plimpton) whom which he falls in love and doesn't want to leave when his father tells the family it's time to move again. Danny also gets an opportunity to go to a university but his father doesn't want him to go because of the situation they are in.In the end, the father has to choose to let his son go, or to continue to steal his identity away from him.This movie is fantastic. The music choice is very appropriate and the parts are all acted beautifully. I can honestly say that the acting in this movie is perfect. It is a definite must-see. "},{"Title":"A touching saga about love, family and breaking free.","Date":"8 June 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":" Running on Empty is a gem of film, with some great performances, especially the late River Phoenix.This is one of those films in the late 1980s that looked back on the recent past. Mississippi Burning is another film that springs to mind.The Pope family are fugitives.They have been on the run from the FBI since the early 1970s.Arthur(Judd Hirsch)and Annie (Christine Lahti) were once student radicals who blew up a lab that produced weapons, as a protest against the Vietnam War. Think Weathermen Underground and you get the picture.Their act of terror resulted in a fatality. We meet met them years later, when they are the parents to two boys. One of them, Danny played by River Phoenix, is now a teenager. He is tired of running, never having time to put down roots or make real friends. Danny also has to assume a new identity each time the family move. Whilst enrolled at his latest school, Danny, under the alias of Michael Manfield comes to the attention of a music teacher who notices what a gifted piano player he is. The teacher's daughter Lorna(Martha Plimpton) also notices Danny and begins to fall for him.The scenes between Danny and Lorna are well done. He slowly lowers his guard and starts to trust herThis film covers so much ground. Its about identity, love and how your past can both trap and mould you. Danny learnt to appreciate music through his mother, Annie who was from a wealthy middle class family. She knows how good he could be, but can she and Arthur let him go? Can he keep running forever without being able to live his life?There are two stand out scenes for me in this film. Annie meets her father for the first time in years. She clearly rejected everything he stood and yet there is so much emotion between them. The other scene is the pivotal one where the Popes make a decision about Danny. It is a clear indication that River Phoenix would have been huge had he lived.Just watch the look in his eyes as they bid farewell.To execute that range of emotions, you got to have acting chops. River definitely had it.The late Sidney Lumet shows what a skilled film maker he was, taking a difficult subject matter and getting great performances from the main players. "},{"Title":"Why do you have to carry the burden of someone else's life?","Date":"7 September 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":" The most unsettling part of the family setting their dog out into the street and telling the children it'll certainly find another home is that the children take it rather well. They've deserted family dogs before. And they've left whole lives behind more times than that. The Popes are a married couple who've been subversive since the '60s, and their children include Danny, a high school senior and has never known any other kind of routine. The Popes were implicated in radical politics.They destroyed a building, and there was a janitor they didn't know would be there. They've been fugitives ever since, switching towns and names, finding jobs that don't draw attention, learning to keep the kids home on picture day. The more they flee yesteryear, the more it's in their mindset. And now time is catching up. What, for instance, is Danny going to do? He is a talented pianist, and through one of his teachers he gains a Juilliard scholarship. But he can't collect it unless he supplies his high school transcripts, which are strewn back along countless towns under countless different names.Judd Hirsch's Arthur Pope has taken an uncompromising position for decades, and he's not prepared to change now. He deems that the family must remain together, must safeguard itself against the world. He has created a stronghold psychology, and Danny shares it. He understands that if he confesses and enrolls at Juilliard, he'll never see his family again. His mother, Christine Lahti's Annie, will be heartbroken. She has been fleeing for ages without lamenting the forfeits she made, but she can't accept the idea that Danny will have to surrender his future, just as she lost hers.Life, for the time being, continues. Danny makes a girlfriend, whose father is conveniently the music teacher. They share secrets, but Danny can't share his biggest one. This is the first time he's had a girlfriend, the first time he's let anyone become this close, and he has to learn to confide without being truthful. Plimpton knows something's off, but not exactly what. The family has outlasted each close shave with the Feds, each question from a loud-mouthed neighbor. But this is an impossible risk, as it derives from within It's no longer feasible for these people to elude questioning the very practicalities on which they've made their lives.And that questioning causes the movie's emotional pinnacle, when Lahti calls her father and coordinates to meet him for lunch. Long ago, she hurt him irrevocably. She vanished for years. Now she wants her parents to assume Danny, so he can go to music school. She will lose her son, as her father lost her. It's ironic and heartbreaking, and by the end of the scene we have been through a choker. The one scene that doesn't work is the cheesy and lugubrious ensemble dinner scene where everyone breaks out into song. But in either case, Lumet is showing us people who've chosen and are observing the cost, and throughout the film they'll have to reassess their assessments.Lumet was one of America's best directors, and his expertise here is in the way he takes a histrionic plot and makes it truthful by making it exclusive. All of the supporting characters are persuasive, mainly Plimpton and her father. And there are impressive performances in the principal roles. Phoenix largely bears the story. It's about him. Lahti and Hill have that devastating scene together. And Lahti and Hirsch, clustered together in bed, realizing in terror that they may have reached a turning point, are poignant. We see how they've relied on one another.The family is not actually political at all. Politics, interestingly, have been left far behind. That sort of commitment would reveal the Popes. The film is a tender, moving drama in which a choice must be made between staying together or splitting apart and perhaps realizing a long-deferred possibility. The parents never met whatever potential they had, owing to their fugitive life. Now, are they warranted in making their son forsake his own future? "},{"Title":"A fugitive family comes to a crossroads","Date":"27 March 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":" This is a powerful movie about the lives of people on the run for their anti-war activities during the 1960's and 70's. These acts of protest at times crossed the line of legitimate protest and resulted in death and tragedy. The director, Sidney Lumet, has directed some great American films dealing with important issues, including Twelve Angry Men, Fail-Safe, The Pawnbroker and Network, among many others; he was no doubt aware of the lives of fugitives whose criminality came to haunt them because of social alienation or contempt for waging war in the Vietnam. In the opening scene of this movie about one such family, we find the elder son, played by River Phoenix, coming home to a comfortable house only to find FBI agents driving around the property. This is the signal that his parents are once more being stalked by the federal government for a crime that they have been avoiding for many years. The parents have paid a heavy price that has exacted a toll on them and their children. The movie is somewhat slow for the first half as we get to know this family, which has managed to eke out a comfortable life despite having to pull up stakes as they migrate from one community to another. The parents, played by Judd Hirsch and Christine Lahti, have the know-how and social skills to make the best for their tight-knit family of four. I thought that Judd Hersch and Christine Lahti were excellent trying to protect themselves from arrest while being caring parents and active members of their communities. The crisis comes to a head when the older son is urged to pursue his talent as a gifted pianist. This could force the parents into the open or stop his progression to a career as a very talented pianist. The choice is agonizing but it cannot be avoided. The encounter between Annie, the mother (Christine Lahti) and her father, played by Steven Hill, is the most moving scene in this movie, bringing together regrets, heartbreak and lost opportunities. Another moment shows River Phoenix pretending to deliver pizza to his grandmother just to catch a glimpse of her.Together, these episodes capture the dilemma of the family. They have become a strong unit, but must now deal with the fact that their children's lives are entangled in the web of deception they have constructed. It is a moving film that comes face to face with the lingering reality of a traumatic time in history. "}{"Title":"Of Regret and Hope, and the Beginnings and Ends of Things","Date":"2 May 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":" Running on Empty is an achingly beautiful film about a fugitive family which has come to a fork in the road - their 17-year-old son, a musical prodigy, wants to go to Julliard, thus splitting up and possibly endangering the family. The parents were young once, with ideals and hopes and dreams of changing the world, but they have become as dogmatic in their beliefs as their non-radical counterparts. And just like parents everywhere they, too, must deal with growing children who have their own roads to travel. They also have not truly taken responsibility for the consequences of an act of violence they committed long ago which sent them on the lam in the first place. There is sadness in the futility of their situation, just as there is sadness for all of us who struggle to maintain some semblance of our former selves.However, this is not a sad film. It is bittersweet, contemplative, sometimes joyful. The crux of the story is the struggle between the older son, Danny (played with extraordinary sensitivity by the late River Phoenix), and his parents, but it is so much more. There is the growing, tentative love between Danny and Lorna, the daughter of Danny's music teacher (it reminded me of the James Dean/Julie Harris romance in East of Eden). Other characters weave through the story, including a radical friend who's become a criminal and who's tragically living in some pseudo counter-culture fantasy. The most compelling, for me, was Danny's grandfather (Arthur Hill), on his mother's side. He's only in one scene, where he meets his daughter, whom he hasn't seen in 14 years, in a restaurant. The air is thick with recriminations, but watch him when the daughter gets up and leaves. The expression on his face, as he crumples inside, is heart-breaking.There are many moments and scenes in this film which spoke to me on a very personal level, and I saw bits of myself in different characters. There is so much beauty and truth in this film, and all that it requires is an open heart. "},{"Title":"Hits the target","Date":"20 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":" Saw the film on HDnet -- a complete surprise, since I had never heard of it before. This film spoke to me on a number of levels.Having grown up in the 60's I understand the culture at the time and do not doubt for a moment that good people committed violence in the name of the greater good. Those who made that mistake paid a huge price, an example of which this movie illustrates. (Lest the younger among us get the wrong impression, most rebels in the 60's did not resort to violence, and, in fact, abhorred it along with the violence of the Vietnam war itself). The coming of age of the River Phoenix character Danny/Michael is poignantly presented without resorting to over-romanticizing. The story isn't flat out rebellion, or coming to grips with one's own sexuality, or even Danny/Michael simply discovering who he is. It's a combination of all. Added to this is his extraordinary love and loyalty he has for his family. This last element is sadly missing in many coming of age movies, where the parents and family are often seen merely as annoying obstructions to forging out and becoming one's self. Finally, there is the story of the parents coping with the growing up of their children and their eventual departure from the family. This plot is not given much play in Hollywood movies, perhaps because it is seen as too ordinary to be of much dramatic interest. How wrong. The family breaking up is one of the most significant events in a lifetime, for parents as well as children. I believe the central scene, which only lasts for a few moments and which others here on IMD have commented on, is the one in the coffee shop with Annie/Cynthia and her father, from whom she had been estranged for many years. In this scene, all the above plots converge in a nuclear explosion of emotion which will send you reeling. It is one of the more memorable scenes in movie literature -- spare, understated, and masterfully acted. Get the hankies ready.These plot lines are explored with sensitivity and insight. Overall the movie has a good heart. Its minor flaws are easily overlooked. A fine movie, I would think with near universal appeal. "},{"Title":"Misguided Parents","Date":"25 April 2014","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":" There is a dichotomy with this movie Parents have rebuffed authority but demand complete obedience from their children. The Pope family consists of a father (Arthur = Judd Hirsch), a mother (Annie = Christine Lahti), and two young sons (River Phoenix and Jonas Abry). The parents have been on the lam from American authorities since 1971, when, as college students they belonged to an underground left wing violent activist group (like the Weather Underground). They bombed a napalm laboratory to protest the Vietnam War, seriously injuring a janitor in the process. As they are not accountable for their actions, they change their names and run away from place to place. Not only do the parents fabricate stories, they force their children to follow suit. When the Feds eventually close in, they pack up quickly and evacuate. In a very early movie scene, as they escape the grasp of authorities, they heartlessly abandon their family dog in a busy parking lot. They assume that someone will pick him up. I wish they could have dropped the little critter off to an animal shelter along the way, but it was not to be. While the fugitive parents may love their sons, they are plainly selfish. As they force their growing children to continually change their names, addresses, personal histories, how can these kids grow up normally? And that is, of course, the gist of the movie. Problems arise as the older son, Danny (River Phoenix) is coming of college age. There needs to be stability here. Because of the constant changing of schools, his academic records are not available. Danny is a talented pianist, a fact which often brings in unwanted attention. As lie upon lie piles on, it is almost impossible to get Danny a college education. His personal conflict is that, even if he gets into the college of his choice, Julliard, he may never see his parents again. The situation gets even more complicated when Danny falls in love with Lorna (Martha Plimpton) at his latest high school (in New Jersey). More situations arise, and when the ending comes, it is a bit of a tearjerker. But it is difficult for this writer to sympathize with the uncompromising parents (particularly the father) who care little about the fateful consequences of their extreme actions. But we continually root for the normalcy of Danny and his little brother. Running on Empty is sensitively produced and directed; it is not an expensive film. The performances of the major actors are excellent. And catch that poignant restaurant scene when Annie Pope meets her father (Steven Hill) for the first time in many years. Now the feature does not justify the lawless actions of the parents although some sympathy filters through to them. A plus is James Taylor's fine recording, Fire and Rain. The real tragedy is that River Phoenix, a remarkably talented young actor, did not live beyond age 23. What a waste! "},{"Title":"Magnificent film","Date":"20 February 2011","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":" This is my first IMDb movie review, and I can't think of a better film to start with. The performances are masterful, the story and music are perfect, and I have never had a more satisfied feeling after a movie than after viewing this one - and I've seen it MANY times.What I love about this movie is its honest portrayal of the good and bad in everyone. No one in this film is perfect - but everyone is real. And the connections they have with each other are substantially real. It's one of those life-changing movies that doesn't come along often.People still tell me I have to see such-and-such film because it will change my life. But this one really did change mine. And I haven't told anyone how I feel about it until now. I think the best movies seem to go unnoticed because when a movie experience touches a person at such a deep level, it's not something one shouts from the rooftops. The best movies - and best life experiences for that matter - become part of us and our personal lives, and talking about it somehow diminishes their power and meaning.But this film is so magnificent, I decided to make an exception. I wouldn't be who I am today if I hadn't seen this film. "},{"Title":"A perfectly acted, moving film.","Date":"29 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":"  Running on Empty is so very non-Hollywood and succeeds on every level.  You haven't the big-name cast, 20-something sex kitten, special effects, recycled story, nor one-liner spewing hero.  None of those are needed to convey a heart-felt story of family and sacrifice for the greater good.It is filled with marvelous performances.  Most notably Christine Lahti(Annie Pope), River Phoenix(Danny Pope), and in a very small but amazingly effective performance, Steven Hill(Donald Patterson).If you have had enough canned plots and explosions recently, do yourself a favor and rent(buy) Running on Empty.  Certainly among Sidney Lumet's best.Happy viewing! "},{"Title":"Just watched it for the first time","Date":"23 November 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":"  My mom actually picked this one out, because of the fact that she had seen it before and wanted to see it again.  I thought it was a great movie and I would definantly watch it again.  It wasn't one of those stories that is done again and again only slightly different.  I can't recall seeing another movie like it and I highly recommend it to anyone and everyone. "},{"Title":"Dynamic Movie","Date":"15 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":"  This movie looked into the dynamics of a family on the run. Sociologists should love studying this film. It was a very touching movie with great performances from the family cast. As a father, the conclusion brought tears to my eyes.   "},{"Title":"Very disappointing","Date":"27 February 2015","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":" I was genuinely surprised by how hollow this film was. I was familiar with most of the actors and expected great performances, yet, (apparently) unlike so many other reviewers here, I was never able to believe the characters long enough to immerse myself in the film. There seemed to be a lack of character development on-screen, which led to several points of disconnect that ripped me right out of the plot each time.There were some decent scenes, like the restaurant scene between father and daughter, and overall I can't complain about the performances of either Lahti or Hirsch. But there were way too many other scenes that had me wondering why the actors chose to portray the characters as lacking any genuine feeling. River Phoenix, who was otherwise an impressive young actor, really fell flat for me several times in this way. I was never convinced that he even remotely cared for Plimpton's character. Worse, Plimpton went from sulky and distracted to histrionic so quickly, it had me wondering if the scenes that were supposed to show the evolution of her romantic feelings had accidentally been left on the cutting room floor. I mean, I know teenagers are supposed to be sullen and flighty, but I'm pretty sure most of them warm up a bit before they declare their undying need for the other person (amid sobs) while they are being dumped. Character progression for both Phoenix and Plimpton was stilted, to say the least.I can't imagine what was going on here with these otherwise fine actors, so I can only assume the direction failed them. That, and a plot with gaps too big to ask the viewers' imaginations to fill. For example, what were we expected to believe about the thought process behind Hirsch's character's sudden decision to set his son free? The death of Gus (heard on the radio) seemed hardly relevant. If it was supposed to be relevant, it was less than profound.One more thing that was distracting was that, while the piano playing was decent for someone who played as a hobby, it was nowhere near the level required for entry into Julliard. The violinist who auditioned right before Danny was clearly in a different league, and it was hard to believe the adjudicators would not have been jarred by the difference. Authenticity should matter in a film, but this director was asleep at the wheel.I am usually a huge fan of slow-paced films, but I just wanted this one to be over. Has visual storytelling come so far in the last 27 years that even mediocre TV dramas outclass this performance? Very disappointing. "},{"Title":"A masterwork.","Date":"15 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":" Just a superbly stylish bit of filmmaking. Lumet has an incredibly sensitive touch in this film, which has all the stronger impact because of it. He directs his actors to such subtle performances so that you care immensely for them and want things to turn out okay. Whether or not you forgive the Pope parents for their act of protest in the seventies which led to an accidental death, you know that it is not right that their kids should suffer for the fact they are being chased by the FBI. Watching this movie, you desparately want Danny Pope (River Pheonix) to have the normal life he so desparately deserves, and if you're a River Phoenix fan, you'll recognise that you're rooting for the normal life that River Phoenix himself so desparately deserved (his parents were wanderers and hippies like the Popes - but obviously, not criminals!)(RIP RIVER)An excellent movie you'll be glad you checked out - see Phoenix and Lumet at their best. "},{"Title":"This movie is running on a full tank of gas","Date":"28 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":"  One of the best movies of 1988. A fine film that deserved far better fare at the box office.  A true lesson of what can happen when we take the laws of the land to far. Superbly acted and written. One question? Where was Oscar (the Academy Awards) looking? Thats one I will never understand. "}{"Title":"My favorite film.","Date":"8 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":"  When I first watched this film, I was sixteen years old. I remember my mother was afraid because I went to bed still crying. That has only happened to me, as a teenager, two more times with D.P.S. and with Ordinary people (Hirsch also performed here). And I think actually that it was because these films talk about decisions. The most important are taken then, in the adolescence. They are films with right or wrong decisions, but with huge and big dreams. People who is ready to fight for their dreams will like these films if life hasn't put them down... Now when I watch these films again I can see details I don't like or little stupid things... except for Running on empty.Every time I watch the birthday scene with the beautiful Fire and Rain by James Taylor, I cry like a baby, because there's real love in that family. I didn't read anything in the comments about the wonderful Judd Hirsch, his simple and charming performance is full of love. Of course I also adore Lahti, Phoenix and Plimpton, but to me, the final scene with that old bike and the face of Judd Hirsch looking at his son, and River Phoenix looking at his family is so moving... A film about tolerance, love, compromise, and dreams...I'm sure that art can change the way of thinking and living again.  "},{"Title":"Incredibly well-acted and beautifully told story - one not so often written for film","Date":"27 March 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":" A superbly-acted, well-written story about a family on the run after the parents stage an explosion in a napalm producing factory. This is an unconventional story and one not so often written for film and TV. In this story, we see our characters having to deal with the soul-destroying nature of having to leave town every so often, never really being able to set roots anywhere, leaving them as outcasts of society, with only each other to lean on. At first one may think that these parents must be extremely selfish and uncaring to inflict such pain on their children, a life where they'll never be able to truly bond with anyone or make something out of their lives. Throughout the course of the movie though, we get to learn a few things about them that show us how much these parents truly cared about their children and the regret they were filled with for the fact that their children were the ones that had to pay for the choices they made in life. These parents were true revolutionaries in my opinion, even if their act of rebellion and defiance to the constitution of war and the atrocities that were occurring in Vietnam was never significant enough to spark a true change in society. In a way, them leading a fugitive-life is reflecting of their refusal to obey to the capitalistic and exploitative way in which the world is run. One thing that remains true however is that fear that would leave them awake at night, the thought that would creep up despite them trying to suppress it and live life day by day, hour by hour what about our children's future? How are they ever going to have a chance in doing something in life? How will they ever be able to follow their passions and dreams, and have we denied them of this chance in life? Danny is a reserved and polite kid, always in motion and always passing through situations and people unnoticed, not really leaving a mark anywhere or sharing anything of significance to anyone. With the love for piano being the one thing that has been consistent in this vagabond &#x96;like life, he impresses his piano teacher and in doing so, gets to meet the teacher's daughter, whom he will eventually fall in love with. And it is understandable why he'd do so as this girl truly is such a witty, charming and sincere individual, someone that manages to confront him and push him into opening up to her, something he never even thought possible with anybody else. This relationship between the two sees a change in Danny's demeanor, who is now finally excited and scared about things like applying for Julliard College, meeting his grandmother and confiding his family's secret to this girl. And here comes the greatest part of this story, the one that makes it a story worth watching The decision the parents decide to make of allowing their son to stay behind with his grandfather, all the while knowing they probably would never be able to truly contact him and would have limited information as to how he was doing. In this way they fulfill their wish that their actions in life of trying to make a change would not prevent their sons from following their hearts and leading their lives the way they would want to. In a world that had isolated this family, leaving them with no choice but to find the support they need by staying as a unit, letting go of that integral part of their unit must be the hardest and most courageous thing for a parent to do and these parents make that sacrifice so that their son can have a go in trying to achieve something significant like they attempted so many years ago. This very sacrifice and the bond this family shared is beautifully depicted in this subtle and smart film and will be one that will stay in the minds of its audience. "},{"Title":"Low-Key Sleeper","Date":"15 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":" Beautifully understated drama. Note how even the lengthy pauses add to the low-key impact. We keep expecting Danny (Phoenix) to cut loose at some point, so bottled up and controlled his life is. But then he's part of a unit, his family, and if they're to stay together, they have to evade the long arm the FBI. That means military-like discipline at crucial times must be observed.Understandably, the screenplay doesn't want to prejudice audience reaction by making the parents (Lahti & Hirsch) organized killers (e.g. Symbionese Liberation Army) But the script does want to justify the crucial element of FBI pursuit years after the political crime. Thus, Mom and Dad are made guilty of blowing up a war facility that also caused an unintentional death. The unintentional part is morally crucial since the parents are then clearly guilty of a political crime, but not clearly guilty of a moral one. (After all, our gov't justifies collateral damage in its wars all the time.) Thus the audience is not necessarily repelled by the nature of their crime, even though the family remains on the run.The performances are first-rate. I particularly like teen-age Plimpton as the different looking Lorna. Her lovelorn scenes with Danny are as affecting as any young love on film record. I also like the way Dad's change of heart is rationalized at the end, coming as a sudden realization of what the movement has come to (Gus's role) and its personal cost. Except for excluding mention of peaceful protests, the movie deals fairly and effectively with fall-out from a particularly turbulent period in our modern history. All in all, the movie's a low-key sleeper with many unexpected moments of quiet power. "},{"Title":"Wonderful movie","Date":"30 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":" This is one of Sydney Lumet's few melodramatic movies, without a socio-political edge. And it's also one of his best and most emotional ones. He succeeds in capturing our attention fully with this tale of love, sacrifice and quest for redemption.River Phoenix got his (sadly) only Oscar nomination for his part of the elder son of parents who were once political activists (played by the equally wonderful Judd Hirsch and Christine Lahti) who are now constantly on the run from the law after taking part in a political bombing. They are forced to change their identity and even appearance to an extent, quite often, so that the FBI wouldn't pick up their trail. Phoenix's Danny Pope is a classical pianist prodigy who is unable to really build on that talent because of his family's unstable life. To make matters more complicated, he falls for the daughter of a rich man called Lorna (played by the capable Martha Plimpton) and she returns his affections. In the meanwhile, his mother tries to convince her rather wealthy parents to take Danny into their safe and stable home and give him an opportunity to become a concert pianist.It is a very emotional and melodramatic movie, but without Lumet at the helm, I think it would likely dissolve into just another sappy and boring love movie and the dramatic content would be neglected or pushed in the background where it would do no good. This way, both Hirsch and Lahti and Phoenix get their shining moments. Had the parents and their plight been pushed in the background as so often happens in teenager love-themed movies, then this movie wouldn't be as good. This way, it's a clear gem and an unforgettable movie for the sentimental souls among us. Even the less-sentimental will find something to enjoy here and be inspired by Danny's struggle to find happiness and his parents' struggle to provide this happiness for him and their other son. 9/10 "},{"Title":"The Fugitive Family","Date":"28 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":" Twenty years after Judd Hirsch and Christine Lahti were involved in the bombing of a factory that produced napalm they are still on the run. It's a way of life to them now, they are paying big time now for their misdeeds that went way beyond protesting the war in Vietnam. They've raised two sons, one they had while fugitives. Now however their way of life is going to have an impact on their older son particularly if he continues with them.Running On Empty is a film that will be particularly poignant for those who came of age in the Sixties. Hirsch and Lahti took action that probably many were tempted, but fortunately did not succumb. There might very well be an interesting back story as to just how the characters that Hirsch and Lahti play came to do what they did. I'm surprised a prequel was never made.But here we're concerned with older son River Phoenix who is a mostly self taught musical prodigy and who gets a chance to get a scholarship to Julliard. But he's going to have problems from Judd Hirsch who does not want to see the family unit broken up. That's important to him because it's all he has because of the life he has to lead. Not to mention having to document Phoenix's educational background which has been spotty and under various aliases. Whenever he abruptly leaves and moves to another school the records are always conveniently lost in a convenient fire. Could never use that excuse now with data now all on computers.In addition to which River's found himself a girlfriend in Martha Plimpton the daughter of the music teacher at his latest high school. Some critical decisions will have to be made by him and by his fugitive family.Running On Empty got two Oscar nominations for Best Original Screenplay and for Best Supporting Actor for River Phoenix. This was a breakout film for him, it was the first really serious part he ever essayed in his short life. His roles were as juveniles in teen oriented films before were nice and showed his potential. This one was the first that took advantage of said potential.I always thought that River drew from a vagabond background of his own which made Running On Empty so special for him and for us. His parents were children of the Sixties themselves, the tune-in, turn-on, drop out kind of hippies with a Christian flavoring. They were commune dwellers living in various places off the grid. I'm sure that background also prepared for the radically different part he played in My Own Private Idaho.Still for all the acclaim River got my favorite scene in the film and its climax involves Christine Lahti and her father Steven Hill when they reunite surreptitiously in a restaurant where all the pent up feelings on both sides get to hang out. She's come to ask her father to take Phoenix in and pull some strings to get him into Julliard. We're told he has the juice to do it. Hill is also playing with a lot of conflicting emotions, he remembers how his rebellious teen daughter was holding him and his entire generation personally responsible for the Vietnam War.Director Sidney Lumet put together an impressive cast with an array of impressive performances, each player stamping an individual seal on them. Running On Empty is a real classic for the decade it came out and the decade it hearkened back to. "},{"Title":"Quiet and effective","Date":"27 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":" In 1971 anti-war activists Annie (Christine Lahti) and Arthur (Judd Hirsch) Pope blow up a factory making napalm seriously hurting a janitor who wasn't supposed to be there. 17 years later they're on the run with two sons--17 year old Danny (River Phoenix) and 10 year old Harry (Jones Abry). At the place they're living Danny meets and falls in love with a wonderful girl (Martha Plimpton) and finds out he has enough talent to be accepted to Juilliard--but his father won't let him go.A quiet yet very moving movie. It doesn't judge its characters--it lets the audience make their own decisions. On one hand I felt sorry for all four of them--on the other I felt the parents should just turn themselves in and let the kids have a normal life. It's slow and a little drawn out but I was never bored. The acting was all superb--except for one person. Hirsch was TERRIBLE as the father. Very wooden and completely unbelievable. Plimpton was good as Phoenix's love interest and Lahti was excellent as his mother. Best of all was Phoenix. He was Oscar-nominated for this role and he's superb in every scene he's in. When he's on screen you can't stop watching him. Superb, quiet and very moving. Have plenty of tissues on hand) For some reason the song Running on Empty is never heard--I'm assuming they couldn't afford the rights. "},{"Title":"Fantastic Film","Date":"21 February 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":" During the Vietnam War, a pair of liberal activists blew up a napalm factory, paralyzing an innocent bystander in the process. Ever since they have been fugitives of the law, going from town to town under assumed identities. Now they have two children, Stephen, a young boy, and Michael, a teenage piano prodigy, played by a wonderful River Phoenix.After they arrive in a small town in New Jersey, the teenager falls in love with his music teacher's daughter and applies to Julliard in NYC. But when the family needs to skip town and go on the run again, he is torn between his aspirations and his family.Christine Lahti and Judd Hirsch are both great as the streetwise, idealistic parents, but the real star here is the late River Phoenix, who gives a wonderful, angst filled performance. "},{"Title":"accomplished and moving film about a special teenage","Date":"16 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":" This was a moving film to me. I remember having seen it in secondary school within an educational scheme for teenagers. When I saw it first in the middle of the schoolmate crowd, I didn't care much about it, but when a couple of years later I saw it alone at home, it touched me deep inside, feeling quite identified with the youngster.It's a brilliant performance especially by River Phoenix and the rest of the cast too, playing a family who lives underground for past political activities having to change identity and move continuously in order to escape the police, but at the same time trying to lead a life as normal as possible. That interferes in Phoenix life, who feels overwhelmed with responsibility and unjustly shouldering a burden that is not his.At the same time, he has to deal with the love for his new found girlfriend and the attachment to his family, and decide. "},{"Title":"Great acting - universal themes","Date":"24 September 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":" I just stopped flipping channels to watch the end of this wonderfully acted film, just as I will stop again in the future. The reason being it beautifully addresses the universal need all children have to leave home and become their own person.This film uses a very specific and unique situation to explore this theme. While the plot is hung on some political ideology, it is merely a backdrop; please do not let that keep you from this deeply effecting film.Many of the other comments speak to the wonderful acting, and it cannot be stressed enough. All of the principals are outstanding and the smaller roles are filled with care.SPOILER Though the whole film is moving and well acted, for me; the restaurant scene between Christine Lahti and Stephen Hill is sublime. Both underplay while still conveying a lifetime of pain, misunderstanding, regret and most of all the love between and parent and child. This scene encapsulates all of the themes the movie is concerned with, and alone is worth the price of admission. "},{"Title":"Rest in peace, River, We still miss you","Date":"7 April 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":" Before the Riches on television, Judd Hirsch and Christine Lahti play Hippy refugees trying to raise their two sons on the run from the law while they can escape their past. River Phoenix is the older son and has to choose between running with his parents or pursuing a college career. Martha Plimpton, his real life love, plays his on screen love interest as well. This film earned River, his Oscar nomination. Unfortunately, River died of a drug overdose at an early age. In the few films including this one, River showed his range of talent and his ability to make you laugh and cry all at once. I could see why Martha considered him the love of her life as I'm sure he was to her. I still recall them in the teen magazines and tabloids. I only wished the two of them would have had a future together. This film will only remind of a great loss that was utterly senseless as well. "}{"Title":"I put this up there with Forrest Gump.","Date":"1 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":" Where do I start? If you have kids, your gut will twist at the end of this movie.First, River Pheonix is one of the coolest guys ever, up there with James Dean, Kurt Cobain and Mike Ness. It's no wonder he got an award for this movie, he shoulda gotten more, even if they had to make one up for him! THis movie is about family. Sticking together, through the thick and thin. And about making the ultimate sacrifice (not to spoil the movie). It's also about love, not just between family but also romantic love, between Pheonix and his girlfriend. There are also great quotes in the movie as well. About the only thing I can think of, is I wish they would have cast someone better for the dad. But the mom was perfect, and so was River, and his little brother. The music was also nice, and fit the movie well.This is in my top 5 of all time, along with Forrest Gump and Shawshank Redemption.If you haven't seen it yet, and ESPECIALLY if you have kids... DO IT. "},{"Title":"Really beautiful and sensitive film","Date":"17 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":" Sidney Lumet directs the singularly beautiful and sensitive movie, which still affects on multiple levels.River Phoenix, the son of Vietnam protest criminals, still on the run from the FBI, has reached an age where he needs to pursue his own life and ambition, requiring a stable home environment.River's relationship with Martha Plimpton's character, both lonely and disconnected adolescents in 1980s America.River's parents, conflicted about their relationship with their children, the cost to both themselves and their sons of the life they chose to live, and conflicted in their relationship with each other - both knowing their life cannot last the way it is, but unable to deal with the inevitability of the end of their family unit.Christine Lahti's re-awakened relationship with her estranged father, and the pain of 15 years absence.River was wonderful. Judd Hirsch played the father to a tee. The scene between Christine Lahti and Steven Hill was just gut-wrenching.I am affected by this movie whenever I watch it ... but kind of in the way a poem might do. What really got to me when I saw this movie again recently, is that it is almost 18 years old now. I remember it like yesterday. Now that's sad. "},{"Title":"Wonderful","Date":"26 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":" This is a story about a close-knit, loving family who is constantly on the lam, hiding from the authorities because of crimes accidentally committed by the parents years ago. Today, the oldest son is ready to graduate from high school but the family wants to stay together. Throw into the mix a dose of classical music talent, an application to Julliard, a high-school sweetheart, and the FBI. Someone's heart will be broken. Will the son leave his family or stay? With such a talented cast (each in the prime of their career) and a heart warming plot, this movie strongly endears itself to drama-loving fans. Characters are well-defined and consistent throughout. The plot does not ask you to believe any non-sensical events. There is some light-hearted humor, but some of it must be read from between the lines.This film is mostly family-safe, even though it contains some potentially objectionable language and adult themes (drug use, sexual innuendos). It is nice to see Hollywood portray a family as something valuable and as a loving unit of strength and support for its members without using the worn-out clichés and stereotypes. Love despite adversity is what keeps this family together.The story may be a bit slow for fans of action films and cheap toilet comedies, and the movie was never given any piled-on hype, so it is easy to see why this never saw any mainstream success. If you're a fan of classical music (again, this is non-endearing to the general movie-going public) there is some good music and insights into the world of the classical music student.I've recommended this movie to many different people without any negative feedback. If it can capture the attention and admiration of a room full of macho, hungover college students, there's bound to be something to it. "},{"Title":"a topper!!!!!!!!!","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":"  i really loved this movie, it is on my top 10 list!! river phoenix al well as martha plimpton are wonderful actors,i recommend this movie to everyone who is interested in a good story and strong emotional playing. "},{"Title":"Wow, pretty incredible....Very sad","Date":"5 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":"  Not too many movies can cause me to tear up, but this is definitely one of them. I would have to say it is my favorite drama movie of all time. "},{"Title":"Disgusting","Date":"27 February 2015","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":" Self-righteous radicals responsible for maiming a janitor in a bombing in the sixties, spending the rest of their life running from their heinous crime. Of course, we are supposed to feel sympathy for this pathetic duo, after all, their cause was righteous, and they only injured a what?-a janitor? Hell, this guy was a nobody who would have had a hard time justifying his existence to the committee anyway, right? The coming of age story is ruined by the presence of these two reprehensible individuals. The only good story about them would be one that ended in a fiery death, ala the SLA. Makes sense, though, that Hollywood would make a movie sympathetic to characters based on the likes of Bill the murderer Ayers and his doxie/moll Burn-it-Down Dohrn. Vomit-inducing crap. "},{"Title":"A Truly Timeless Movie","Date":"18 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":"  Another incredible movie starring River Phoenix. He, I believe, is the best actor in the history of entertainment. He and Christine Lahti are a true couple, even though they are mother and son. Judd Hirsch's performance makes you reevaluate your relationship with your family - if your life or your family is the most important part of living. Though Martha Plimpton was not the best choice for the role in my opinion, I give this film ten stars out of ten for the acting and the unforgettable plot. "},{"Title":"GREAT MOVIE **** out of ****","Date":"8 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":"  This is one of the best movies that I have seen in a long time, and recommend it to everyone!  The story is great and the acting superb, particularly by River Phoenix.  It is a shame that he took his life when he was so young.  You should BUY this movie right now! "},{"Title":"Glorified television special.","Date":"25 August 2013","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":" The premise is something unique, and it's a wonder there aren't more films about fugitives coming to terms with lives based on lies.But this just isn't a big or bold enough telling of such a story. Sure a lot of dramatic things happen along the way, but the writers try a little bit too hard to make the characters goody goody two shoes that need to be rooted for. There isn't exactly a lot of subtlety to the reason why this family is on the run. The family doesn't feel entirely believable as real people. There isn't a lot of faith placed in the viewer's interest. The writers felt that they had to make the parents just bad enough to warrant fugitive status from the FBI, but not so terrible that we lose all sympathy for them. They bombed a lab, but it was a GOVERNMENT lab making NAPALM. They hurt some people, but it was a JANITOR who was only MAIMED by ACCIDENT. How convenient, I hope you like rooting for the bleeding heart liberals. I just would have appreciated, as a viewer, a little bit more depth to their predicament.Other problems were that the family just seemed a wee bit too smart for their own good. Surely a couple that has been on the run for 17 years would be resourceful enough to move to another country, especially with two kids in tow. It's not like they were bound to the US by virtue of staying to visit the grandparents every so often.The cast is good, the chemistry is well played out between the actors, it's just the writing and line delivery that leaves something to be desired. There is only so much induced eye rolling from a particularly corny line or two. And in a subject as delicate as this, that is a death knell for any validity this film would have had.Decent, but forgettable. "},{"Title":"Coming of age in limbo.","Date":"14 September 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":" Mom and Dad -- Judd Hirsch and Christine Lahti -- were members of an anti-war group that blew up a napalm factory many years ago and are now on the run with the FBI in pursuit. Their elder son, River Phoenix, is now about to graduate from high school.The family is thoroughly paranoid by now, perhaps with good reason, and they move around a lot, switching identities, leaving no traces, which is not helpful to Phoenix. He's a talented pianist and in their newest home, in small-town New Jersey, he meets a music teacher who mentors him and arranges for an audition at Julliard. Kids, Julliard is a famous school for the performing arts in New York. Lots of celebrated people went there -- Yo-Yo Ma, Wynton Marsalis, Bernard Herrmann, Leonard Slatkin, Itzhak Perlman, and -- well, forget it. Monsters, all. You have to be really good to get in.There is a slight problem in that Hirsch considers the family a unit, kind of like Bonny and Clyde, only morally upright. It's time for Phoenix to start his own life, but how can he? Hirsch excoriates him for every involvement outside the home; not just his music but his affair with the nubile young Martha Plimpton.The first time we become aware of the fact that Phoenix is not just another confused kid is when he takes a music class in his new high school, the teacher plays some rock music that the kids love, and then plays a string quartet without identifying any of the music. What's the difference between the two?, asks the teacher. The kids come up with dumb answers like, One's good and one's bad. When the teacher finally gets around to Phoenix, he replies shyly, You can't dance to Beethoven. WELL! I mean, how did this ordinary, somewhat neurotic kid ever get any exposure to Beethoven's late quartets? If I may be editorial for a moment, I personally can't manage ten fingers or even one. I don't believe anyone can. Forget eighty-eight keys. Piano playing is a huge hoax perpetrated on a gullible public. Those pianos you see in movies like this are actually computer-generated images. I suppose we've all seen live recitals. You ask how those can be faked, and I ask, Have you ever heard of PLAYER pianos? Q. E. D. It's all part of a gigantic conspiracy by the Amalgamated Pianists of America, sprung from the loins of the Illuminati. Conspiracy theories abound these days and I think it's catching.Thanks for your indulgence. The award for best performer goes to -- envelope, please -- Christine Lahti! She's really quite good. She's attractive without being pretty, and demonstrates a considerable range, not all of it coming from the role. Judd Hirsch may be hobbled by his character. Even when he's trying to be nice and accommodating, he seems abrasive in speech and demeanor. And for someone who's into liberation, he's given to flinging orders around like a Marine Corps drill sergeant. I understand that River Phoenix gets a good deal of applause but my impression was that he was okay without being exceptional in any way. He does have the role captured -- the reticent, winsome adolescent but it's not a very challenging role.I enjoyed it more than I thought I would. I don't usually find stories of family heartbreak appealing unless they're real bulldozers like Streetcar Named Desire. And rural New Jersey is not Sidney Lumet territory. But this film was well conceived and executed. I wonder what would have happened if Phoenix had been just an ordinary ignorant high schooler and not a genius. And I wonder if the FBI is really so intent on capturing two college kids who blew up a lab twenty years ago. "}{"Title":"magnetic River Phoenix","Date":"28 February 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":" Teenager Danny Pope (River Phoenix) notices that people are following him and he initiates the family to go on the run again. His parents Annie (Christine Lahti) and Arthur (Judd Hirsch) had set fire to a weapons lab credited with creating Naplam in the sixties. The family including youngest son Harry find help from supporters as they set up new identities. Danny's piano talents intrigue music teacher Mr. Phillips who pushes him to audition for Juilliard. He also catches the eye of the teacher's daughter Lorna Phillips (Martha Plimpton). River Phoenix is simply magnetic and Martha Plimpton is sweetly compelling. They have terrific chemistry together in a dramatic coming-of-age movie. The father son relationship could have been pushed harder but it has many interesting moments. This is really a great showcase for a rising superstar. "},{"Title":"Some scenes may have you in tears","Date":"20 July 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":" What a gem! First off, yes... what a deserved Oscar nod for River Pheonix! But may I add, where were the Oscar nods for Charlotte Lahti and Judd Hirsch?Overall this film, directed beautifully by Sidney Lumet, catches the emotions off guard. We are taken into the life of the Popes on the run from the FBI. But as we watch the so odd routine they call their lives, we also get involved of what is to become of them. Will Danny and Harry have to live running from something they never did for the rest of their lives? We hope not.We see River's shy, and polite character fall in love and audition for the renowned school of Juilliard in an attempt to break away from the mold. He struggles coming to terms with the fact he is a liar and has only hidden from things his entire life. Some scenes may have you in tears (specifically Annie's scene with her father, and the ending scene with the family).Anyway, just sit back and give this film a shot. You may be very surprised at what you see. "},{"Title":"Abraham and Isaac for Atheists","Date":"3 February 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":" I'll cover the technical points first. The movie's pacing is really striking. It starts out fast and then slows down to let the conflict build, characters develop, and set off internal debates in the audience on issues--familial, philosophical, political--covered in the film. I usually think of Lumet's films as fast with lots of abrupt cutting, but here he shows that he can linger at let things ripen in their own good time. He is really under-rated and I will definitely miss him when he's gone.Politically, just because the movie's milieu is from the left, it doesn't make it a left wing movie. Quite the contrary. The Judd Hirsch character is a monster sacrificing everything and everyone for an 'ideal' indistinguishable from narcissism. It turns into an atheist version of the Abraham-and-Isaac story.Other things I liked in the movie. Abandoning the family dog is an early indicator of Dad's scorched earth approach to managing relationships. Nice parallelisms in the Lorna character's need to move on from her family background and cast her lot with Danny. The family singing along with Fire and Rain shows that this song does not merely comment on the action, but has been internalized into the family narrative. Repeated references to the blinded, crippled janitor reminds the audience that the terrorist action had a victim who was not forgotten.Things that were over the top and Hollywoodish. I can forgive Danny looking like River Phoenix, but the self-taught concert pianist trope was really Oh yeah. Right. The composer he played was not Beethoven but McGuffin. The little brother was obnoxious, but I have to concede realism on this point. Would a high school music teacher really have the pull to get a pupil into Julliard, much less the interest to force a career direction on someone he just met? In the final analysis, I don't think this movie could have been made after 1989. Communism and the left collapsed. The Dad would clearly would have thrown in the towel, gone straight, and would now be cruising around a dented Subaru with a faded Obama sticker on the back. "},{"Title":"Subterranean Homesick Blues","Date":"9 November 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":" After antiwar activists Annie and Arthur Pope (Christine Lahti and Judd Hirsch) blew up a napalm lab in 1971, they became lifelong fugitives. They and their children have stayed just one step ahead of the law, running from state to state, job to job, identity to identity. But now elder son Danny (River Phoenix) wants to stop running from a past not his. And to do so, he might never see his on-the-lam family again.Directed by Sidney Lumet, from Naomi Foner's 'Golden Globe Award'-winning screenplay, this powerful, bittersweet movie also stars Martha Plimpton and Steven Hill, and earned acting honors for the emotional performances of Lahti ('Los Angeles Film Critics Best Actress Award') and Phoenix (named 'Best Supporting Actor' by the 'National Board of Review'), according to the DVD sleeve description.This film doesn't tout itself as being based on a true story, but writer Naomi Foner seems to have been inspired by Bill Ayers and his Weather Underground. Supporting a non-peaceful protest of U.S. President Richard M. Nixon's escalation of the Vietnam War, the group specialized in the bombing of sites related to the war effort - without human casualty; but, in Running on Empty, the protesters blind a janitor.The film's performances are a highlight, as was noted by wins and nominations among movie award-giving groups; they considered River Phoenix the Supporting Actor in the drama, but he clearly handles the starring role. River is deliberate in the role - tucking in the front of his tee-shirt, and doing a duck walk guitar dance - later, he and director Lumet bring the young actor's personal sensitivity to an excellent finale.Lahti is even more extraordinary; she is perfect as the mother - and, more importantly, she is the one member of the on-screen players who makes the story most believable. Lahti is, singularly, learned but spontaneous throughout. She holds the story together. It might have been a nice idea to develop the relationship between Lahti's character and Kit Carson (as Gus Winant), confirming he is Danny's biological father.Running on Empty is not Lumet's greatest directorial achievement, in a mechanical sense; herein, his work is better evidenced by the performances he elicits. Judd Hirsch (as Arthur Pope), Jonas Abry (as Harry), and Martha Plimpton (as (Lorna Phillips) bring some great family chemistry to the cast. Finally, due to his untimely death, watching River emote with James Taylor's Fire and Rain in your brain is positively prescient.******* Running on Empty (9/7/88) Sidney Lumet ~ River Phoenix, Christine Lahti, Judd Hirsch, Martha Plimpton "},{"Title":"Highbrow Rebellion","Date":"23 January 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":" A thirty-something husband and wife, responsible for Viet Nam War protest violence in past years, are forever on the run, trying to evade capture by the F.B.I. What makes the story interesting is that the couple has two sons, one of whom is Danny (River Phoenix), a gifted piano player. Danny wants to attend Juilliard School of Performing Arts, but can't. To be accepted he must fill out applications and undergo a background check, procedures that would reveal the criminal history of his parents, both of whom are loving and caring individuals.This is a serious film with a serious theme. Although I resent the implication that war protesters are criminals, I do like the story's underlying theme, applied here as the need to accept personal responsibility for one's behavior.The plot gets off to a slow start; and some of the early dialogue is dubbed. But the plot picks up after the first few minutes. Some of the dialogue is heartrending, like when Danny, frustrated at the prospect of having to pack up and move on - again, tells his mom It's wonderful having a new name every six months.Casting is fine, except for Judd Hirsch who looks too old for the role of a middle-aged hippie. Acting is quite good. Christine Lahti, River Phoenix, and Martha Plimpton all shine.Given the 1960s youth rebellion back-story, I could have wished for some corresponding 1960s era music. Instead, all we get is James Taylor's spiritless (and off-key) Fire And Rain. The film's overall tone trends toward classical, cultured, and surprisingly highbrow.Made in the politically conservative 1980s, Running On Empty provides a counter argument to 1970s liberal movies defending American youth rebellion of the 1960s. Despite its political slant, the film is a quality production all the way, and one with an important message. "},{"Title":"Superb","Date":"23 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":" This is a truly fine film. And so few people recognize it. The performances are nuanced and beautiful. And the story is simple and powerful and moving. I suppose when you tell a wonderful story about real people with such a delicate touch, it isn't a surprise that you get overlooked. Without booming music or overdone melodrama or explosions, you just can't get anyone's attention. Too bad. This simple story about a young man who needs more than his surroundings can give him tells us so much about what it is to be human. The film is not about Vietnam. And it's not about protesting. It's about a family and the need for a son to realize himself. I hate to say this (because this is another Judd Hirsch movie) but I think that this film and Ordinary People might be two of the finest films about family dysfunction that have ever been produced. "},{"Title":"one of my all time favourites","Date":"1 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":" i have a few favourite films that i watch over and over and never tire of, this is one of them, waking the dead another, the white palace, before sunset, children of a lesser god to name some of the top of my head. i looked this up to see its rating i was surprised it got this high and that the people who hate it weren't that many. for me its a beautiful film, still a hidden gem of Sydney lumet, and i love it mainly for river phoenix and the love story setting with Martha plumpton. the crescendo of them getting together, the childish way she rebuffs him on a misunderstanding of his communication and the way he blurts all he has not said to her i can only describe as beautiful and truthful. The description of Martha of her parents as polite but not intimate, tells the truth that a lot of children have experienced in so called nice/good childhoods.The elecrifying scene between Christine lahti and her father where he challenges her that she wants for her child what she rejected for herself and the anger between them and his tears shed when she is gone... well as i say you'll have to watch the film.... final favourite for me, 'Corrina Corrina... "},{"Title":"Sensitive, intelligent and well-acted family drama","Date":"16 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":" Michael Manfield is a teenage schoolboy from New Jersey who lives with his parents Paul and Cynthia and his younger brother Stephen. Or perhaps I should say Danny Pope is a teenage schoolboy from New Jersey who lives with his parents Arthur and Annie and his younger brother Harry.In 1971, Arthur and Annie were members of a left-wing terrorist organisation who blew up a university laboratory producing napalm for use in the Vietnam war. A janitor was blinded and crippled in the explosion. Ever since then (the story is set in the mid-eighties) they have been on the run, living in various parts of America under a series of false identities, and relocating every time they suspect that the FBI might be closing in on them. Although they are no longer actively involved in the group's terrorist activities, they are still in touch with its members as they are forced to rely on an underground network of supporters. These supporters not only provide financial assistance, they can also supply the family with the false documentation they need to establish their new identities.Danny is a very gifted pianist (as was Annie in her youth), and at his new school his talent is recognised by his music teacher, Edward Phillips, who encourages him to apply to the prestigious Juilliard music school. (This never quite rings true. I can't really believe that Danny could have become such a talented pianist with only a practice board to play on- the family's lifestyle means that they have never owned a real piano). Danny is enthusiastic about the idea, as music is his greatest love, but his parents are reluctant to agree, as they fear that their wandering lifestyle means that they will lose touch with him should he leave them to go to college. Moreover Phillips, baffled by the lack of school records for the supposed Michael Manfield (the name by which he knows Danny), has started to ask questions about his background. A further complication is that Danny has fallen in love with Lorna, the teacher's attractive teenage daughter.Some have critcised the film for allegedly justifying terrorism; I don't think it does, although from today's perspective it does remind us that domestic terrorism in the US did not begin with 9/11 or the Oklahoma City bombing. It is less a political drama than a family one, dealing with the perennial coming-of-age theme of a young man's growing need to assert his individuality and his independence from his parents.Annie and Arthur are not portrayed either as monsters or as fanatics. They are, outwardly, loving parents, concerned about doing their best for their two sons, but have to live with the consequences of their misguided act. Although that act wrecked one man's life, forced them to live a hand-to-mouth existence on the run and threatens to wreck the lives of their children, they never seem to realise the seriousness of what they have done. Annie continues to justify the bombing as an act of conscience. As for the unfortunate janitor, she dismisses him with the words He wasn't supposed to be there. The somewhat enigmatic title Running on Empty may refer to this contradiction in their lives; they seem kindly and idealistic, yet there is a certain moral emptiness about them.There is, moreover, another contradiction in their lifestyle. For all their left-wing, libertarian, political principles, they make remarkably authoritarian parents. Arthur sees the family in terms of a military unit with himself as its commanding officer, to whom unquestioning obedience is owed. Only at the very end of the film does Arthur realise this contradiction and makes the final gesture (I won't say what it is) which shows that he has learned to put his children's needs before his own.River Phoenix, the young actor who died from a drugs overdose at the age of 23, stars as Danny. Even during his lifetime he was highly regarded, and after his death it was suggested that he might become an icon along the lines of James Dean, another handsome young actor who dies tragically. This never really happened, probably because none of Phoenix's films were quite in the same league as Rebel without a Cause or East of Eden. Nevertheless, Running on Empty does show what a promising actor he was and what a fine actor he might have become had he lived. (I certainly preferred this film to the overrated My Own Private Idaho which is sometimes cited as his best).There are two other good performances from Judd Hirsch and Christine Lahti as Arthur and Annie. Until recently I only knew Hirsch for his role in the television sit-com Taxi, but having now seen him in this film and in Ordinary People (another eighties film about a family in conflict) it is clear that he is also a fine actor in serious roles. The film as a whole is a sensitive, intelligent and well-acted family drama. 7/10 "},{"Title":"One of the best films of the 80s","Date":"3 February 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":"  Running on Empty, a 1988 film by Sidney Lumet, is a sympathetic look at a family in hiding from the authorities as a result of having committed a bomb attack on a napalm laboratory in 1970 to protest the Vietnam War. The attack left a janitor blinded and led to the pursuit of the family by the FBI for fifteen years. The film describes the disruption in the lives of the parents, Arthur and Annie Pope (Judd Hirsch and Christine Lahti) and its effect on their two sons, 17-year-old Danny (River Phoenix) and 10-year-old Harry (Jonas Abry). Running on Empty is one of my favorite films of the 80s, and a film that never fails to move me. It is a powerful and deeply moving film that investigates the conflicting pressures that the family faces as a result of their violent protest. River Phoenix was nominated for an Oscar in 1989 and is terrific as a tough minded, yet vulnerable and caring student. Judd Hirsch and Christine Lahti are equally convincing as a couple on the run, torn between their own survival, the things that they believe in, and the future of their children. The Popes have to be one step of the FBI just to keep out of their grasp. This means repeatedly changing locations and identities and falsifying school records for their children. Danny is a talented pianist whose remarkable abilities are discovered when he enrolls in a music class at a suburban high school in New Jersey. Things get complicated when Danny falls in love with Lorna Phillips (Martha Plimpton), the daughter of his music teacher (Ed Crowley). Their relationship is beautifully delineated in a scene where the two walk on a beach and Danny, in spite of his deepening feelings for Lorna, is secretive and evasive when questioned. The music teacher convinces Danny to audition for the Julliard School of Music in New York, an act that crystallizes the boy's conflict. He desperately wants to live his own life but knows that if he goes to College, he may never see his parents again. The conflict is resolved but only after a gripping and emotional scene.Running on Empty is reminiscent of another Lumet film Daniel that showed how the political activity of the parents (in this case, the Rosenbergs) changed the lives of the children forever. Like Daniel, this is not a political film but is about parents and children, love and support, and the need to let go. The warmth and love of the family is palpably evident in the scene at Annie's birthday party when everyone, including girlfriend Lorna, join together to dance to the James Taylor song Fire and Rain. Another beautiful scene is when Annie meets her father in a restaurant after fourteen years to discuss Danny's future. Running on Empty is also about ideas. It does not resort to polemics but allows us to consider for ourselves how far we would go to support a cause we believe in and how our actions can affect those we care about. In the 60s there were debates in both the civil rights movement and the Vietnam War protests between those who preached non-violence and those, like the Weatherman, who practiced civil disobedience and actions that ended in tragedy and wasted lives as depicted in the film. Others raised the consciousness of people in support of an end to an illegal and unjust war. Ultimately, each person had to decide for themselves the limits they put on their actions, and whether the end justified the means.The film does not judge the actions of the characters nor does it justify them. Far from being moralizing, Lumet sees the Popes as fallible human beings who have made a mistake and must pay the price, even though what they did was an act of conscience to stop the napalming of civilians in Vietnam. Lumet makes it clear in a scene with an old school militant named Gus that they now reject violence as a means of protest and that their lives are not about guns or symbolic gestures like robbing banks. They take responsibility for their actions in the past (though they claim that the janitor was not supposed to be in the building when the bomb went off) and Annie is willing to turn herself in when the boys are old enough. That they want to keep the family together is not about laying a guilt trip on their children, but about a parental love that is so deep that the thought of never seeing their children again is overwhelming. Perhaps there are those who can stand in judgment about this, but it may be different if they were parents facing the same situation. I personally don't know how I would have acted. It is difficult enough to let go under normal circumstances. "},{"Title":"You Reap What You Sow","Date":"14 July 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":" Sidney Lumet (Twelve Angry Men and Murder on the Orient Express) brings us a film about two war activists on the run with their young boys. The film touches on the issue of right and wrong, buy mainly focuses on reaping what you sow. Naomi Foner's story tells of what effect one's actions can have on the people you love; how you can rob them of their very lives.The Pope family find themselves in just such a dilemma after claiming responsibility for bombing a Napalm factory. After fleeing the FBI for fourteen years they find their seventeen year old son Danny is ready to begin his own life, and he wants to stop running.River Phoenix shows the potential he was tragically never to fulfil. Christine Lahti is also moving as the mother torn between not wanting to let go of her family and allowing her son to take the chances she never could. As Arthur Pope, Judd Hirsch is convincing, playing a frustrated man who has determined to accept his lot, and expects no less from his support unit, the family. Martha Plimpton also impresses as the young girl who falls for the mysterious Danny, and who eventually wins his heart.Lumet, looking for realism, unfortunately allows certain points of the film to run too long. At times he gains effect, yet often he drags things out. Still, this is quite a good film, and eventually, a poignant one.The music seems a little out of place from Terry Mottola. Steven Hill plays young Harry Pope.Monday, January 26, 1998 - Video "}{"Title":"fantastic sleeper","Date":"13 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":" This is one of the stranger American movies of the 1980s. The plot involves a family who is constantly on the run because the parents were radicals in their youth and were running from the law. The problem was that although THEY may have still been wanted by the law, their kids suffered from being continuously uprooted--particularly their son played so well by River Phoenix. This becomes even more apparent when this talented boy is told he would be virtually assured of a music scholarship because of his amazing talent BUT staying in this town with this identity too long could be dangerous for the parents--as they were always on guard worried about being discovered.What I particularly liked was how even though the parents had been hard-boiled radicals, they had never intended to hurt anyone AND the movie did not gloss over their prior acts or glorify their past. The film easily could have been made into an annoying pro-anarchy film, like NADA (a Claude Chabrol film of the 70s). Because of this, all audiences (right, left or in the center) will no-doubt find this movie fascinating and transcendent of other films of the era. "},{"Title":"Weathermen live on ...","Date":"11 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":" This is a story that had to be told. Why? The Weathermen were real . These were not apathetic hohums, they were patriots. They cared about the America they were leaving for their children.Is violence ever (EVER?) the answer ? You're damn right it is !!! Sorry, I'm digressing...Hell of a movie . The scene that blows me away is #27. Annie meets her Father at a restaurants , to ask him to take Danny (his grandson). She starts to break down, almost immediately ; but keeps it together long enough to speak her piece. Donald keeps a semblance of detachment until she gets up to leave (after telling him she's sorry for the pain she's caused , and to tell her mother she loves her and loves him) then he breaks into sobs as she turns away... Both Christine Lahti and Steven Hill were honored with awards for their performances ( His ONLY scene in the movie !!! )Unless you're a republican , see this movie !!! "},{"Title":"Being a radical is a lousy way to live","Date":"14 January 2002","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":"  Excellent drama dealing with a pair of liberal/radical world savers many years after their serious brush with the FBI. All the lofty ideals which drove them to their act of insanity isn't helping them a bit as family life deteriorates with the passing of time. I sympathized with their 2 children, but could marshall zero positive feelings the loving, caring, tender hearted parents; these 2 nuts belonged in a cell, period.  "},{"Title":"My third favorite movie of all time","Date":"21 October 2011","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":" 7.5? Are you serious? Who is voting on this movie??! This is my third favorite movie of all time, behind Forrest Gump and Shawshank.Anyone who has kids should get what this movie is about.Can you imagine having to face the decision of giving up your child for their own happiness, or keeping the family together as a unit? How fun would that be? I loved every part of this movie. The acting was amazing... my middle son looks just like River Pheonix. I've always liked him, especially in Stand by Me. What a shame what happened to him. He had so much potential ( What struck me most about this movie, was how the father tried to keep the family together at all costs. That's not easy! I also enjoyed the love story between River and the girl in the movie. I loved the basic story, of them being on the run, and sticking together as a family, trying to survive.I also loved the part where the old friend comes on to the mom and she tells him to take a hike... most movies nowadays would probably have some tack, torrid love affair going on, but this movie was realistic, they kicked the guy to the curb, he was a sleeze.And of course, the ending was, gut-wrenching... I still cry after seeing this movie a gozillion times.-Tracy Milburn "},{"Title":"One of My Favorites","Date":"27 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":" I never understood why this movie didn't become really well known, but come to think of it I don't know how and when I first saw it. It was on television, and then it was on again and I taped it and have watched it many times since. I agree with the previous writer that the father daughter lunch scene is just incredible. The birthday party dance scene to a James Taylor song is also just unexpected and outstanding. I don't know enough about movie making to know exactly what (I suspect all) elements (screenplay, directing, acting, cinematography) made this movie so powerful, but it is a great movie! To me it tells the universal story of young adults and their free ways facing the responsibility of raising children. This couple doesn't run from that responsibility,but faces it and struggles with those responsibilities. If you haven't seen this movie..I urge you to do so. "},{"Title":"Under-rated actress","Date":"13 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":"  Christine Lahti may be one of Hollywood's most under-rated actresses. Between this film and Housekeeping, she has certainly made her mark.Having come of age in the 1960's and having been on the relatively radical U of Colorado campus during much of the Vietnam War (we were called Berkley East), I could identify with the characters, who were trying to make a difference in the world even while they ran from the authorities. The ending (which I won't reveal here) was beautiful and summed up the theme of the film. "},{"Title":"great movie","Date":"23 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":"  everytime i watch this i cry.i cant help it.it is like i have no control of myself.in someways i think it is in this film that we kind of see the real river because his love for matha plimptons character is the same as his real love was. a great movie that needs to be revived! "},{"Title":"Masterpiece of a Film!!! (5 out of 5)","Date":"4 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":"  I was attracted to this film because it starred River Phoenix, who in my mind was the best actor of his generation.However on watching the film not only does Phoenix shine in his role, but the story becomes totaly engrossing!This film is totally believable and fun to watch!DO NOT MISS IT!!!!!  "},{"Title":"complete genius!!!","Date":"3 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":" One of my favorite films and I'm surprised how few people have heard of it. River at his best! He is one of my favorite actors. I love how understated yet powerful this movie as. The parents are also brilliant - how come more people haven't heard of this actors? My only complaint is that I find the girl (Martha Plimpton) a little grating, but she is still an excellent actress.As to the person who claimed that this movie sent a bad message because the adults used deadly force and were murderers - in fact nobody was killed! You're allowed to disagree with their actions, but you can't attribute deeds to them that they didn't do. Nobody is killed in this movie. "},{"Title":"Kleenex overload","Date":"1 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":"  This is one of those real blub fests but not in the usual Hollywood pavlovian-doggy sense. It's touching and sensitively handled by Lumet, often noted for his more harder fare. The last 40 minutes are a continuous water-works. I remember Micheal Medved moaning about this film in his 'Hollywood vs.America' book. I would have thought he would have approved of the whole family values thing, but since they were lefties he threw a wobbly. He thought the kids were too perfect. I say, Poppycock, Mike! Micheal Mansfield had become a near delinquent, stealing from people's rooms. He was most tortured by his family but wanted to stay loyal to them through thick and thin. I think that's inspiring and true. The whole counter-culture theme seemed curiously out of date though, especially the scene where Lahti's old radical boy friend turns up, but at least the film told a different and interesting story very well.River Pheonix's performance was somewhat inexperienced, especially in his body language. All that checking his watch in the piano scene with Martha Plimpton was a cringe. Elsewhere, he really moved you. The bithday party scene was wonderful. Lahti has always been an inspired actress and she has a figure you want to eat too. Her scene with her father was one of the most memorable ever, painfully conveying the price you have to pay in life if you take a moral decision against your own personal interests. I felt most sorry for Plimpton's father who was given such a hard time by her.It's rare you want a film to carry on after it has ended because you want to spend more time with the characters and are genuinely intrigued as to what became of them. Recommended. "}{"Title":"Plodding, thin after-school special.","Date":"20 July 2008","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":" As straightforward and predictable as any film you could ever see, Running on Empty resembles nothing more than a film your history teacher showed because it was almost Spring Break, and you sort of watched it but mostly slept through it because it was dark and it was the last class before lunch. That's Running on Empty.It's a film about a husband and wife who were radicals in the '70s and blew up a napalm factory, and now they're constantly on the run with their children, one of whom is a talented piano prodigy, and now he wants to go to college for it.The cast is mostly lacking. River Phoenix is the only bright spot in the entire cast. He's believable, inspires sympathy and becomes developed as a character. The rest of the case is either good with a bad character (Martha Plimpton is given a Type character, she's the Catalyst, as she gives big long-winded speeches about being yourself, and then makes out with him). Pretty much the rest of the cast has decent characters but can do nothing with them (especially Judd Hirsch, who never does anything even remotely interesting, and none of his lines sound natural or believable).As I said, the film is predictable to a fault, and it really makes it difficult to watch, because it's plodding and like seemingly all Lumet films, long-winded (the biggest thing that bothers me about this Lumet quest is that every single one of his films seems to be at least 110 minutes long, there's never any quick and painless flicks, you're always in for the long haul) and the inevitability of every single scene is predestined in every scene before it. Blah.Grade 5/10 (C) / #28 (of 35) of 1988 "},{"Title":"sensitive direction, talented cast, adequate script","Date":"31 December 2010","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":" Two erstwhile radical activists, still at large fifteen years after a 1971 protest bombing (which left an innocent bystander accidentally maimed), do what they can to maintain their values while raising their children as fugitives. From a purely demographic standpoint it's a crafty scenario, designed to appeal not only to a generation fondly recalling the idealism of its youth, but also to teenage viewers ready to identify with oldest son River Phoenix's frustrating coming of age and independence. The script captures perfectly all the die-hard attitudes of aging hippies (it must have been written from experience), but the plot offers little more than a series of dramatic one-on-one confrontations, between mother and son, father and son, mother and father, son and girlfriend, and so forth. Sidney Lumet's direction is all but invisible, making the film no more challenging than a topical made-for-television movie, and placing the burden of the drama squarely on a first-rate cast more than able to shoulder the load. "},{"Title":"Earnest little movie but highly overrated","Date":"26 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":" The lavish praise here on IMDb.com caused me to give up my Saturday night ice skating and set aside time to watch this film. A mistake. It's certainly a decent little film, worth watching if it happens to be showing on television at a convenient time but hardly worth setting aside an evening for it.The pacing is very slow, to say the least. Plodding and predictable, as one reviewer here puts it so well here. Many scenes are prolonged far past the time they've made their point. One of the clearest examples is when Mom sits down to play at the piano with her son, signifying a little moment of bonding; but they play and play, the meaningless little tune (Is it even a tune, or just some random notes?) goes on and on, making me squirm in my seat with impatience. The film editor seems to have been asleep at the wheel with this scene, as well as others.I don't understand at all why so many people are talking about how touching and sad this movie is. Did it really provoke people to tears? Neither I nor my wife were particularly touched by any of the scenes, including the final one. You'll find a lot more emotion in a good poster or ad by a charity asking for donations to help desperate children around the world. Running On Empty left us largely unmoved. Was the final scene supposed to pack an emotional wallop? Dad doesn't try to soften the blow in the least. Take your bike out of the back of the truck. Get on it and get out of here. As devastating as the sense of rejection would be for that brutal remark, Dad does only the bare minimum to make Danny feel safe about his future. Your grandfather will take care of you. That's all he says to give him comfort, a few words, a wave, and they're off. And this, apparently, is meant to convey to us the fact that Dad is deeply moved at this moment and only being short and brutal as a way of hiding his true feelings of loss. I don't buy it. It was just short and unconvincing because the writer or director couldn't, or didn't bother to, create something more real.There are strange gaps in the story. What job is Dad working at? We hear about Mom's job at the doctor's office, but all we know about Dad is that he comes home wearing coveralls until just about the end of the movie when we see he's been working in a kitchen. The many towns they've been in are unnecessarily blurred--no names, no reminiscences, no visuals. I was left with a sense of incompleteness, as if the writer didn't quite have a firm hand on the story, hadn't thought it through enough, hadn't fleshed it out. Could it have been a play originally? That might explain why there was so little offstage action.Why all the ballyhoo about River Phoenix? For almost the entire film he simply sat on a bed or walked down a corridor or made insignificant comments that took no particular acting skill. The nomination for an Academy Award must have come from his weeping scenes, only two moments, amounting to hardly 4-5 minutes of acting. So he struggled with his emotions and broke into tears. Good, it was well done. But an Academy Award? I can only guess that they nominated him in order to welcome and baptize into the profession a capable young actor who might one day become a star based on his good looks and personal appeal.I was impressed to see that River Phoenix appears to be actually playing the piano. Good for him. Unfortunately, he is not nearly good enough for all those other characters to be exclaiming over his talent, especially the talent scouts from the Julliard School of Music. It made for a jarring discrepancy. His technique is only average for someone his age but not uncommon for 12-year-olds with a bit of talent (check out YouTube for lots of examples), and his expressiveness, what really counts for someone wanting a career as an artist, was downright rudimentary. Julliard wouldn't hav3e wasted a moment on him.For me this film was decent but pedestrian and, given the raves I read here, something of a disappointment. "},{"Title":"Serious Movie == Teenage Make-Out","Date":"16 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":" RUNNING ON EMPTY looked so repulsive we didn't see it until it was the only thing in English on TV one night in Switzerland. Turns out the film has a lot to offer.The teen make-out scenes with Martha Plimpton and River Phoenix were strictly PG but were perhaps the hottest I've seen in 60 years. Martha Plimpton has never looked the same to me since; and when I saw her on Broadway last year (she's only aged maybe 2 years the past 29 years) I could not take my eyes off her.The filmmaker has twice tried to get the message out about how awful it is to have hippie terrorists for parents and be dragged all over the map trying to escape Federal prosecution. In this film, the parents (Judd Hirsch and Christine Lotti) realistically portray the hippie peacenick generation, not glorified but as selfish willful degenerates who view arson and the murder of innocent people as both Freedom of Speech and an expression of their self-styled commitment to Peace --- if you disagree with us we'll blow you up. How liberal! This is the way they were, folks; and if you had parents who were into that, please do NOT do what they say, but go in their room and find their stash of drugs. Maybe you can save them; but the River Phoenix character knew they were a lost cause. "},{"Title":"river phoenix comes of age to fugitive parents","Date":"8 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":"  River Phoenix stars as a coming of age teenager whose parents are fugitives from the vietnam war protest era who must frequently be on the run to keep one step ahead of the law.. of course, this causes some problems for Phoenix as he becomes a man.. good drama and good acting by all the main characters 6 of 10 "},{"Title":"Why do we continue to make heros out of criminals?","Date":"29 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":"  I remember seeing this film on HBO back in the late 80s.  It was praised as some sort of masterpiece.  The main adult characters in the movie are criminals who used violence and deadly force in attempting to accomplish their goal of hastening the end of the Viet Nam War.  A bit ironic, I would say.The problem here is that these two who are placed upon a pedestal by the film makers, are criminals; felons; murderers.  That doesn't even matter.  All we are to care about is their intentions, not the actions or the outcome.  This is the fallacy of Liberalism in a nutshell. It's OK to bomb a building because we don't like what's going on inside.You can't blame us for someone dying because we didn't MEAN to kill them.No accountability.  Of course, they do have to pay for their actions and thus it can be argued there IS accountability, but the problem here is the context in which it's presented.  We are made to sympathise with those who have committed the wrongs and feel anger at those who were attacked and who call for accountability.Sounds all too familiar... "}]