[{"Title":"The best of the bunch","Date":"6 March 2003","Score":"24 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is not the one people think of when talking about those body switching comedies that came out between '87 and '89. Big always gets the attention, but for my money Vice Versa is funnier, smarter and more memorable.  Judge Reinhold didn't get the Oscar nomination that Tom Hanks scored, and more or less dropped off the face of the earth after making this movie (except, of course, for Daddy's Dyin'...Who's Got the Will).  He was in several '80s blockbusters and stole many scenes in them (Fast Times at Ridgemont High, Beverly Hills Cop and its sequel, Ruthless People....)  But this movie is his shining hour, where he is believable and funny as both the uptight adult and the 11-year old kid.  Fred Savage is equally good--very convincing when he becomes his dad.  The movie builds up its jokes nicely, and has a Capra-esque quality to it.  It also makes terrific use of character actors Swoosie Kurtz and David Proval, who is light years away from his Sopranos character.  The fact that this movie is lumped in with lesser films like 18 Again and Like Father Like Son baffles me.  This one is definitely in the league with Big. "},{"Title":"Realistic Performances","Date":"23 April 2005","Score":"17 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" While this one came out around the same time as other 'Body Swap' movies, and is usually blown off by most people as an inferior product. I just want to defend this flick for a bit.Yes, it's a bit predictable, the script isn't the best out there, and it will never be considered a great classic, but the performances of Messrs. Reinhold and Savage are completely believable. In fact, I thought Reinhold's work in this one got overlooked. I'm not complaining about Tom Hanks' job in 'Big,' but I thought that since Hanks was playing an adolescent boy in a man's body, he played it a bit young. Reinhold, on the other hand, was playing a 9 or 10 year old boy, therefore his portrayal was easier to buy into.Fred Savage does a very good job as the thirty-something man trapped in the body of a boy. The real selling points of these portrayals is in the details. Watch as Savage gives his 'son' encouragement, or Reinhold's uncertainty in dealing with the world.As I said, a classic? Nah, but a fun afternoon of family entertainment? You bet! "},{"Title":"Hilarious comedy/fantasy","Date":"20 September 2001","Score":"15 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Vice Versa is a very funny, very sweet comedy about a father and son who switch bodies thanks in part to a mysterious Thai skull that they both just happen to be touching at the same time (not to mention making an unintentional wish that they could trade places with each other). Judge Reinhold (Beverly Hills Cop) and Fred Savage (TV's The Wonder Years) are dynamite in their roles as the father and son who have to get used to doing things that they're not used to doing (the father goes to school; the son goes to work, etc.). Vice Versa has lots of big laughs and is perfect for the entire family. The film, shot almost entirely in Chicago, also uses the Chicago locations to good effect. A hilarious film from start to finish, and it's easily the best of the body switching movies that came out in 1987/1988 (Like Father, Like Son, 18 Again, and Big were the others). I still can't understand why this movie flopped at the box office in 1988. The thing that shocks me is that Like Father, Like Son was the worst of these movies, and it made more money than Vice Versa. I can't figure that one out. Vice Versa has 100 times more laughs than Like Father, Like Son ever had. Sometimes I can't understand these moviegoers. And in this case, the fact that Vice Versa faired poorly at the box office when released in 1988 to me remains an enigma. I saw this movie in a packed movie house on it's opening weekend and everyone (including myself and a friend of mine) was laughing out loud while watching it. It's that funny of a movie.***1/2 (out of four)  "},{"Title":"I see a silohuett-a of a man!","Date":"26 April 2004","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Vice Versa, despite the trite plot, distinguishes itself from other 80s body-switching comedies, because of the age and personality difference between the two characters. To watch Judge Reinhold act like a wild ten year-old trapped in an adults body and Fred Savage to act like a short-tempered middle aged man trapped in a child's body, it makes fine family fun and hilarious comedy. I think, in fact, it is Judge Reinhold in one of his finest moments, being allowed to act like a wild kid, curiously handling adult responsibilities with a child's touch. Marshall (Judge Reinhold) and his girlfriend take a business trip to Southeast Asia to order some cheap vases for their company's Christmas stock. The shipments get mixed up, and Marshall gets his hands on a strange looking sacred golden skull with mysterious powers that was supposed to be given to some bumbling theives who were going to sell it for a hefty price.  Meanwhile, Marshall's son, Charlie (Fred Savage) is miserable, having to spend the holidays with his dad, an uptight work-a-holic who never seems to have time for Charlie, and usually scoffs at Charlie's suggestions for a little adventure. Charlie was optimistic about the vacation, but it seems that the two just can't get along at all. During an argument about how the other doesn't understand what it's like to be a kid/adult, they get their hands on the skull, and one...two...switcheroo. Charlie becomes Marshall and Marshall becomes Charlie. Like I said, the thing that makes this movie better than say, 'Like Father, Like Son' which is essentially the same deal (father and son switch), is the contrasting personalities and age differences of the two characters. Judge Reinhold goes from uptight middle-aged guy to a kid who's perpetually stoked about everything. He really turns things around in Marshall's life. And Charlie goes from regular little kid, to something of an arrogant smart-ass. Like 18 Again!, the characters are perfect for a story like this.  "},{"Title":"Big meets Freaky Friday via Like Father, Like Son, beating them all out single-handedly!","Date":"14 December 2003","Score":"12 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Freaky Friday was about a girl and her mother who switched bodies and had to cope with the outcome for a brief time period. The girl took the job, the mother took school. The film has been remade at least twice that I can think of off hand, once in 1995 for television with Shelly Long, and again this year with Jamie Lee Curtis and Lindsay Lohan.The formula was put to bad use in 1987's Like Father, Like Son, which starred Dudley Moore and Kirk Cameron as father and son (respectively, of course) who swap places after a freak accident. A year later there was a movie about a father and son who swapped places and tacked work and school. It was called Vice Versa, and I consider it the greatest of all these films.What is Hollywood's fascination with swapping parent with child? It almost surely has something to do with cash. But, alas, I do not think that it is the fascination with swapping parent and child as much as just swapping in general. These body swap films were extremely popular during the 80s, but lately we've been seeing a revival of the formula, with Rob Schneider in one of the worst films of 2002, The Hot Chick, and then the Freaky Friday remake.There are lots of action films released every year. There are lots of comedies and dramas released every year, too. But I think you will be hard pressed to find the majority of those action films all about a guy stranded inside a building being taken over with hostages. I think you will be hard pressed to find the majority of dramas being about Mafia families. It will be even harder to find the character's name in the action film to be John McClane every time around, and every Mafia family's surname to be Corleone.Basic formulas are used again and again, of course. But there are only so many times you can use the exact same plot, down to every last inch, and expect it to work.Vice Versa does work, thanks to a pretty clever little script and great acting, by both Judge Reinhold and Fred Savage, whose role in The Princess Bride proved he good be a sweet little kid, and whose role here proves that he can be a sarcastic 30/40-something alcoholic.Marshall (Reinhold) is a Chicago businessman who has no time for his 11-year-old son, Charlie (Savage). So when Charlie is sent to spend the weekend with his dad, things don't go so well -- until they make a wish that they could trade places, and an ancient Oriental antique grants their wish.Marshall works at a big department store in downtown Chicago, host to all types of gadget and toy stores. Charlie, in Marshall's body, goes to work, and Marshall, in Charlie's body, goes to school. They both realize that they both have it tough and, in the end, overcome differences to learn to appreciate them.Sounds sappy, huh? Sounds by-the-numbers? That's probably because, in a sense, it is. The film is a lot like Big, released the same year, and a lot like Freaky Friday, only with different genders in the leading roles. But I believe it's better than both films for a few reasons.1. Tom Hanks gave a great performance in Big, but acted more like an 8-year-old than a 13-year-old in a man's body. Fred Savage, as Marshall, not only pulls off the adult role, but Judge Reinhold convincingly portrays a fascinated 11-year-old. Because of this, it's actually a lot more believable and a lot more funny.2. Charlie, in Marshall's body, does not come up with wonderful ideas for new toys, and does not wow the company chairman with his genius, straightforward designs like Hanks did in Big. It was not only a convenient plot ploy, but also wholly stupid. Vice Versa actually presents a much clearer image of what a child would do in a man's body -- make mistakes, nearly lose his job, go into the department stores and start banging on drums and shooting arrows. (Don't ask.)This is not only a fun film, but a much more honest film than Big, which I enjoyed but not nearly quite as much as Vice Versa. Big actually had some sexual amorality in it (13-year-old doing it with 30-year-old, etc.), and despite Tom Hanks' great performance, he did not convince me that he was a 13-year-old inside a man's body, but rather a younger child. All 13-year-olds know what women mean when they say that they want to sleep with them.Vice Versa doesn't resort to typical plot turns. It also has a lot of fun with clean morals, and it came out the same year as Big, meaning it didn't rip off its success like a lot of movies did thereafter. This is an honest family film as straightforward as Charlie is in Marshall's body. And though it may be copying old formulas in a lot of ways, in my own humble opinion, it succeeds far past the others.4/5 stars.- John Ulmer "},{"Title":"Party till you puke!","Date":"7 January 2010","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Separated from his wife and son, Charlie, Marshall Seymour has made himself into successful buyer for a big chain department store. Unfortunately his workaholic ethic leaves little time for him to spend with Charlie. When Charlie comes to stay with Marshall for a break, the pair row and wish they were in each others shoes. A wish that comes true on account of a mystical skull that Marshall mistakenly brought back from his last buying trip.You got to ask yourself one thing if you are interested in watching Vice Versa for the first time; are you tired of body swap movies If the answer is yes then this really isn't the film for you. The fourth adaptation of F. Anstey's novel, Vice Versa is funny, pleasant and not suffering by way of trying to be clever with the format. And rest assured that in spite of its pretty low internet rating, it has a bit more to offer than the likes of The Hot Chick. But it is rigid to the formula of such films, so expecting anything fresh will prove to be a futile exercise. Judge Reinhold & Fred Savage play father and son respectively and both do considerably well with the material to hand. With both proving to have a nice line in comic timing. Sure it's not genre defining or exceptionally hard, but the tidy writing throws up amusing scenarios that both of them utilise to the maximum. Winning scenes come by way of the school and the workplace of the respective individuals, while the involvement of the ex-wife/mother and Sam Corinne Bohrer the girlfriend create some nice light hearted touches.Entertaining fluff for the undemanding viewer. 6/10Footnote UK viewers should note that the TV showings of Vice Versa contain many annoying cuts that dull the impact of some scenes. Moderate swearing and obscene finger gestures are the most telling cuts. So if one is interested in catching it, be advised that a pre watershed showing will not be of full comedic value. "},{"Title":"Mr. Freaky Friday","Date":"10 March 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" If I have to compare the acting of Jodie Foster & Barbara Harris (the 1977 Freaky Friday) to Fred Savage & Judge Reinhold, the guys would win hands down.It was cool to see that jam session at Vigar & Avery Dept. store where Charlie (in Marshall's body) played the drums with that rich boy guitarist. Luckily he got out of that when the boss found out it was his favorite customer's son. Also, when Charlie took on those bullies in the bathroom, pretending to be an undercover cop.Another favorite part was when Fred Savage got to drive that police motorcycle to catch the bad people.Little did I know that his ex-wife & Charlie's mother would later become a loudmouth, driving 4 boys crazy in the process (Jane Kaczamrek-Malcolm In The Middle).Overall, one of the best family movies of 1988. "},{"Title":"Good as a kid, great as an adult.","Date":"28 November 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I vaguely remember enjoying this film as a child. Watching it a 2nd time now as a middle-aged man sheds a whole new light on this outstanding piece of work. There are parts that I'm sure I didn't find humorous back then that were absolutely hysterical this time around. Very subtle adult themes that went over my head now struck me as very clever. I'm very happy to have stumbled upon this movie again. I highly recommend this film, especially to those that remember viewing it back in the 80's. I've found it to be more enjoyable than Big or any of the other body swap movies of that time. "},{"Title":"Probably the best of the 4 comedies that came out around the same time.","Date":"1 October 2000","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Although Big is on the same level. This a great comedy that isn't only funny, but also good for the family. Judge Reinhold and Fred Savage are great in their roles, I don't think 2 better actors could have been picked. The movie in whole is a lot of fun, no deep thinking, it's just easy to watch. A good movie for all. "},{"Title":"The only good swap film to the date","Date":"30 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I first saw this movie in the 80's. I was about seven or eight years old, around the same year I saw Like Father Like son, also Big with Tom Hanks and later on saw the two freaky Friday Remakes and Hot Chick, Don't remember exactly if I've seen 18 again, think I have. Anyway, of all these SWAP films Vice Versa has always been my favorite, actually I consider it to be the only good swap film to the date. But, to confirm this position I developed when I was just a Kid, I saw again tonight, couldn't find the movie, so I decided to watch it divided in eleven parts on youtube (Kind of a desperate act huh) and I am SO pleased to say that I remain with the same idea Vice Versa is simply the best swap movie done to this date.And really, who cares if the idea has been already made over and over again? Remember it's never what you tell, it's how you tell it, and in this case it is perfectly told. And damn is Savages and Reinholds acting brilliant, really, I think Reinhold is the only actor to deliver a believable portrayal of an eleven year old kid, except in one or two scenes where he over acts, but nothing of importance honestly, and Savage well he really is flawless in this film. P.s On the bottom of the Swap Film list I have Like Father, Like Son, if there's anything worse than seeing Dudley Moore acting, is seeing him acting as a teenager... NOT believable at all, he sucks big time. "}{"Title":"A hugely enjoyable comedy","Date":"6 February 2016","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Based on the 1882 novel of the same name by F. Antsey, this is a hugely enjoyable comedy. It was one of my favourite childhood films and it held up remarkably well. It has a strong and very witty script by British sitcom veterans Dick Clement and Ian La Frenais and it is very well directed by Brian Gilbert. It may not be on the same level as Big, another film from the same year which covers much of the same territory, but it is still enormous fun. I think that it is second only to that film as the best of the many body swapping films of the late 1980s. I enjoyed it considerably more than the underwhelming 1948 British version written and directed by Peter Ustinov.The film stars Judge Reinhold as Marshall Seymour, an up-and-coming 35-year-old executive vice president at the Chicago department store Vigar and Avery. He is so ambitious and determined to succeed in his chosen profession that he is unknowingly neglecting his 11-year-old son Charlie, played by Fred Savage. While it is not expressly stated, it is pretty safe to assume that his obsessive work ethic is what lead to the demise of his marriage to Charlie's mother Robyn. Charlie feels a little unloved by his uptight, neurotic and mostly absent father and, while he is disappointed that Marshall misses his concert, he is not terribly surprised as this sort of thing seemingly happens on a regular basis. However, their worlds get turned upside down when they switch places due to a magical Tibetan skull, as you do.Reinhold is hilarious as Charlie and his excellent performance perfectly captures the enthusiasm and immaturity of an 11-year-old boy. He brings a great deal of childlike innocence to the role and the awkward way in which he walks suggests that the small for his age Charlie is having a bit of trouble adjusting to life in Marshall's gangly, 6'2 frame. However, Savage steals the show as Marshall, who gets the short end of the stick. Although he recalled his own childhood with great pleasure, he soon discovers that he was viewing it through rose coloured glasses and that life can be tougher for a child than many adults realise. Savage was one of the best child actors of his generation and it is easy to see why he was given the lead role in a TV series at only 12. Although he is playing a 35-year-old in the body of a child, his performance nevertheless seems very natural. Savage is able to convey Marshall's maturity and occasionally obnoxious tendencies extremely well. He plays the material straight rather than sending it up, a mistake that many lesser (and older) actors make it comes to comedy. Savage and Reinhold have great chemistry and this makes the film's premise seem all the more believable.Gilbert's great eye for casting is not only on display with the two leads but with respect to the supporting cast as well. Corinne Bohrer, whom I have always thought deserved bigger roles, is very good as Marshall's girlfriend Sam, who is likewise feeling a little neglected because of his work schedule. The same is true of Swoosie Kurtz and David Proval as the art thieves Lillian Brookmeyer and Turk, who desperately try to gain possession of the skull throughout the film. It also features great performances from Jane Kaczmarek as Robyn, William Prince as Marshall's boss Stratford Avery and Beverly Archer as Charlie's teacher Jane Luttrell and, in smaller roles, Richard Kind, James Hong, Elya Baskin and Gloria Gifford.Overall, this is a great feelgood film which entertained me almost as much as it did when I was eleven. There is a nice exploration of the father-son relationship and a few touching moments between the laughs. "},{"Title":"Best of the swap films","Date":"19 January 2016","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Of the four swap films of 1987-1988, Vice versa is the best. It's funny, interesting, convincing, and makes us care about our characters. It saw the mistakes of the disappointing Like father, like son, and corrected them. Fred Savage and Judge Rienhold play father and son who swap bodies after touching an ancient skull that Rienhold got from a trip to Thailand. They accidentally touch it at the same time during an argument while saying to each other how they wish they could switch places. After they switch, they're initially shocked of course, but then, not knowing what to do, they go to school/ work in each others bodies.This is where the real differences between this film and  Like father show. Example 1 Rienhold and Savage really look convincing in each other's bodies here. Savage as Rienhold acts silly, yet shows that kind of child like awe and he does it well without overacting like the Like father characters did. Rienhold in Savage acts worldwise, moves with and talks with adult like mannerisms, and acts like he's equals with other adults. And he too, does not overact. Example 2 They are both funny and entertaining with all their antics here, and again, they don't overact, where in Like father, they acted stupid, annoying, and they overacted terribly. "},{"Title":"Kinda predictable, but enjoyable nonetheless","Date":"16 January 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" While watching this movie, the word generic often came to mind, but this was one of the earlier body swap movies (there were a few before it that I haven't seen like 'Like Father, Like Son' and the 1976 version of Freaky Friday), so this was likely the blueprint for some more recent ones.Judge Reinhold and Fred Savage are both great in their roles. Reinhold perfectly portrays childlike emotions, and Savage is hilarious outwitting bullies and treating those he considers beneath him like second class citizens. One of my least favorite clichés takes place with Reinhold in the workplace, like his quirkiness actually getting him ahead. Some of the funniest moments are with the ex-wife/mother reacting to the odd and inappropriate behavior of the pair. "},{"Title":"Vice Versa","Date":"11 January 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Strange to think this little forgotten 80's comedy is actually an adaptation of a late 18th Century novel. Hardly the kind of thing you'd expect to see Judge Reinhold and Fred Savage in. This overlooked flick came out a few months before 'Big' but failed to do as well unsurprisingly.One high flying business man and neglectful father swaps places with his very small bullied son. From there on the little boy must try and hold his fathers job together while the dad must battle the daily grind of school. At the same time a couple of baddies are also after the precious object that causes all the commotion. Its easy to grasp, predictable and cheesy but its a fun little jaunt.It always bothered me that they went to the trouble of having both characters actually change shape, shrink n grow, to make you believe that each of them transformed into the other. Wouldn't it have been easier just for them to swaps minds? why did they have to virtually mutate into each others body shape?. You don't see that of course, its only implied by camera angles and the simple raising and lowering of the floor beneath them haha but it just seemed pointless to me.The other thing I could never work out was this department store in Chicago. Obviously its suppose to be a very prestigious store for wealthy buyers but would it really have such lavish office levels above the store?. I don't know maybe in the US this is how big stores work, maybe here in the UK too in say...Harrods, but it felt so odd. All these snivelling ass kissing suits following the big director around their plush offices, the whole entourage of hierarchy that seems to run the store like the third Reich putting the fear of God into the employees. It is of course so very 80's with the power suits, an all white pompous set of staff and stereotypical male chauvinistic behaviour (bit like 'Trading Places'), but I did like that angle, its so damn retro.This is one of those comedies that is suppose to be for kids but its actually quite grown up really, a perfect 80's comedy then. Many scenes contain Savage swearing, drinking and talking to adults as if he was one himself. That is the whole point sure but you know in this day and age it would be so watered down and childish, this is a touch edgy at times and its brilliant. Gotta be honest this is probably Savage's best major film too, he really does perform well as an adult I must say, Reinhold also kills it as a big child (he's perfectly cast with his looks), both have lots of cute little moments which will make you laugh.You can see the how the finale will unfold a mile off but its still good goofy fun as the two bad guys get their obvious comeuppance. Its not a 'Pink Panther' type of tomfoolery don't worry, its a very tolerable silliness that is somewhat believable, there are no real big stunts or action sequences in this. I loved the performances from everyone in this, quick nod to the trio of brown nosing office boy yes men who all came across as 'Waldorf and Statler-like' live action Muppets, Richard Kind being one. Totally underrated in this reviewers opinion and well worth the watch if you enjoy really dated 80's flicks, good Xmas time flick too.8/10 "},{"Title":"Derivative of Freaky Friday, but I managed to enjoy it anyway.","Date":"1 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Plot Summary A weird oriental skull manages to make a father and son switch bodies, after the father and son make a wish they regret. Ah; The 80's. How I miss you sometimes. I often lament my frustrations on all the lame stuff that comes out today. Vice Versa won't win any awards for authenticity or originality, but for entertainment purposes it does the job rather decently. There are many gags in this film that are completely unbelievable and often ridiculous, but it's done with such charm, and it's so fun, that I didn't care. It helps that Judge Reinhold & Fred Savage make such a likable pair. Judge isn't afraid to make a fool of himself in this movie. He gives a fully committed & brave performance that is an absolute blast to watch. Fred Savage is pretty entertaining himself as the kid acting like the adult. He had some funny lines, and had excellent charisma with Reinhold. This is NOT a family film. It does have family orientated stuff in it, but it does have strong stuff in its approach at times. It has strong language and some strong situations. It's a fun time waster, but be prepared if you want your kids to see it. Final Thoughts It's nothing all that special, but it managed to entertain me and pass the time perfectly. What more can you really ask for with a film like this?? If you need a good laugh, and something to watch on a dreary day, this might just do the trick for you. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Ah, the 80's.....","Date":"17 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" ....for kids it was great, every movie released in some way seemed to pander to the childlike fascination with gizmo's and toys and exploring all those weird things we'd only read about in Famous Five books and their ilk.Along with Mannequin http//us.imdb.com/Title?0093493 Big http//us.imdb.com/Title?0094737 The Goonies http//us.imdb.com/Title?0089218 and of course Gremlins http//us.imdb.com/Title?0087363 Vice Versa is one of those movies that practically every kid has seen (and before I forget - Drop Dead Fred too) and enjoyed, they might not stand up to intense scrutiny but for sitting in front of and watching without a care in the world - you can't beat them.  Formulaic but fun and I don't think the 90's produced a single film on par (if you discount animated stories like Toy Story) to match up (90's spawned seemingly endless 'tongue in cheek' cynical versions that had 'adult' appeal also sacrificing a little of the out and out entertainment value for kids).Great fun, worth seeing if it's on TV - but leave deep thinking behind. "},{"Title":"Father and son","Date":"1 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" In 1988 there were a slew of body swap films with Tom Hanks in Big leading the way at the box office.Vice Versa is based on a novel of the same name published in 1882. This is the fourth screen adaptation of the book.It is light on its feet and inoffensive with little of substance to offer. This time an ancient skull from Thailand is the conduit for father and son to swap places and see things from each other's viewpoint, especially as the son wants his divorced father to spend more time with him.It now has that very 80s vibe helped by the music and editing styles. It also offers amiable support from it two stars.Judge Reinhold and Fred Savage are likable, Jane Kaczmarek is delicious and it is a decent family film but nothing too more. "},{"Title":"Son wants father's lifestyle . . . . . . . . and vice versa.","Date":"25 March 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" You wait for one oldster/youngster bodyswap movie to come along and then three or four come along at once, oy oy oy. Vice Versa, watched nowadays, is like a little time capsule that can still raise a smile despite having nothing of real value to it. Coming along during the period that gave us Big, 18 Again and Like Father Like Son, it was only able to stand out from the others by highlighting it's stars, Judge Reinhold and Fred Savage. Did it ever really stand a chance? This time around, the bodyswap is instigated by some ancient skull ornament thingumybob (that IS the technical term for it) and father and son swap during a time of particular personal difficulty, allowing both to get a better view of things from the other's perspective. And you already know how things are going to turn out.Directed by Brian Gilbert, this film never offends but never really takes off either. It just kind of . . . . . is. That's a shame because, despite my light mocking in the first paragraph here, Judge Reinhold and Fred Savage are two very likable leads. The latter gets to do the whole world-weary soul in a youngster thing and does it well while Reinhold often perfectly embodies a child in an adult's body with his unabashed drumming scene one of the few, smile-making highlights of the movie.Support comes from Corinne Bohrer (and I have no idea if she ever did anything else, but she was good enough here) as the love interest and Swoosie Kurtz and David Proval as a couple of schemers intent on getting their hands on the skull for their own benefit. We also get the likes of Jane Kaczmarek (the mom from Malcolm In The Middle) and Richard Kind helping things along.As a harmless, mildly diverting, rainy afternoon movie this does just about enough to keep you pleased. As a body swap movie to rival some of the others mentioned (and the wonderful Freaky Friday, the Barbara Harris-Jodie Foster version that remains a favourite of mine), it just doesn't make the grade.See this if you like Freaky Friday, Vice Versa, Like Father Like Son. "},{"Title":"6-24-07  Looking for the guitar.","Date":"25 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" There was a seen in the movie where Judge Reinhold (already switched as his son by that point) was in the mall playing guitar with one other person on drums or vice versa he was playing the drums, Anyway I looked under the credits but I don't believe the manufacturer was listed for credit of the instruments. Could have been... Yamaha I don't know but I've been searching for this guitar for years. Anybody got any ideas as to the maker and model number of this guitar? I believe I saw it last night in an episode of Flight of the Conchords but I'm not sure if it's the same one.If anybody has any info on this guitar please leave a response here about it, I'll be checking back every other month to see if it's been revealed.Thanks for any help. "},{"Title":"Funny but unoriginal","Date":"23 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  There are lots of cliched laughs in Vice Versa when father and son magically swap bodies.Judge Reinhold is very funny as he eagerly carries the gags to get the maximum laughs. Fred Savage as his son is also good.Great family movie. "}{"Title":"A cute, family film","Date":"11 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" What a blast from the past this movie was! Debuting in 1988, I hadn't seen Vice Versa for at least 10 or so years. I was so happy that Encore recently featured this classic on its lineup. This movie came out right around the time that Fred Savage was starring in The Wonder Years on prime-time television. Judge Reinhold was fresh off of his Beverly Hills Cop stint(s).While Vice Versa is your campy, PG-rated family film, it was hysterical and followed in form with 18 Again! with George Burns, Big with Tom Hanks and Like Father Like Son with Dudley Moore. It also inspired more recent movies such as Freaky Friday with Jamie Lee Curtis (some would say that Freaky Friday is the female version of Vice Versa). "},{"Title":"Cute Movie","Date":"13 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I liked this movie. I thought it was cute. I think it was just what people needed. A nice little family movie with a bit of a cheesy plot that you can watch for a movie night with kids or if you're babysitting and the kid is wearing you out and you know a movie will calm him down. I don't care if anybody disses Vice Versa. I liked it. Plus when I first saw it I had already had a crush on Fred Savage...  "},{"Title":"Not since Hitchcock...","Date":"8 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Vice Versa is one of the most visually stunning and intellectually stimulating feature films of our time. Everytime I watch this movie , I cry my eyes out.The heartbreaking scene between Judge Reinhold and Fred Savage while in their underwear just breaks my heart , while at the same time...well,um. Nevermind. In closing, I think Vice Versa should be required watching for all.  "},{"Title":"A movie masterpiece!","Date":"19 March 2003","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I saw Vice Versa for the first time in 1991 when I was seven years old. The film was that realistic that I believed it. My favourite scene is where Marshall and Charlie switch bodies. The special effects are so good that it's totally realistic.How they managed to make it look like Marshall was shrinking (making his clothes baggy) and Charlie was growing (and ripping his clothes to shreds at the same time-always a fave bit for me) I'll never know, but it was amazing. "},{"Title":"overdone","Date":"12 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This plotline has been done to death...Freaky Friday, anyone?  How many other movies have had the switch-bodies story?This was a cute movie, don't get me wrong.  I recommend it...for viewing when on TV, don't go out and buy it.  Go and buy Freaky Friday with Jodie Foster instead.It's predictable, but Fred Savage and Judge Reinhold are terrific when they act as an adult and child respectively.  Who can't believe that? "},{"Title":"The MALE version of Freaky Friday","Date":"27 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  If you have seen Freaky Friday and its remake. You have already seen Vice Versa. Its the same movie. The only things have changed are the sex. The movie wasn't bad itself. But I think it should have it own story.I give this film 7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Judge Reinhold by his acting for the part- even if typecast","Date":"3 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Judge Reinhold may be one of the typecast 'geek wins back' sensitive and caring characters of the 1980s, and whilst in the last two decades that kind of character may have become unfashionably clichéd, we still have to look at his quality of acting in these kind of roles and see how well he did. In Vice Versa, he's at his ostensible peak here, and like child actor Fred Savage (who's also been similarly typecast as the 'smarter than his age' child prodigy both in films and probably his real life), they really act well in concordance with the script that's been written for them. They have great on screen antics, not to mention the humorous exchanges that ride on playful charm and naivete, as well as delightfully realistic banter. In many ways other than the above-mentioned, Reinhold and Savage are so alike too. They both play off each other well, are convincing in their roles insofar as they are both pretty much able to let us enjoy the fact that yes, Reinhold can act as an tenth grader and Savage can speak like an adult! The saddest thing is that the parallels between these two actors don't stop just in the film, but perhaps now in retrospect, were the stories of their acting careers both failed to break the mould of such role typecasting! "},{"Title":"Very likable comedy runs out of ideas.","Date":"22 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Very likable, very good-natured comedy with winning performances and many clever moments (like the one where Savage informs Reinhold that he has been kidnapped). Of all the body-switch comedies that were made in 1987 and 1988, Big has the highest reputation, but Vice Versa is much more plausible. Unfortunately, it does run out of ideas, as a totally redundant chase scene proves. "},{"Title":"Fun but it's no Big","Date":"9 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" One of the many 80's comedies to deal with kids ending up in an adults body (the genre that recently saw a resurgence with Freaky Friday etc) and it has to be said one of the best. Judge Reinhold was a good casting choice and he is pretty convincing but perhaps a bit to over the top and not as subtle as Tom Hanks in Big. Fred Savage is excellent playing older and he probably has as many funny lines if not more than Reinhold.It's easy to be cynical about a film like this but if you watch it for what it is a bit of bright breezy escapism it succeeds in what it set out to do. Personally I'd recommend it most to 80's nostalgia fans or those looking for a fun film for the family as it's fun for the adults and the kids. For the 80's fans out there this is probably in 2nd tier of 80's films not a classic like Big, Ferris Bueler or the mighty Breakfast Club but certainly fun and a bit of a guilty pleasure like Mannequin etc.6/10 - Funny, entertaining and doesn't overstay it's welcome. "},{"Title":"Plays Better in Reverse.","Date":"1 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Businessman Judge Reinhold and his young son Fred Savage end up transforming into each other in this silly little comedy that is short on laughs. Another sub-genre here that became vastly popular in the late-1980s with several below average productions that are stupid more than anything else. An ornamental skull is the mysterious thing which causes Reinhold and Savage to trade places. A sophomoric screenplay, equally poor direction and a cast of second-rate actors dooms Vice Versa in the end. 2 stars out of 5. "}{"Title":"A little too overrated","Date":"11 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" This movie was alright, but I think it was way too overrated ,and vice versa, no pun intended, for Like Father, Like, Son, which I think was the best of the bunch, and I think people were too harsh about it. The thing about Vice Versa, is that it's so damn fake, Like Father Like son, and 18 Again! were also far-fetched, but somewhat believable how they swapped places; drinking an ancient Indian potion and being in the same place as another person, could of caused Kirk Cameron, in his unconcsious mind to feel Dudley Moore's brain transference, and in 18 Again! It would be very strange but believable that a biological grandson and grandfather could switch places after getting concussions in a car wreck. But for heaven's sake Reinhold and Savage, make a wish with an acnient skull and magically switch places, that makes a lot of sense Huh! Just absurd and not creative, they couldn't find an explanation in the same zipcode as believable. Not to mention the father and son don't even live together. But Reinhold is pretty good at acting in this, so wild and crazy, and so is Savage, it's hard to believe that behind the camera it was still Reinhold and Savage. This movie also grossed a good 60% less than Like Father, Like Son, plus the kid is only 11 in this, his voice hasn't dropped (same as in Big) it works much better when the son was in High School. It has its moments such as when Reinhold in his sons body teaches bullies at school a hard lesson. I think the opinions people had of Like Father Like, Son and this should be Vice Versa. "},{"Title":"Good leads can't elevate poor script...","Date":"24 September 2005","Score":"5 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Precious, predictable comedy has overworked father Judge Reinhold and pre-teen son Fred Savage switching personalities after getting hold of one of those movie-formula ancient mystical artifacts. Hoary premise plays like just another Freaky Friday retread, however it gives Reinhold the opportunity to really cut loose, and he has fun (although his overacting is shameless). Savage, then-star of TV's The Wonder Years, fares even better, doing his wiser-than-his-age shtick with letter-perfect ease (he's a natural). There are some laughs, although the whole thing bottoms out in the final stretch with a ridiculous car-chase. Smart viewers will have bailed out by then. *1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Another Hollywood Fad.","Date":"2 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Hollywood goes through periods where every studio appears to come out with a movie in the same area. Vice Versa, represents a Hollywood fad for body swap movies without the aliens.Judge Reinhold plays this movie for all it's worth, but even with Fred Savage as his son, this is still a flat and formulaic family comedy, which cannot hold a torch to the very good Big, with Tom Hanks, which came out at around the same time.A movie to be lost in time and forgotten, thankfully. "},{"Title":"what the...","Date":"7 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  this film, what can you possibly say that leaves it in a positive light. NOTHING. This movie is rubbish, Reinholds acting when he plays his son is terrible, all he does is pull these stupid facial expressions and talk in a weird tone. I do like some terrible films, even other films with Savage in them ones like Little monsters and the Wizard, but thius is a pain to watch, its not funny there are so many errors, take the scene where Reinhold has to go see his kids teacher, try and count how many times the boom comes into shot...its terrible  "}]