[{"Title":"Yo Mr. Rumsfield!!!","Date":"29 May 2001","Score":"90 out of 99 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Okay, I know Tom Hanks has done some greater than great work.  Forest Gump, Saving Private Ryan, and The Green Mile are truly American classics.  For some reason (maybe I AM a weirdo) this is my favorite movie of his.  It has a simple plot, a light tone, shades of horror, and some GREAT one-liners that have stayed in my memory since I was nine years old. This is one of those movies that never gets old.  I especially like Corey Feldman as Ricky Butler.  He played the best burn-out I have ever seen and he truly is an underrated actor.  Rick Duccoman is great as the obnoxious neighbor, Art and his laid back manner continues to bring a smile to my face.  Bruce Dern is flat-out awesome as the war-crazed vet who has all the right gizmos for the job, but always fails miserably.  Almost every line out of his mouth is memorable and his response when he steps in a pile of dog crap is a classic quote.Obviously this is a satire on Suburban life and nosey neighbors, but I could care less about all that.  This is a classic that ranks (in my mind) with the likes of The Goonies and Smokey and the Bandit.If, for some reason, you missed this one, PLEASE see it.  You have no clue what you're missing. "},{"Title":"One of the most underrated films of the 80's","Date":"30 September 2004","Score":"84 out of 100 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Commonly tossed aside as a predictable, poorly plotted film with few laughs, The 'Burbs has more to offer than most critics are willing to admit.This film is not so much about the plot(which is admittedly thin and which the critics are too concerned with) as it is about the characters who become entangled within it. Included in this terrific cast are Tom Hanks, who plays the skeptical neighbor of the new family on the block (a bunch of oddballs who never leave the house); Rick Ducommun, who plays the gluttonous friend of Hanks, who is convinced that the new neighbors are brain sucking murderers; Bruce Dern, the ex-soldier who hasn't quite left his miilitary roots behind him; and last, but not least, Corey Feldman, who plays the dopey teenage neighbor who basically watches the events of the movie unfold from the comfort of his front porch.  These characters are so well-acted and so downright wacky that you just have to believe there is a neighborhood somewhere with people like this.  The chemistry between everyone of the characters is simply impressive, and much of the humor of the film can be found in the often ludicrous way the director portrays their interactions.I urge anyone who has seen this film before to watch it again, this time paying little attention to the story and focusing on the superbly acted characters.   "},{"Title":"Ducommun Delivers In One Of My All-Time Favorites","Date":"6 March 2006","Score":"63 out of 74 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Sometimes a bizarre comedy just hits the right notes with me and, despite none of my friends liking it, I love it. This is a premier example of such one of my favorites in that category. The fact others don't share that opinion doesn't bother me, but I am glad to see reviewers on this site who appreciated this black, very underrated gem.I always get a big kick out of this film, no matter how many times I see it.I credit a little-known actor for making this so entertaining to me Rick Ducommun. I think he steals the show from well-known stars Tom Hanks, Bruce Dern, Carrie Fisher and Corey Feldman. Actually, I think this film is panned a lot because they didn't expect Hanks to be in something this goofy. Too bad, but I bet he had a lot fun making it, along with the rest of the cast.Ducommun and Dern are the hilarious wackos who try to help straight-laced Hanks find out about the really-strange neighbors he has next door. Are these people some demented killers or just the figment of these nosy neighbors' imagination? Fisher is Hanks' always-complaining wife and Feldman is the teen across the street who watches all the lunacy from his porch, getting his getting nightly entertainment from these crazy adults.Director Joe Dante, of Gremlins fame, does a good job entertaining us in here, too, and providing some fun camera-work. Dante also used music to great advantage, mostly for humor.This is one of those not for all tastes films, so chances are you won't like it and think it's stupid. For a number of reasons, I love it. "},{"Title":"A movie you can relate to","Date":"12 December 2004","Score":"59 out of 78 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" 'The 'Burbs' is a great movie and I would recommend it to anyone. Tom Hanks does a great job at playing the role of an ordinary guy with ordinary problems. Every time I watch this movie, I can really feel like I am actually there. We all have weird neighbors and can relate to what Hanks is going through. It has also been a fantasy for many of us to try and find out exactly what our neighbors are up to, but we never have the guts to do it. Movies are made so that we can escape reality for a couple of hours and feel like we are doing things that we would most likely never get to do. This movie does it better than any other movie I have seen. Most of the other people that I have talked to have agreed with me that 'The 'Burbs' is one of the most underrated comedies ever made. I don't believe that it was unsuccessful, but it definitely doesn't get the credit it deserves. If you want to see a movie that you can relate to, then watch this. "},{"Title":"I Love This Movie","Date":"10 October 2006","Score":"40 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Originality can go a long way in movieland, as THE 'BURBS so perfectly illustrates. Tom Hanks is Ray Peterson, an average schmuck not sure what to do with his at-home vacation. He soon finds his excitement when he and his paranoid neighbors convince themselves the weirdos on the block are responsible for the strange disappearance of the neighborhood's beloved old man. So they do what any of us would do... break into their home to find proof of the dastardly deed.So many critics charged that Hanks tarnished his reputation with this effort. But for the umpteenth time, the critics were just being overly critical. THE 'BURBS is a hilarious, well-written and wonderfully creative piece of work. It's the kind of movie Joe Dante (GREMLINS, Matinée) does best. He takes a situation we can all basically relate to, turns it upside down and shakes the hell out of it like a snow globe.An unnecessarily heavy-handed ending is all that stands between THE 'BURBS and a 10-star rating. All of a sudden a fun little ride is derailed by an angry outburst and contrived syringe battle. If Dante had it to do over again, he surely would have come up with something more suitable (and humorous).Of course THE 'BURBS is not for all tastes, but if you like the pre-PHILADELPHIA Hanks and are in the mood for something completely different, you won't want to mi "},{"Title":"A deliciously black comedy...","Date":"17 August 2004","Score":"34 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The world of black comedies has seen few truly classic entries in the past few years. It's a very specific sub genre of comedy that is extremely hard to do well as films like Very Bad Things frequently signify. Too many of Hollywood's more recent offerings feature truly tasteless gags that poke fun at subjects that should simply be left well enough alone. Well I have to say that Hollywood could learn a thing or two from its own past in this department. I recently rediscovered a childhood favourite of mine, The Burbs, and I have to admit that age has not in the least bit dulled the film's razor sharp wit and acid tongued dialogueTom Hanks plays Ray Peterson, an overstressed suburbanite who's decided to spend his vacation lounging around the house in a vain effort to relax. Of course he finds his efforts hindered by the constant presence of his somewhat excitable neighbors Art Weingartner (Rick Ducommun) and Mark Rumsfield (Bruce Dern) who suspect the new family in the neighbourhood, the Klopeks, of being mass murderers. Together these three decide to look into the suspicious nature of their new neighbors and just what exactly it is they get up to at night, the time when the otherwise reclusive Klopeks seem to be at their most active. The premise is basically the set up for another of Joe Dante's (who directed both Gremlins and its remake in all but name, Small Soldiers) bedlam filled romps through suburbs in which he casts a sideways glance at all things American dream.Quite frankly, my nostalgia for this movie makes it hard to find fault with it. Hanks is as funny as ever, playing it relatively straight compared to his other performances of the period and bringing a lovely shade of deep seated unease to an otherwise grounded character. Bruce Dern fills his role wonderfully, as the military obsessed Rumsfield, a character surprisingly reminiscent of survivalist Burt Gummer from the Tremors movies in both his nature and ability to steal scenes. The only weak link in the leading trio is Ducommun, which is a shame as it is really Art that drives the story more than any other character in the movie. Sure, Art has to be slightly obnoxious and a little irritating but Ducommun overplays these aspects so much that I began to find it painful to watch him as the end of the movie approached. It's hardly a surprise when Hanks tries to kill him. I can't help but feel that perhaps the late John Candy would have fit the role slightly better, bringing some more human and likable qualities to the character. At times however, The Burbs can feel a little uneasy in its pacing and sense of humour. Scenes like the screaming at the bone, although funny, seem out of place in what is otherwise a movie with a very dry sense of humour. Meanwhile the Klopeks are unveiled as characters perhaps a little too late in the story for the audience to truly develop any kind of opinions about them.Despite some small problems however, The Burbs remains an extremely funny movie with some terrific dialogue and almost universally good performances from its cast. I defy anyone not to laugh at Rumsfield's fall from the roof of his house or every man Ray's furious rant at the movie's close. For fans of black comedies, The Burbs is a perfect antidote to the current glut of obnoxious Hollywood gross out comedies and the Farrelly Brothers increasingly desperate to offend pieces.  "},{"Title":"What a magical experience","Date":"22 December 2005","Score":"30 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" What a film to escape into! This movie captures my childhood and is still watchable today. The director/writer has paid close attention to human interaction for this movie. I love Tom Hanks's one-liners or slight facial movements, both speak volumes in a scene.Unjustified credit for this classic comedy. I would recommend this film to anyone. Some regard this as a silly film, but i don't think that comment degrades it in anyway. I like silly films, something where actors egos don't get in the way of the story. We're all here for a laugh for 1-2 hours so entertain us, we say. And this film delivers gags, and visual comedy time after time.I love the scene showing the guys as if they're kids in a street. I love this movie and have recently purchase the Soundtrack off ebay.I can watch this movie over and over again. Mrs Rumsfield is still as sexy when you watch it now. Classic quote Mrs Peterson - He will not come out until he resembles that man that i married. Art Weingartner - We don't have that kinda time ! "},{"Title":"a hilarious movie","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"29 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The first time I saw THE 'BURBS, it was a special unannounced sneak preview following another film. Having heard nothing about this film and not even knowing of its existence until the film started, I was immediately worried I was about to see a horror film. Hey, I was only ten at the time, when I was still scared of horror movies. But what I ended up seeing was one of the most hilarious movies ever made, a movie that had the entire theater laughing all the way through. We later bought the video, and more recently the DVD, and over the years since it's release I've watched it countless times (the exact number probably somewhere in the 50s or so) and have never grown tired of it.While managing to be both suspenseful and funny at the same time, the film also does a great job after capturing the day-to-day life of a small suburban street, with a variety of characters so simple and life-like, it seems like they could actually live on your own street. The grumpy old guy down the street, the teenager who likes to throw parties while his parents are gown, the guy next door who comes over all the time and mooches food, and the average Everyday Joe who experiences it all at his own pace. The cast is an excellent combination, with everybody working great together, particularly Bruce Dern as the Vietnam vet who always has the right tool for the job and Tom Hanks as the average guy who's curious about his strange new neighbors, but not enough to really want to bother finding out more about them. If you've never seen it, I suggest giving it a look. It really is quite funny and has many quotable lines. "},{"Title":"This is a movie about an ordinary guy living in an ordinary neighborhood, but with not so ordinary neighbors.","Date":"20 January 2006","Score":"27 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I thought this movie was hilarious! I laughed several times. All the people that have seen it said that they loved it, too! Tom Hanks, Corey Feldman, Courtney Gains, Bruce Dern, Carrie Fisher, Brother Theodore, Henry Gibson and Rick Ducommun did a great job! I am glad that they were in this movie! It was a very good movie with a surprising twist at the end. There is a lot of irony in it, and that adds to the suspense! The whole idea of these eccentric and psycho neighbors living next door to the protagonist, Ray Peterson, is very amusing! There is so much comedy and excitement in this film, and that is what makes you like it so much! You love the relationship between Ray Peterson, Mark Rumsfiled, and Art Weingartner. Each of them make witty comments about these strange Klopeks'. The Burbs' is one of my favorite movies! It's so 80's! You have to see it! "},{"Title":"Tom Hanks - The formative years.","Date":"28 May 1999","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is a great example of what Tom Hanks was doing in his former career of a comedic actor, before he returned to serious acting.The story follows three incredibly nosey suburbanites, spying on their new neighbours the Klopek's as they expect them to be murderers.Winning performances all round, but especially from Hanks. He is well supported by the likes of Carrie Fisher, as his wife, and ex-army man Bruce Dern, with Henry Gibson giving his usual solid performance.A greatly funny movie which leaves you wondering why Hanks ever turned his back on comedy. "}{"Title":"I hate cul-de-sacs. There's only one way out. (spoilers)","Date":"3 June 2004","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The 'burbs is classic 80s fare from director Joe Dante (it even features his two casting regulars, Dick Miller and Robert Picardo). It looked like a lot of fun to make. Ray Peterson (Tom Hanks) and his neighbors live in the epitome of Suburbia. They're very neighborly folks (aka nosy) who spend most of their time primping their yards and spying on their neighbors, the reclusive Klopeks who just moved in next door to Ray. They live in the only desolate house on the block, the one with the dried up grass and lone, dead tree in the front yard. At night, when Ray walks his dog, he hears strange noises and sees weird things coming from the Klopek's house. So, everyone in the neighborhood assumes the only logical thing--that the Klopeks are murderers.When their neighbor Walter goes missing, Ray and his idiot friend, Art (Rick Ducommun) are sure the Klopek's murdered him and buried him in the backyard. When the Klopek's leave their house to attend a University lecture for the day, Ray declares I'm going over there and I'm not coming back until I find a dead body. Nobody knocks off an old man in my neighborhood and gets away with it. Ray's wife, Carol (Carrie Fisher) is fed up with Art and Ray, as they continuously seem to get into trouble in trying to prove their theory that the Klopeks are murderers. But, when the cat's away, the mice will play.All the while, you're left wondering whether their paranoia has overtaken them, or whether the Klopeks really are capable of murder. It's always the quiet ones...There's a lot to enjoy here in this stupid comedy. Bruce Dern, above all else, is my favorite character as Ray's neighbor, Mark Rumsfield who is usually hilariously wimpy despite being a former soldier. (During a break from the final invasion, Rumsfield sits atop his roof carefully nibbling the heads off of animal crackers). Or when Art has to climb up an electrical pole to cut the power to the Klopek's house, Ray asks Mark why he didn't climb up there. It's very high, he says innocently. And I get the most laughs during the conversation Mark has with Uncle Rueben Klopek (Brother Theodore) when they all get together and pay the family a visit. About a nine on the tension scale, eh Rub? he asks the annoyed brother.Art is pretty funny too because he's a giant idiot who is really responsible for the mess that he and Ray and Mark get in when they go snooping around the Klopek's house. And, 80s fans won't want to miss Corey Feldman who, despite previously being an annoying teenager in later films, is actually quite funny here as slacker neighbor Ricky Butler who really knows how to throw a party. He knows that if Ray, Mark, and Art are up to something, then it's worth calling up all his rock n' roll stoner friends to come over and check out the action. This is my life. This is my neighborhood, he says proudly. Says Mark Rumsfield to his wife about Ricky, that kids a meatball.Joe Dante really does a good job here and works with a fantastic cast of characters, especially the supporting cast, in this story that parodies Suburban life. It's a really funny movie that is best for 80s fans. Loosen up and give it a go.  "},{"Title":"In a neighbourhood like this you know it's hard to survive...","Date":"7 September 2012","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Even though it displays many of director Joe Dante's recognisable trademarks&#x97;dark humour, quirky characters, cartoonish violence, Dick Miller (all of which usually guarantee me a good time)&#x97;I still struggle with The 'Burbs. Quite simply, it's protagonists, a trio of paranoid suburbanites, aren't all that likable their pointless lives consist of petty squabbles with family and neighbours, and when a strange family from Eastern Europe moves into their neighbourhood, the persecution of outsiders.Despite very little evidence to support their feelings of distrust, Ray Peterson (Tom Hanks), Mark Rumsfield (Bruce Dern) and Art Weingartner (Rick Ducommun) launch a campaign of intimidation, based purely on the fact that their neighbours are different. Of course, Dante vindicates his characters behaviour at the end of the film by revealing that Ray and pals were right all along&#x97;the people next door ARE psycho killers after all&#x97;but the underlying message is that foreigners are evil and cannot be trusted. "},{"Title":"Thinly plotted parody, boosted by clever performances and an atmosphere of suspenseful paranoia.","Date":"27 December 2006","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Joe Dante is exactly the right director for this kind of parody about suburban paranoia. His ability to put a humorous slant on dark and twisted stories is put to good effect in The 'Burbs, a light-hearted tale of sinister goings-on in small-town America. While the story itself is thin and inconsequential, the clever playing by the cast of oddball character actors is a joy to watch and compensates for a lot. It's particularly interesting to see pre-superstardom Tom Hanks in another of the roles that nudged him up the star ladder, plus Carrie Fisher doing something other than Princess Leia, and of course Bruce Dern as an intimidating ex-soldier struggling to adapt to a quiet life in the suburbs.Mayfield Place is a small cul-de-sac in an unspecified town in America. It resembles any one of a million streets all over the country. Pretty much the most normal residents on the street are the Petersons - Ray Peterson (Tom Hanks), his wife Carol (Carries Fisher), and their young son (Cory Danziger). They are surrounded by wackos and oddballs such as paranoid Art Weingartner (Rick Ducommun), ex-military man Mark Rumsfield (Bruce Dern) and his flirtatious young wife Bonnie (Wendy Schaal), dumb teenager Ricky Butler (Corey Feldman) and unsociable old timer Walter (Gale Gordon). But the oddest family of all lives next door to the Petersons. The Klopeks are reclusive Eastern Europeans who live in a run-down house that comes straight from the world of nightmares. No-one ever sees them out and about, but strange noises come from their basement in the middle of the night and they have a strange habit of digging holes in their back yard under the cover of darkness. During a week off work, Ray gradually convinces himself &#150; with a little help from his OTT neighbours &#150; that the Klopeks are mass murderers. When old Walter mysteriously vanishes, Ray is sure that he's the latest victims of the Klopek killing spree so he hatches a plan to break into their house and find the corpse&#133;..Dante creates a very believable atmosphere of paranoia, where the resident's prejudice against the Klopeks seems intentionally absurd, yet at the same time suspenseful. We laugh at these nosy neighbours because their actions against the Klopek family are outrageous, but at the same time the Klopeks appear so wonderfully weird and creepy that we find ourselves believing that they might be mass murderers. Hanks plays the normal family man caught up in what might be a non-existent adventure with fabulous skill, upstaged only by Dern, who is hilarious as the demented army freak. Dern manages to make even the straightest of lines amusing with his acerbic delivery &#150; at one point he tells an interfering teenage neighbour to shut up and paint your goddamn house! and succeeds in making this simplest of lines hysterically funny. The film is deceptively simple, with much less going on than actually seems to be the case, but generally-speaking it works very well. If you've ever had suspicions that your neighbours are up to no good, it's definitely a film that will plant some outrageous thoughts in your head! "},{"Title":"Totally underrated movie","Date":"7 November 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I've watched this movie so many times and it's still as funny as it was for the first time (even funnier). The characters are portrayed with all kinds of stereotypes, but in an ironic way (such as the old grumpy guy, the teenage boy, etc.) which make it hilarious. The real jokes are often between the lines and reflect the suburban mentality in such an exaggerated way that i just can't keep from laughing as hard as i can. I think the cast was a pretty good choice, especially Tom Hanks who's doing a great job as usual.As a comedy movie i would rate it 10 out of 10 because i could watch it again and again and again without getting bored of it. This movie is my definitely advice for everyone with a sarcastic sense of humour. "},{"Title":"A dark look at American Suburbia","Date":"5 November 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The 'Burbs is about a cul-de-sac in the average American suburb in the average American city. When the movie opens, it zooms into the middle of the United States to what is simply a normal city. Yet Mayfield Place is anything but normal as weird noises are coming from a house that is very much in need of repair, and has no lawn to speak of. The owners of this house are the Klopeks, a weird, monstrous looking, Slavic family.The inhabitants of the street are a teenager left home by himself to paint he house (Corey Feldman). He spends his time sitting on the porch watching the events of his neigbourhood unfold, and offers some cheer as well. There is the old rich guy who has everything immaculate, and the army head who is right of Hitler. Then there is the neighbour who seems to live in everybody else's house, and finally there is Tom Hanks, who is the sane guy that is influenced by his peers.Everything starts off when the old guy vanishes, and they instantly suspect the Klopeks because they are odd. The thing about this movie is the definition of what is normal, and the pressure of American society to conform. Unfortunately this movie undermines this idea by actually having the Klopeks as being vicious monsters and that unless you are wholeheartedly American (ie like everybody else in this movie) then you are evil and should be arrested and locked up.Tom Hank's spiel really catches the essence of the theme in this movie. Throughout the entire movie the neighbours were causing a lot of problems for the Klopeks, for the main reason that they never left their house and never mingled with the people around them. This is seen as being strange and unamerican - if you do not associate with your neighbours then you must be up to something bad. Hanks says that this is not always true, and the reason some people hide away is not because they are mischievous, but because they are sick of people nosying in on them. He says that it is not the Klopeks who are insane, but those who are convinced that they are up to something.This movie is an attack at suburban, or even American paranoia, that those who do not behave like everybody is out to destroy their way of life. The American's value freedom (and this is written into their constitution) and movies such as this suggest that their pursuit of freedom infringes on the real issue of freedom, and that is for people to live how they like. What truly is freedom, and how far does one go to protect their freedom and not hinder the freedom of others. This is what the movie makes one think about. "},{"Title":"Decent American Comedy","Date":"27 June 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Tom Hanks offers up another of those performances that cemented him as a Hollywood top-earner. Here he's a hapless suburbanite in a modern development of variously odd-ball people who find themselves suddenly confronted by the family from weirdness inc. These people move into an inexplicably blighted-looking empty house in the street and do - nothing.It's for the 'normal' neighbours, who are anything but, to lose control of their curiosities and goad comparatively reasonable Tom Hanks into spear-heading their paranoia. Most of the comic situations are typical American slapstick, but the timing is good and there's a sprinkling of witty or crude one-liners that move the otherwise flatulent effort along.However; it transpires that these neighbours really are a devilish crowd. The movie ramps-up a gear as even the scathingly pragmatic wife - here well played by Carrie Fisher, in between Jedi romances - becomes infected by the common suspicion. There are car crashes, houses catch fire, misunderstandings accumulate. A downhill out-of-control stretcher-ride through the suburb culminates the denouement.I think this movie deserves a '7' because it does at least find something to keep your attention most of the time, whether it's slap-stick stupidity, script, or situation comedy. Not exactly collectible, but well worth at least one watch. "},{"Title":"fun comedy from Dante","Date":"5 April 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" There was a time in the 1980s when Joe Dante, who directed this film, was almost as hot as Spielberg and Zemeckis. He worked with Spielberg on his most successful films, the Gremlins films. This little film, which looks like it was shot entirely on leftover street sets on the Universal lot, came out of that period. Tom Hanks was still mostly known as a comedian (thank the heavens!), and it was still a time when Corey Felman being in the movie was a sign of hipness. For younger viewers who missed this time, the movie must be a time capsule. I remember seeing it in the theater and enjoying it a lot, and while it hasn't really held up necessarily as one of the best comedies of its era at the very least it offers some fun performances and a neat ironic perspective on suburbia.Hanks plays the suburban everyman, Ray Peterson, whose wife Carol (Carrie Fisher) wants him to relax and enjoy his vacation but whose best friends in the neighborhood (Bruce Dern and Rick Docummun) want him to take part in their juvenile spying games. When it starts to look more and more like their strange Eastern European neighbors might actually be serial killers or something of the sort, Ray and his friends go to extreme measures to try to infiltrate the spooky house.Rick Docummun is a bit annoying for the amount of screen time he gets here, but Bruce Dern is the best thing about the movie. He plays a paranoid 'Nam veteran with a trophy wife (Wendy Schaal) and an overdose of tenacity. Fisher and Hanks are good as the central couple as well. Feldman is awfully irritating in this movie because Dante chooses to let him basically narrate to the camera as if he were Frankie Avalon or Ferris Bueller. The brilliant comic actor Brother Theodore and notable character actor Henry Gibson are wonderful as the bizarre Klopeks. Dante/Corman regular Dick Miller shows up in a funny bit as a conservative garbage collector paired with a hippy type partner (Robert Picardo) who insists that the customers have the right to look at their neighbors' trash. I would have liked to see a whole movie just about Picardo and Miller.The unfortunate thing about the film is that it promises a lot more than it delivers. The first 20 or 30 minutes are great, with setting up the fun characters and the goofy situation. But by the end everything is a bit forced. There's no reason for Dr. Klopek to betray himself so obviously, it seems like it was just done to wrap the film up on a sort of Twilight Zone vibe that doesn't fit the tone of the film. It could have been a smarter movie if Hanks' character and his friends truly were delusional. But for whatever this movie is, I'll take it. It's pretty much the last movie that I thought Hanks was funny in (no, not Joe Versus the Volcano no thank you). It was great to see Carrie Fisher in the movie after she hadn't been on screen in any movies I'd seen in a few years, and it's still fun to see her in this kind of domestic housewife situation. She could always add a funny moment or two to a comedy, as she did in Austin Powers as well. The early parts of the movie though seem to promise something like Tim Burton's Edward Scissorhands, a smart dark comedy on suburban absurdity, but the film doesn't really follow through. "},{"Title":"This movie cracked me up!","Date":"20 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The Burbs is just as funny as it was when it originally came out in 1989. Some of the humor breaches over into the realm of the cartoonish, but the contagious enthusiasm of the actors and the director keep you locked in despite a few over the top moments.Tom Hanks really gives it his all in this film. The whole cast gives top notch performances, but I was really taken back particularly by Hanks, especially during the last scenes. You can literally see his star forming. The subtle details in his acting which have become his trademarks are all here.If you're tired of the raunchy, explicit, and talentless jokes written into many of today's films, check out The Burbs. Its a classic. "},{"Title":"Favorable and honest.","Date":"4 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The Burbs is a very clever and amusing movie. It is also very underrated. I greatly enjoyed it, and think that anyone who gives this movie an honest try will enjoy it too. Tom Hanks,Bruce Dern, Carrie Fisher, Rick Ducoman (spelling?), Corey Feldman, and all the other actors, are at their best. And the actors who play the Klopeks are hilarious. The acting and writing is top-notch and the timing is well done, as are the special effects. It's got to be admitted that Tom Hanks hasn't made a bad movie, and though some are better than others, The Burbs is probably one of his best comedies. I strongly advise everyone to see this movie, and to go out and rent it if you don't want to own it. "},{"Title":"A Fun Romp Through Suburbia","Date":"19 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Wanna' sit down and watch a movie that doesn't take itself seriously and stars Tom Hanks? Here ya' go!The basic plot to this not-quite-funny comedy is that a group of suburbanites think that a family of creepy new neighbors are actually sick killers who offed another neighbor. They go through all sorts of adventures and situations, trying to get to the bottom of the mystery that, it seems, only exists within their minds.Who cares if the ending is cliche? Well, I do, but not in a movie like this where there is no underlying meaning or message and is just in existence to have a little bit of fun. Which is, by the way, what you'll have a little bit of fun. "}{"Title":"A Great Filum","Date":"12 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" How this filum hasn't reached a higher score is beyond me. The Burbs is a neat and complete film in every sense of the word. A simple plot line, that never tries to stretch itself, perfect casting, coupled with ideal sinister undertones. This movie is not trying to put across a message of any kind, or make a grand statement to film making. This film is there to be 100% entertaining and fun. And it does all of that and some! I will not bore you with a summary of this film because I cannot see anyone not liking it. The Burbs is perfectly at home with films like The Goonies in being ideal for a night in with friends, and fair amount of pizza, and a selection of beer (or a choice soft drink!). Rent or buy, bung it in the DVD player and enjoy.A modern classic that will never lose its watch-ability. "},{"Title":"God I love this street.","Date":"12 December 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Alright, here we have something which is among my favourite horror comedies ever. Almost everybody in the cast from the superb (as always) Tom Hanks to his family (Carrie Fisher, Cory Danziger), his neighbors (Bruce Dern, Corey Feldman, Rick Ducommun) to the infamous Klopeks, Hans, Uncle Reuben & Dr. Werner Klopek, just how these guys look laughable. As any good horror movie, it goes from little creeps to one big finale with things exploding and an overall really big chaos. It also features many scenes reminiscent of old horror movies from Hammer films or movies like The Exorcist and The Sentinel, both of which get a mention in the movie.If you like horror comedies like The Frighteners or Addams Family, you should really check this out. I loved it! "},{"Title":"Good movie. Rick is my cousin.","Date":"7 December 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Rick Ducommun is my cousin. I have not seen this movie in years, but remember enjoying it when I was in college and it was just released. I love to watch anything he is in, since it brings back memories of my childhood and times when he would pop in for a visit and keep my brothers and I in stitches. He sent me a big autographed glossy of he and Tom Hanks from when they were filming this movie. It seems to impress many of my friends who find out he is my cousin.He is a wonderful man and I want to eventually allow all of my children to see all of the things he has been in. The entire family is very proud of Big Rick and excited about all that he has done. He is a very talented person and has always kept our entire family entertained. I am glad that he was able to entertain many more as well. He is sick right now and has moved back to Canada, where we were born and raised. I hope to go visit him very soon. "},{"Title":"My favorite movie of all time!","Date":"31 October 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The Burbs' is without a doubt my favorite movie of all time. Not to say that it is the best movie of all time, but rather my favorite. I am often skeptical when someone says that their favorite movie of all time is something like the painfully overrated Shawshank Redemption, or a true classic like Citizen Kane, The Godfather, or even contemporary best picture winners like A Beautiful Mind or Forrest Gump. I think that while some (and I do stress SOME) or these movies have more accomplished casts, a better plot, and in some cases revolutionary filmmaking, they aren't really people's favorites. They aren't movies like the Burbs' which one can watch time and time again and continue to laugh or think of past times watching the movie. They aren't movies that one is likely to watch every two months or so, or sit down and watch them at 300 AM if they happen to be on. The movies that people watch at 300 AM are movies like The Burbs'. These movies are funny, hold sentimental value to the watcher, and are easy to watch over and over again.Now onto precisely why I like The Burbs' soooo much. First and foremost it is a funny movie. The characters, especially Bruce Dern's are all quirky and deliver some good lines. For example when Bruce says, There go the god damn brownies! after he part of the Klopeks porch collapses, it makes me laugh...hard. It's in his delivery. Like I previously mentioned sentimentality also plays a big role. I have fond memories watching this throughout my childhood and now into college. I lived in the suburbs all my lives and find some of the characters though somewhat cookie cutter images, to be accurate. I really like the Corey Feldman character, and every time I go outside to do yard work, or paint the house (like he does), I pan the block and hear that song in my head (I don't know the name, but the heavy metal one he puts on that goes I am your war machine....). Tom Hanks is great in this movie also and some of the stuff he says like I believe a man's furnace is his own business., is priceless. My friend Justin and I like to fill our conversations with Burbs lines. He particularly likes the lines offered by the grizzled uncle Reuben; even his harsh No. is a favorite.No, this movie isn't going to win alot of awards or be held in high regard in most circles, but it should be. Just the way the characters interact with each other is funny. The Burbs has a certain charm about it that allows me to keep watching it over and over. It doesn't rely on gags that may make the viewer howl with laughter the first time they see it but fade with future viewings. Instead it relies on funny lines delivered Hanks' funniest outing. For God's sake this is a Corey Feldman movie that is good! While some of you are bound to disagree that this movie is very funny, I kind of like it that way. I like that the Burbs is kind of developing a cult following (not a really big one, but big enough that I run into people that really like it). I like that this movie has it's own little audience. It's proof enough to me that movies like The Burbs will live on in the minds of millions as people's favorites of all time. I know it will live on for me. "},{"Title":"Good Tom Hanks comedy","Date":"15 April 2004","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I watched the burbs for the first time in years the other night as it got a rare showing on UK TV. It certainly is one of Hanks lesser know films alongside the likes of Volunteers and The Man With One Red Shoe. I don't know why as its a very entertaining film directed by Joe Gremlins Dante. Actually it reminded me of Dantes TV series Eerie, Indiana anyone remember that? Anyway the burbs is well worth checking out, Tom Hanks is as good as ever and Bruce Dern is brilliant as a nutty ex-soldier. One other person commented here that he pictured Dan Ackroyd playing the role of Art, strangely enough I though it would have been great if John Candy played the part as he and Tom Hanks made a great team. Although the actor who played the part of Art did a perfectly fine job. Nice to see Corey Feldman in a decent movie for what was probably the last time, he was a really promising actor at one point, check out his performance in Stand by Me for proof. Luckily Corey Haim was nowhere to be seen but Star Wars fans can catch Carrie Fisher as Toms wife. I give this a *** 6/10 *** "},{"Title":"What have you got in the cellar, Herr Klopek?","Date":"19 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" You know that little movie you've watched dozens of times? The one few of your friends know, but you could quote all day long? (My brother and I still refer to weird neighbors as Klopeks).That's The 'Burbs for me. A small gem by Joe Dante, this black comedy follows a bunch of nosy neighbors investigating a strange family. Ominous noises erupt from their cellar at night; dark shapes dig in the garden at unlikely hours; when an elderly man disappears, schlub Ray (Tom Hanks in one of his best comedic roles) and his pals take action.The movie co-stars a young and pretty Carrie Fisher as Ray's wife Carol, Rick Ducommun as a petty conspiracy theorist and Corey Feldman. Best of all is the great Bruce Dern as unhinged senior veteran Rumsfield, a mix between John Goodman from The Big Lebowski and Clint Eastwood from Gran Torino. In a casting gag, Henry Gibson as the Klopek patriarch sees the other side of his famous Fright Night role.Thanks to Dante's deft touch and to sly performances, even little moments shine. My favorite is probably the sardines scene Carol attempts to take charge of the situation and have a civil meeting with the Klopeks, who offer them a nasty-looking snack with pretzels and sardines. Rumsfield keeps badgering the neighbors (Hans! A FINE Christian name... Hans Christian Andersen!), with Ray uselessly trying to deflate tension; when the situation escalates, Ray jumps from the couch and rushes to the bathroom. It's silly, but has me in stitches every time. Even throwaway lines are brilliant (He is not coming out until he resembles the man I married!, We don't have that kind of time!).Jerry Goldsmith provides one of his best comedic soundtracks, throwing in everything from sinister organs to Morricone-inspired guitar blasts.Brisk, clever and endlessly quotable.9/10 "},{"Title":"An Excellent,Hilarious,Underrated Black Comedy. Tom Hanks And Joe Dante At Their Best.","Date":"26 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The 'Burbs is a brilliant,hilarious and underrated Black Comedy that mixes great direction,a terrific cast,a wonderful script,amazing laughs and a fantastic score making The 'Burbs not only a Cult Classic but also Tom Hanks and Joe Dante at their best.The 'Burbs tells the story of Ray Peterson(Tom Hanks)a middle class Suburbanite who is on vacation from work. While on vacation,Ray begins to hear strange noises next door from his neighbors The Klopeks people who rarely come of their house. Now,Ray along with his other neighbors Mark Rumsfield(Bruce Dern)and Art Weingartner)want to investigate their mysterious neighbors and laughs and insanity ensues.Released in 1989,The 'Burbs was a great,hilarious Black Comedy that did modest business at the Box Office and received mixed reviews from movie critics and was basically ignored at the time when it was released in theaters but thankfully over the years The 'Burbs has gained an audience and wonderful Cult Following since it's release and is seen as the fantastic,underrated Comedy that it is. The 'Burbs is in my opinion of the funniest films ever made and is one of those movies where when you first see it or watch it for the first time on Home Video or Television you will love it immediately because every neighborhood has a tale about mysterious and quiet neighbor or neighbors and The Burbs puts it on the movie screen. From beginning to end The 'Burbs is a film that is filled with great laughs that are nonstop as well as hilarious and funny and the Comedy is surreal and demented,dark and twisted and at the same time quirky and offbeat with dialog and one-liners that are done with dry wit and over the top style. While the The 'Burbs is a Comedy director Joe Dante mixes in elements of other genres such as Horror,Mystery and Satire. The Horror and Mystery elements of the movie make the film and certain scenes eerie and Suspenseful where one minute you are laughing the next you are on the edge of your seat. I think that the mixture of those different genres gives the movie an atmosphere that is creepy and weird but also haunting and sinister in a truly nightmarish way with rain and noises but the atmosphere is done in a funny and stylish way that fits the strange and bizarre world of The 'Burbs The Satire is also one of the things that I love about The 'Burbs is the way the film mocks and makes a Satire of Suburban culture showing all the things often associated with the suburbs green glass that's clean,beautiful houses and concrete ground that is spotless and the suburbia in The 'Burbs seems perfect and flawless but underneath the perfect style of Suburbia there is something off and very wrong going on and the wrong things going on in The 'Burbs is done and told in a funny way. The character Ray Peterson is a great and funny character because he's just a regular guy that wants to rest and enjoy his vacation but when Ray and his neighbors investigate The Klopeks he gets himself into situations that are hilarious and over the top and with Ray and his neighbors Rumsfield and Art investigating The Klopeks you never know what's going to happen next. The screenplay by Dana Olsen is fantastic and well-written,with Olsen giving the main characters memorable dialog that is funny and clever and telling a great,off the wall story about Suburbia. The ending of The 'Burbs is laugh out loud funny and thrilling at the same time with laughs and surprises all around. The ending is a great conclusion to the film that will have viewers smiling.The whole cast is great. Tom Hanks is excellent,hilarious and at his best as Ray Peterson,with Hanks bringing laughs and energy to the role. Bruce Dern is amazing and funny as Lt. Mark Rumsfield,with Dern saying great one-liners. Carrie Fisher is wonderful as Carol Petersen,Ray's wife. Ray Ducommun is fantastic and a laugh riot as Art,Ray's neighbor and Ducommun has great scenes with Hanks. Corey Feldman is great and funny as Ricky,a observes everything and loves his street. Wendy Schaal is wonderful and sexy as Bonnie Rumsfield,Mark's wife. Henry Gibson(Dr. Werner Klopek)Brother Theodore(Uncle Reuben Klopek)and Courtney Gains(Hans Klopek)are terrific and quirky as The Klopeks. Gale Gordon(Walter),Dick Miller(Vic,Garbageman#1),Robert Picardo(Joe,Garbageman#2),Franklyn Ajaye(Detective#1),Rance Howard(Detective#2),Cory Danziger(Dave Peterson),Heather Hasse(Ricky's girlfriend)and Nicky Katt(Steve)give good performances as well.The direction by Joe Dante is brilliant and stylish,with Dante always moving the camera and using great angles,close-ups bringing a wonderful energy,pace and visual style. Fantastic direction,Dante.The score by Jerry Goldsmith is amazing,haunting and intense and truly matches the tone of the movie. I also love Goldsmith's homage to Ennio Morricone's Spagetti Western scores in one of the scenes. Great score,Goldsmith.In final word,if you love Tom Hanks,Joe Dante,Comedies,Black Comedies or genre films in general,I highly suggest you see The 'Burbs,an excellent,hilarious,underrated Black Comedy that you can watch again and again. Highly Recommended. 10/10. "},{"Title":"Watch, Re-Watch, and Watch Again!","Date":"23 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" There isn't much more that I can add to a review that wasn't said by someone else fantastically funny, awesome cast, wonderful writing, superb soundtrack, one of the best comedies ever! However what I can add is this, your probably not gonna like it. You might after watching it find some things funny, others just plain strange, and end up feeling eh about the movie (probably why the movie has an overall score of 6.6). To be honest, I felt the exact same way when I watched the movie for the first time. However, as it is a favorite of my parents, we would watch the movie about twice a year. I found, to my surprise, after each time I watched it I saw or heard things that I missed, found things funnier, understood references or jokes etc, and grew to love it. My point is this So you may not like it after the first time you watch it, but give this movie a chance and, you'll love it and watch it for the rest of your life! (hope you don't have commitment issues ;). And trust me on this, you'll be quoting The 'Burbs for years to come. Enjoy! "},{"Title":"Dark And Delightful. The 'Burbs Is Classic Tom Hanks and Joe Dante","Date":"17 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I'm not completely familiar with the films of Joe Dante. I've watched Gremlins which is an absolute classic and I'm looking forward to seeing The Howling. The 'Burbs is one of his films and I don't think I can say anything less than that it was a really fun movie that had some witty yet dark humor, a wonderful 80s feel, an expectedly brilliant performance by Tom Hanks and an engaging mystery. On top of that, I've detected a lot of influence from classic thrillers from Alfred Hitchcock, notably Rear Window and Psycho as well as slight resemblances to To Kill A Mockingbird.The story is set in a neighborhood like any other. Ray Peterson is off from work and doesn't have anything to do on his vacation other than to walk around in his pyjamas all day looking for something to do. A month earlier, new neighbors moved into the dark house next door to him but something's strange about them. Nobody has seen or met them, weird noises come from the house at night and the property is an absolute mess. One of Ray's other neighbors, Walter disappears and Ray along with his other pals being to suspect that the Klopek's are committing murders. A very Hitchcockian plot, and who doesn't love that? The humor in the film is dark yet witty and always amusing. I especially love how the filmmakers have gone out of their way to make the Klopek family seem as unusual as possible. It creates the right sort of mood to fit with the fun loving tone. I do feel that the design of the family and their household does come off as really clichéd and corny, but I can see what they were doing when putting the movie together.The acting is great. Outside of a wonderful performance by the always great Tom Hanks, the other actors do very well too. Rick Ducommon and Bruce Dern are highly entertaining as Ray's neighbors and provide a nice mix of verbal and physical humor which I really got good laughs out of. I also quite liked Carrie Fisher. I haven't seen many movies with her outside of the Star Wars trilogy, but I feel she did fine in her role as the wife reluctant to embrace her husband's far fetched theories. Another favorite of mine is Corey Feldman. I don't think this is the best performance of his career and his character isn't all that important, but I still enjoyed him nonetheless.One thing I think is worth criticizing though is a movement done with the camera in the scene where Ray and Art find a bone. The camera quickly zooms in and out. It seemed like an attempt at creating tension or indicate surprise, but it just looked silly to me and I admit that I actually got a little giggle out of it. As for my reference to 'To Kill A Mockingbird'... look at the design of the house and the way in which the Klopeks are viewed by the other neighbors. As if they aren't making a reference to Boo Radley. Another thing worth making note of is the wonderful level of twists and turns in the story. This film didn't come out in a way I expected it to and I freaking loved that.Overall, The 'Burbs is a classic and criminally underrated film. It's a great piece of fun that mixes lightheartedness with slight Gothic undertones which results in a film that can be enjoyed by almost everyone. For Tom Hanks fans, it's a must see.9/10 "},{"Title":"Trust me, it's funny","Date":"11 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The plot involves Ray Peterson (Tom Hanks) and his eccentric neighbors (Bruce Dern and Rick Ducommun)who are convinced that their new neighbors are murderers. Ray is skeptical but gradually starts to suspect them.Although the plot is dark, it actually has an up beat theme to it. The characters are immature and funny. Bruce Dern is hilarious as Rumsfield, an ex soldier who still dresses in uniform and uses the terminology. The humor is kind of subtle which acutely makes it more funny. In my opinion, makes it more realistic. Subtle humor is good because you don't have the trouble of having the jokes forced out. Good comedies have been ruined by forcing jokes out. That does not happen in 'The 'Burbs'.This film is so under rated. To me it's a classic and should be a lot more popular. Anyone can enjoy this fantastic comedy, from children, to the elderly. You can't watch this and not laugh. "}{"Title":"The Neighborhood","Date":"19 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The Burbs takes place in a small town subdivision. These new people move in next door and the men of the subdivision do not know what to think. The new people, the Klopex, never leave their house. They even moved in during the night. One neighbor, Art, believes that they are killers and are burying people in their basement. The rest of the people do not believe him so he does some investigating to see what he can find. Once a fellow neighbor goes missing, it is up to the rest of the neighbors to discover the truth.In the movie we can feel the mystery. The we has to decide for themselves if Art is just a crazy and nosy neighbor or if they really are killers. We have to piece all the facts to see if there are really bodies in the backyard. We feel Art's pain when nobody believes him and he has to get the other neighbors help to discover why the Klopex are so secretive.The way that director Joe Dante has the character play make us feel like they are in their own neighborhood. They have the reasonable guy played by Tom Hanks who believes that they are just normal people and that he just needs to mind his own business. Then they have the crazy ex-military guy played by Bruce Dern who in out for adventure. He gets a thrill out of using his military tools and spying on the Klopexs like they were the enemy in war. The last main character is the nosy neighbor who does not have anything going on but know everybody else's business. All the characters bring the movie together and make you want to watch till the end to find out the truth about the creepy Klopex. "},{"Title":"One of my favorites","Date":"13 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This is Tom Hanks' jewel but I don't think he knows it. It's a great family comedy and comedy is where he shines. All his hit dramas be dam** this movie is one of my favorites and I've watched it many times. All Tom wants to do on his vacation is relax at home for the week and inevitably catastrophe ensues. Bruce Dern's character as Lt. Rumsfield is pure awesomeness, the dude is just funny. They couldn't have picked a better cast to play the Klopeks, that family was cast to perfection. Corey Haims character annoyed me but he always annoys me. Even the old dude, Walter, was funny and he had a very small role. "},{"Title":"The burb's is a rarity...a black comedy I enjoyed.","Date":"9 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I generally do not like the movie format and category of the black comedy. Usually, they become so dark that they cease to be funny or entertaining to me...a good example of this is War of the Roses. There have been some that I enjoyed though and this is one of them. I usually like the ones that only really edge towards the dark side a bit and I would say this one does that. It kind of goes into horror at times, but still remains funny unlike another black horror/comedy Parents with Randy Quaid. This film features a new family moving into a very old and not so attractive house. These newcomers are under immediate scrutiny and suspicion as they move in the middle of the night, do not do anything to really fix up the place, and are generally strange looking when some of the people in the neighborhood pay them a visit. Tom Hanks character is not really suspicious at first till his crazy neighbor and a paranoid one convince there is something up with the new family in the burbs. You get many funny scenes as these guys try to find proof that the new family is as strange as they look and are in fact up to something as the poodle a man who lives in the neighborhood shows up dirty and the neighbor ends up missing. The movie plays out rather good and is funny for the most part, at times it becomes a bit to dark as most black comedies tend to do. The cast is very funny and I think this is like the only movie I have seen Carrie Fisher in besides the Star Wars trilogy. Bruce Dern to me steals the show in terms of comedy followed by the neighbor who deduces the bone is human. Not sure of his name or any other movies he has done prior to or since this one. Even Corey Feldman does a rather good job. So all in all this is a nice trip to the burbs. "},{"Title":"Light dark comedy","Date":"31 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The 'burbs is a fun diversion from the usual neighborhood comedies. Joe Dante has a way of combining dark humor and outright horror and make it convincing to a mass audience (see 'Gremlins.') That this film has a lot of dark elements and remains just a light romp at the end is a feat unto itself. All credit goes to Hanks' good natured comedic performance and Dante's fun with the material.Dante paints a portrait of the neighborhood at the very beginning. Hanks plays Ray, probably the most normal among the neighbors. Art is like a big kid and the first one to suspect the neighbors of foul play. Bruce Dern plays a war vet where Ricky Butler, played by Corey Feldman is the loud teenager. All is well in suburbia until clues pop up that might reveal the new neighbors, the Klopeks, as murderers.With any other talent behind the film, this could have been a very dark comedy. But instead of playing up the horror, Dante has fun with it, playing up the comedy talents of his performers (notably Hanks and Dern, who take turns chewing scenery). Dante also has fun with visuals, notably in a hilarious dream sequence that Ray has.Everything comes together to make this film work, including a great score by Jerry Goldsmith, that is part suburban comedy and part horror, complete with organs culled from a funeral march. This film is far from perfect, but it's fun diversional comedy and reminds of the great comic actor that Tom Hanks once was before becoming Oscar's golden boy. "},{"Title":"The 'BURBS","Date":"17 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This movie is so Fab! i am definitely the number 1 fan! The funniest person in it has got to be Reuben his face is just sooo funny n when he says You are the one who lives next door and When mark says  klopek what is that Slovek? and Reuben says NO Mark about a nine on the tension scale Reub. Hilarious! The Dr is so mint! ray, mark, bonnie and carol go into his house and accuse him of murdering people, keeping things in the basement, having someone tied up in the basement, breaks their window, lets the dog out, break ornaments and art tries to break in and the Dr apologises. so mad! Rumsfield gets all the best lines and my favs have got to be Walter that scum barking rat of yours has just taken it's last dump on my lawn i find one more, just one i'm gonna catch em n staple his ass shut! why that really burns my ass that old fart he's got the best lawn on the block and you know why coz he trains his dog to crap in my yard hans Christian Anderson what are you catholic? whos gonna pick up this mess, well your gonna pick up this mess because you are a garbage man "},{"Title":"Madcap Comedy","Date":"5 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Are the strange new neighbors chopping up human bodies next door -- or aren't they? Until the very last scene, you're never quite sure.Tom Hanks, Bruce Dern, and Rick Ducommun are hysterical as the three cul-de-sac Clouseaus who decide to investigate. Corey Feldman's a riot as an air headed teenager who invites all the dudes over to watch the antics and eat pizza, Laugh-In's loony little poet Henry Gibson is a shockingly sinister mad scientist, and Wendy Schaal in short shorts would make any movie an uplifting experience.Watch this endearingly funny film and you'll find yourself agreeing with Feldman, who sums it up perfectly in the last line I love this neighborhood! "},{"Title":"A nice little movie....","Date":"19 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  OK, I checked it out a little while back, and although it came out in 1989, I hadn't seen it until a week or so ago. It is a nice little movie, the kind of scary movie you can watch with the kids, and some nice humor, too.The thing that caught my eye about it was the presence of both Henry Gibson and the ever-cool Carrie Fisher, a reunion of the two, who also co-starred in The Blues Brothers (1980) as enemies of Dan Ackroyd and John Belushi's Jake and Elwood Blues, with Gibson as a comical yet intense deranged Neo-Nazi leader and Fisher as a similarly driven and well-armed babe with her own reasons to hate the brothers. Both actors do well in this film as well, and as a big fan of the BB, it was great to see them together again here. Their roles are slightly different, but the comic timing and ability to use drama as a foil for the comedy shine for both. (Also, Carrie Fisher seems to have worked with EVERYBODY. You could almost do a Kevin Bacon style association game with her roles. With The 'burbs, one can add Tom Hanks, Bruce Dern, and Rance Howard - Ron's dad - to the list.)Anyway, the other cool touch was seeing the long-haired heavy-metal-listening kids in the movie. I was a kid in New Jersey around the same time and they reminded me of folks I used to know. Plus myself, though my hair was never that long and sprayed out. Especially that they were like Whoa, awesome when everyone else was getting scared of the scary stuff.Of course, Tom Hanks also gets mention here as well. This movie features a good performance from him, around the same time as Big this sort of helped to cement him as a comic actor and get him more experience and face time.... setting up momentum for his huge run through the nineties. His role is pretty well-done and he executes it very well. I was interested when I checked it out on here to see that either the director or writer of this film also did Matinee with John Goodman, which is another gem worth checking out. (If you like the MST3K style cheesy horror flicks, or the Martin Landau Ed Wood movie, you will especially like Matinee, which lovingly satirizes the horror film makers of the late 1950s/early 1960s against the backdrop of the _really_ scary Cuban Missile Crisis.)Plus, again, this one isn't too gory, and with the humor, it can probably be watched with kids with very few worries. If you are a movie buff, you will dig this movie. If you are looking for a fun fright-fest that you don't mind sharing with the kids, you will probably dig it, too. Heh... dig it... oddly appropriate. Just watch ;+)  "},{"Title":"One of the most enjoyable films of all time.","Date":"27 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  D Joe Dante. Tom Hanks; Rick Ducommun; Bruce Dern; Carrie Fisher; Brother Theodore.Normal guy Hanks and his Joe six pack friend Ducommun decide to investigate their reclusive new neighbours. Are they serial murderers? Or are they just eccentric? Director Dante takes a light hearted look at the prejudices of suburbia while maintaining an attractive atmosphere allowing a number of good laughs. Hanks is as likeable as ever while Ducommun and Dern give impeccable performances. Fisher steals the show as Hanks' worried wife. The story is remarkably straight forward, relying mainly on Ducommun and Dern for laughs. Hanks' comedic expertise  is sometimes wasted in his 90% straight faced role, but he does have a few great moments, and lines Ducommun up for many more. An excellent and underrated film, essential viewing. Dante veteran Dick Miller appears as a bad tempered Garbageman.    "},{"Title":"Evil Neighbors 129392","Date":"13 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Another 80's neighbor movie! Great. Before starting this review, I have to say that I don't know what could have possessed the people who classified this movie as horror. This is an 80's comedy, and a typical one. I have a weak spot for movies like this one, because they're so silly, so maybe I'm too biased to write this review, but I'll give it a shot anyway.This definitely isn't the funniest comedy. This isn't even the funniest 80's comedy, or even the funniest 80's neighbor-related comedy. But it was funny, and it has a formula that works, or at least that worked back in the 1980's. Many goofy suburbans trying to figure out what type of strange neighbors have moved in last month, suspecting them of murdering another of their neighbors? Sounds good to me!I have to admit that this movie has it's dull moments, but there's extremely silly moments too. Tom Hanks is really funny in this, I thought. This was maybe his last goofy light-hearted movie before appearing in more serious movies like Forrest Gump or Saving private Ryan in the 90's. Some of the characters in this are so typical of 80's movie. By example, the sexy bubble-headed neighbor who's always half dressed and always nice to everyone and the annoying typical teenager played, of course, by Corey Feldman.This really isn't a movie for everyone. Most people would find it stupid and unfunny, but if you're not difficult and you like the 80's, you'll like it. Also, it doesn't rely on exploitation or sex jokes to make it interesting. A good movie to watch if you're stuck at home on a rainy day. "},{"Title":"Red Rover, Red Rover, let Dante's career not be over...","Date":"7 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The 'Burbs isn't one of the greatest movies ever made, but I think movies like this definitely have a place in the world of film because it's fun. Sure, it's not very sophisticated or artistic, but it wasn't just made to earn a buck, either. I appreciate the time that it took Joe Dante to figure this film out and make it. The cast is excellent. Tom Hanks is a little underplayed, even though he has his moments of fun. Rick Ducommun is the great boob of a neighbor that resembles a leech more than a man (we all know those kind of people). Finally, Bruce Dern is sweet as the Vietnam vet living out the rest of the war on his front lawn, while eating animal crackers. The other roles are fairly downplayed, not really offering the characteristics or foibles that stand out as much as our three heroes. The crew is made up of one of my favorite teams Dante and Goldsmith. Joe Dante directs and Jerry Goldsmith writes music for it. Dante includes all his trademarks in this film cameos by Dick Miller and Robert The Doctor Picardo, numerous homages to other films, and whimsy you can cut with a knife. Goldsmith takes the film to another level beyond the visual elements of the storytelling and adds the musical elements, which subtly shape the feel of the movie. Without the organ motif, the Klopeks wouldn't be as creepy or mysterious. Why would their neighbors suspect them of anything? Without PATTON motif, would Dern's character have been as likable or tough? Overall, The 'burbs inspires me, as a filmmaker (an amateur one at that), to go out and make a whimsical movie that's fun for the audience and shows them a fun time for an hour and a half. I'm inspired by the gags, the eccentric performances, and the music. I recommend everyone see this, just so you don't sound so lame for seeing only the popular movies that all your friends and neighbors have seen. STICK IT TO THE MAN! Oh wait...I'm one of them!  "}{"Title":"not that far fetched","Date":"6 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This film works because to anyone who lives in a small cul de sac of nosy neighbors its not that unrealistic! It reaches that part in the back of your mind, where you have feelings of suspicion about that weird house down the street which has an overgrown bush outside it and you never see its occupants. You laugh so hard cos you know deep down we all have nagging doubts about those neighbour's activities, and we are all curtain twitchers at heart, although we could never admit it, oh no. But through the 'Burbs we can revel in it through Ray and Rumsfield and the rest as they actually get together and act on their suspicions as everything gets totally out of hand.The end has been criticized for being lame, but I like it, because I for one was crushed when the gang were wrong about the Klopeks. When the car boot full of bones and skulls appeared, I just thought YES!! I knew it!!!This is a classic comedy which you can watch again and again, the humour just gets funnier with each viewing.  "},{"Title":"Disappointing /","Date":"6 December 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" *Tom Hanks blows up the house, the police come, he freaks out, he lays himself in the ambulance, ready to be whisked off to the hospital and then jail.* 10/10 FREAKING AMAZING *Big reveal that they're actually evil* NO 5/10 WHY DID YOU RUIN A PERFECT MOVIE Seriously, this film was SUPER suspenseful, not because the plot is particularly captivating, but because for the first 80 minutes I couldn't decide if it was interesting or not or if it was funny or not. If the first 80 minutes stood alone my opinion would be simply this not bad; not very funny or interesting but not unfunny and not uninteresting. But then the ending came. I was in awe! This was a movie where three idiots went on a paranoid rampage and tried to prove that their new neighbors were serial killers, blew up their house in the process, and go to jail once they find out they're not actually serial killers! That is genius! But then NO, we have to have the big reveal that they were right all along! Screw that. Most disappointing ending I've ever seen to a movie. "},{"Title":"Neighbours, everybody needs good neighbours . . .","Date":"7 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The plot centres around a street called 'Mayfield Place'. One that looks very much something Tim Burton would create. Within the neighbourhood live some interesting characters which involve sceptical average Ray and Carol Peterson (Tom Hanks and Carrie Fisher), greedy impulsive crow-shooting Art Weingartner(Rick Ducommun), ex-military soldier Mark and Bonnie Rumsfield (Bruce Dern and Wendy Schaal), typical late 80s teen Ricky Butler (Corey Feldman) and a short role by Gale Gordon as cantankerous Walter Seznick who lets his dog Queenie poop on Rumsfield's lawn.Ray notices strange goings on from new neighbours called The Klopeks which consists of 'The Doctor' Werner (played well by Henry Gibson), Uncle Reuben (Brother Theodore) and his ungainly son called Hans (Courtney Gains). This starts a huge investigation by the suburbanites, especially when they discover Hans is driving the squelchy garbage out of his garage and bashes it into a bin with a stick. As time goes by, the investigations headed by Mark Rumsfield get more extreme as they understand Walter is missing and all that's left is his toupee...The film is a great comedy about social values and the way communities interact with each other, especially when an unknown outsider comes on the scene. Tom Hanks plays his typical blasé character to perfection, Rick Ducommun and Bruce Dern are brilliant as enthusiastic Art and off-kilter Mark. You know that these paranoid twosome are the driving forces in the film. Both showing some great character acting with some cracking linesI find one more...Just one...I'm gonna catch him and staple his ass shut - Mark Rumsfield finding out the hard way that Queenie has been crapping on his lawn.'Bout a nine on the tension scale there, Reub. - Mark Rumsfield after Reuben responds dramatically after being asked whether his name was Slavik.Listen to your wife!?! Who listens to their wife? - Arts way of trying to persuade Ray to his way of thinking.Ray! You're chanting! I wanna kill everyone. Satan is good, Satan is our pal...Once they get in here (points to head) it's over pal. - Art's response to Ray's refusal to listen to him by sticking his fingers in his ears and talking over him.The ladies, soft and naive Bonnie and level-headed Carol are the counterfoil to the men's extreme child-like behaviour and do their bit to drive the plot along too (most notably inviting themselves face-to-face into the Klopeks house armed with a plate full of brownies).Ricky Butler's role is to stir the pot and goad Art and Mark on in their investigations (though they need little encouragement) and also to be a spectator for the events that unfurl as he invites his mates around to 'watch the show'.Incidental bits like Ray throwing his morning coffee at the paperboy and crushing beer cans to ease pent up rage, Art blindly picking out some food from a bowl not knowing it's meant to be for the dog all help to flesh out the characters.Some great scenes involve Art and Mark, with half his face covered in shaving foam, sitting in a garbage truck looking through rubbish hoping to find a body part dumped by the Klopeks and one hilarious roof pratfall made by Mark Rumsfield which causes him to release a shot from his gun and smash a car window which sets off the alarm.Henry Gibson, Courtney Gains and Brother Theodore are interesting choices to play the Klopeks. Gibson's intelligent charm contrasts deeply with Brother Theodore's abrupt rough mannerisms as Hans captures the 'scared animal in headlights' look accurately.However, the film loses it's way in the end because it opts for the two endings in one which I think is a bit of a cop-out. What would have been nice is perhaps see the film have two alternative endings; one showing the Klopeks to be innocent with the neighbours being the ones who are crazy, driven mad by their boring monotonous lives and the other ending showing the finale discovering that the Klopeks killed the Knapps in the end.If given the choice I think I would have preferred the darker first ending. It could have been a subtle 1980s precursor to Dale and Tucker vs Evil. "},{"Title":"A overall good movie","Date":"23 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I found this movie very entertaining, It's funny and witty when it needs to be and although I wouldn't call it scary it's is suspenseful at times, the mix of these two aspects alone give this movie a very nice and enjoyable feeling. The acting is almost always done very good all the way through, Tom Hanks and the rest of the cast do a very good job of acting as the oblivious suburbanites and the villains give off not only a creepy feel but a humours one as well. The place in which it takes place is so typical of a movie of it's time that it's hard not to laugh about it. And as for the soundtrack it does a very good job of adding as much emotion and feeling as it can. I would gladly recommend this movie and I give it a solid 8 "},{"Title":"I wish I had neighbors like that!","Date":"27 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This was one of my favorites when I was little and I still love it today. Back when I first saw The Burbs, I appreciated the crazy moments, and the image of suburbia. Everything was cozy and familiar, yet had an air of mystery and danger. It catches that sense of what a suburban town in the 80's was like to a kid, even though it's from the point of view of adults.Today, that sense still sticks, but now I enjoy the character and situational humor. It's great how the film pokes fun at the men home on vacation. How they all start acting like children at the first hint of adventure. They all seemed to be out playing with toys. The other part that I appreciate are the nods to horror movies and melodramas. It worked perfectly with the story and mood. "},{"Title":"A Clever Black Comedy - Silly, But Funny...","Date":"2 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"   Tom Hanks is Ray Peterson, your average, suburbanite, middle-class businessman. Carrie Fisher is his wife Carol, Bruce Dern and Rick Ducommun play Mark Rumsfield and Arthur 'Art' Louis Weingardner respectively, and Corey Feldman, the little kid from Gremlins plays Richard Butler, the teen-next-door. After a strange family moves into a large house down the street, Peterson becomes suspicious of their activities and begins to snoop around his new neighbors' home, only to find out that they may be psychopathic killers! Granted, the plot is nothing great, but the characters are most interesting, and they have good chemistry. Watching these 'burbanites slowly progress toward insanity is quite entertaining. Too many people focus on the bad qualities of this film and do not recognize its redeeming qualities. Good actors, good jokes, and a clever atmosphere all help me forget the dumb plot.Joe Dante directs and the film co-stars Henry Gibson.3/5 stars -John Ulmer "},{"Title":"Way funny comedy.","Date":"5 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This has got to be one of the funniest flicks I have ever seen. If you are a fan of comedy or not, THE 'BURBS will most likely make you laugh. It takes place in a quiet little cul de sac as four suburbanites begin to have their suspicions about their weird new neighbors. There is no great acting and no great story (although it is funny as hell) but the members of the cast are wonderful. Tom Hanks, Bruce Dern, Rick Ducummon, Carrie Fisher, Henry Gibson, Brother Theodore, and Corey Feldman of STAND BY ME are all victims of this wacky and hilarious satire.I highly recommend this film to anyone with a general interest in movies or if you just like to laugh a lot. Now, don't get me wrong, the whole story is something strait out of a horror movie and the film's plot moves along like one, but the laugh factor is oh so very high, that this comedy is destined to become nothing short of a masterpiece in the genre. THE 'BURBS gets 5/5! "},{"Title":"Funny","Date":"28 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The 'Burbs is one of the funniest movies I've ever seen.  The first time I saw it was shortly after it was released on video.    This movie is unlike any other.  The first time I saw it, I wasn't sure what to make of it.  I mostly thought it was weird.  I wasn't sure if the tone of the movie was supposed to be serious or funny.  Now, after having seen it many times, I realize that there is nothing serious about this movie.  I think all the critics who gave it bad reviews just didn't understand it.This is one of those movies that can be watched over and over again and it just seems to get funnier, especially when watching with people who also appreciate it.  This movie has become something of a cult film in my family. All my siblings can quote the many, classic one-liners.  Some examples that will bring smiles to the faces of 'Burbs loversI've never seen anybody drive their garbage down to the end of the street and bang the hell out of it with a stick. I-I've never seen that.Klopek.  What is that, Slavic?In Vietnam we used to call this sort of thing bad karma.Sure was damp today.I think the funniest scene is when they go visit the Klopeks at their house so they can get to know them.  The small talk they try to make (How's the drainage on your property?) and the part with the pretzels and sardines and the accompanying sounds just makes me laugh.  Anyhow, my whole family loves this movie and I suggest you see it.  Watch with an open mind and don't take it at all serious. "},{"Title":"Don't miss it","Date":"16 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The 'burbs is truly one of those movies that I regret not catching on cable.  It is rarely on anymore, and although I contemplate renting it, I feel it would take away from the satisfaction that will come from catching it on TV.  Whatever the case, from beginning to end, it is one of Tom Hanks' all-around great films.  Whether you're fishing for thrills or looking for laughs, The 'burbs will do you right. "},{"Title":"Review #3","Date":"9 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I personally find this as one of the few comedies I always find funny.It isn't the high art indie comedy or Mel Brooks classic satire, but it is still funny. It spoofs the old horror movies of the 50's perfectly. And unlike most spoofs actually has a plot.The director doesn't do any fancy work but he does play with the camera to add to fun. The acting is good all around although Carrie Fisher was kind of dull.So, I give The Burbs a 7. Not because it is high art or great film, but because I like it. "}{"Title":"One of My Favorite Movies","Date":"15 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I'm sure if you'd ask Tom Hanks, he won't list The Burbs as one of his best works. But I think this movie is just great. After watching it several times, you get to know each and every character. The actors play well off each other, and every one of them is outstanding. I had always wished there would have been a Burbs II, but no such luck. "},{"Title":"God, I love this street","Date":"12 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  In adolescent years, one of the most exciting activities boys undertake is searching for unknown mysteries in caves, old abandoned houses or any place that's off limits. The thrill of potentially discovering and then dealing with an unholy terror is motivation for these adrenaline-fuelled adventures. The Loch Ness Monster, Bigfoot and Yeti are examples proving that we never really lose our fascination with the unknown.The 'burbs features grown men perplexed by the mysterious ways of their new neighbors, the Klopeks. Tom Hanks, Rick Ducommun and Bruce Dern are perfectly cast as the heroes of the cul-de-sac, determined to save Mayfield Avenue from the evil Klopeks. The cast is deliciously funny, paranoid and chilling. The film is an hour and a half of pure entertainment which you hate to see end.Corey Feldman (Ricky) sees the goings-on as the representative of the audience. His line, God, I love this street could easily be replaced with, God, I love this film.  "},{"Title":"One of Hanks' Best!","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  If I ever meet Tom Hanks, I will shake his hand and tell him that my two favorite movies of his were Joe Versus the Volcano and The 'Burbs. He'll laugh at me, either in fear, or the fact that probably nobody else on this Earth would say that to Tom Hanks.  Most people will say Philadelphia or Forrest Gump.Anyway, why do I like this movie so much?  To be honest with you, I own this movie, and I have watched it probably more than most of my other movies (Batman and Star Wars are the only exceptions.)  MAybe I shouldn't admit that online where people all over the world can read it, but it's true.Hanks is in fine form in this movie, but not only that, the supporting cast is excellent.  Bruce Dern plays a military wacko neighbor, Corey Feldman as...well, a teenage boy.  Does Feldman play anything else?  Carrie Fisher (yummy) plays Hanks' wife, but the guy who steals the show is Rick Duccomun, as their nosy neighbor.  I didn't know who he was when I saw this the first time, and he hasn't been in any really big roles, but he is extremely funny as Art.The story is predictable, the acting is not Academy Award winning, but this movie is everything I expected.  Entertaining!  I watch this movie about once a month, and any movie that I can watch over and over again, is worth bragging about.There are a lot of people out there who just hate this movie, or thought it was okay (my wife included), but for what it's worth, there are a few Hanks' movies that are worse than this. (Volunteers anyone?)  Do yourself a favor.  Rent this movie, pop some popcorn and turn off your brain for a few hours and just enjoy the movie.  It could be worse, I could be telling you to rent It's Pat! "},{"Title":"Woefully Under-Rated","Date":"26 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"     You know them, you probably have them, those wierd neighbors who never seem to be seen, but evidently exist. This movie makes fun of them with a select cast headed off by Tom Hanks and capitilizing on one man's paranoia and idiot mistakes. The neighborhood is a funny spoof of suburbia as are the characters in it. Carrie Fisher, her radiant good looks down played as a sensible wife, plays Tom's straight man with Bruce Dern as his comic relief. Corey Feldman delivers one funny line after another as Tom gets everyone worried for nothing over a missing neighbor while blaming the disappearances on the new Addams-like new neighbors. The humor is dark and funny, and the atmosphere almost the same, but it is one enjoyable fair for every Tom Hanks fan out there.  "},{"Title":"Crazy, murdering neighbors, and it's a comedy...awesome!!","Date":"12 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"    This is one of my favorite movies from the 80's.  I have it on tape and I watch it all the time, and I mean ALL the time.  I like Tom Hanks much better back in the 80's than I do today, and I love him in this movie.  The funniest lines ever are from this movie.  For example--Ray!  Do you want them to take your family, kidnap them, tear their livers out and make some sort of satanic paté?!  AND---I wanna kill everyone, satan is good, satan is my pal.  So funny!  I love Art, the bumbling neighbor who is the cause of most of the neighborhood trouble, and as for the kitchen scene, where he eats half the food they have in their house....that was too much, lol.   I just gotta say, if you have not seen this movie, do so....please! "},{"Title":"A great film.","Date":"18 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I believe that Joe Dante is the most under-rated director in film today. True that he makes commercial movies, but they are some of the most fun movies for a film buff to watch. The Burbs is a masterpiece. This is one of the funniest films I have ever seen. Tom Hanks is great in the lead performance and the rest of the cast supports him with great all around performances. The situations set up in this film were set up perfectly. Joe Dante deserves more recognition than he usually gets, check this one out and you won't be let down. "},{"Title":"As good in 2006 as it was in 1989","Date":"15 October 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I saw this film for the first time, on ITV1, in late 2005 as a way to pass a rainy afternoon when my computer was broken and it looked like it could have a few good moments involved (if I remember correctly, the ITV review of it was something along the lines of 'Tom Hanks spends his week off spying on neighbours who like digging in the rain'.) For the next 6 months, I watched it every time it was on any of the ITV channels (I'm going to guess they have the UK showing rights to it?) and finally bought it for myself in May 2006.The 'burbs is all about a regular kind of guy Ray Peterson (Tom Hanks) who wants to while away his week off from work by being lazy around the house and fixing the barbecue (which, by the way, never gets fixed) ... but his quiet week is interrupted by suspicious neighbours Art Weingartner (Rick Ducommun) and Mark Rumsfield (Bruce Dern) who suspect Ray's new neighbours, the Klopeks (Henry Gibson, Brother Theodore and Courtney Gains) of foul play with the other residents of Mayfield Place. When old man Walter Seznick (Gale Gordon) goes missing, there's no longer any doubt ... or is there..? It's the kind of film you either see once and can't understand why anyone would watch it or you watch for the first time and think you've finally found what's been missing from the film industry ... then proceed to watch hundreds of more times because it's that good and that rare. If you like your films containing action and/or things to make you think, then you'll probably be the former; if, however, you just want to watch a simple comedy that's been made with real people doing things that real people do - something I've personally had trouble finding in the last few years in films - then you'll probably fit into the latter group. "},{"Title":"A touch of Twilight Zone","Date":"14 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" There are a few movies that I have no problem revisiting. James Whale's Frankenstein; and Bride of Frankenstein, Point Break, Tombstone, Bram Stoker's Dracula, and The Burbs. If any of these movies pop up on TV, I turn off the tube and put in a DVD. I just hate the way TV butchers movies. I saw a TV adaptation of Bram Stoker's Dracula that totally omitted the character Renfield. Is that screwed, or what? There are many reasons why The Burbs hits the target when it comes to satire. Most of them seem to be covered in the other reviews given here. The one point no one has mentioned, at least in the first twenty or so reviews showing here, is the obvious nod to a particular Twilight Zone episode. I'm referring to The Monsters Are Due On Maple Street. When I first saw The Burbs, I saw the plot heading right towards the Zone episode's conclusion. I just knew The Burbs was going to leave us with the Zone message Just because the neighbors appear weird, doesn't necessarily mean... or They are not the monsters, WE are... Instead, Dante left us with the message How much weirdness must a guy put up with before he says OK, That's it! or Yep, they's monsters alright! "},{"Title":"One of the funniest films ever made","Date":"12 June 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This is one of the funniest movies ever made. A brilliant mix of slapstick, intelligent comedy, with shades of darkness. I thought of Tom Hanks as a serious actor, but he proves that he can master comedy. The Burbs is a simple tale of a group of neighbours who suspect the new family in their neighbourhood of being strange. They suspect that this new family are killers. The Ending of this movie is a perfect ending, for those who have not seen this movie, its better if you see it for your self. The Burbs was not a BIG Hit that it deserves. I'm my opinion this is a very underrated movie that deserves recognition. Many people have not heard of this film, which is a surprise. If you haven't seen this movie, then i recommend you buy it. It is worth the price, with 2 hours of entertainment. I'm sure you will not be disappointed. "},{"Title":"truly amazing , one of Tom Hanks best !!  classic","Date":"23 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The burbs is one of my all time favourites, everything is amazing in it , the actors the set , everything. Tom hanks is brilliant plays the character excellent. Rick Ducommun plays an amazing role of the crazy next door neighbour and is definitely one of my favourite characters in the film and i would like to see him in more films. Bruce Dern plays a great role as well as the ex-soldier,there is not one thing i would like to change about this movie , i recently bought the DVD and it will be treat to watch the uncut version. over all Hanks, Ducommun, and Dern make a great trio and makes it a classic in my eyes. definitely 10/10 ***** "}{"Title":"It's An Eerie Day In This Neighborhood!","Date":"14 November 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Meet Ray Peterson (played by Tom Hanks before he became Mr. Drama), a simple working man who lives in the suburbs. His neighbors include busybody Art Weingartner (played by the hilarious Rick Ducommun), a paranoid ex-soldier Mark Rumsfield (Bruce Dern) and a spaced-out teen Ricky (Corey Feldman, before he became addicted to heroine).Ray has some new neighbors that moved into the house beside him. He's never seen them. Nobody on the block has. So one afternoon Art and Ray dare each other to ring the doorbell and have a run-in with a swarm of bees that came out of the wall!           The new neighbors' last name is Klopek. They wonder if it's Slavic. Rumsfield, Art and Ray spied on the Klopeks one night andsaw one driving the car out into the street, take a full bag from the trunk, place it in the garbage can, then beats it with a stick.That looked suspicious to the three friends so the next morning, Art and Rumsfield crawl into the garbage truck and dump garbage all over the street, looking for anything weird that was in the Klopek's garbage. But found natta!          Art tells everyone a spooky story about a man named Skip who was a sodajerk until he snapped and became a mass murderer. They wonder if the Klopeks are like that. Ray claims they may be evil incarnate. (I like the way that term rolls out Evil Incarnate).        Art finds a femur bone in Ray's backyard. Maybe it came from the Klopek's yard. Maybe they're buring people in the backyard.The suspicion really grew when their elderly neighbor, Walter,disappeared suddenly. They think that femur was Walter's. But Ray's sensible wife Carol suggests they go nextdoor and introduce themselves to the Klopeks like adults. They meet young Hans, and his uncle Ruben. They also meet Dr. Werner Klopek, the brains behind the outfit. The Klopeks seem like nice people, but Ray still thinks something is wrong, so the next morning when the Klopeks were gone for the day, he and Art hop the fence and search the backyard, house and basement. Well a chain of events lead to the house exploding and Ray discovering the real truth, after Dr. Klopek attempted to kill him in back of an ambulance.           The movie had a happy ending. This movie had some good moments and some very hilarious ones! Like when they're in Walter'shouse looking for anything, Art finds a plate of cookies in the fridge, Ricky kicks open the kitchen door and shatters the plate. After I watch that scene, I gotta rewind and watch it again several times!The crazy ambulance ride is funny also! They nearly have a head on collision with the pizza dude!           All the actors and actresses were good in this movie!! I really recommend it. I heard tell that some of the houses used in this film were also used in Harry and the Hendersons. So in conclusion, see this movie! - "},{"Title":"A Slightly Dark Romp Through Suburbia","Date":"15 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The 'Burbs were one of those semi-clean comedies that my mother and father approved of in our VHS library when I was a child. Directed by Joe Dante (of Gremlins fame), and featuring some of the biggest names from the 1980's, it's a movie that still is still hilarious from a somewhat gentler political time.Tom Hanks and Carrie Fisher play the central family unit during a weekend holiday, representing the ideal American family living somewhere in unknown suburbia. Every neighbour plays a wonderful caricature of the typical melting pot that makes the U.S such a weird and wonderful place to live. There is a retired war veteran (Bruce Dern), and his beautiful young wife (Wendy Schaal) ready to play taps and raise the American flag every morning. The young rock and roller (Corey Feldman), left home alone for the weekend with a few chores to do around the house, but will spend the majority of this weekend drinking beer and running amok. And the 'everyman' neighbour Art (Rick Ducommun) who plays the instigating and downright rude best friend to the main character. Each one brings a different persona to this crazy little neighbourhood, and they blend well together.The plot revolves around a family of recluses, the Klopek family, who rumour has it are mentally disturbed, extremely secretive, maybe even homicidal. Every neighbour has a different story to tell about them, and following a night of a massive power outage, the rumours spread quickly. Ray Peterson (Tom Hanks) becomes quickly paranoid and the neighbours become more and more aggressive when it comes to finding out what's going on in the Klopek's house. It doesn't take long before a few of the more suspicious neighbours decide to sneak into their home and finally figure what's going on in their dilapidated home.A comedy from a different generation, where breaking and entering was considered a petty crime. It's a fun romp through an a-typical U.S suburb, and even slightly dark at times. A definite classic in 80's comedy, before Tom Hanks entered the more dramatic era of his career.6/10 "},{"Title":"Everybody loves Ray....except the new neighbors.","Date":"16 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" It is so ironic that Tom Hanks' first name here happens to be Ray, because from the moment I started watching this, it reminded me of the darkness behind the sitcom Everybody Loves Raymond. The neighbors are as darkly freaky as the rest of the Barone family with Hanks a definite variation of Ray Romano and Carrie Fisher as uptight and irascible as Debra Barone. Add in such odd characters as Gale Gordan's grumpy old man, chronically high teen Corey Feldman and Bruce Dern's redneck. This is suburban hell, and there appears to be no escape.When Hanks, Dern and another neighbor snoop on the newcomers, they spot someone who looks like Eddie Munster and Lurch's love child with what appears to be a body bag, they suspect foul play. Then, grumpy Gordan disappears, furthering the mystery. The three men begin to get spooked out, and from there, things just weirder and weirder, starting with a dream sequence that make Tevye's nightmare seem like having tea with Mr. Rogers. With neighbors like this (which includes Laugh-In actor Henry Gibson as a rather strange doctor), who needs cul de sacs?I've had my share of strange or annoying neighbors over the years, but at least I could find things to laugh about. I found minimalistic things to laugh at here, and the whole black comedy theme is truly overdone. Perhaps on paper, the script seemed funnier, or overtime it has just been weighed down in bad taste. The late 1980's and early 90's had a slew of strange neighbor comedies with suburban themes, and a good majority of them are truly bad. But this one is even worse, because it seems to pride itself on thinking that it is much funnier than it is, and in retrospect that smugness is what kills it. "},{"Title":"Well worth a watch if you need a laugh","Date":"22 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Needed to see a familiar and funny movie this week and so went for The 'Burbs. I had seen it before but had such a vague memory of it that I thought that Michael Keaton was one of the lead actors. However, Tom Hanks played the Michael Keaton role quite well.The ensemble cast is fun in this very goofy off beat wacky silly(choose one or more) comedy of suburbia. Bruce Dern, Corey Feldman, Carrie Fisher (sans Leia Cruller hairdo), Gale Gordon, Henry Gibson AND Brother Theodore ! The beginning of the film and the end are better than the middle but it's worth the wait to see what is finally revealed.Suspend your disbelief and critical prowess and give this one a watch if you just want a few guffaws and chuckles. "},{"Title":"Makes you miss funny Tom Hanks.","Date":"24 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Alright kids, time to jump into the Wayback Machine and watch a blast from the past. We are going back to a time before Tom Hanks was only seen as Oscar gold and wasn't afraid to go for the gut laugh. If you don't know of this time that I speak then ask your dad and watch this weeks slice of late eighties fun called The 'Burbs. This film is reminiscent of so many films of that time. Weird, off the wall flicks that seem like a stoner fantasy but for some reason, the kismet was there and they work. They shouldn't, but they do.Driected by Joe Dante (Oh, you know we are going to visit the Gremlins, both 1 and 2, at a later date), The 'Burbs takes all of the old tropes of nosy neighbors and builds a slapstick horror around it. Ray Peterson (Hanks) is off from work and becomes obsessed with the strange new neighbors, the Klopecks, with a fair amount of goading from his friends (played hilariously by Rick Ducommun and Mock Films Blog alum Bruce Dern). With little or nothing to do with their free time, the three buddies spy on the eccentric activities of the new residents, like digging up their own yard in the dead of night or the odd noises emanating from their basement. As the strange behavior continues next door, one of the members of the block disappears mysteriously, adding to the speculation from Ray and his cohorts that the Klopecks may be a family of serial killers. What follows is a well crafted, keep you guessing mystery which brings genuine laughs to the audience.&#x97; "},{"Title":"Strange, clean, dumb fun.","Date":"29 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Strange, but in a good way. Neither me nor the other guy I watched this with had ever seen this movie before and neither of us had any idea of where it was going while we were watching it. It is very successful at being a light, suspenseful, comedy. It's a fun, old, blast-from-the-past, movie with a weird script and solid, workmanlike, but unexceptional acting. Strange new neighbors move into Tom Hank's 'hood, and he and his current (also) strange neighbors begin to suspect that they're not entirely benign, which sets up the comical investigations to follow.I can't believe I never saw this before, and while it's not great film-making by any means, it's different enough and well-done enough to be easily justify the time spent on it, and, if it's a concern of yours, it's very clean to boot. "},{"Title":"Geeky Randy's summary","Date":"26 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Hanks takes a stay-cation to relax and catch up on things around the house, but that idea is quickly put to bed when a couple goofy paranoid neighbor buddies (Dern and Ducommun) suspect that the disappearance of a fellow resident might be the doings of an eccentric family who moved into the creep old house next door. Nostalgic to say the least, be even for 1989, THE 'BURBS was certainly pushing the suspension-of-disbelief boundaries. Highly likely that Feldman was cast as Donatello in TEENAGE MUTANT NINJA TURTLES thanks to his role in this outing. The poodle also appears in THE SILENCE OF THE LAMBS.**½ (out of four) "},{"Title":"Pure Dante","Date":"25 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Director Joe Dante is a bit like Steven Spielberg's odd cousin. He takes these very Spielbergian settings and concepts and holds them up to a funhouse mirror. They entertain, but you can't help but think Dante is making fun of you the entire time.'The 'Burbs' is a quirky little oddity from a time when Tom Hanks used to make buddy cop movies with dogs--I miss that Tom Hanks sometimes. Though it goes on for about 10-15 minutes longer than it should and subverts its own message about suburbanites/suburbia with its ending, 'The 'Burbs' is an amusing piece from Dante's career menagerie that's infinitely re-watchable. "},{"Title":"Just found this on Netflix haven't seen it in a while","Date":"14 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This movie holds up well even after the social media age. From the first shot showing a zoom in to a neighborhood that could be almost anywhere to the homages to old horror films, famous directors and comedians. The characters are great representatives of those neighbors that are just a bit quirky, but you become friendly with them because they live next to you. When the neighborhood gets a case of stranger danger after a new weird family moves in, a bunch of bored middle class suburbanites take action and hilarity ensues. Tom and the gang are great, and even Carrie Fisher looks good in a post Star Wars appearance. "},{"Title":"One of my favorite little movies!","Date":"27 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I love The 'Burbs! I'll admit it! I have watched it well over 2 dozen times. The characters are hilarious, the story is good, the neighborhood is great, and the comedy is fun. Tom Hanks does a fantastic job, as does everyone else in the cast. Carrie Fisher doesn't have a great deal to do but she is very convincing as Hank's wife. The film's score is one of the best you'll ever experience in a comedy. It is just fantastic. It really adds to the film. There's just something about this movie that connects with the average Joe. You can see yourself in the situations and you know you would react the same way. Watch it for yourself. And then watch it again. It won't be long before this movie seems like an old friend you enjoy visiting! "}{"Title":"fun and funny movie","Date":"13 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Ray Peterson (Tom Hanks) is staying home for a week of vacation. There are strange things going on next door at the Klopeks who moved in last month. His friend Art Weingartner (Rick Ducommun) has wild theories about them. Along with military vet Mark Rumsfield (Bruce Dern) and Ricky Butler (Corey Feldman), they try to convince him of the worst. Mark's wife Bonnie (Wendy Schaal) finds neighbor Walter Seznick's dog Queenie running loose. Walter is nowhere to be found. Ray's wife Carol (Carrie Fisher) insists on the best and drag the Rumsfields to visit the creepy Klopeks.This is such a fun premise of nosy neighbors in the suburbs. Tom Hanks is a great everyman and he has a lot of fun. The guys are basically full grown boys and the Klopeks are the creepy neighborhood bogeymen. It's not suppose to be scary. It's a bit wacky. It's just a fun time. "},{"Title":"I loved this when I was a kid!","Date":"10 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The Burbs is a comedy/horror that never gets old; you can watch it a million times (not that I ever literally have), and there's always something that'll make you laugh. It was creative and original, the actors are all excellent, it was funny as hell and the soundtrack was brilliant. Weingard (is that the proper spelling?) was HILARIOUS, that guy is really what gives the film its comedic spark, and the plot of what's going on next-door? adds an extra creepy element to it to give it some edge.To properly enjoy this film, it's better watching with with your friends. Have a party, order some pizzas and play this film on a big old film projector, it's a much better experience that way, believe me.There goes the neighborhood! ) "},{"Title":"Funny and Suspenseful!","Date":"20 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I never expected this movie, The 'Burbs to be this good. Not only is it funny and a modern satire of suburban life, it is quite creepy and suspenseful. This movie is like an 80's version of Disturbia, but a more funnier version. Not every joke was funny, but many of them were. The movie seems perfect for a Halloween film for families, and this movie ranks up there with another 80's classic, The Goonies. Joe Dante's film is about a suburbanite named Ray Petersen who decides to take the week off. But he is worried about his creepy new neighbors. Along with a crazed military veteran and the eccentric neighbor named Art, they decide to investigate the neighbors when an old man goes missing. I thought the acting was very good. Tom Hanks is a natural actor and gifted at comedy, at least he was in the 80's. He was very good as the man who tries to stay out of trouble. Bruce Dern was absolutely fantastic as the lieutenant who knows the gadgets, but fails to use them correctly. Corey Feldman was decent as the teenage neighbor. Carrie Fisher played the typical wife who persuades her husband to stay out of trouble. Overall, The 'Burbs was an excellent movie that pokes fun at the eccentricity of suburban life. It not only succeeds at being a simple- minded comedy, but it succeeds at being a suspenseful thriller. I liked the ending as it perfectly ended the movie. Tom Hanks has done better movies, but this is a showcase of his talent and what is to come. A creepy and funny movie this is. My Grade A- "},{"Title":"A hugely enjoyable comedy","Date":"16 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Something 80's movies did better than perhaps any other decade was put simply, fun. A huge range of films released in the much loved decade had fun as their number one mantra and director Joe Dante was a filmmaker that well and truly delivered on this front. The Howling, Explorers and his much loved Gremlins were all fine examples of this entertaining spirit that washed over many an 80's gem and Dante tried in similar vein but less successfully to replicate the good times in later films Gremlins 2, Matinée, Small Soldiers, Looney Tunes Back in Action and The Hole. During this 80's high time of fun Dante produced one of the decades last bastions of silly good times with his 1989 hit, The 'Burbs.A fitting movie for any person that may have found themselves apart of Suburbia, The 'Burbs is a film entirely set in a particularly interesting street where neighbours spy upon neighbours, dogs do their business on other peoples lawns oh and a seemingly murderous family conduct nightly experiments and dig graves in the backyard. Dante taps into the spirit of neighbourly comrade and the gossip that comes with it and makes the brave move of keeping the action entirely set in the suburb of Mayfield Place which gives The 'Burbs a real sense of character and atmosphere that was so prevalent and important to films of its vintage. It's all part of the films charm and gentle tone and makes us the viewer feel a part of the adventures these characters have, led by the always enjoyable Tom Hanks.The 'Burbs features an incredible variety of rag tag figures with Tom Hanks's wishing for a quiet housebound, pyjama clad holiday at home Ray Peterson the central figure. Surrounded by Carrie Fisher's demanding wife Carol, Bruce Dern's army obsessed ex-lieutenant Mark Rumsfield, Ray's obnoxious best friend Art and Corey Feldman's typically loud mouthed teen Ricky, The 'Burbs succeeds most completely at creating an interesting and oft relatable bunch of figures in an at times downright bonkers story. Not a whole lot that happens throughout the movie makes a whole lot of sense, right down to the explosive and overblown finale but it doesn't matter as the key flow on from having too much fun, is not really caring about what does and doesn't seem to glue together.An easy to watch, occasionally laugh out loud tale, The 'Burbs has slowly become a lesser seen example of the 80's comedy staples and a somewhat forgotten part of Tom Hanks's impressive filmography. Joe Dante is still a prevalent filmmaker in today's market but sadly his films have been relegated to direct to disc or TV show fair and it would be lovely to see him once more tap back into his 80's mojo and provide us with something along these lines, as fun is still as important to films as it ever was.3 and a half femur bones out of 5 For more movie reviews and opinions check out - www.jordanandeddie.wordpress.com "},{"Title":"Funny, Interesting And Fantastic","Date":"30 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This film was absolutely hilarious, it was really funny! The film had me laughing even after the film had finished. The Burbs was fantastic it was a brilliant film. Tom Hanks (Ray) delivered one great acting performance he was so funny in this film! Watching Tom Hanks spying on his neighbors in this film was hilarious and he did very well getting into character. Tom Hanks was great. I'm also going to praise Corey Feldman (Ricky) he also gave a fantastic acting performance he really is one of the best 80's actors! His character in this film was hilarious his character had me laughing so much I was almost in tears from laughing! He did a great job in this film. The other actors also gave a very good acting performance too.I'm giving this film a 10/10 it was brilliant! I really recommend this film to anyone who loves a good comedy with hilarious humor. "},{"Title":"A lot of build-up for a big anti-climax","Date":"12 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The 'burbs is one of those movies that is all about the idea rather than the story. We have all known that one family in a street or town who don't follow the rules of social norms and are ostracised by those who strive for normality (IE the REAL freaks). We all know of people lower down than us on the social ladder which makes us feel content with achieving something or enjoying our own slightly elevated spot in society. But who know what really goes on behind closed doors? In truth we are all weird, we are all insane, and sane and insane can easily switch places if the minority becomes the majority.That's all about to happen in Mayfield Place &#x96; quiet suburb of the idyllic Mid-Western Hinkley Hills. Ray Peterson (a puppy-fat-faced Otm Shank) has recently lost his job and is keeping said fact from his wife. During his week off he has nothing to occupy his time and so takes to intruding upon his new neighbors. The foreign Klopeks are not following the Mayfield Place rules. Their lawn is dead and weedy, the house is ramshackle and faded, they hardly ever leave or appear outdoors, and they certainly don't bother making friends or filling the void with meaningless chit-chat.A reason enough to be suspicious according to Ray, his screwball pal Art, and ex-military Mark Rumsfield (Rick Ducommun and Bruce Dern, forming a perfect comic trinity). Multiple attempts to politely get to know the Klopeks fail, so its fair game for trespassing, snooping around, and breaking and entering. It certainly seems like the Klopeks are up to no good but by the end of the movie it's largely irrelevant as the big reveal comes and goes with no explanation or real connection to the story.What The 'burbs does have going for it is manic energy between the cast and a lively, inventive, and massively fun score by Jerry Goldsmith. The supporting cast could have been improved though. Carrie Fisher as the wife just doesn't do it for me with her mannish hairdo and short stature. It would have been a much better idea to cast someone like Meg Ryan instead. Fisher is loses to Wendy Schaal who is much funnier as Rumsfield's wife. Corey Feldman also loses as an unholy combination Ted Theodore Logan and Patrick Swayze's Bodhi. His Valley Kid dialect and surfer/80s drop-out culture styling are completely out of place.Despite the shortcomings there is still loads to enjoy with The 'burbs and it will keep you coming back again and again. "},{"Title":"An amusing ride, but missing something","Date":"5 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Combining two genres that really flourished in the 1980's - horror and man-boy comedy - The 'Burbs is a slightly eerie minor work from Joe Dante, the director that gave us genre classics The Howling (1981) and Gremlins (1984), both of which blended spatters of gore with goofy comedy much more successfully. The 'Burbs just seems to be missing something. Whether it's the surprisingly subdued Tom Hanks, who is allowed only glimpses of the energy he was so famous for in his early days, or the film's failure to really subvert any of our expectations, it's unclear.The grumpy Ray Peterson (Hanks) has just begun his one-week vacation, which he has decided to spend lounging around in his pyjamas and drinking beer rather than going fishing or taking his wife (Carrie Fisher) and son on a trip. He is soon drawn in to best friend Art's (Rick Ducommun) curiosity at the strange behaviour of the street's most recent additions, who have moved into a Gothic building that sticks out like a sore thumb. They keep to themselves and are rarely seen outside the house, but at night, great discharges of electricity flash and boom from their basement. Just what are they up to? Ray, Art and ex-army nut Lt. Rumsfeld (Bruce Dern) are determined to find out, while lazy stoner Ricky (Corey Feldman) enjoys the show from his porch.Every now and then, The 'Burbs throws in a bit of inspiration. Whether it's the crash-zoom, over-the-top screaming of Ray and Art upon learning of possible foul play, Ricky's discovery of reality 'TV' years before morons couldn't get enough of it, or the sight of the strange family digging holes in their lawn where you get a real sense of Dante's skill at horror, we get only glimpses of the film that perhaps could have been. Dante doesn't seem invested in the story somehow, as if it was a half-baked idea that was never given the dedication it needed. The observations of suburban life seem dated, as if torn out of a 1960's comic-strip, and the various vignettes which play out in the early scenes are not as funny as they should be.Apart from Ducommun, whose prat-falls and incessant man-child behaviour gets old very quickly, the cast perform extremely well. When Hanks is occasionally let off the leash, his semi-improvised lunacy reminds us of what he did best before all the Oscar-winning nonsense of Forrest Gump (1994), and Dern is the only consistently funny character in the entire film. But when the credits rolled, I found myself pondering the point of the film. It doesn't sway the plot in any direction other than the one you expect it to go, and although it's a mildly pleasant ride along the way, when Feldman's Ricky says to camera at the climax I love this street!, I couldn't help but think why?.www.the-wrath-of-blog.blogspot.com "},{"Title":"Playful Caricatures Abound, Though Their Obsession is Brow-Furrowing","Date":"23 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Life amongst the white middle class at the dawn of the 1990s, as seen through the exaggerated eye of a superpowered magnifying glass. Tom Hanks plays the lead, a meek all-American dad who's plagued by quirky neighbors throughout his long-awaited staycation. There's a lot of truth at the core of these characters, who should seem quite familiar to anyone who's ever so much as visited a similar neighborhood, but their personalities are so thoroughly overinflated that at some point they cross a hidden line and become straight-up cartoon characters. The storyline, which seems to have plenty of fuel to burn in the setting alone, is strangely preoccupied with other things. What seems like a simple side story, about the creepy neighbors in the big, spooky, haunted house, instead dominates the entire picture, taking the film in weird, obsessive directions. Hanks is good as the weary everyman, deeply curious but terrified of confrontation, and he enjoys good help from his supporting cast Carrie Fisher, Bruce Dern and Rick Ducommun work well together as the not-quite-cordial neighborhood welcoming committee. It's strange to see Corey Feldman, just four years removed from The Goonies, as a hard-drinking, home-owning Spicoli clone, but it works for him. Excessively nutty and silly like any number of the era's comedies, if perhaps somewhat genre-confused. "},{"Title":"Classic 80s comedy, even though it writes itself into a corner by the end","Date":"17 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The 'burbs has a certain charm that wins me over on every viewing. Its mix of an Amblin Entertainment style suburb and innocent horror blend perfectly and the script is consistently clever, even though the end is never quite pulled off. When a bizarre family moves into the neighborhood, their middle of the night activities raise suspicions amongst a group of neighbors until their snooping leads them to believe these new neighbors might be murderers. Hanks, Dern and Ducommun make a great trio and their efforts in getting to the bottom of these nocturnal goings on are usually hilarious. The 'burbs has a premise that writes itself into a corner by the last few minutes. There's equal evidence these strange neighbors are psychos and also could be innocently misunderstood, so any resolution outside of leaving it to the viewer's imagination is bound to come across a contrived disappointment. But then again, if the script offered no resolution, the film would feel incomplete and the viewer would be robbed of an ending -- so, it's really impossible for this film not to be written into a corner and while the last few minutes fumble character motivation and logic, the preceding running time works effortlessly. It's my favorite work from Joe Dante. "},{"Title":"An offbeat dark comedy that will give you a bit of a laugh.","Date":"23 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" There have been many movies where you have the typical nosy neighbour who can't mind their own business, bored with their own life they create drama where it may not necessarily be. The 'Burbs fits the bill but it's version of offbeat dark humour works well in this situation. I think what also makes it feel semi-unique is the great cast of common 80's actors and the stereotype roles they play.Lets be honest the only reason to watch this movie is because of Tom Hanks, Corey Feldman Bruce Dern and Carrie Fisher. They make this movie what it is...an alright movie with a great bunch of character actors. It may not be the best movie but it was enjoyable enough. "}{"Title":"A good 80's film... but there are much better out there.","Date":"9 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" THE 'BURBSI had never seen this before yesterday.The movie is about a street where everyone knows everyone. But one of the new neighbours is unlike everyone else. They only come out at night, they don't look after their house like everyone else, they spend the night digging in the back yard. The rest of the street start talking and a couple of the guys decide to snoop around as they have suspicions that the new neighbours have killed their other neighbour.This is a dark comedy from the late 80's. It is funny, but i would not say this is an 80's classic. It definitely had that 80's feel which I love and the story was entertaining, but i just felt that all of these actors have done much better films.The movie stars Tom Hanks﻿ as Ray. Tom is brilliant as always. He did not disappoint at all. Tom is in my top 5 actors of all time. He has made so many fantastic movies. This film also stars Bruce Dern, Rick Ducommun, Carrie Fisher, Corey Feldman﻿ and Henry Gibson. The casting was very good. It is a very strong cast list. Corey Feldman is another actor that is in my top 5 favourite actors list. I always thought that he didn't get the recognition that he deserved. When he was younger he was an amazing actor, with a very impressive CV. I love so many of his movies. I have actually met Corey twice now. The first time I met him he was really friendly and very chatty. I spoke with him and Corey Haim that day. It was so good to meet them and tell them that I loved their work. The second time I met him, he was not as nice. He pretty much ignored me. He signed an autograph for me, but basically sat on his mobile phone texting someone and laughing with his friends. I would understand if I was bothering him in the street, but he was at an official signing. It was a disappointment. But that does not take anything away from him as an actor. He is still in my top 5. Carrie did a good job in this movie. She played Toms wife. I found this very difficult to come to term with. I don't know why, they just didn't seem to go well together. Maybe I am still struggling to think of her as Princess Leia. I should have got over that by now. I have seen quite a few of Carries films, but she will always be the princess to me.There were a few slapstick moments in the film, which I found very funny. There were a few laugh out loud moments too, but not too many. I was expecting this to be funnier than it was, but it was still good.I really liked the ending too. It was full of twists and it did keep me guessing.I will give this film 7 out of 10.Now they know that we know that they know that we know.For more reviews, please like my Facebook pagehttps//www.facebook.com/pages/Ordinary-Person-Movie- Reviews/456572047728204?ref=hl "},{"Title":"MUST BUY to watch","Date":"20 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Gave it a ten because I love the movie but, I joined IMDb to watch this movie and it cannot be watched without purchasing. What reason did I have to join??????????? Are we required to purchase all of the good movies? Are the bombs free only? I would like to know a safe place to watch The Burbs free without spam, etc. Help please. I've tried at least 20 movie sites and problems exist at each one. Suppose I'll have to purchase but not yet. Many good reviews but no one mentions this. Funny movie. Bruce Dern's best comedy appearance by far. I suppose it's always true you get nothing for nothing but I was lead to believe I could watch it free by IMDb adds. Very misleading. "},{"Title":"Just some friendly neighborly paranoia...?","Date":"10 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Great parts by Tom Hanks and Bruce Dern (Rick Ducommun wasn't bad, but somehow he's no favorite of mine), and Carrie Fisher still pretty cute! Joe Dante puts in a few western references in this tale of some weird neighbors somewhere in an upscale suburban cul-de-sac, spying on... their weird neighbors. Though not hilariously funny all the time, the actors work well together and their mostly slapstick-based endeavors make for plenty pleasant viewing, as do the almost dreamlike surroundings in which it all takes place.But just when I thought Dante would end on an intelligent note about unjustifiable paranoia, he throws in a (in itself pretty funny) twist that keeps 'The 'burbs' from being anything intelligent or reasonable; 'if your neighbors are weird and keep to themselves, they're probably mass-murderers'... hmmm, well...Could have done with a lot more sharpness and subtlety. 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Classic and classy!!!","Date":"2 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" There are strange things when it comes to cinema.And by that i mean , that after watching thousands of films and especially films of the past decades,you wonder how on earth, some very good films have passed so quietly and others not so special, are considered masterpieces or whatever. That's the case with the Burbs.For me in the top-3 comedies of all time, alongside airplane and the party. But what makes such an underrated film like the Burbs so good? CHEMISTRY.For me the casting is unbelievable. Tom Hanks plays Ray Peterson, the logic guy who doesn't want to accept ,that there is a possibility ,the neighbors next door, might be killers. Rick Ducommun plays Art Weingartner, the suspicious guy who is certain that the Klopeks(the neighbors) are serial killers,murdering people and burning bodies in their basement. Bruce Dern is Lt Mark Rumsfield, the Vietnam veteran ,the patriot, who wants some straight answers about the Klopeks.(what's in the basement Klopek? his line was on T-shirts selling on various websites).But for me his best line was in SouthEast Asia we call this type of thing bad karma after a swarm of bees have attacked Hanks and Docummun. The three of them make an unbelievable team, who goes to find answers about what's happened to their neighbor, Walter, who is missing. And the three of them play so well. You just can't stand in there and not associate with what they are doing. No coincidence of course, that behind the cameras, there is Joe Dante, an excellent director who takes the film to an extra level. You will enjoy it and you will want to watch it again and again. EXCELLENT! "},{"Title":"God I love this street!","Date":"18 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" How do you find your neighbours? Do they keep to themselves? Do they keep you awake at night with strange going-on? Do they only make appearances at night? This is what Tom Hank's suburbanite Ray Peterson encounters when a creepy new family move in next door. The 'Burbs is an outrageously spontaneous and lunatic black comedy by film-maker Joe Dante who satirically pokes fun at suburbia by playing on the paranoia of a comfortable lifestyle being disrupted. Ray Peterson is on vacation, but he decided to stay home despite his wife Carol nagging him about heading away to relax. But this is no peaceful vacation when he, along with some other concerned neighbours observes the strange happenings next door at the Klopek's residence. When one of their neighbours disappears they believe the Klopek's have something to do with it and they decide to take it in their own hands to proof it. It's one-joke premise really milks out the idea with its slapstick gags, cutting dry wit, ghoulish horror overtones (with some neat horror film homage's / references) and a touch of old-fashion mystery where comic actors Tom Hanks, Rick Ducommun, Bruce Dern, Carrie Fisher, Henry Gibson, Wendy Schaal and Corey Feldman add to the fun. Watch out for colourful cameos by Dante favourites Dick Millar and Robert Picardo with Rance Howard, Franklyn Ajaye and Nicky Katt. Sometimes its momentum does halter, but I think it does lose its edge by trying to cram a lot towards the end. I though it's build-up promised something more than what it actually delivers. Still watching how it plays out remains constantly amusing. It's masterfully photographed with vivid art direction consisting of atmospheric set-designs and Jerry Goldsmith's playful music score. Loud, cartoonish and poignant late 80s dark comedy.What the hell is wrong with these people? "},{"Title":"Nostalgia and Euphoria","Date":"6 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Normally I would never really describe a film, and a COMEDY at that a movie that can give you both of these emotions but it does.The Burbs is not one of the funniest movies out there, but it is definitely one of the most enjoyable due to the setting being so warm. An 80s feel with a fun, comic neighbourhood and storyline.Tons of fun, have seen at least over 50 times.You wont know the answers until the end but once it is over you will want to watch it over and over.I have never wanted to be in a movie more.Great fun! "},{"Title":"The 'Burbs &#x97; Suburbia antics and over active imagination","Date":"6 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The 'Burbs is silly to say the least. Imagine goofy suburbanite neighbors with a over active imaginations, add strange new comers, and you can get where it's going.Most of the action takes place on the outside set, and it really gives this small neighborhood a lived-in feel. With the different point of views, and each persona well integrated, the whole place quickly becomes real in your mind.It's definitely from a late 80s mold and it doesn't go out of its way to break it, but it has aged well. The story line is interesting, and the antics of our eager spies comical enough to make us easily forget that it is getting old.There's only two scenes I don't like. 1) Art's over eating. Movies often over do it when it comes to food, and food noise, but that's ridiculous. At least, it's all located in a single spot and it doesn't spill over the rest of the film. 2) The husband and wife fight which is poorly placed to serve as a hinge.Finally, I only realized last year that the wife of the main character is Carrie Fisher, miss Princess Leia herself. After Star Wars, it got difficult to pick her out of a lineup, and this movie is a good example of that. She's not a bad actress, she's just a plain one.It's good entertainment, if you don't mind the 80s or if you're a fan of Tom Hanks. "},{"Title":"Not Terrible,But I Wouldn't Put It Anywhere Near Tom Hanks Finest Movies,","Date":"30 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The Burbs is a decent movie,its not the best movie I've ever seen but its not the worst either.I thought the storyline was very weak and judging from the movies poster,I thought it would be a lot more exciting.Aside from Tom Hanks and Carrie Fisher,the cast are widely unknown,I never heard of any of them apart from that woman that went on to voice the mom in American Dad.I would this anywhere near some of Tom Hanks greatest movies,such as Forrest Gump,Saving Private Ryan,etc.Ray Peterson (Tom Hanks) is very protective over his neighborhood,and when new people move in next door to him,he must find out all he knows about him to make sure his neighborhood will be safe. "},{"Title":"And you thought your neighbours were weird...","Date":"25 June 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Like a lot of Joe Dante's output, THE 'BURBS is a film that's impossible to dislike. Yes, it may be cheesy, it may be obvious, and some of the characters in it may be more than a little irritating, but for the most part this is a fun-filled thrill ride tinged with Halloween chills and a healthy dose of paranoia.Of course, the real joke is the supposedly ordinary neighbours who spend the movie spying on the newcomers inhabiting a ramshackle old house are far more bizarre than the would-be villains of the piece. Tom Hanks is the everyday Joe who's taken a week off work and becomes increasingly unhinged as the film progresses; Carrie Fisher is his ever-exasperated wife. Rick Ducommun, who bags one great gag-scene in which he threatens to eat his neighbours out of house and home, is the loudmouth conspiracy nut. Bruce Dern in a particularly inventive piece of casting is an ex-army loon with a fine line in gadgets, and Corey Feldman, who has grown up a lot since THE LOST BOYS, is good fun as a teenage slacker.The creative casting alone is reason to keep watching, but Joe Dante brings a lot of life to Dana Olsen's script. Dante has a natural love of cinema in all its forms which makes even his clichés seem like a lot of fun. The ghoulish antics surrounding the creepy old house are often hilarious, like the scene involving the femur and the neighbourly house call. Henry Gibson steals his scenes as the sinister doctor and watch out for Dick Miller in a particularly engaging cameo. The climax is completely spectacular and ends the film on a real high, paying off on all the kooky tension that's come before it. "},{"Title":"A Quiet Life In The Suburbs","Date":"10 June 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Isn't suburban life supposed to be nice and quiet and predictable? An environment where you know your neighbours and enjoy your neighbourhood? Not according to this movie!Ray (Tom Hanks) is your average suburbanite. He has a quiet life with his wife (Carrie Fisher) and family. He's trying to spend a quiet week of vacation at home when a couple of his buddies (played by Bruce Dern and Rick Ducommun) convince him that there's something suspicious about the new neighbours who've moved in next door. They've been there for a month; no one has seen them. The house is run down, the grass is unkept. An elderly neighbour has suspiciously gone missing. Something must be wrong. The movie basically unfolds the mystery of these new neighbours and it does that pretty well, so that once they're introduced you do go back and forth between thinking that they're just plain weird and thinking that they're weirdly sinister. Director Joe Dante builds this well. The first hour or so is really fairly low key, and the last 45 minutes starts the buildup to a wild and chaotic conclusion.There are parts of this that are quite funny. I don't know why but the scene in the strange house, when Ray and his wife and friends finally show up to introduce themselves, really worked. I don't know what was so funny about watching Ray eat a sardine on a pretzel but that had me laughing.I enjoyed Tom Hanks. This was still fairly early in his career, and he showed the talent that would eventually lead to his two Oscars. He captured his character well. In fact, the only part of this movie that I really didn't like was the role of Ricky (played by Corey Feldman.) I didn't think either Ricky or Feldman added anything of importance; both became rather irritating after a while. But that aside, this is a fun and quirky movie. (7/10) "}{"Title":"Sometimes Paranoids Do Have real Enemies.","Date":"24 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" judging by a lot of IMDb reviews, a lot of people feel the same about this 80's comedy like i do. that it's underrated and possibly a minor comic gem of some kind.it certainly is a peculiar movie. not only does it have a rather dubious notion of things, but it even insist on a different sense of timing and build up than most movies. i've seen Joe Dante do this before with movies like 'Explorers'. he purposely stages a slow and seemingly pointless build up, to unload a perverse plot twist on the viewer.and the plot here, unless you've seen it before, reveals a unexpected result. without giving away too much, all i can say is, you often have yourself to blame for your delusions and miscalculations in life. but equally as often, there are those that are just as imperfect or even worse than you are. and their problems too often become yours because of their irrationality.life isn't always what you make it. and not everything has a easy explanation or a convenient ending. and getting at the truth can be one of soul searching and even danger depending on which truth you choose to unravel.be careful about the hunches you intend to investigate. occasionally you'll find out your suspicious mind was absolutely right and possibly then some. God bless. enjoy life's journey and...BE CAREFUL. it's often path-ed with peril and danger. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable Joe Dante, Though Not His Top Work","Date":"8 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" An over-stressed suburbanite (Tom Hanks) and his paramilitaric neighbor (Bruce Dern) struggle to prove their paranoid theory that the new family in town is a front for a cannibalistic cult.Joe Dante is a strange director. He graduated from the Roger Corman School of Film, and quickly made a name for himself with Piranha and The Howling. Even non-horror fans saw his work in Gremlins. Dante was a master of horror... with a comedic edge. And that is where this film comes in. Really much more of a dark comedy than horror, we have Tom Hanks, Corey Feldman and Bruce Dern (with a special cameo appearance from Corman graduate and Dante regular Dick Miller!)...Is this Dante's best work? No, not at all. After Gremlins, it is hard to top that... though, he has made some good things since (Gremlins 2 and Matinee come to mind, and even Screwfly Solution was pretty decent). But this is probably not the worst of his work -- it is very fun, very enjoyable and silly in a way that makes it a good film for both kids or adults (or adults with children inside them).Roger Ebert says, It's hard to put your finger on exactly what's missing from the movie. And that is somewhat right. He ranks it much lower than I do, but it is very much true that it seems that the film is so close to greatness, but almost fails. What is missing? I do not know... but I do know it is not Carrie Fisher, who is not used to full effect, but may help court the geek viewer.Whatever is missing, it is better to enjoy a half-baked Joe Dante film than a fully-baked film fro ma lesser director. Where else will you find Tom Hanks interacting with such a motley crew, digging up the yard looking for human remains? "},{"Title":"TxMike from Houston, must only like Pulp Fiction and Sound of Music","Date":"28 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Great movie if you like comedy.  Bruce Dern is a classic!  I  bought a copy of it and have watched it several times.  I am a male, senior citizen with 8 years of college but am able to separate humor from reality, Tx? "},{"Title":"It's campy","Date":"9 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Anyone who goes into this movie expecting Shakespeare shouldn't see this movie.  If you're going for fun, this is great.  It's funny, sarcastic, and a great mix of actors/actresses.  It's one of my favorite campy comedy horrors movies.  The last poster compared this to Gene Autry and Roy Rogers?  LOL  How the heck can you?  Singing cowboys and a funny horror??  Besides being two totally different eras, I think Tom Hanks is 100x a better actor.  This is one of his earlier works and not too bad overall.  Then he compares it to The Blair Witch Project??  Again, The Burbs is a campy comedy horror, while The Blair Witch Project takes itself too seriously.  No comparison whatsoever, not even in which is more boring.  If you get bored with The Burbs, you're too old and need to retire to an old folks home, drink prune slushies, and watch Roy Rogers on his little horsey.If you like good clean fun and an slightly earlier look into Tom Hanks' career, see The Burbs.  If not, happy trails to you until we meet again....  ) "},{"Title":"Green sky at night...neighbor take flight","Date":"15 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  When I watch the 'burbs, I wish that I lived in this neighborhood.  What entertainment!  You've got Tom Hanks playing the straight-laced suburbanite, Ray Peterson, who doesn't want to involve himself in any of his neighbor's issues.  Bruce Dern plays the Vietnam vet, Rumsfield, who has a few screws loose upstairs.  Rick Ducommon stars as the Art, the chubby, nosy neighbor that likes nothing better than to stick his nose where it doesn't belong. Not to mention, Corey Feldman stars as, basically, himself, although his character's name is Ricky Butler.  Well, these people and their families seem to live normal suburban lives, until their neighbor, Walter, disappears without a trace.  What happened to him?  Perhaps the Klopeks, the eightballs who recently moved into the haunted house adjacent to Hanks, have something to do with his disappearance.  Well, Art and Rumsfield sure think so.  Their ensuing reaction and attempt to convince Ray (Hanks) or their neighbors foul play is absolutely hilarious.  When we are finally introduced to the Klopeks led by the doctor (Henry Gibson), do we believe that they are guilty, or are our normal suburbanites guilty of something else judging a book by its cover?  You'll have to watch to find out.  Every time I watch this movie, I think of what a great place for excitement that this neighborhood would truly be.  Check it out, dude!   "},{"Title":"A great movie to come out of the 80s","Date":"27 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Overall this movie is a great pick. The characters nail their roles as neighborhood snoops. A movie for the whole family with some great lines you'll find yourself repeating them. My favorite? Whatcha got in the basement Klopek?  "},{"Title":"the best tom hanks movie i have ever seen","Date":"20 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  when i first seen this movie i thought it was kinda disturbing for me at the age of ten,because it had a lot of fire related stuff.but i watched a week later after that and found a lot of funny stuff in it.bruce dern,hanks and feldman is the most laughable charecters in the movie. "},{"Title":"the best tom hanks movie i have ever seen","Date":"20 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  when i first seen this movie i thought it was kinda disturbing for me at the age of ten,because it had a lot of fire related stuff.but i watched a week later after that and found a lot of funny stuff in it.bruce dern,hanks and feldman is the most laughable charecters in the movie. "},{"Title":"One of my favorites!!!!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"25 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is great! With funny humor and a Twilight Zone type setting this can be one of the best movies ever!!! I love Bruce Dern as the military obsessed neighbor. I also enjoyed Corey Feldmen. As a matter of fact I enjoyed everyone in this movie. Anyways I recommend this movie to anyone! It's a lot of fun.    "},{"Title":"One of the funniest movies I have ever seen.","Date":"3 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I own this movie on video and every time I watch it, at the end my stomach is sore from laughing so hard.   I would recommend this movie to any Tom Hanks fan.   While the script isn't deep and the story a tad corny, it's just a FUN movie.  Nothing more, nothing less.  I would recommend this movie to anyone who would like to just kick back, relax with some pals and watch a FUN movie. "}{"Title":"Strongly recommended","Date":"28 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  What can I say, this is my all time favourite film. It's not the funniest film I've ever seen, in fact I've seen quite a few far funnier. But that doesn't matter, it is something about the atmosphere this film creates, the characters are all so rich and interesting and this is still a really funny film that makes me laugh no matter how many times i watch it. The plot is sinister yet set in such a nice situation, I'd love to live in the same close as these characters. It has a superb musical score too. I have a copy on DVD now, so i can pop it on whenever i like, but I still don't live in Mayfield Place, which is ultimatley what I'd love!So rent it now, better still buy it because you'll want to watch it over and over again. "},{"Title":"Loved it!","Date":"26 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The last reviewer said this movie bombed???  I absolutely loved this movie and most of the dialogue was hilarious.  The actors were all great.  And the neighborhood gossip part is 100% accurate.  Rumors travel like wildfire. See this movie, if you enjoy comedy in the slightest. A++++  "},{"Title":"Loved it!","Date":"26 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The last reviewer said this movie bombed???  I absolutely loved this movie and most of the dialogue was hilarious.  The actors were all great.  And the neighborhood gossip part is 100% accurate.  Rumors travel like wildfire. See this movie, if you enjoy comedy in the slightest. A++++  "},{"Title":"Comedy classic","Date":"13 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I always watch this film with a sense of nostalgia and affection. Growing up in the Eighties, I watched a lot of comedies featuring Tom Hanks before he got into his I desperately want an Oscar phase Big, Splash, the Man with One Red Shoe, Volunteers, The Money Pit, and of course, Dragnet. Well, The &#145;burbs is one of his very best. A darkly delightful look at the lives of suburbanites with too much time on their hands. Ray suspects his new neighbours of dirty dealings, so he and his idle friends, who have seen way too many horror films, set out to investigate. The cast are top notch, particularly Hanks, Dern, Ducommun, and Feldman, and Fisher is also great as Ray's wife. Some classic scenes still crack me up- Dern falling off the roof, Ray and Art approaching the Klopeks' house accompanied by an over-the-top score, and Ray staggering out of the rubble at the end. The script is also wonderful, with memorable lines such as Why don't you take your balls out of your wife's purse and make a stand for once in your life? The comedy is also a refreshing change from the gross out &#145;comedies' of today.Watch and enjoy. If you're like me, by the closing credits you'll be sighing and thinking &#145;why don't they make them like that anymore?'Indeed. Why don't they?  "},{"Title":"Not taken seriously","Date":"24 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is a great Tom Hanks movie. Even though this film is far from Forrest Gump, it's still one of Tom Hank's best movies(in my eyes).  He plays a great paranoid neighbor who finds out that his neighbors are basically cannibals. If you get a chance to see this movie see it,the lines are funny and the army vet and the fat neighbor are two reasons alone to see this movie. "},{"Title":"Grab this movie! (It'll grab YOU...)","Date":"31 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Before I even get started with my rave, I would like to preface my comments about this film by requesting that you first read all the previous comments posted before mine. Most are positive, and they are spot-on correct this movie is fun, funny, deliciously weird and wicked, and merits repeated viewings.Strange, but I barely got around to watching the movie at all, because it was always listed in various TV guide listings with a below average rating, so I thought it must be some mediocre piece of fluff, not worth watching. But when I finally got enough inertia one fine day to actually watch it, I was pleasantly surprised at how good it really is.The likable things about it are already enumerated in the previous positive comments. A few things I'd like to add it is a movie with a real gravity to it, in that it really pulls you into this thoroughly ordinary, yet oh-so-weird little neighborhood, and never lets go of you. None of it is believable, yet you just can't tear yourself away from the ride, as if you are magically strapped into a ride through a well-designed haunted house at the local theme park.I also like the way the movie builds on the slightly paranoid neighbors watching their neighbors theme (which is pretty common in most any neighborhood) and takes that idea to a deliciously twisted extreme. Many of us who live in close neighborhoods have probably experienced the constant scrutiny of our close-by neighbors (and we probably return said scrutiny upon them, too, whether we realize it or not). This movie makes a biting commentary on that human curiosity. (Hmmm, are the Robinsons over there digging up potatoes from their garden, or are they potting their mother-in-law??)Finally, (slight weird digression here...) if there was only one thing I would have added to this movie, it would have been to incorporate that great song People are Strange, by the Doors &#150; that would have worked nicely as an additional mood setter. That thought struck me while watching The Lost Boys (a great vampire film in which, by the way, Corey Feldman also appears). In the opening segment of The Lost Boys they play a stylized version of that tune to awesome effect. Nicely done! Just a thought... Oh and by the way, I'm writing this on 31 October Happy Halloween!!  "},{"Title":"One of my all time favorite movies.","Date":"26 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I think the 'burbs is underrated.My favorite line in the movie is when Hans is sneaking out of an ambulance after Ray put doctor Klopek undercitizens arrest Mark Rumsfield(Bruce Dern) says to Hans,Hey, Pinnochio, where are you going?!And when he runs after Hans they slip on dog crap. I HIGHLY recommend this movie.  "},{"Title":"Funny!","Date":"18 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Funny! Funny! Funny! Insightful, Clever, well written & performed. and extremely ... Funny. Don't listen to the priggish critics. They can afford not to have weird neighbors. I am and you are stuck with them. Tom Hanks is great. Bruce Dern is hilarious. It's all good. Enjoy this one and tape it. "},{"Title":"Great!","Date":"20 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is just great. I must have seen it 15 times.The characters are very fun and interesting. The ending is fun, but it is really the first two thirds of the movie thats the best.  "},{"Title":"WHAT HAVE YOU GOT IN THE CELLAR, HERR KLOPEK?!","Date":"18 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I miss the days when Tom Hanks just made movies like this all the time. Yeah, he is most certainly a quality dramatic actor, but he is also a funny, funny guy. This movie has a great plot, it's well-filmed (on what appears to be the most perfect street in America!) and the cast is GREAT. Tom Hanks, Carrie Fisher, Bruce Dern, Wendy Schaal, Rick Ducommon and one of the Coreys (Feldman) have great onscreen chemistry. These guys all epitomise the portrayals of, respectively, The Skeptical, Realistic, Down-to-Earth Working Guy, the Exasperated Wife Trying Desperately to Keep Her Husband from Getting an Ulcer, the Wacky, War-Crazed Vet, the (Seemingly) Ditzy, Beautiful Wife of the War Nut, the Irritating Neighbour Who Stirs Up Trouble, and, of course, the Neighbourhood Punk Kid. The characters can be totally off-the-wall, but are also surprisingly true to life. This movie is no Green Mile, but it ain't any Joe Versus the Volcano, either. A must-see for anyone who grew up in the suburbs, who's ever had weird neighbours, and/or for any true Hanks fan. "}{"Title":"Our neighbors are murdering people.","Date":"12 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Wow, this is one of THE most under rated movies of all time. It is Brilliantly acted , has a very funny script and you get more out of it every time you watch it. Tom Hanks is perfect as Ray, the guy next door who doesn't want to believe what's going on in case he has to do something about it. Rick Ducommum is brilliant as his neighbor Art, who thinks that the weird new neighbors, the Kleopecks, are satanists who kidnapped the old man on the block and are using him as a human sacrifice. Bruce Dern is hilarious as the retired, patriotic war veteran with his night vision goggles and arsenal of weapons. Corey Fieldman and Carrie Fisher are also good in their supporting roles and all the Kleopecks are excellently cast, especially 'Rube' and 'Hans' (sara-deen?). There are also some good cameos from some Joe Dante regulars including Robert Picardo. Excellent flick! If you haven't seen it, check it out. I wanna kill everyone, Satan is good, Satan is our pal as Art would say, this is an example un concious chanting. "},{"Title":"A far out (quote Ricky/Corey Feldman) film!!","Date":"10 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This film has it's ups and as with any film it's downs. This film will make you laugh, cry and bite your nails with tension. If you love the films that are a little over the edge then this is one for you! The main plot is the Ray (Tom Hanks), Art (Rick Ducommun) and Mark (Bruce Dern) all believe that their neighbour Walter (Gale Gordon) has been made a human sacrifice by Hans (Courtney Gains), Rubin (Brother Theodore), and Werner (Henry Gibson). This film is bound to please any fan of any sort of paranormal things. With the occasional dogs, wives and yes, even garbage men (Dick Miller and Robert Picardo) this film has everything, from tension to laughter. Enjoy!! "},{"Title":"pizza dude!!!","Date":"11 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  there is no doubt about it- the burbs rules. along with beetlejuice this was my favorite movie when i was a kid. its a wicked film!hanks gives his best comedy performance ever( watch the scene where he eats the pretzel with sardines). the fat guy in the film was brilliant and he popped up after years in obscurity in this years scarymoviethe sick b******s planted drugs all round the house!!. the 'burbs is also has a genuine creepiness that is hard to desribe-it probably works best as a kids film. ricky played by corey feldman was a childhood hero of mine and bruce dern is fantastic too(the bit where he falls off the roof is classic) see it or your life will never be complete i'd give it 4/5  "},{"Title":"I love anything of Tom Hanks...","Date":"6 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  If you are looking for a good laugh, then I would recommend you to see this. Tom Hanks has once again proved that he's a versatile actor.I thoroughly enjoyed this movie. My rating among Comedy movies would be 4/5.Keep smiling -))  "},{"Title":"Highly Under-Rated","Date":"2 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is hilarious.  If you see it with some of your friends and you're in the mood for a laugh, this movie just hits the spot.  I saw it a few times when I was a kid, and I recently saw it again now that I am just a tad older.  I forgot how hilarious and well acted all the comedy holds in this movie.  What else can I say, just one of those movies that you can't forget. "},{"Title":"A good Spoof","Date":"29 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I thought this was a good Spoof. No it doesn't make movie history, but that doesn't mean it's not good. This isn't as good as Mel Brooks or most ZAZ team features, but this is still worth a look. Tom Hanks is good and Bruce Dern and Rich Ducommun steal most every scene they are in. Henry Gibson is very funny as the good Doctor. It is a little simplistic, but it really doesn't matter here. I give it an 8 out of 10. If you like Spoofs, see this one, it's well worth the look. "},{"Title":"Great Movie on suburbia (SPOILERS)","Date":"31 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This Movie is a Great steryotype about suburbia Being a former suburbinite myself, I was interested in seeing this movie. the typical story about suburban Kids wondering about reclusive people in the neighborhood migrates to the Adults in this movie, and thats one of the funniest parts of the movie. Some of My favorate scenes are when ray crumples his beer cans, Goes Crazy at art,  Runsfield falls off the roof, and art getting electrocuted. a very funny movie "},{"Title":"One of my all time favourites...","Date":"30 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I really cannot heap enough praise on The 'Burbs, it is dark, witty, wonderfully acted and just downright hilarious.  Having watched the film over and over, I seem to appreciate more each time, it is very engrossing.  Despite the ravaging the critics gave it on it's release, I thoroughly recommend you watch this film if ever you get the opportunity and record it for repeated viewing.The 'Burbs is set in the small suburb Hinkley Hills, a close-knit community consisting of various people with very different characteristics to one another.  Tom Hanks (Saving Private Ryan, Forrest Gump) plays down-to-earth Ray Peterson who is becoming rather suspicious of his knew next-door neighbours, the mysterious and seldom seen Klopek's.  After hearing strange noises coming from the Klopek's basement in the dead of night, other neighbours begin to sense that something is not quite right.  Larger-than-life (literally) Art Weingartner (played by Rick Ducommun -Groundhog Day), Mark Rumsfield (Bruce Dern -Small Soldiers) and young Ricky Butler (Corey Feldman - The Goonies, Stand By Me) all convince Ray to help them in their under-handed investigations into what exactly is going on at the Klopek residence.The film is hilarious from start to finish (Dern and Ducommun deserve special praise for their comedic performances) and there is some inspired direction from Joe Dante (Gremlins, Small Soldiers) and the mood is established perfectly with a cracking score, The 'Burbs gets 10 out of 10 from me and is one of the best - if not THE best film of the '80's.  Don't miss it. "},{"Title":"why does everyone hate this movie?!!","Date":"4 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I Love this movie, me and my brother would watch this all the time and we actually watched it soo much that we memorized at least half of the movie. when i see interviews with tom hanks about his movies over the years he never addresses The Burbs ever existed.  why do critics and hollywood people hate this movie. you just have to have a good sense of humor and this movie is just fun to watch. the irony and just the stupidity of the neighbors.  my neighbors are just like them and thats why i understand their curiosity during the movie with looking through their trash and other stuff. but i don't see why people have to judge this movie soo badly just have fun while watching a movie don't be like a teacher taking grades on how good a project is. "},{"Title":"What a great way to end the decade!","Date":"28 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The 'burbs is the kind of movie that you can really enjoy if caught in the right mood.  For me, it is always the right mood, but some people have to be in the zone to enjoy certain comedies.  Such as Clue, or Fletch.  This movie really is hilarious, especially Tom Hanks' pre-super movie star persona.  For anyone who has ever lived in the city or the 'burbs, you can't help relate to most of the feelings in the movie.  This movie is a pure comedy, and well done at that, mostly under-rated, because most people have never seen it.  Since most people have never seen it, then you can become the genius to uncover this gold nugget, and impress all your friends.  Overall hilarious movie (especially when other people are around!) "}{"Title":"Tom Hank's best film...","Date":"14 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is great! The darkness, the humor, Bruce Dern and Tom Hanks... The film is sincere without being over emotional and can be fun without having to resort to bathroom comedy. This is a great film for families with teen aged kids. Someday it will be considered a classic when sappy films like Titanic go by the way-side.  "},{"Title":"Tom Hanks at his best?","Date":"15 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Tom Hanks is easily one of today's best actors, a modern day Jimmy Stewart. But did the academy overlook his performance in this film?  NO but it's still a great movie.  The great thing about this movie is it's fairly simple, but it succeeded where the horrible Neighbors failed.  Perhaps it could be considered a darker, funnier predecessor to the suburbs of American Beauty.  What I personally love about The 'Burbs is that I sort of know some of these characters in one form or the other.  Mark Rumsfield has the best lines as the crazy Vietnam Vet who will not settle for simple flashbacks to the war, but needs to actually relive the moments.  "},{"Title":"One of the best comedies","Date":"22 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Ok all I have to say is that Roger Ebert put this movie as the of his worst films of 1989, yet he gave The Mummy two thumbs up. (enough said) This is a already a classic.  A very inventive look at a suburb that you would like to live in.  Great goofy neighbors, all full of surprises.  This movie has been one of my favorite films ever since I was a kid. If your family wants to sit together and watch a great comedic comedy you should choose this movie, you wont be dissapointed.  I gave the burbs a 10 out of 10 with 10 thumbs up (wish I had 10 thumbs).  If you haven't seen it, watch it as soon as you can so you don't miss out.       "},{"Title":"Great movie, highly underrated","Date":"27 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  While this movie is not for everyone, I found it to be one of the best movies I have ever had the pleasure of watching. The quirky humor is derived from a mixture of normal suburban lifestyles with a sinister family of misfits and makes for a highly entertaining two hours of viewing. There are numerous subtle comedic moments that are not readily apparent with just one screening. I have rated this movie a 10 and readily recommend it as one of the least appreciated gems of modern cinema. "},{"Title":"Underrated Classic","Date":"15 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  What a great movie this is.  As other people have commented, this is a movie that was cast away and over-looked.  This is simply not the case.  My friends and I love this movie.  We think we're the only ones who appreciate it.  If you haven't seen it in a while, give it another look and really pay attention to the dialogue.  Rick DuCommon (as Art) is absolutely hilarious.  And this a great Tom Hanks role before he was well respected.  All his lines and expressions are right on.  Check it out again for the first time! "},{"Title":"Classic","Date":"14 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The Burbs will always be one of those films to watch over and over again. I first watched it when I was about twelve, and thought it was brilliant.Tom Hanks gives a usual performance, with a shoe lace budget cast which includes none other than 'Goonie' Corey Feldman. The story is relaxed, but manages to involve its audience in a none too scary, and more eerie manner.If you haven't already, watch The Burbs as it is a classic film with such a creepy feeling about it. Rating=3/5 "},{"Title":"Tom Hanks in his natural surroundings...","Date":"21 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  While Tom Hanks deserves every award and nomination he receives for dramatic roles such as Forrest Gump, Philadelphia, and Saving Private Ryan, I would argue that he is at his natural best in down-to-Earth comedy roles, such as 'Turner & Hooch', 'Big' and 'The Burbs'.  With veteran supporting actors in Bruce Dern and Carrie Fisher, 'The Burbs' is a must-see for any Tom Hanks fan and anyone who has lived in what seems like an otherwise normal neighborhood.  Lot's of memorable one-liners in this flick such as That's one thing about these old guys, they never leave the house without their hair. "},{"Title":"Fantastic!!","Date":"22 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is a fantastic comedy! I love it! It's a very intelligent film who shows that often that little people in those little suburbs have little opinions and are intolerant towards guys who are different. My fave is Rumsfield! 10 out of 10!! "},{"Title":"Weird characters provide a fireworks of laughter","Date":"2 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie hardly anybody seems to know is one of the best comedy pieces of the late 80s. It is witty and never boring. The best part of course is given us in shape of the characters Strange suburban people who act in ways you can never really predict. The setting, a harmless suburb with beautiful houses and wonderful weather, adds to the wonderful atmosphere of the movie.All in all a wonderful movie. Crazy people living though  weird experiences! In my mind, an American suburb will always look like this... -)  "},{"Title":"An Underrated Masterpiece","Date":"20 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is a forgotten classic,and easily Tom Hanks' funniest film.In it,he plays Ray Peterson,a nervy guy who finds his sanity drifting apart when a mysterious family move in next door.Apart from Hanks,there are also masterly performances from Bruce Dern as a crazy vietnam vet,and Rick Ducommun is hilarious as his moronic best friend Arte.Add to this Carrie Fisher as his long-suffering wife and you have a comedic masterpiece.Best scene is where Hanks totally breaks down at the end,turning surprisingly sympathetic,until the outcome of the final twist.If you haven't seen it yet,rush out and buy it. "}{"Title":"A very good action/comedy movie","Date":"7 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was one of the best for it's time, and still is. Tom Hanks played a good role in this movie, as well as the others.If you haven't seen this movie, you're missing out. "},{"Title":"One of my all time favorite movies","Date":"5 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is definitely one of Tom's best movies.  Even though it is not an Oscar type of a movie...who cares.  The cast is great, and the script is well written.  Whenever I'm in a cul-de-sac, I think of this movie.  I recommend this movie to anyone having a movie night with their friends. "},{"Title":"Dana Olsen's ingenious screenplay, Joe Dante's skilled direction, Tom Hanks' brilliant comedic performance, and misguided reviews and general critical rejection make this movie perhaps the most underapprecia","Date":"8 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Dana Olsen's script is amazingly witty, and Joe Dante's incredible direction brings it to life with remarkable energy and humor. Tom Hanks is at his comedic best in this film, so much so that if I had any pull with the MPAA I'd have given him an Oscar back in '89. The rest of the cast is superb as well, and each of the characters is so well defined you feel like you know them. Even Jerry Goldsmith's score is a riot. I've seen this movie quite a few times and remain in awe at how sharp and funny it is with every viewing. Ray Peterson's awkward and nervous behavior in the Klopek's house is one of the most subtley funny things I've ever seen on film. Tom Hanks is a comedic genius! I cannot comprehend how Washington Post critic Hal Hinson can call The 'Burbs ...not remotely, momentarily, intermittently, or otherwise funny. He is simply dead wrong. See it for yourself, and appreciate the high-caliber of this movie by watching it over and over. You'll pick more things up the more you watch it. "},{"Title":"a masterpiece!","Date":"27 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Perhaps the most under-appreciated film of the 80's, this is Joe Dante's masterpiece.  Check it out, even if you remembered hating it upon its initial release! "},{"Title":"im your neighbor, ray peterson","Date":"21 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  this is tom hanks best movie.  i don't care how many private ryan, philadelphia-type movies he makes, this is his best.  don't get me wrong, the others are great, but tom hanks has great comic skills that he doesn't use enough any more.the best thing about this movie is art.  he is one of the funniest movie characters of all time. "},{"Title":"GREAT! TOM HANKS IS WONDERFUL!","Date":"3 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  One of the best films in the history of motion pictures. Everybody should see it. Tom Hanks at his funniest, wittiest best! "},{"Title":"A VERY FUNNY FILM","Date":"15 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  AWESOME!!! A VERY FUNNY MOVIE!! IF I HAD NEIGHBORS LIKE THAT I WOULD BE WONDERING ABOUT THEM TOO!!! TOM HANKS WAS FUNNY AS USUAL AND COREY FELDMAN WAS HILARIOUS!! BUT ALSO I AGREE WITH THE OTHER COMMENT ABOUT THIS MOVIE BEING UNDERRATED. IT'S VERY UNDERRATED. THIS IS ONE OF MY FAVORITE MOVIES! "},{"Title":"why has no one heard of this film?","Date":"18 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  To be honest with you this film is amazing, I think that everyone should have seen it or at least heard of it. Hanks performance as 'Ray Peterson' is excellent. This black comedy is really brought forward to your attention by his performance!This film is the kind of film that you can watch repeatedly and still enjoy.  "},{"Title":"under-rated comedy","Date":"18 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Ray has the neighbours from hell. They never leave the house, their front lawn is gone, they make strange noises and dig in their backyards on stormy nights.This movie is definitely one of my all time favorite comedies. Besides being funny it is also a mystery. The Burbs is totally under-rated and is one of those movies where you pick up somthing new every time you watch it. "},{"Title":"underrated","Date":"27 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  this movie is often overlooked because of its simplistic nature however it is one of the modern day classics and an all around fun movie "}{"Title":"Don't mess with these suburbians !","Date":"8 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The Burbs is basically a satire about the daily life of suburbia, on a typical American street. The plot is very basic and won't be the reason to watch this movie. It's the characters, the suburbians that steal the show, portrayed by some awe-some comedy actors. And somehow it all falls on it's place and makes this movie a real enjoyment to watch. I've watched it a couple of times now and it still cracks me up, never gets old.Tom Hanks takes the role of Ray Peterson, a man around his 30's. Got 2 kids, a nice wife and a great house on this peculiar street. Ray is on a 2 week vacation, but he doesn't feel like going anywhere. He tells his wife he just wants to spend his free time by hanging around the house, watching TV, doing basically nothing. His character immediately reminded me of a stoner, in fact they should've made him one. All that needed to be done was giving him a big reefer in his hands, and a couple of plants in the garden. Anyways, the house next to Ray has new people living in it since a month now, and the strange thing is that nobody ever saw a single one of them, nobody is ever leaving the house and no one has ever entered it. How do they get their food one wonders. So Ray and his fellow suburbians are going to find out who the heck those people are and what they are up to. His party members consist ofMark Rumsfield ( Bruce Dern ), a Vietnam veteran, still thinking as a die hard soldier and acting accordingly. For me this is the funniest character in the movie.Art Weingartner ( Rick Ducommun ), The big mouth know-it-all neighbor. Who can show up uninvited just to get some food or a beer. He is the one that starts the conspiracy theories against Ray's neighbors. According to Ray's wife, Art's influence changed the person she married.Ricky Butler ( Corey Feldman ), The high school kid. Enjoying everything that is happening in front of his house from the safety of his porch. He even invites his friends to come over and watch the show, while his brave neighbors are investigating the strange next door neighbors of Ray.Further more you have your typical old grumpy guy, and the hot chick which happens to be Mark's wife.So in this flick you are following these people in their quest to unravel the mystery of Ray's neighbors. Things get really intense when they find out the grumpy old man Walter Seznick ( Gale Gordon ) has disappeared and off course they all think the Klopeks ( Ray's neighbors ) have something to do with it. The movie is full of great one-liners and colorful characters. You will constantly laugh out loud and will have the urge to watch it again.Get this hidden gem and you definitely won't regret it ! "},{"Title":"classic movie!!","Date":"18 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" one cannot describe the joy of watching this movie.it is a fascinating look into the lives of nosey neighbors.rick ducommun had me belly-laughing throughout the whole movie.tom hanks is at his comedic best,and the all-around cast does an excellent job.i must have watched this 70-80 times on DVD,and it never gets old.......it actually seems to get better after each view if you could imagine that.the only thing that could of been different is the ending.while the ending isn't too bad,i wish it was a little different.this didn't win any academy awards,but movies like this never do.the only thing i can say is if you've never seen this,which is rare because almost everyone has...run out and get the DVD and enjoy!!! "},{"Title":"A wonderful parody of the suburbs - Hanks steals it","Date":"27 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" On a week off from work Ray Peterson (Hanks) and his neighbours become suspicious of the new residents next door who are hardly ever seen in daylight.In and amongst The Da Vinci Code, Charlie Wilson's War and Cast Away it is easy to forget how brilliant a comedy actor Tom Hanks is.Has it really been over 20 years since his first Oscar nomination in the groundbreaking Big? That vintage scene stealing presence with a charming innocence was exquisite method acting by the American, in which his child was trapped inside the vulnerable adult figure. Of course you only have to visit a few years back for his last comedy if you can call The Lady-killers that. Dark reality humour encoded but his awkwardness peeked through in perhaps the Coen's worst picture.Nevertheless here we were in 1989 having come back off the monumental success of Big and Hanks was up and running towards Hollywood stardom and this Joe Dante picture showcased much more of the comic genius of its central star.With a plot spilling out mystery about quiet and non fundamental neighbours this is a perfect example of what society in the suburbs is reflected as from an outsider's view. You only have to flick on the TV to see the same representation in a sitcom such as Desperate Housewives or a film in Little Children to find gossipy neighbour's prying eyes over their fence for a good nosy at everyone else's dirty laundry.The Burbs' sensationally capitalizes on this conformed ideology of the nosy neighbour by parodying all the way through by running delicious gags at how formula and formality gets shaken up by the arrival of the unknown. This is simply staggering, the benchmark to judge what is and isn't out of realism.Spilling with parodies, over the top pranks and marvellously hyperbole suspicions about the activities, this is vintage physical comedy with people getting hit, top actors screaming silly and dog mess on the front lawn.But if this sounds a bit over the top then no need to worry as come the end there are so many turnarounds you'll be spinning and a wonderful shouting emotion from Hank's Ray that you know he is telling the truth and everything never feels the same again.Dante adds wonderful spice to this picture. Opening with a conventional bird's eye view of the suburb we see his intent to make everything normal but then when the mystery builds and the wind blows at night with the garbage can then the director lets his exuberance flow and this flies from normal everyday life to wondrous fantastical comedy horror with some splendid sets and a purposeful tension overflow for extra laughs.Hank's is brilliant as is everyone and everything; this is splendid comedy and a true reflection with an added spice of misrepresentation. "},{"Title":"Grey sky at night...neighbour take a flight","Date":"7 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Well, I kinda ruined this one with too many repeated viewings but I have to admit there's something about this flick that keeps me checking it out at least once a year.Something suspicious is going on in happy suburbia and middle class working stiff Hanks thinks his next door neighbours are up to something no good. He, along with fellow dimwits Dern and Ducommun, set out to prove his suspicions right; with pretty much hilarious results.Director Joe Dante always has a big humorous side to his movies, even in his relatively straight horror flicks Piranha and The Howling. In the latter he even managed to cleverly make fun of self help groups so evident in the latter part of the 70's and early 80's with great results. Here the folks in suburbia take quite a beating and the stereotypes depicted are not flattering at all.As for the jokes; most of them work really well. The 'burbs is also quite stylishly creepy at times, especially during the night scenes early on and a well realised dream sequence. Tom Hanks, Rick Ducommun and especially Bruce Dern are all having a good day here and supporting players are no eye sore either (Carry Fisher still looking quite lovely).As said, I may have done the movie in with too many viewings but the fact remains that this flick is very funny and combines well horror elements and relatively goofy fun.Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"What's  wrong  with  this  movie????","Date":"5 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Definaltely Tom Hanks at his best! Not sure why this movie isn't part of any 'top' list because I think it deserves it. This film somehow is believable to me. It's a neighborhood much like any other with neighbors who may act and look like misfits. I'm sure every street has one. I actually have nicknamed the misfits on our street the 'Klopecks' after the the ones in the film. It toys with the concept that you are never to sure who your neighbor really is. They could be murderers for all you know. This is what sets the tone of the film and it was actually used as well when Robert Bloch wrote the original Psycho novel. Much of the humor develops from the male adults who basically are acting like curious kids. It's not terribly graphic or anything super scary and can be welcomed by kids who don't get scared that easily. "},{"Title":"Queeeeeeeeeenie!","Date":"29 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Here is my take on a comedy, if you can watch it many times over and still laugh again and again it is a good comedy. This movie is about an average guy name Ray who has the week off from work and begins to notice odd things from his new next door neighbors. With his two neighbor/friends, an ex-military man, and guy who mooches everything from you fridge, the team sets up surveillance on the new family in town.Literally this is one of a few movies where I am sure I have seen over a hundred times. I watched it throughout my childhood through the teen years and now in adulthood. I can quote pretty much the whole thing, but I still laugh every time I watch it. If my friends are over and we want to veg out to a solid comedy, this is always one of the top choices. Now, that said, if you are looking for a take home message there really isn't one and a great comedy normally doesn't have one. This movie is the perfect combination of actors, one-liners, and slapstick comedy. It truly is an original film, which is why I give it 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Cheesy Hilarious Goodness","Date":"29 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Before Tom Hanks was truly REALLY famous there was The Burbs...The story follows Ray (Hanks) and his neighbors as they snoop around attempting to learn all they can about their mysterious and reclusive new next door neighbors... Plot doesn't really matter, what's truly funny are the colorful over-the-top characters and hilarious dialogue. This is a film that is not meant to be taken too seriously, the fourth wall is broken at least once and there's plenty of cheese.To me it will always be a classic, every line seems to be perfectly placed and performed. There are so many moments that I could point out. Art eating (pineapple, bacon, eggs, sausage, ribs, and dog food), Rumsfeld after he drops the brownies, Ray taking the hair piece from his shorts, the femur... One great moment after another make this one of the most underrated and super-hilarious movies ever made...Its not for everyone, but I can say one thing for certain, its for me, 10 out of 10... "},{"Title":"So witty it hurts!","Date":"2 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This is quite possibly, the best comedy Tom Hanks has ever done.Set in small town suburbia, Ray (Hanks) must find a way to keep himself busy over his summer holidays but when his meddling neighbour starts making pretty crazy accusations about the new folks in town, hilarity ensues.Bruce Dern is movie MAGIC and quite possibly my favourite part of the whole movie. Corey Feldman, fresh from the success of Lost Boys and License To Drive, is in fine form, delivering his snarky one liners effortlessly. The rest of the cast absolutely does not disappoint. (I for one, love Carrie Fisher in this film - she is perfect for Hanks' wife!) This film has a lot of heart, great imagination and unforgettable dialogue! I think that the writers did a fabulous job of taking us to a fun and memorable place that is full of non-stop laughs. I know I want to live on their street!!Simply put, this is one of the funniest titles on the shelves of your local video store, even today. "},{"Title":"The don't make comedies like they used to","Date":"30 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" It's odd for me to title my review like this considering my age, I was born in 1990 so I'm still fairly young and for the most part I am a red-blooded American teenager who loves all the new-fangled media and gadgets. However, one anomaly holds true in my mind that comedies made today are just not clever enough anymore. I am a big fan of nineties and eighties comedies because they took a basic premise and ran home with it to make it surreal (much the opposite of how comedies work today, take a surreal concept and beat it like a dead horse). The 'Burbs is a perfect example of this. I've been watching this comedy since I was five and (although my understanding of the jokes has grown immensely) I now not only enjoy the speaking jokes but the sight gags from my childhood still give me fits of giggles. You see there is a certain fondness given to each character in this, they have subtle behavior ticks that is used to it's fullest potential. Be it Art's overconfidence in his capability in various situations or Mr. Rumsfield's ridiculous veteran antics it all meshes together to make a believable silly neighborhood filled with colorful characters. The execution of various scenes is top-notch, the writers tactfully navigate the different scenarios with finesse you can't find today. Every attempt Ray and Art execute to try and expose their new neighbors is handled in a manner that will make you smile every time you recall. And rather than ending the jokes at the climax and going serious like so many comedies do now, they make some of the best jokes in the final act. It is a hilarious affair that, without giving too much away, involves some of the best physical comedy and use of character insanity to create a potent blend that you will never forget. It's not perfect, I personally find that Art can be a little obnoxious at some points, but it is definitely worth anyone's time who want to be entertained all the way till they roll on the floor. "},{"Title":"A Sleeper surprise","Date":"29 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Joe Dante filmed this on a shoestring at the back lot of Universal while I was a security guard there. I could not believe how much this film can grow as a cult piece. The plot is not supposed to be taken that literally. After all,it is a comedy. But it echoes an eeriness of our lives next door to people we do not know, especially people with customs we do not know. It is simple and peaceful in it's settings it is these things I feel may be just the luring quality that could grab an audience to its simple cult submission. This is a highly recommended film for Tom Hanks fans. It is highly recommended for followers of Noir. "}{"Title":"Everything works","Date":"3 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The Burbs takes place in a cul-de-sac neighborhood, and Tom Hanks plays Ray, a man who just wants to chill in his house during his vacation from work. But the strange family that lives next door make him and his other neighbors highly suspicious, and then plain paranoid.Don't be fooled by the poster picture, which shows only Tom Hanks. His character is very restrained, and he does a good job. But Bruce Dern and Rick Ducommun as Rays neighbors definitely steal the show here, with the first delivering great one-liners while Rick is hilarious in his ADD paranoid portrayal of Art. Corey Feldman is here as well, and his presence is an instantaneous flashback to the 80s, which was refreshing given the movie sometimes dark settings.The beauty of this film lies on its unpredictability on a first viewing, and hilariosity in repeated ones. There are so many good one-liners, shots, and unexpected things that makes you want to revisit the movies universe.Joe Dante directed this piece, and it shows. The plot is focused on the quirks and behavior of the neighbors, and in particular the characterization, its a simple thing so well done, that at the end of the film I felt like I knew the surroundings just as well as them.What can I say? This is one of the rare comedies in which everything works.8/10 "},{"Title":"Fantastic, Quirky and Underrated","Date":"5 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The Burbs would have to be one of those films that when you mention it to people, most haven't heard of or even seen it, and you wind up shaking your head and telling them they're missing out. It is seriously underrated movie, a little dark and strange, but very funny and containing a great cast. Tom Hanks delivers a convincing performance as the normal guy, next to all his strange and quirky neighbours, especially the murderers next door. Everyone is cast brilliantly. It is a clever film that keeps you guessing the first time you see it, you wonder if the neighbours really are murderers or if it really is all just crazy nonsense, and when you find out the truth you actually are a little surprised because the film does a good job of showing, not telling. Underrated but that is one of the reasons I love it, not a huge blockbuster but a quiet, under-the-radar kind of film that, if you're lucky enough to spot it, gives you lots of laughs and a couple of goosebumps too. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Another Cool Corey Feldman movie. Also with Tom Hanks and Princess Leia!","Date":"1 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I remember seeing this film when I was a kid and enjoyed re-watching it as old movies are great to watch when you don't remember them. This movie was another awesome 80's flick for me. This film was released in 1989 and when Guns and Roses were still popular and New Kids On The Block were trendy. I loved this film as it is so realistic with the different characters. Tom Hanks stars as the neighbour going through mid life stress and taking some time off from work. His idea of relaxing is sitting around his suburban house. Then you have his eccentric retired army guy crazy man next door and his fat other neighbour who gets him into trouble around the neighbour hood. Corey Feldman is the punk kid who lives on the block. I am a big fan of Corey Feldman. He is great with lines. In this movie he is like I love this neighbourhood. He is one of my favourite 80's actors and now own several movies with him in them. If you also like Corey Feldman I will recommend Lost Boys, Stand By Me, or The Goonies. All awesome movies from the 80's. Cool movie about a haunted house thought to be the door way to hell by the neighbours. "},{"Title":"One movie you can't help falling in love with","Date":"31 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The Burbs has become one of those films where every time I pop into the DVD player I just begin to smile, and right through to the end, I'm still smiling. The 'Burbs is just one of those films.Set in a modern-day suburbia (although technically it wold be an 80's suburbia since it was made in the 80's), a man named Ray is taking a week from work to just enjoy the summer and his mind, relax. What he doesn't realize is that throughout the next week he's going to be living in a comedic hell.Teamed up with his buddies Art and Rumsfield, the boys spend the week spying on the new neighbors, the Klopeck's, who have been inside for a month and have never come out. The three suspect them as murderers as they begin discovering more and more clues about the Klopeck's, until Ray is finally pushed over the edge and they decide to clean out the Klopeck's once and for all.Full of wit, humor, and genuinely creepy thrills that will send shivers up your spine, The 'Burbs creates its own unique mix and in the end, is able to pull off the perfect balance of its scary moments and humorous ones. Some of the jokes do misfire but the script is loaded with them, so you'll be laughing at least every 2 minutes. Each character does great in their role (espcially Tom Hanks), although Rick Duco...something does nothing more than average job in his hilarious role.The showdown at the end is excellent, the truth behind the veil of the Klopeck's mysteries is lifted and is probably the best scene in the whole film (although the the scene where they visit the Klopecks is a close second), and in the end you are just...smiling.So while The 'Burbs is nowhere near perfect (some of the scary moments are far too scary, the story is usually at a standstill and a handful of the jokes can misfire), the 'Burbs is a wonderful film that you will want to watch over and over just as I have. And you will never get tired of it. 7.9/10. "},{"Title":"The Burbs is a cult classic of my generation.","Date":"7 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This movie will have you rolling on the floor laughing with tears streaming down your face. Absolutely one of Tom Hanks most comical movies to date. All the characters are fresh, original and hilarious. The best lines to remember and quote are in this movie. Ray it's a femur, Ahhhh!!!!, Hey Pinocchio!, I love my neighborhood You have Corey Feldman the deliciously hot bad boy that every good girl wants to date. I cannot stress it enough what a fun movie this is to watch. This movie became a drinking game for my 20 something generation, you'll understand why if you see it enough times. If you grew up in the burbs, please see this movie. "},{"Title":"Classic 80's Comedy","Date":"1 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The suburban cul-de-sac stage of The 'burbs showcases the realization of what can be seen as the typical 'American dream'--roomy homes set in beautifully landscaped yards, neighbors that look out for each other, and a quit street--that is until the new neighbors move in.Soon after the Klopek's settle into their towering colonial, the residents of Mayfield Place, led by Ray Peterson (played by Tom Hanks), begin to hear strange noises coming from the Klopek's at night and witness mysterious activities that have them wondering what their elusive neighbors are all about.A missing neighbor leads Ray and company to believe the Klopeks are behind the disappearance and they decide to do a little investigative work on their own. "},{"Title":"Political Allegory?","Date":"26 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The 'burbs one of those rare occasion where political allegory slipped virtually unnoticed into a mainstream Hollywood product (another perhaps being the anti-isolationist strictures of Open Water (2003)), the prescience of which seems more relevant today than it ever was. In a street of mutually complacent, smugly democratic neighbours comes a rogue family of unknowns, whose differing life style, secretive manner and foreign manner invites suspicion. Feeling their overtures are rebuffed, 'our' side concoct increasingly bizarre suspicions and allegations against the new arrivals, driving them into isolation until damage and conflict inevitably occurs after increasing ostracisation... Alert viewers may notice an amusing similarity of names Art Weingarter - Caspar Weinberger (Reagan's hawkish Secretary of State), or see in Bruce Dern's Vietnam-eccentric a broader caricature of the military complex which frequently inform American national debate, in which foreign policy is often shrill, polarized between support of those we know and deep suspicion of those we don't. Others have expressed disappointment in the ending which, although neat enough, is conventional and a little false, primarily due to it running against the previous scheme of things. I felt the same disappointment incidentally at the end of Lehmann's Heathers (1989) of the same year, when I really wanted that whole rotten school demolished by explosives, corrupt institutions and all) The reason why the end of The 'burbs feels odd is that it leaves the allegory considerably compromised by a last minute reassurance that yes, We were right all along - while Ricky's final 'I love this street' is enough to urge viewers that, with all faults, America is still the best place to be. But, especially in this modern world of increasing intolerance towards other cultures (by both sides), and some mistaken assumptions as to the intentions of 'rogue states', on to well known, controversial adventuring abroad, it's worth seeing this brave film again. "},{"Title":"Wonderful 1980ies comedy","Date":"17 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I've seen this film several times at different age and I still think it's one of the most hilarious black comedies. Tom Hanks in his comedy period combined with Joe Dante's ability for spectacle movie-making brings great results. Hanks is Ray Peterson who just got few weeks of vacation and instead of leaving his small town, decides to stay at home for timeless relaxation. But his plans are interrupted as strange things start to happen in his neighborhood. The Burbs can be described as suspenseful sitcom, as some thrilling episodes go together with sudden laughs. The overall atmosphere is stylish as it manages to mix the atmosphere of an average American small town with Gothic spooks into one big hilarious shake. Pity they don't make such comedies these days anymore. "},{"Title":"watch your neighbors","Date":"29 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" the 'burbs is simply my all-time favorite in mystery comedy. the plot is simple but when you first view this film and don't know the background story, you're immediately grabbed by the story of these strange neighbors... you really wan't to know who they are, you want to know what's behind the mystery. this movie is also very funny due to all the characters because no one is really normal in that street! the actors are really good (with a special mention to Rico commune & Corey Feldman). the directing of Joe Dante is great. it is full of references and makes the viewing of this picture really interesting. as I said it is my favorite movie and everyone should give this pic a chance! (PS in the trailer we can see some scenes that would be later deleted from the movie, if anyone could come up with a director's cut, please contact me) ENJOY!! "},{"Title":"You've Had Those in Your Trousers All Day?","Date":"2 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Oh man, where do I even begin? This is a film which I have been a huge fan of since I was a a real young kid. It's always been one of those movies that you can throw in the DVD player on a rainy day or one of those days when you just feel terrible and are staying home from work or school. The way Joe Dante directs this film is perfect it hold the tone of a late 80's/early 90's flick, yet still has an ageless essence that everyone can relate to.Tom Hanks plays the type of role that suits him best; an everyday guy that faces some kind of huge task (in this case it's proving that his neighbors are human sacrificing devil worshippers). Bruce Dern plays my favorite character, a militaristic Vietnam veteran who is filled with paranoid fear about the people across the street (and he never fails in delivering hilarious one-liners. Example Smells like they're cooking a goddamn cat over there!). Rick Ducommun fits perfectly as annoying, yet oafishly good humored friend of Hanks' and is really the one responsible for the suspicions they all share about the Klopeks. Carrie Fisher, Corey Feldman, and Courtney Gains round out the cast of believable, average citizens.The key to enjoying the film is in being able to relate to it. If you can't relate to this film, chances are you won't enjoy it. But for me personally (and many others on here) this will go down as a personal favorite that never tires and never ceases to provide needed humor in time of need. I highly recommend this to anyone who enjoys lesser known films from big-name actors. "}{"Title":"A beautiful day in The 'Burbs.","Date":"11 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Poor Ray Peterson. He was just trying to enjoy his summer vacation but his neighbor, Art, keeps wanting him to snoop on the other neighbors, the Klopeks. Ray is just trying to lie around in his pajamas and drink a few beers, but Art wants to snoop and spy on the neighbors because he thinks that they are homicidal maniacs. It is all because the Klopeks keep to themselves meaning that they live in a house that isn't well maintained. They don't mow the lawn or repair the stairs on the house. The most important reason is because they never come outside.Hans Klopek comes outside to get the paper and everyone stares at him. A big deal is made out of the whole scene probably because of his crazy red hair and the fact that the whole neighborhood has never seen him.So does Ray ever get to enjoy his summer vacation? Watch the movie to find out. "},{"Title":"Neighbors with their quirks and idiosyncrasies investigate the new family on the block that is just not quite right.","Date":"11 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Every line in this movie is a riot. The writers really knew what they were doing when they wrote the script. Each character is expertly cast and is portrayed superbly. I have met all the people in the movie at one time or another in my lifetime, except of course maybe the Klopeks. The neighborhood has all the quirkiness of real neighborhoods in America. The characters represent the extreme version of neighbors including the fake military guy, the loud teenager, the old fart, the trouble maker and the people you just don't know about and who act suspicious in every way. Tom Hanks and Carrie Fisher are perfect as the normal couple trying to live a normal life in the suburbs amidst eccentric neighbors. Bruce Dern plays an excellent paramilitary man with a hot wife and Corey Feldman is a wonderful loud annoying teenager next door. Overall a great black comedy! "},{"Title":"don't mess with suburbanite's","Date":"29 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" i saw this film about 10 years ago and even today still makes me laugh, have you ever had strange neighbours and thought what are they up to, nobody comes out no deliveries, watch Tom Hanks and his neighbours an ex soldier and a dim witted man who'd rather chew broken glass than see his mother-in-law.Together they seek out what happned to the previous occupants of the house and the sweet old guy at the end of the street who has disappeared,and what is the noise coming from the basement,did they meet with foul play or or are these guys jumping the gun as they find for answers with laughs and stupidity.Tom hanks, Bruce Dern and Rick Doccumon are a big laugh from start to finish, Corey Feldman is the cool kid on the block with no adult supervision and henry Gibson is one of the creepy new people on the block. This film is a must see for a good Saturday night flick for all the family to enjoy. "},{"Title":"Family Favorite","Date":"11 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Every family has favorites that for some reason just hits all the right notes. This is one of those for our family. Maybe it's the suburban environment and the everyday neighbors. The neighbor that looks suspicious and the rest of the neighbors that do the inept investigation. TomHanks before he was TOM HANKS. Whatever the reason, our family has seen this movie a hundred times and we still can't not watch it if it's on. If this was a first rate horror film, it would be a different movie and not the fun silly movie it is. The cul-de-sac where the movie was filmed was part of the Universal Studios tour we took a few years back. When the tour guide told us, we all just looked at each other and laughed. "},{"Title":"Always have enjoyed this film!  PIZZA DUDE!!","Date":"20 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I am brave enough to admit it. I have always enjoyed this film. Not a Best Picture contender by any means, but I enjoyed it.Cast did a great job. While, NOT Corey Feldman. Any teenager could have done the role.A stand out for a film to me is when the is at least 1 scene you can watch over & over again. This film has more than 1. 1. When Bruce Dern Mark character falls off the roof of his house & shoots out his cars window when he hits the ground. 2. Pizza Dude!! 3. He at the near end the ambulance drive into Art's house.I laugh to this day at these 3 scenes. "},{"Title":"Ha Ha Funny","Date":"14 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" If you're looking for a good clean fun then you will love this movie. I have watched this movie over 100 times in ten years and I have only slightly gotten board with it since I hit my thirties. It has an excellent storyline which draws you into a sinister genre of humor. The actors in this movie do an amazing job, the camera usage is excellent, and you can watch it several times without catching all the details. Even garbage men in this suburban neighborhood will make you crack you up.Spoiler Let's start off with the creative look at universals splash opening. You begin by zooming from a distant look at our planet to a small cul-de-sac in the heart of the U.S. which immediately ensnares you into a wonderful, sunny suburban neighborhood. The music is melodious and soothing drawing you further into a state of suburb tranquility. Then it happens&#133;I don't know how many times I have stepped, or witness someone stepping, into their neighbor's messes. As the movie progresses the stepping gets deeper and deeper until the whole neighborhood becomes infected by this bizarre prying play on suburban life! "},{"Title":"HANKS a million","Date":"11 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" You may remember an excellent comic actor called Tom Hanks who was brutally and callously murdered in 1992 by Tom Hanks character actor and James Stewartophile. The crime shocked the world and provided a none too subtle acknowledgement that Hanks the serious actor didn't value his comedic counterpart's abilities. In effect he was saying 'look, I take myself far too seriously to contemplate being remembered as just another comedian - I want gravitas, respect from my peers, er, Oscars. Oscars? Any chance do you think?' Unbelievably there was. Playing everything from AIDS victims to the retarded and lets not forget a gangster(!) Hanks proved that Hollywood does indeed reward its own for worthy performances, just a pity that the audience is an afterthought. Hanks is not a great serious actor. His name says dependable but never exciting. One thing he was good at was comedy, in fact as the everyman who gets dropped into the most unlikely situations he had an unbeatable niche which unfortunately for us he tired of sometime in 1991. Nowadays Hanks looks back on comedies like 'the 'burbs' with a faint wisp of embarrassment - the way you and I might look at Baby photos of ourselves. In a telling interview circa 1999 with Mark Cousins on the BBC's scene by scene, in which actors talk about their movies while looking at clips, he gave the game away by describing the burbs sarcastically as 'a great film'. Too bad - because Dante's divine comedy (do you see what I've done there?) is great and worth 4 Philidelphias or approximately 15.3 Forrest Gumps at the current rate of exchange.Its smart, witty stuff - notable for its clever references, particularly the nod to once upon a time in the west and anchored as ever, by Hanks' everyman, gradually losing his grip in the midst of an escalation of disturbing circumstances. Watch it and think of what once was and wonder how different life might have been if someone had had the guts to say 'Tom Hanks for the AIDS movie? Don't be bloody ridiculous'. "},{"Title":"Pure, rewatchable hilarity","Date":"10 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I have seen this movie at least 50 times. Back in the days before I had cable, I would watch movies over and over again when there was nothing good on the TV. I still love this movie, which, incidentally, has become a fixture of cable superstations. This is one of the best buddy comedies ever made.Tom Hanks is at his comedic best here (before he made the jump to drama he was quite the funny man) and the supporting cast are the best kind of clichés imaginable. You've got the fat reactionist guy, the cranky old man, the freaked out veteran and Hanks as the skeptical guy who gets pushed to far. Let's not forget, God forbid, a fantastic performance by Corey Feldman as the punk slacker next door (must have been a real stretch). The only reason I gave this film a 9 and not a 10, is that I don't believe that it's one of the best movies of all time... very nearly, genre defining perhaps, but it's not the sort of masterpiece that qualifies for a 10.  "},{"Title":"Funnier and funnier....","Date":"3 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of those movies that keeps on getting funnier and funnier every time I see it. One reviewer said that the movie was too silly to keep his interest. That's the point of this movie! It shows all the archetypes in an average suburb. It's supposes to be silly! The people are exaggerated characactures of how people in real life can be. I seen how paranoid people in the burbs can be. Life imitates art. Watch this friggin movie now!I mean, this movie is totally insane yet somewhat true to life. People are always watching the neighbors to see if anything is happening. People are paranoid about their personal space so much that they spy on each other. I'm sure some of you have taken a quick look through the neighbor's trash just to be sure what kind of people they really are. Of course everyone knows what kind of person you are, you're the one who goes through other's trash.....  "},{"Title":"klopek...is that slavick?","Date":"19 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  a great 80's black comedy that truly deliversi remember seeing this film the first time and it captivated me then,so seeing it now is a real treat. tom hanks is great as the neighbour caught going along the grain even though all he want's to do is watch some t.v,maybe smoke some cigar's..outside. bruce dern steals the movie as the ex army vet who despite his look is kinda wimpy. rick ducommun has the best role he's ever had as the overbearing neighbour *art weingardner..greedy,suspicious,and very dumb lastly there's everybody's favourite 80's star corey feldman...a great edition to the mix,as the spaced out teen! so if you're after a decent comedy you could do worse than by renting/buying this...8/10 stars  "}{"Title":"THE BEST COMEDY EVER","Date":"8 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  First of all I'm not going to give off spoilers or anything, i just want to tell you how much I enjoy this movie. Me and my friends always say lines from this movie everyday and it never gets old. Tom hanks is a regular working man who thinks his neighbors are up to no good but he doesn't want anyone to believe that he thinks that. Bruce Dern plays a veteran who is very suspicious of his neighbors and will risk anything it takes to find out what they are up to he uses guns, scopes, brownies, and his old army suit in this movie. another person played by rick duccomunn (i don't know how to spell his last name). is a fat and hungry guy who is on the same level as bruce derns character. The neighbors are for the most part weird people, hans is red headed younger guy who is eccentric and smelly and scared of bruce derns character. Uncle Rueben is a older man who seems uptight and is completely strange, and the doctor who is played by henry Gibson seems normal but strangely suspicious (he claims to be a doctor). its no doubt a classic movie and is full of laughs, its really hard to not say what else i love about the movie so I'm going to start there, please watch it.  "},{"Title":"A celebration of suburbia!","Date":"27 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  It's easy to mock the suburbs - there are a lot of cheap laughs to be had. Joe Dante delivers a fantastic madcap film set in the suburbs that pokes gentle fun at the foibles of suburbanites (without derision) and shows them worthy of defending. The film is a celebration of suburbia and suburban values - such as the value of being neighbourly (embodied in Mister Rogers, whose show appears partway through). Tom Hanks is Ray Petersen, and unassuming everyman whose suspicions of his sinister new neighbors blossom into a life or death struggle to protect his cul-de-sac. Featuring a host of familiar faces (including Carrie Fisher, Rick Ducommun, Henry Gibson, and Robert Picardo) the movie keeps a steady pace of action, funny dialogue and slapstick humour, all the while unfolding a mystery with wonderful melodramatic camera work and score. One of the things I love about this film is that the characters of Ray, Art and Rumsfield are very believably normal, excitable and goofy guys who come to save the day without much in the way of talent. One of the few flaws I found in the film was Corey Feldman. Admittedly, he's funny now just for being Corey Feldman, but his character irks me, and acts as little more than a running commentator on events that explain themselves. It seems that he was tacked on, perhaps even to, I don't know, appeal to a younger demographic in marketing the movie. The only noteworthy point he illustrates, that ordinary life can be entertaining to watch, is adequately implied elsewhere in the film. I might mention that the movie reminds me of the novel 'The Last Coin' by James P. Blaylock, and I can affirm that both can be enjoyed again and again.  "},{"Title":"An under-rated gem; funny, smart, even suspenseful.","Date":"1 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Tom Hanks is always wonderful when playing an average joe, and he's never been funnier than in THE BURBS, with a role as a quintessential Everyman.  All we really know about Ray Peterson is that he's on a two-week summer vacation from work. We never even learn what Ray does for a living, or where he lives, exactly, but that's a nice touch- this character is designed to represent the typical family man of American suburbia. In THE BURBS, this ordinary man stumbles onto an extraordinary mystery when a strange new family moves in next door.  The ordinary man/extraordinary situation device was perfected, of course, by Alfred Hitchcock, and Hitch seems to be the main inspiration for director Joe Dante, who masterfully weaves the darker, suspenseful scenes with hysterical comic touches.  An under-rated gem from the early, lighter days of Tom Hanks. "},{"Title":"Flawed but addictive.","Date":"13 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The opening credits of The 'burbs give us the impression of a film that could turn out to be extremely witty. It's about a small suburban neighborhood in Middle-America comprised of a bizarre array of really wacky people. Tom Hanks plays the main character, an amiable guy who has taken a week off of work, and is now just sitting around the house all day in his PJs, suspecting that his new next-door neighbors are hiding something. Another one of his neighbors, a paramilitary nut with no war to fight (Bruce Dern), decides to investigate a little - and they soon believe that the family is a pack of murderers.As the film progresses onwards it becomes a bit dumb, especially towards the very end, which was allegedly re-filmed after test audiences did not like the original climax. Maybe they should have kept their mouths shut.The pack of apparent murderers is led by Academy-Award nominee Henry Gibson, who is one of those great underrated characters actors, and who always manages to creep out the audience without having to say anything at all. The movie leads us to believe that he is a murderer. What's awful about the end is the twist - or how sloppily it is presented. I would have bought it; I would have been surprised by it, if it didn't seem so forced and unbelievable. I started wondering whether the whole ending was a dream sequence. Much to my disappointment, it was not. But just now I thought of a way that the film might have ended that would have sustained its dignity and actually shocked people instead of embarrassing them with its ineptness.I will not lie The 'burbs is pretty mediocre, and I can understand why many people might dislike it. Yet as with many comedies from the '80s, it carries a sort of charm and is almost criminally fun and easy to watch. I just watched it again at 1250 a.m. this morning, having not seen it for quite some time, and it not only held my interest, but I learned to appreciate the movie for what it is - again.The 'burbs was directed by Joe Dante, a man with a lot of wit and talent at making dark camp films. The Howling, which I disliked, was nevertheless superbly directed; Gremlins, one of my favorite films, was dark, humorous and smart; Small Soldiers was the perfect example of a unique idea helmed by a man who knew what he wanted; and The 'burbs is just about the most solid example of Dante's style. Mixing elements from Tim Burton and Steven Spielberg, Dante is one of cinema's better directors, if only because he is great at presenting us with crazy material and doing it tongue-in-cheek and not taking himself too seriously. He's a man with a lot of imagination that crosses over onto his celluloid; I don't think he's as much as a mainstream sellout as he is an old-fashioned storyteller, like an old man who gathers around a campfire at night and tries to scare his audience, but manages to insert some laughs for good measure.What propels The 'burbs past simple fun and into the realm of strangely addictive and satisfying viewing is the subtle genius of its plot. We all know about those closely-linked neighborhoods where everyone waves at each other in the morning as they collect their papers in their PJs, where the grass is always neatly-trimmed and green; where the newspaper boys always randomly throw papers and miss their targets by at least five feet; and the sort of neighborhoods where everyone is always watching everyone. The 'burbs is a movie with a lot of good idea, never sampled before or since in any mainstream production I have seen. There will always be movies with the stereotypical suburbs, but rarely will there ever be a movie that mixes them in with the core idea of The 'burbs - that the people in these suburbs all have quirky traits, and all take spying on each other to an extreme level; to such a level that they would suspect a strange new neighbor to be a mass murderer. One day after mowing your lawn you just snap! Hanks shouts towards the end of the movie. The 'burbs is at its best when it's toying around with the suburb clichés and at its worst when it is distracted by tacky subplots. It's technically a rather poor movie, and I can understand why it received negative reviews in 1989. But fifteen years later it stands as an enchanting, but flawed, film that has an undeniably watchable undercurrent flowing through its veins. If this movie were on TV a week from now I'd probably watch it again, just like I have been for years.3/5 stars.- John Ulmer "},{"Title":"Good casting, funny script, laugh out loud comedy acting. This film is very enjoyable.","Date":"6 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Anyone who's not seen the Burbs is in for a treat if they decide to give it a go. Meanwhile those who've seen it will know it as the great film it is. Featuring Tom Hanks in (I think) one of his best funny roles, before he went all boring and serious in Philadelphia, this film is eminently watchable. For all ages too.It focuses on one typical American suburban street and the various occupants, all wonderfully observed from real life. Everything seems to be carrying on as normal until one day a new family move in. The new family are weird. Very weird, and they immediately arouse suspicion amongst the madcap gang of neighbours who feature in the film. Much paranoia and conspiracy ensues. The film is well scripted, the comic acting is actually very funny at times and the casting for pretty much all the characters is spot on. Except for the fat bloke, who although doing a very good job in his role, I always imagine his character being played by Dan Ayckroyd!!(sic?) Anyway, I like this film. I like it a lot. Very good. Yes. Very good. Recommended to all. And to all a good night. "},{"Title":"Highly under-rated. Highly recommended.","Date":"13 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This film is absolutely brilliant. The first time you see it, you will enjoy it based on the number of times it made you laugh. The second time you see it, you might begin to pick up on how completely original and fresh the sense of humor is. But, the real meat to this film is the story and the vivid characters. My favorite being the character of Art. He probably has the funniest lines in the movie. Corey Feldman's character isn't half bad either. There is also a neighbor in the movie that is an army veteran and unwilling to let go of his military ways. He treats every situation like he is preparing for war, or some covert espionage. I challenge you not to enjoy this movie. It's in no way deep or thought provoking, But it is funny as all get out and very exciting. The mystery surrounding the new neighbors is also very intriguing. "},{"Title":"the movie","Date":"16 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Enough with the bad comments, this is an movie is from a decade of horrible movies, and this is on the side of the better half of them. to understand this movie you must be from the burbs and have some sense of humor towards that lifestyle.. read the reviwers, ebert is from the city, no sense of any burbs.... "},{"Title":"Funny, witty and just damned good!","Date":"23 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Many people believe this film is really really crap, but in my opinion, it is very very good! Tom Hanks & Carrie Fisher work really well as the suburbian couple. Bruce Dern is brilliant as rumsfield, with the memorable scene when he walks out of his door fully camed up, ready to find out what the klopeks are up too. I have never laughed so hard at a single scene ever since. many say this film is like 2 or 3 /10, i say at least 7 or 8/10. "},{"Title":"Fun Movie","Date":"25 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I just enjoy this movie.  It reminds me so much of the neighborhood in which I grew up.  Everybody took meticulous care of their yards, and it seemed like all the neighbors had strange little habits.  For anybody who ever wondered what their neighbors are always up to, this movie will be funny. Bruce Dern's performance is perfect, and Tom Hanks does a good job playing the skeptic.  Get the DVD so you can see the alternate ending.  "},{"Title":"My favourite Tom Hanks movie","Date":"2 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I first saw this movie at the cinema as a kid.  I've seen it more than any other movie (except Die Hard) and while most people will probably think the movie misses, I can't help but love it.  The characters are hysterical. Some of the lines they come out with crack me up every time I see it.  The Naps, `Pinocchio, where are you going?', `Soldier', just the banter being passed around.  It's such a hard movie to describe because the situation is just funny to watch.  But see this movie, buy this movie, because this could be your neighbourhood.PS I'd trade ten Saving Private Ryan's for one 'Burbs.  "}{"Title":"boy these people really did have a lot of skeletons in their closet!!!","Date":"14 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  i thought the Burbs was an extremely outrageous look on small suburbanite neighborhoods and the characters living in them. the film shocked me at its resemblance to my small street of neighbors! i give this film 3 out of 4 stars "},{"Title":"Hey RUUUMSFIELD!","Date":"3 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  this is my alltime favorite hanks flick.  next in line is dragnet. anyways, the burbs is a hilarious coldesac (did i spell that right) adventure of three middle aged guys aiming to prove their dummy wives that the klopecs are in deed - murderers!  satanic rituals, mutilations - MUTILATIONS, all of it is in here.  i swear this movie is the best! "},{"Title":"the best tom hanks movie i have ever seen","Date":"20 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  when i first seen this movie i thought it was kinda disturbing for me at the age of ten,because it had a lot of fire related stuff.but i watched a week later after that and found a lot of funny stuff in it.bruce dern,hanks and feldman is the most laughable charecters in the movie. "},{"Title":"One of most overlooked movies around","Date":"1 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is excellent. There are moments of subtle humor interspersed with blatantly funny moments. It is set in every day America in a typical suburban setting. Even the name of the street on which this story unfolds, Mayfield Place, evokes memories of middle America. Mayfield is the home of American icon, Beaver Cleaver. The characters are all very well developed, from Hanks' everyman to Dern's macho yet cowardly Rumsfield. When you watch this movie, take time to pick out the subtle gems that occur throughout the film. "},{"Title":"One of Tom Hanks best!","Date":"9 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Most people haven't heard about this movie but it happens to be one of Tom Hanks best as far as comedy goes!  It has a strange plot but definitely a interesting ending.  If you like comedy or just something goofy and light you will definitely consider this a classic!  You will  find yourself quoting this movie and watching it over and over! "},{"Title":"It's funny the things you don't notice when you're a kid.","Date":"2 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  When I was a kid I rented this out for a sleep-over by accident. I think the film I was supposed to rent was Batman Returns but there was a mix up in the video shop. Needless to say I wasn't too popular that night (Batman or some films you've never heard of. Which would you choose at age 12). We watched it anyway and surprisingly enough we really enjoyed it. It became a little cult favourite in my group of friends. We all had it copied off the tv and we could probably quote it if we had tried. A year later it was forgotten about until the other day when I rented it just for nostalgia purposes.I couldn't get over how much i enjoyed it. The film really was that much fun. In fact there was a lot of dark wit which I had never gotten when i was younger. Witness the endless silence in the Klopek's house, almost unbearable when out comes Hanks with Sure was damp today. Hysterical.It's not without it's flaws of course but the fact that it never takes itself seriously is it's trump card. So I give it a 7 and for nostalgia purposes it gets another mark. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Joe Dante's best film! Tom Hanks' best film!","Date":"28 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I'm very surprised at the low rating The 'Burbs receives on the main page, as it is one of my all time favourite films. In fact, it is my 7th favourite film.The comedy is great, as is the satire on mid-american suburbia. Tom Hanks is at his manic best, and the rest of the cast shine especially Rick Duccommun and Bruce Dern.Joe Dante is at his best behind the camera and Goldsmith's score is simply wonderful. Dana Olsen's script is spot on perfection.There isn't anything not to like in this brilliant, brilliant film.10/10 "},{"Title":"Highly underrated!","Date":"23 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is a great comedy that actually requires you to follow what's going on - a rarity among the current gross-out movies and brainless romantic comedies. The comedic timing by Hanks, Ducommun, Dern and Fisher is hilarious! The creepy neighbors next door are priceless as well. In this movies it's the small innuendos that make it great. Anyone who doesn't like this movie must be looking for a plain old brainless comedy. This is a movie for people who appreciate GOOD humor and acting, not just a pretty face and big action scenes.   "},{"Title":"One of my all-time favorite movie","Date":"22 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  To be honest, I saw that movie over a 100 times! It haven't cost much to produce, its flawless from the begining to the end, ALL the actors are simply awesome and fit perfectly in their role. Its some kind of cool atmosphere that I always like to look at again, the story is genuine in reflecting a great caricature of our society. The jokes are brilliant and don't end in idiocy. The always present macabre touch is weaving the story all along to see the three heros  one sceptic all-too-normal guy hanging with at total esoteric fanatic completed by an old ex-viet-nam military commando trying to break out the mystery of a newly arrive and apparently Dark-CharlesManson-Style family. The result is a movie that I can watch at anytime my friend! Xaïmav "},{"Title":"Suburban schtick at its best!","Date":"31 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This has a cast of heavyweights in their young prime. The storyline is simple but the mentalities and attitudes of the neighborhood is classic middle America. Worth a watch just for the interaction of fear, accusatory posturing, and suspicions among friends (enemies?)  "}{"Title":"One of my all time favourites","Date":"16 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I am 17 and I first saw this film about 10 years ago and i still find it the most quotable movie ever. I know it isn't the best film, but for pure enjoyment this one wins everytime(in my opinion). I love Joe Dante's movies because they are funny, low budget, weird and use the greatest character/b-movie actors since Roger Cormen(whom Dante worked for). My favourites in this movies are Dick Miller, Brother Theodore, Henry Gibson, Bruce Dern and Corey Feldmen. If you have seen the movie you'll know what parts they play (all equally funny). Add to this a youngish Tom Hanks, Rick Ducommun (when he had a career, before a bit part in Groundhog Day), Carrie Fisher (post Star Wars drug addiction) and Wendy Schaal (who i recently saw in Dantes Small Soldiers and the awesome Six Feet Under series) and you have a cast to match the best b-movie and then some!!!  It makes references to many things not least b-movie horror, winnie the pooh(bee scene), the exorcist, suburban America and neighbours from hell. Standout scenes being the beginning starting from the universal logo (you know what i refer to), Bruce Dern going mad about dog poo, Bruce Dern falling of his own roof and shooting his own car window setting the alarm off and the wicked finale (citizens arrest!!!) As Corey Feldmen says at the end GOD I LOVE THIS STREET  "},{"Title":"I'd have to say that the bee incident is the best scene...","Date":"7 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Of all of the movies that Tom Hanks has done this has to be one of the best. Sure most of his 80's comedy movies were all about the same thing - loser man finds girl, loses girl with laughs and falls on his feet in the end.This movie is different in the fact that he actually has some hilarious one liners and slap stick comedy to keep himself going other than the definite outcome that fortune will prevail.I'd have to say that the bee incident is the best scene in the movie even though it shows off Corey Feldman's only talent (that being moronic laughter).I'd recommend this movie to anyone who wants to get to know the other side of Tom Hanks ie. non award winning.Watch it over and over again I promise you will laugh every time. "},{"Title":"Underatted, gets better with age.","Date":"17 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  One those movies that gets better with age, Bladerunner took a few years before people realised it was one of the best sci-fi movies ever made, well Burbs is not the best movie ever, but it's one of those movies that has everything, great comedy, great performance by Hanks and supporting cast. "},{"Title":"Joe Dante proves again that he's a genius!","Date":"28 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Joe Dante has always been terrific at what he does...Gremlins was awesome. Pirahna--a beautiful Jaws spoof.  The Howling?  One of the best werewolf movies out there.  The 'burbs amazes me everytime with spotting the tiny things that set it apart as a hilarious movie.  So, anyway, go see it.  One of Tom Hanks' best performances.  Dick Miller's best film since...his last one. "},{"Title":"an underrated hitchcockian comedy masterpiece","Date":"28 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  THE 'BURBS is another one of those movies that just never seems to get the kind of recognition it deserves.  Having seen the film many times, my appreciation for it only grows with every consecutive viewing.  My respect for its director, the darkly witty Joe Dante, also grows with leaps and bounds.  A film that may be written off as campy 80's schlock at its first viewing, closer inspection inevitably reveals something more calculating and sinister.  Dante has managed to harness suburban paranoia and turn it against his audience, making them see things that may or may not be there.  His direction also successfully captures the growing paranoia within his on-screen characters, and it seems like the neighborhood becomes darker and more sinister as the movie progresses.  Through all of this he maintains the ambiguity of the focus of the paranoia, the Klopeks.  Are they murderers or not?  Almost the entire movie can be viewed from either perspective, as the answer is only revealed at the very end of the movie.  All the elements are very reminscent of another director who turned fear and paranoia against his audience numerous times in numerous ingenious films.  That director is of course Alfred Hitchcock.  The term hitchcockian has been thrown around enough times, many times quite undeservedly.  In THE 'BURBS, the term finds a perfect home in a movie that would have done Hitch proud.  Is THE 'BURBS campy? Yes.  Is it dumb?  Not remotely.  Joe Dante weaves a intelligent narrative out of Dana olsen's shrewd script that holds us in with amusing characters and comic suspense.  He guides us along, letting us see what we want to see, waiting for the true answer.  That answer only comes at the very end of this aptly-described Hitchcockian film with an ending that is very -to coin a phrase- Dante-esque.      "},{"Title":"'Burbs review - by Average Man Critic","Date":"21 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Story -1.  When the Klopecs move into a quiet neighborhood in the suburbs, strange occurences take place that lead a group of friends to suspect their new neighbors are up to no good.Characters -1.  I love seeing movies about crazy people and 'Burbs has just about the craziest group of people I have seen on film.  Ray Peterson - a quiet man who chose the wrong week to stay home.  His idea of fun is sitting at home and watching the ballgame, but because of his friends he won't have any time to relax.  Art Weingartener - a nosey overeater that is fully convinced that the new neighbors are up to no good.  The only problem is that he is too chicken and too lazy to do anything about it alone.  Mr. Rumsfield - ex marine, who also feels that the Klopecs are evil.  He is the take charge on, ready to set up high tech survailance to prove he is right.Acting -1.  Tom Hanks gives the performance is his career.  Personally in his recent movies, he has played straight forward characters that showed his dramatic capabilities.  In the 'Burbs it shows that he has a cooky and comic side and its absolutely hillarious.Cinematography -1.  Though the set designs were quite basic and the film never left the cul-de-sac, I was always intrigued by the location and I never grew bored of it.  The explosion scene was well done and the camera angles were perfect.Beginning -1.  It was funny how the characters were introduced to us; we see Ray standing outside before sunrise in his pajamas listening to an annoying sound from the House next door.  Rumsfield is the patriot.  He step out in leather vest, army boots and sunglasses with the American Flag in his hand, then he steps in a big pile of dog poop and looses his mind.  Art is seen with a gun trying to kill a crow, but nearly blows Ray's head off in the process.End -1.  Excellent.  A great blend of suspence, action, comedy and drama.Attention Holding -1.  Like any great film does, 'Burbs has the power to hypnotize the viewer.  You won't want to blink... trust me.Memorable -1.  Every aspect of this movie is memorable.  The characters, the old house, and especially the end.Could Watch Again -1.  I watch this one almost every night before I go to bed and I always laugh at the same jokes.  It's timeless.Full package -1.  'Burbs is perfect.'Burbs = 10+.  If you love silly movies and appreciate great writing and excellent filmmaking then you should definetly enjoy this movie.  I have it on DVD and the alternate ending is one of the special features, it was cool to see, but the ending which they went with was much better. "},{"Title":"One of the funniest movies ever.","Date":"21 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The 'burbs is a funny movie.Its funny on the level were you can laugh and then really laugh.This is Tom Hanks best role.I'm not lying.The burbs is a great film for all Hanks fans and anyone who likes to see some real slapstick comedy. "},{"Title":"'Burbs Review - from Average Man Critic","Date":"13 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Story -1. Three nosey guys; one possible dead old guy; half naked ladies; bodies in the backyard; a home furnace set to 1000 degrees; dogs the size of horses; a very nice explosion scene and neighbors from hell... welcome to the wonderful world of the 'Burbs.Characters -1. Characters any person can relate to. Lets see... I'm more of a Ray Petterson - the wackos are livin' right next door to me, I want to do something about it, but its not my style. Art - a compulsive overeater who is fully convinced that the neighbors are up to something. Rumsfield - ex-marine and arms dealer, he also feels that the neighbors are up to something and is ready to set up high tech surveillance to prove it. Ricky Butler - your typical teenager who goes around making up stories about the neighbors. He is dying for something to happen because his own life is boring and pointless. Carrol and Bonnie - your typical wives who feel the guys are crazy and should mind their own business. The Klopecks - homicidal maniacs or merely doctors who have strange tendencies? You have to see the movie to find out.Acting -1. Tom Hanks, Carrie Fisher, Corey Fieldman, and the rest of the cast were perfect and played their parts without a hitch.Cinematography -1. The House was spooky and sinister. And even though the film never left the Cul-de-sac, not for a momemnt did it get boring. Everything was so beautifully done you hardly noticed it.Beginning -1. The opening scene, with Ray standing in front of the House where a loud irritating noise is coming from the basement with the spooky music playing in the background, sets the mood for the movie and instantly intrigues its viewer.End -1. A twist with a twist... pure genius. Nice explosion too.Believability -1. All homicidal maniacs have neighbors... in this particular film, the neighbors decided to do something about it. Could happen.Attention Holding- 1. 'Burbs like other great films, has a quality not many other films possess- the ability to hypnotize the viewer and not make him/here move from the seat or even blink. I love it.Memorable -1. Absolutely. Burbs is a film you won't soon forget. Especially the Klopecks and Rumsfield falling off the roof with a loaded gun and Ray blowing up the house or Art eating five breakfasts and wanting more or when the three guys are going through the garbage truck in broad day light or... get the picture?Could Watch Again -1. I own it on DVD and VHS and I watch the film at least once a week if not more. Also to any 'Burbs fan... the DVD contains the Alternate Ending.'Burbs = 10+. One of my all time favorite movies. No excessive violence or vulgar language, just good clean fun, cooky characters and a perfect script. I never get tired of this one.  "},{"Title":"One of the funniest movies ever!","Date":"29 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The 'burbs is a movie worth watching on a regular basis.  It's humor is not as pointed and obvious as many recent comedies, but each time you watch it it grows on you.  Whether, it's Tom Hanks' straight forward approach, Bruce Dern's over the top antics, or the fun in watching the strange Klopeck's, It's a film that you can pop in the VCR with a group of friends and laugh the night away.  I strongly believe that this is one of the funniest movies ever and deserves a better look from anyone who puts down it's comedic style.   "},{"Title":"Predictable, Frustrating, Annoying...","Date":"3 July 2015","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I watched this movie solely because of the fact that it stared Tom Hanks, one of the greatest actors Hollywood has ever seen. Starting the movie, I knew nothing about the plot, what genre it fell into, or even a vague sense of what it was about. As the movie started, I was captivated by the interesting characters, the engaging dialogue, and the spot-on on satire of suburbia. After the first fifteen minutes, the movie took a sharp left turn. Every scene and every joke became painfully obvious. During the build up to every humorous moment, I found myself saying aloud what was going to happen. On top of the movie's predictability, I found it highly frustrating that the characters continually discovered seemingly incriminating evidence, but took it upon themselves to play police detective. There is a certain piece of evidence, in particular, that the family dog discovers, but the characters just chalk it up as a potential misunderstanding. In real life, if you find this type of evidence, you don't discuss it, you call the police. This ridiculous denial of hard evidence absolutely ruined the movie for me, not to mention the over-the-top, near senile, ending to a monstrosity of a movie. I didn't expect greatness from this movie when I began watching it, but I did expect to be entertained. Instead, I suffered through it because I felt vested and was constantly hoping that it would turn around and surprise me...but it never did. Sorry Tom, you are amongst the best ever, but this was certainly your worst. "}{"Title":"Burbs VS American Beauty","Date":"5 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" What are the similarities between these two movies. It seems they sort of both focus on suburban life, and how suburbia is basically a world of its own, and the suburbanites don't care about anything except what's in their little world. BURBS is a comedy about suburbia, while BEAUTY is a tragedy about suburbia.And both are exceptional movies! The BURBS is the most underrated comedy of all-time. The movie is brilliant and the in-jokes run rampant throughout the production. While American BEAUTY is a surrealistic, yet somehow true and relevant take on the quirks in suburbia.So what are the similarities? "},{"Title":"I'm gonna kill everyone, Satan is good, Satan is our pal","Date":"28 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  A great black comedy, easily one of Hanks' best roles and performances, about a plain suburbian street that becomes suspicious of the new neighbours. although this film is a typically hollywood film, following the equilibrium - disequilibrium - new equilibrium format, it still makes you chuckle in a way that most obvious humour films don't. "},{"Title":"A bizarre twist of American life","Date":"1 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Most Americans live in the suburbs today. The Burbs is a satisfactory film about neighbors, suspicion, and the perils of suburban life. When the strange new neighbors move in next door, Tom Hanks and his neighbor friends like Bruce Dern and Corey Feldman start searching for answers. This was a Tom Hanks vehicle long before his Oscar winning roles in Philadelphia and Forrest Gump. Now that he is the king of Hollywood films, movies like this won't happen anymore. Tom Hanks' role as a suburban father is actually quite typically having fun. Soon, you wonder if he misses these roles rather than Oscar depth roles of today. I liked watching Gale Gordon in probably his last known role and Carrie Fisher as his long-suffering wife. "},{"Title":"The 'burbs","Date":"17 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Underrated comedy about the sometimes horrific misfortunes of suburbia. A neighbor is suspected of keeping dead bodies in his basement and in other area of the house. Hanks and Duccommen are suspicious and get themselves involved in crazy sequences with trying to find the answers. A well made film that doesn't take itself too seriously; more than anything, it simply pokes fun at suburbian life. Dern is especially stand out as a solider without a war.  "},{"Title":"Pretzel and sardine perhaps?....","Date":"2 October 2014","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Ray Peterson takes a week off from work just to walk around in pyjamas all day, read the newspaper and lay low. However, Ray has some very peculiar neighbours. In fact he has no normal neighbours, but one neighbour in particular is especially strange. Ray and the other neighbours decide to investigate what's wrong with the Klopeks, and the relaxing week off from work becomes something far from that...I must have missed the boat with this one. It came out in 1989, a brilliant year for cinema, and this was quite a prolific release for that year. But it just passed me by.25 years later and it lands on my lap, I give it a chance, and let's say, I won't be bothered if its another 25 years until I see it again.I love Dante, he made some of the most innovative films of the eighties, and the story is good, and it does hit home. We all have mysterious neighbours who appear a little alien to us, even a little weird.And the less we know, the more we spy, pry, and gossip, making our own assumptions delusionally true, this could have really been something, but it plays it way too kooky for its own good.If this was a straight up thriller, it would have worked, but the comedy just seems too forced, and it's trying to be over the top dark.Hanks looks bored throughout, and the scene where they think they have Walters bone and the camera pans in and out quickly while they scream, Hanks has never looked so embarrassed in his life.It tries to reference too many old movies, but it doesn't work.Which is a shame, because the idea is wonderful. "},{"Title":"Don't Mess With Suburbanites!","Date":"19 March 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Tom Hanks, Bruce Dern, Carrie Fisher, Rick Ducommun and Corey Feldman star in Joe Dante's 1989 comedy. I'm sure most of us have had neighbors who seem suspicious. Well, this takes place in a suburban neighborhood and Hanks (Big) plays Ray Peterson, a man who lives with his wife, Carol (Fisher) and their son, Dave. While on vacation, Ray suspects that his new neighbors, the Klopeks are not who they seem. He realizes he's not the only one when his neighbors, Art (Ducommun) and Mark (Dern) start spying on them. After their other neighbor, Walter (Gale Gordon) turns up missing, they investigate his disappearance and snoop around the Klopeks house. Feldman (Gremlins) plays Ricky, a teen who loves his street and constantly watches what goes on. I love this film, it's one of my favorites with Hanks, he & the cast are great and Jerry Goldsmith's score is excellent as usual. I recommend this great 80's dark comedy. "},{"Title":"Good but not as good as I remember","Date":"26 July 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I cannot remember the last time I saw this -perhaps when it was on VHS and so as part of the Joe Dante retrospective at this years MIFF, I leaped at the chance.I had a few flash backs with the opening scenes, but I struggled to remember what happened, which ultimately meant I enjoyed more than had I remembered. Still, it's not as funny as I was expecting, not that it's a dull film. Quite the opposite, it is great entertainment and contains a great performance from Tom Hanks, one that is far from the post 'Forrest Gump' Hanks we now see. The whole cast is fine in fact, Corey Feldman is excellent, even if he was channeling a young Keanu Reeves.The film is really well made and plays out quickly, engaging the audience throughout and whilst I laughed heartily in some scenes -where Ray eats the sardine and pretzel and when he throws the stretcher and then himself into the ambulance- I only managed a few chuckles, whilst others around me laughed more. Perhaps it was a first viewing for some and whilst it was nice to revisit it perhaps isn't one of the finer films of the 80's or perhaps of Joe Dante's.More of my reviews at my site iheartfilms.weebly.com "},{"Title":"Horrible horror comedy!","Date":"16 September 2015","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I was pretty excited for this movie since the plot summary about a suburban family worried that their reclusive and mysterious neighbors might be a cannibalistic cult sounded intriguing. However, what really resulted was just a comedic mess of overzealous and overly excited characters, corny and annoying acting and a slow-moving story.Because of the forced humor that succumbed most of the movie, any suspense and thrills of the mysterious-neighbor plot device was lost. Rick Ducommun was one of the nosy suburbanites and created much of the annoyance and damage to the course of events, as did the childish, clownish and ridiculous Bruce Dern. Corey Feldman tried to pull off a bad boyish teenager look, who really didn't do anything in the film, and Tom Hanks acted like he was overly frustrated much of the time during the movie. I actually thought the mysterious neighbor characters had the best acting and chemistry.There may be a tidbit of thrilling moments in and there, for example, the part where Tom Hanks sneaks into the neighbors' house at night to try to find incriminating evidence. But, don't let the horror genre label fool you - this movie is just a poor attempt at black comedy that even kids won't find funny.Grade D--- "},{"Title":"Stay out of these burbs","Date":"27 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The Burbs is an oddball comedy, and you can hardly call it that, but it's quite dark too with it's cannibalistic themes, but as I see it, is patently a misfire, where it borrows a little from other films. This is not the first time, we've been around this course of story. We suspect our new neighbors aren't what they seem scenario, where they're cannibals if to add some spice, and dark spice at that. When people, animals, start to go missing, there goes the neighborhood. Paranoid neighbors, Hanks, and his real paranoid eccentric neighbor, (a marvelous Bruce Dern) are determined to get to the bottom of this. Just check out Hank's C'mon, you want to f..k with me, I'll take you on expression on the cover. The Burbs, sadly wastes some bloody good actors, though we're glad to have them in this mess of suburbia, where in the end, The Burbs don't add up to much, in a sort of ho hum way. Courtney Gains is great as the head weirdo, Hans, the best thing about this flick, but you can't forget Dern either. "},{"Title":"THE 'BURBS (Joe Dante, 1989) ***","Date":"10 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I'd always heard good things about this suburban comedy with a touch of the macabre about it; director Dante (whom I saw numerous times at the 2004 Venice Film Festival) was adept on both fronts &#150; since he usually dabbled in horror stuff done with a sense of humor.Anyway, the simple plot involves a trio of typical American families living on the same street who become curious about their newly-arrived neighbors &#150; the latter not only live in a dilapidated house but hardly ever emerge outdoors, though light can be seen coming from their basement at night! This was still fairly early in lead Tom Hanks' career, so his comic/nervous traits rather than the thoughtfulness of his later performances are at the fore here. He mainly comes off as amiable, and is nicely supported by Carrie Fisher as his wife and, playing the neighbors, military-minded patriot Bruce Dern (to this end, composer Jerry Goldsmith knowingly incorporates cues here from his classic score for PATTON 1970!) and overbearing goofball Rick Ducommun.The various situations which see the three men attempting to determine what goes on at the mysterious house next door &#150; especially after yet another neighbor (whose dog everybody hates) goes missing &#150; are both inspired and funny. Best of all perhaps is Hanks' nightmare, brought on by an occult tome penned by one Julian Karswell (Dante's films always involve some cinematic in-joke, in this case referencing Niall MacGinnis' formidable villain in Jacques Tourneur's NIGHT OF THE DEMON 1957), which has him being barbecued during a satanic rite! Others have physically painful repercussions on his associates Ducommun is electrocuted while trespassing onto the eccentric neighbors' property, whereas Dern (distracted by teen Corey Feldman and the pals he brings over just for the occasion) falls off the roof &#150; with rifle in hand firing away! &#150; during one of his strategic maneuvers. Equally hilarious, however, is a scene highlighting Dante regulars Dick Miller and Robert Picardo as garbage collectors &#150; having seen the neighbors' hirsute kid put out the trash the night before, Ducommun and Dern think the bags may hold the dismembered body of the missing person, so they climb into the garbage depository of the van and proceed to throw everything back onto the pavement! When they finally get to meet the Klopeks (including obligatory mad scientist Henry Gibson and the sinister-looking Brother! Theodor as, well, his elder sibling), of course, the latter come off as daffy but essentially harmless. Even so, our heroes aren't satisfied (Hanks' dog digs up what looks like a human thigh-bone from the garden next door) and, when the neighbors make an infrequent trip out of town, Hanks and Ducommun take the opportunity to search the house &#150; but only manage to hit a gas pipe and blow up the house! At this, Hanks has had enough and, though bandaged up, physically assaults Ducommun &#150; this scene, in which Hanks denounces suburbia as both prejudiced and paranoid, suggests that the film may have had a serious intent after all; that said, it ends by proving Ducommun right &#150; as the Klopeks, who arrive on the scene just then, reveal themselves for the monsters they truly are! At the end of the day, this surely emerges as one of Dante (and Hanks') most satisfying efforts; for the record, apart from adding the same director's INNERSPACE (1987) to my collection (after having also recently acquired the two beloved GREMLINS movies), I'll be following it with his EXPLORERS (1985) and HOMECOMING (2005), the latter being the first of two entries Dante helmed for the Masters Of Horror TV series&#133; "}{"Title":"Nice setup. Engaging middle half. Shame about the ending","Date":"31 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" On every street, there is that one house that looks dilapidated. A house no-one would ever dream of living in, but they do. And you can't help but wonder about the lives of the people in that house. What are they like? What are they up to? They're a family who keep to themselves, which makes you all the more curious about them.Joe Dante's The Burbs takes this conceit to the wackiest of heights. And its quite a fascinating little film too. Because it paints an interesting picture around a group of suburbanites. People who live mundane, sheltered lives who are just dying for a little excitement to shake up the status quo. The film falls apart at the end, but up until then, it was a fun ride.Ray Peterson (Tom Hanks) is taking a weeks vacation at home. He just wants to get away from the stresses of work, lounge around the house, watch TV, guzzle a few beers and watch the world pass him by.But he doesn't get the chance. A family called the Klopeks moved onto the block a month ago. Their house looks like something out of the Amityville Horror. Hardly anyone goes in or out. They dig up the garden by night. And arcs of electricity are seen through the basement windows. What are they up to?Ray lives next door to these people. And although his curiosity is piqued, it quickly turns to suspicion and then paranoia, thanks in no small part to his fellow neighbours Mark and Art. Mark's a Vietnam vet who treats the neighbourhood like a battlefield. And Art is a walking encyclopaedia on gruesome murders.The Klopek's odd behaviour and appearance spurs our threesome into action. And their ambition to unravel the mystery turns to obsession until all hell breaks loose.The Burbs is quite an enjoyable film for about three quarters of the way through. I liked the way Joe Dante directs the events. The change in the characters emotions from harmless curiosity to outright paranoia is very well conveyed. And Dante has great fun shifting tones.There's something almost Hitchcockian to it, with a little black humour thrown in for good measure. A fellow neighbour goes missing. A human bone turns up in the back garden. The Klopek's themselves look like extended cousins of the Addams family. And inevitably things erupt into chaos.Because of Joe Dante's cartoony style of film-making, things do sometimes overbalance into childish farce. But for the most part, he keeps things going at a brisk pace.If you look hard enough, there's a hidden subtext the film touches base with at times. The town of Hinckley Hills is a suburban conformists dream. Neatly trimmed lawns. Freshly painted homes. And then a family moves in that couldn't be more different. The idea is that the townsfolk are upset by this interruption into their ordered lives, and want to restore the delicate balance. That idea comes out a bit muddled from time to time, but when The Burbs gets its priorities right, its a very good film indeed.Its such a shame then that the film takes a nosedive in the final act. At the end, the Klopek's home is blown up thanks to Ray's nosiness. The Klopeks witness this. And in that one moment, you feel real sadness for them. You realise how wrong you've been. They've lost their home thanks to some stupid people who couldn't respect their privacy and just leave well enough alone. Tom Hanks makes a very angered (if heavy-handed) speech about their own stupidity. They're the ones climbing over fences, breaking into people's homes and even blowing them up. They're the real lunatics.If the film had ended on that note, it would have been much better. But instead it cops out with an entirely false ending where the Klopek's were the bad guys after all. It sends out the strange message that Ray & Co's antics were completely justified. And that is an ending I just couldn't buy into.What a shame! The Burbs had the potential to be a scathing attack on the lives of suburbia. And with anarchist Joe Dante at the helm, I thought it couldn't go wrong. If only he had the courage to see things through to the end, he could have had something really special here. Dante explored this to far greater effect in Gremlins, and in the wonderful suburban paranoia TV series Eerie Indiana.Oh well, fun while it lasted! Still, The Burbs has much to recommend, especially the wonderfully wacky film score from the late Jerry Goldsmith. Just don't be too surprised if you feel entirely cheated when the credits roll. "},{"Title":"Go figure!","Date":"12 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" It seems that The 'burbs has usually been regarded with scorn, but I actually found it to be worth seeing. Portraying a suburban neighborhood where the something seems a little strange about the new neighbors, director Joe Dante really knows how to build everything up. Tom Hanks stars in his usual everyman role, this time as the man convinced that the neighbors are up to something.All in all, I would agree with a previous reviewer that this would be a neat movie to experience (as are all of Joe Dante's movies). Weird? Deliberately so. Will you trust your neighbors after watching this? That's up to you. But mark my words, this is a cool flick. Also starring Carrie Fisher, Bruce Dern, Gale Gordon, Henry Gibson, Courtney Gains, Corey Feldman, and of course, appearances by Dick Miller and Robert Picardo. "},{"Title":"Silly","Date":"31 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The Burbs is a silly comedy that you would find airing on a Saturday afternoon  on Comedy Central.It is a mildly entertaining film with some decent people as stars like Tom Hanks.7/10.  "},{"Title":"the best movie ever made","Date":"26 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is truly the greatest movie ever made. this great movie contains great comedy, and most of all great acting by great actors, even though you may think some scenes may look boring. Another great feature of the movie is that it keeps you interested and going throughout the whole movie. Truly the best efforts of Tom Hanks, Bruce Dern, and the rest of these great actors. A must see if you have a sense of humour, or if you want to spend quiet time inside with yourself or your family. And when the ending comes, its sure to have your attention. A great movie for all. also, with halloween comin up, you may want to consider this (Since its a funny horror, kinda horror). Acting 10/10 Editing 9/10 Graphics use in the movie (e.g. opening title with zooming into the Earth). 8/10, considering this is from the 80's Music 10/10 Overall 10/10 "},{"Title":"Tom Hanks at all time best?  Could be!","Date":"20 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I have a love for kids movies.  Well, not exactly kids movies.  Maybe 80s comedy that people like to dismiss as kids movies.  This movie, I first saw as a ten/eleven year old and I've been in love with it ever since.  I still have the same worn out VHS copy which I have seen two thousand times.  I'd watch it every weekend during breakfast and couldn't hold back the laughter as the plot unfolded.  Tom Hanks may have one the odd Oscar since then but I'd trade them all for another Burbs. "},{"Title":"One of the best ensemble comedies ever.","Date":"15 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is one of my favorites of all time. The ensemble cast works perfectly together. Standouts include Brother Theodore and Bruce Dern who play their eccentric roles to a T.....although in at least one of their cases, I don't think the role was too much of a stretch. If you love quirky comedies and enjoy films for what they are and not what you think they should be, this one beyond a rental. I've watched this movie a dozen or so times and laugh just as hard at the same parts as I did the first time. I thought I was relatively alone in my regard for this movie until I overheard another person refer to their 'weird neighbours' as 'Klopeks'. A brotherhood was born.... LOVED the welcome wagon scene. "},{"Title":"A genius comedy that mocks suburban life","Date":"3 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  How anyone could not enjoy this movie I can't understand.  A hundred years from now when people wonder, how was life back in suburban times? They can view this movie and laugh at the dull yet quirky lives of suburbanites. Perhaps you must experience neighborhood life to fully appreciate this satire.  Your every move is watched, your neighbors are spying on you and comparing notes, but it's ok because you're probably doing it to.  Feuds erupt from something so small as your neighbor's dog taking a dump on your lawn.  One false move and all of a sudden your the weird one.  All of these weird neighborhood social factors reach a boiling point in the wonderful comedy The Burbs.  "},{"Title":"The Greatest Comedy Movie Ever!!!!!!!!","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is my all time favorite comedy movie.  I never got a chance to see it when it originally came out in the theater although I wish I had.  The acting in this movie is great and has some of the funniest lines that I've ever heard.  This movie won't make sense if your trying to find some hidden meaning or insight.  It's just plain fun.  I would recommend it to anyone who enjoys a good laugh.  10 out of 10. )).  Enjoy!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"The Greatest Comedy Movie Ever!!!!!!!!","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is my all time favorite comedy movie.  I never got a chance to see it when it originally came out in the theater although I wish I had.  The acting in this movie is great and has some of the funnest lines that I've ever heard.  This movie won't make sense if your trying to find some hidden meaning or insight.  It's just plain fun.  I would recommend it to anyone who enjoys a good laugh.  10 out of 10. )).  Enjoy!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Underrated!!","Date":"2 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This film is a classic...even though not many have seen the film. The casting was great. All of the actors in this movie were perfect for their part. Tom Hanks, an outstanding actor already, puts his heart and soul in every part he plays. Corey Feldman was also perfect for his role as the punk kid from next door. Brother Theodore and the rest of the cast were amazing. The actors made this movie. Also, the writers were great. Some of the lines in this movie were just perfect. You will have to watch the movie if you dont know what I am talking about. This film was so well made too. In some scenes there is just perfect timing with someone's actions and the background noise. And once again you would have to watch the movie to see. None of the comical films now-a-days were close to being as well made as this film. You dont usually see this kind of comedy anymore in today's films. This movie was underrated...very much so. I believe that it was rated 2 1/2 stars. That is unreasonable. This movie deserves at least 3 1/2 stars. Watch it for yourselves and tell me what you think.  "}{"Title":"My favorite movie of all time!","Date":"30 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The Burbs' is without a doubt my favorite movie of all time.  Not to say that it is the best movie of all time, but rather my favorite.  I am often skeptical when someone says that their favorite movie of all time is something like the painfully overrated Shawshank Redemption, or a true classic like Citizen Kane, The Godfather, or even contemporary best picture winners like A Beautiful Mind or Forrest Gump.  I think that while some (and I do stress SOME) or these movies have more accomplished casts, a better plot, and in some cases revolutionary filmmaking, they aren't really people's favorites.  They aren't movies like the Burbs' which one can watch time and time again and continue to laugh or think of past times watching the movie.  They aren't movies that one is likely to watch every two months or so, or sit down and watch them at 300 AM if they happen to be on.  The movies that people watch at 300 AM are movies like The Burbs'.  These movies are funny, hold sentimental value to the watcher, and are easy to watch over and over again.Now onto precisely why I like The Burbs' soooo much.  First and foremost it is a funny movie.  The characters, especially Bruce Dern's are all quirky and deliver some good lines.  For example when Bruce says, There go the god damn brownies! after he part of the Klopeks porch collapses, it makes me laugh...hard.  It's in his delivery.  Like I previously mentioned sentimentality also plays a big role.  I have fond memories watching this throughout my childhood and now into college.  I lived in the suburbs all my lives and find some of the characters though somewhat cookie cutter images, to be accurate.  I really like the Corey Feldman character, and every time I go outside to do yard work, or paint the house (like he does), I pan the block and hear that song in my head (I don't know the name, but the heavy metal one he puts on that goes I am your war machine....).  Tom Hanks is great in this movie also and some of the stuff he says like I believe a man's furnace is his own business., is priceless.  My Justin and I like to fill our conversations with Burbs lines.  He particularly likes the lines offered by the grizzled uncle Reuben; even his harsh No. is a favorite.No, this movie isn't going to win alot of awards or be held in high regard in most circles, but it should be.  Just the way the characters interact with each other is funny.  The Burbs has a certain charm about it that allows me to keep watching it over and over.  It doesn't rely on gags that may make the viewer howl with laughter the first time they see it but fade with future viewings.  Instead it relies on funny lines delivered Hanks' funniest outing.  For God's sake this is a Corey Feldman movie that is good! While some of you are bound to disagree that this movie is very funny, I kind of like it that way.  I like that the Burbs is kind of developing a cult following (not a really big one, but big enough that I run into people that really like it).  I like that this movie has it's own little audience. It's proof enough to me that movies like The Burbs will live on in the minds of millions as people's favorites of all time.  I know it will live on for me.  "},{"Title":"The greatest screwed up suberb until American Beauty","Date":"21 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  POSSIBLE SPOILERSThis movie was one of my favorites when I was a kid, but I just saw it again for the first time in 10 years.  It's so funny!  The 'Burbs is a far better comedy then most movies today and deserves far more appreciation then it gets.  It's a small movie, not a huge budget I'm sure, but it looks great.  The acting isn't even that bad!  Tom Hanks is so pathetic in his role as the skeptic of the group, and, although he has a small part, Henry Gibson is freaky.  And did you know that Carrie Fisher is in a movie other than Star Wars?Other than its comedic value, The 'Burbs has an excellent moral value too (yes, only I would look for value in a movie like this).  It shows us that even though we see others as being weird or creepy or stupid, if we look at ourselves we may find that WE are really the weird ones.  But then again they did murder some people... so that moral doesn't really work.  Ah well, see a great actors beginnings.  See The 'Burbs.Mmmm, anyone care for a pretzel and sardines?*********9 stars********* "},{"Title":"The Burbs is a great movie!","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of the great movies of the 80s in MY collection that I think about all the time.                                                              Some minor spoilersThe Burbs is a classic movie! It puts a allstar cast in one niegborhood! This is yet another great movie I watch all the time. It has great music by Jerry Goldsmith. The Burbs is put together very well and I know its in the comedy section but this to ME is a serious movie but yes I can`t help but laugh at some of the things in it. It has a good ending and the universal logo/intro is amazing to see! If you like Tom Hanks,Carrie Fisher,Bruce Dern,Rick Ducommon or if you are just looking for a good movie then this is a great pick! "},{"Title":"Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Film","Date":"25 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is very nostalgic to me, and I can not give up a chance to watch it over and over again. The whole suburbia serial killer paranoia that gets to the characters is very amusing. It is a shame that this movie is over shadowed by Tom Hanks' other great films such as Big, Forest Gump, and Cast Away. Which is probably the reason why this film is not being hailed as much as it should. Check this film out when you have the time, a great summer movie. "},{"Title":"The most underrated movie in history!!","Date":"26 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie has to be one of my fave comedies, from the days before Tom Hanks showed us all that he is equally great as a drama actor. I've seen this movie countless times and everytime I watch it I just find new jokes to laugh at. The Noooooo...! bit is a classic and also the 'take me to the hospital I'm sick' scene is a classic moment in cinematic history. It's a real shame that it's never really been noticed because so many people are missing out. I've been spreading the word of this movie to many of my friends and when they do watch it, they just love it as much as I do. If you haven't see this, please do!! The cast is superb, especially Tom Hanks/Ray Peterson as the crumbling neighbour but the strong leading performer, Bruce Dern/Rumsfield as the the freaked out veteran and Rick Duccomun/Art as the nosey know it all in the street. Others include Corey Feldman/Ricky Butler (whatever happened to him?) and Carrie Fisher/Carol Peterson as Hanks' wife. The Klopek's are such a freaky bunch, Ray's nightmare scene is also superb and really lets everyone involved shine! Tom Hanks is my fave actor for two main reasons (excluding his charm, niceness, wit, smartness and darn good looks- BTW I'm only 15 so I'm a bit of an odd ball compared to the rest of my classmates!!! ) 1. He never fails to disappoint and 2. He is such a versatile actor. All the more reason to see this!I think I've made my point now! ) Enjoy it when you see it! I give this movie 10/10 (11- if possible!) ;) "},{"Title":"Alltime favourite","Date":"21 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Absolute best comedy ever!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! There was never a comedy with a camera like that, joke after joke, best casted acteurs and a Tom Hanks brilliant as never before or again. What about The return of the burbs?!?!?!?! A world like this needs fun and comedy! Tom please return 2 the comedy sector again! "},{"Title":"an overlooked gem","Date":"17 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Joe Dante always had a keen eye on American suburban life and popular culture and it truly shows in The 'Burbs, his 1989 effort, starring Tom Hanks.Basically it's the story of a bunch of neighbors, living in a cul-de-sac of an unnamed city, somewhere in the Midwest, that go absolutely paranoid when the slightly eccentric Klopeks move in next door. See, the Klopeks never go outside, don't socialize and strange sounds emanate from their cellar in the dead of night. And one day, old Walter has disappeared, his hairpiece left as evidence of the crime.So what else is there to do for bored Tom Hanks, the fairly reasonable central character, chubby pal Art, who's wife has gone for the week and Vietnam vet Bruce Dern, who's just looking for an excuse to relive the good old days, but to investigate. Fueled by Art's speculations and following a disastrous soiree with the Klopeks, Hanks decides to take matters into his own hands and make the neighborhood the safe haven it once was.The result is a quirky, light-weighted comedy with good all-round performances from the cast, some great lines, but it's the tone of the movie that I like best. Lazy summerdays, well-to-do citizens that have mowed their lawns to perfection, no, boys really, boys who are looking for adventure and believing it's lurking on the other side of the fence.  "},{"Title":"Do yourself a favor and check this movie out!","Date":"2 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The 'burbs supposedly missed the mark with critics and audiences in 1989, I beg to differ. This movie is great, I consider it one of my all time favorites. The humor in the movie is dark, slapsticky, and at times just plain odd. The cast is comprised of a wide variety of actors who all turn in terrific performances, either real or over the top. And by Joe, has there ever been a better depiction of suburban life than the far too realistic Cul-de-sac seen in this movie? If you haven't seen The 'burbs and are looking for an original, quirky, weird and totally brilliant comedy please do yourself a favor and check this one out. "},{"Title":"Dude, come on","Date":"28 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  My first viewing of this film occurred after my family had already watched it and told me about how scary it was.  It was one that I had always seen on the shelf, but never thought to rent.  When I finally did see it, I loved it.Tom Hanks does some of his best comedic work in this movie, along side the talented Bruce Dern and Rick Ducommun.  The entire movie takes place in a cul-de-sac at the end of a street in a very typical suburbs.  It's the story of a group of eccentric neighbors banding together to find out the identity and history of the new family(the Klopeks) that has just moved into the neighborhood.  Joe Dante does a great job of creating the perfect suburbs atmosphere with the music and sets.  The interactions between the crazy neighbors themselves are hilarious, as are their adventures as they try to discover the source of the strange noises and lights that come from the Klopek's basement at night.  This movie is funny because it is entirely unbelievable and bizarre but is filled with quotable lines and unforgettable characters.  The actions of the characters and extremes to which they go in their pursuit for the truth as well as their eccentric personalities are the real humor behind this film.   "},{"Title":"Superb!","Date":"29 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is by far Tom Hank's best comedy. A great supporting cast also includes Bruce Dern playing the military obsessed Rumsfield and Rick Ducommun (The dad from scary movie) playing Hanks's even more obsessive neighbour. The story is about Hanks starting to realise that his new neighbours might be murderers. The family Klopeck who are weird start getting to Hanks and Hanks becomes obsessed with finding the truth. There is no toilet humour in this movie. Some may wonder if its good or bad. The acting is great and the slapstick falling from roofs and fences by Ducommun and Dern make it even funnier. At first I didn't know Joe Dante directed this but then I spotted......                            SPOILERS?I spotted...Dick Miller and Robert Picardo playing garbagemen. The music is the same in all of Dante's movies. The movie never loses its sense of humour.A great movie to watch over and over. I've seen it like 20 times!  "}{"Title":"If I find one more I'm going to staple his a** shut! Fantastically entertaining black comedy that's a personal favourite of mine...","Date":"4 June 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The 'Burbs starts with a cool manipulation of the Universal logo, the word universal disappears & the camera zooms in from outer space on the trademark globe eventually coming to rest on a cul-de-sac named Mayfield Place situated in the American town of Hickley Hills. Ray Peterson (Tom Hanks), his wife Carol (Carrie Fisher) & their young son Dave (Cory Danziger) live there & about a month ago a mysterious family called the Klopek's moved next door to Ray & his family. No one in the street knows anything about the Klopek's, not even how many of them there are. The Klopek's are strange neighbour's, they've never introduced themselves, they don't take care of the house, the garden is full of weeds & dead trees, bizarre lights & noises emanate from their basement, they dig holes in their back-garden at night during rainstorms, Ray's dog Vince digs up what looks like a human thigh bone from their back-garden & they even manage to act suspiciously merely taking out the rubbish. While on vacation for the entire week Ray's friends Art Weingartner (Rick Ducommun) & Mark Rumsfield (Bruce Dern) being to fill Ray's head with story's which almost overnight seem all too plausible as Walter Seznick (Gale Gordon) an elderly resident suddenly disappears without trace, the loony trio suspect the Klopek's of everything from murder to satanism. Seeing what's going on Ray's & Marks wives Carrol & Bonnie (Wendy Schaal) decide to put an end to the spying & speculation by going round to the Klopek's & introducing themselves to their strange neighbour's, but things don't go as the ladies had planned as Ray & Mark leave even more convinced of the Klopek's guilt, they just need to find out guilty of what exactly...Directed by Joe Dante I love The 'Burbs, I've seen it quite a few times & never tire of it. Dante manages to keep things moving & really pile on the paranoia as the film progresses without giving too much away & he creates some great scenes which contain both comedy & tension. The well thought-out script by Dana Olsen is almost perfect, it's interesting & entertaining, it feels refreshingly different, it moves along at a great pace & is never boring or dull. I love the idea of Hanks being the normal sceptical guy who manages to twist ordinary situations into something sinister as his idiot friends put crazy ideas into his head. The use of paranoia is excellent throughout as we find out what's going on as Hanks does, by the time The 'Burbs finished I was thinking up lots of crazy solutions & scenario's as well! All the characters are fun & likable which helps immensely to just become lost in their crazy world. I also thought The 'Burbs was an incredibly funny film throughout, the dialogue is littered with some absolutely terrific one-liners & is just entertaining to listen too. I love the scene when they introduce themselves to the Klopek's for the first time, the way they all just sit in a really awkward silence as Reuben (Brother Theodore) stares menacingly at Hanks, Hanks eventually breaking the silence by talking about drainage. Or when Hans (Courtney Gains) offers him a raw sardine which Carrol makes him eat. There are many, many more examples of great individual scenes & sequences throughout The 'Burbs which had me quite literary laughing out loud & it's not often a film makes me do that these day's. There is a definite dark streak running through The 'Burbs, it has some cool creepy horror elements & tries to make us think about who the strange one's really are, the people who don't conform to a certain way of living & society in general or the people who persecute them because of it. I just love the way The 'Burbs is constructed & how it all builds up to a slightly over-the-top & somewhat silly ending which is the weakest part of The 'Burbs but still works & is a satisfying enough way to round the film off I suppose. There is no real gore in The 'Burbs but there is are brief sequences from The Texas Chainsaw Massacre 2 (1986) & The Exorcist (1973) as Hanks imagination is fuelled even more by late night horror films on T.V. which we catch a few shots of, there are a few human skulls as well. There's a fair bit of swearing & language too so I'm not sure it's suitable for all the family. The acting is great from everyone, Hanks is brilliant as the hero & really likable as the ordinary man living a boring life in suburbia who lets his imagination run riot, Cory Feldman makes an appearance as Ricky Butler one of the neighbour's & surprisingly even he is good in it, a great cast for a great film. On the negative side The 'Burbs is a little bit silly at times & one or two of the characters were a bit annoying on occasion, but these are small quibbles generally speaking considering The 'Burbs is just such good, funny entertainment. Technically The 'Burbs is strong with a great atmospheric Church organ sounding main theme by Jerry Goldsmith, good photography, editing, special effects & production values. Overall I love The 'Burbs, it's fantastic fun that I never seem to tire of. Highly recommended as something a bit different, quite thought provoking at times with a great speech by Hanks at the end & all that's left for me to say is watch it as soon as you can! "},{"Title":"Misses its own point","Date":"20 September 2009","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The residents of a cul-de-sac grow suspicious of their new neighbors in this '80s comedy. Tom Hanks, Bruce Dern and Rick Ducommun lead the charge against the mysterious, foreign-sounding people (Henry Gibson, Brother Theodore and Courtney Gains). There's a good satire at the heart of it, about xenophobia and general mistrust of so-called regular people, but Dante misses it for the most part. The neighbors are, in fact, a freakshow. He way overdoes this aspect. Their yard and home is so unkempt (they've only lived there a month, yet all their grass and trees are dead), I would imagine the police would have at least given them a citation by this point. When we actually meet the people, they all seem to be out of 1930s horror movies. The rest of the cast overacts terribly, too. Hanks may have been very popular in comedies at the time, but he really was a pretty poor comic actor. Ducommun is particularly annoying (yeah, he's supposed to be, but he shouldn't make me want to turn the movie off). Dern was the only one who was kind of funny, but he plays too much of a nutjob to be one of the heroes of the picture. Most of the movie is actually pretty watchable, if unremarkable, but the final act is not only anticlimactic, but retracts the well-observed moral of the story. "},{"Title":"In The Neighborhood","Date":"1 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The 'burbs is one of the last and probably the best of Tom Hanks' early comedies. It's not as mindless as The Bachelor Party or The Money Pit, though. There is quite a bit of rattiness in there. As the title says this movie is about suburban life and it gives a good roasting to the bored, nosy inhabitants of the 'burbs.Tom Hanks plays Ray Peterson, who is somehow the hero of the story and the leader of the neighborhood. He always acts as if he was the reasonable guy when he's really no different from his acquaintances. He's a henpecked husband and he spies on the Klopeks, the strange new people who moved in next door, just like everybody else does. Ray and his friends suspect weird ongoings in their new neighbors' house and begin to investigate the disappearance of Walter, an old man from the block.Besides its satirical look at small-minded small town-folk, The 'burbs is first and foremost a light comedy with countless classic one liners and hilarious characters, all embodied perfectly by the respective actors (I always thought that Dan Aykroyd would have made a great Art, but Rick Ducommun also did a fantastic job).Director Joe Dante, the man who had also made Gremlins, Innerspace and Explorers, is a master when it comes to making dark adventure movies, so The 'burbs has more than just a touch of that, too. As Peter and his pals begin their investigation with all their supposed cleverness and their military spying toys one feels like watching The Goonies, except with grown men in a grown up world. (Speaking of The Goonies, Corey Feldman is in this movie, too, in one of his last great roles as the neighborhood's meatball MTV kid.) We, the audience, get sucked into the adventure ourselves. We also want to know whether the Klopeks are just cranky people or if they're really hiding something. We become just as nosy and shameless as Ray's little troupe.The 'burbs is a bonafide classic and deserves a much higher ranking on IMDb. FACT! "},{"Title":"The 'Burbs","Date":"30 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" From director Joe Dante (The Howling, Gremlins, Small Soldiers), I had maybe tried the first few minutes of this film twice, but I guess I didn't really get into or understand the concept, but I did finally watch it in full. Basically at Mayfield Place, Hinkley Hills, Missouri lives Ray Peterson (Tom Hanks), and his neighbours, Vietnam veteran Lt. Mark Rumsfield (Bruce Dern), teenager Ricky Butler (Corey Feldman) and often paranoid Art Weingartner (Scary Movie's Rick Ducommun) all have their questions about a house on the block. The family known as The Klopeks have lived in the mysterious, dreary looking old house across the way for a little while, but nobody has been seen any come in or go out of the house, and no-one knows what is going on inside with family members, there are suspicions with all the strange noises. Ray is on a long home vacation, and with his free time he decides with his neighbours that they should try and communicate with and bring out the strange family to answer their questions. It turns out it not just the house that is peculiar, but also the family themselves, with weird Dr. Werner Klopek (Henry Gibson), hick looking Hans (Courtney Gains) and elderly oddball Reuben (Brother Theodore), they even get to go in the house that is reasonably alright, but there is obviously awkwardness trying to get to know them. Eventually, with all the bizarre goings on, to the protest of their loved one, including Peterson's wife Carol (Carrie Fisher), Ray, Mark and Art decide that they should break into the Klopek compound and investigate all over, especially the basement, and find incriminating evidence of foul play, e.g. bodies or bones. In the end it at first looks like they had the neighbours all wrong, and that the big disaster is their high paranoia taking over and making them the weirdos, but actually Dr. Klopek was apparently murdering, as they find skulls in his car trunk, so it turns out alright for Ray and the good guys in the end. Also starring Wendy Schaal as Bonnie Rumsfield, Dick Miller as Vic the Garbageman, Star Trek Voyager's Robert Picardo as Joe the Garbageman, Gale Gordon as Walter Seznick, Bridesmaids' Franklyn Ajaye as Detective #1 and Mars Attack's Rance Howard, Ron and Clint's father as Detective #2. Hanks is fantastic with his overacting being mad and complaining, Ducommun is likable as the slightly moronic and theorising friend, and the other cast members are okay as well, it is essentially a conspiracy kind of thing played out like a humorous mystery with slapstick and weirdness thrown in, all in all not a bad comedy. Good! "},{"Title":"It'll give you nightmares. That, I can guarantee.","Date":"10 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I remember watching The 'Burbs when I was younger. That night,  I remember having nightmares and waking up in a cold sweat, not being able to sleep at all that night. Now that I'm a bit older, I've had a chance to review the movie, and if I have nightmares tonight, it won't be because it scared me the way it did when I was a kid, but rather because of the way I was bored during most of the movie. "},{"Title":"Waste of Time","Date":"25 May 2014","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" We can see that Tom hanks already shows his personality and potentiality like actor in 1989, although the film does not help so much. The movie tries to show the relationship of very different types of neighbors. The teen like adults are suspecting of attitudes of three inhabitants of an worn and old house with porch... I really think there is no reason to tell more words to describe this poor story! Neither Tom Hanks, early in his carrier nor the good picture are enough to hold us in front of the big screen. I really respect the guys who saw something plus in this movie, but in my opinion, this is more one ordinary movie with a ordinary cast! "},{"Title":"Playful enough dark comedy, but one with a minimum of jokes...","Date":"19 May 2010","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" After suspicious new residents move into the creepy old house on the block, neighbors next door and across the street come to believe they are Satanists. Unsubtle, poorly-directed black farce, though one with a game troupe of players and a handful of amusing scenes. The suburban world depicted here looks so artificial that the movie never transports us, never takes us off the studio backlot, while screenwriter Dana Olsen fails to fill the movie's running time with enough jokes to sustain the premise. Tom Hanks is given too much slack from director Joe Dante, who allows the star to go overboard with brash outbursts; however, the rest of the cast pulls together nicely to create a colorful, amiable small town community, and the finish is satisfying. ** from **** "},{"Title":"Something's Rotten in Suburbia!","Date":"25 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" According to this wondrous website, The Burbs is a horror film as well as a comedy. I concur up until a certain point (otherwise I wouldn't even have written the comment), but surely it's predominantly a comedy effort; in particular a pitch-black comedy and a satire of the most quintessential type. It may not be obvious at first, but The Burbs is actually very reminiscent to Tim Burton's Edward Scissorhands (or vice versa, since the latter came after), as both films cleverly and not-so-subtly parody the typical ambiance & lifestyles within American suburbs. Both films excessively juxtapose the sickly jealous, overly noisy and fake-friendly suburbanites against the supposedly outcast new arrivals, and rapidly come to the conclusion that they are at least equally weird, if not weirder. Ray Peterson, a typical neighborhood fanatic with a week of holiday to relax and work in the garden, quickly joins his extremely paranoid neighbors with spying on the new Klopek family. Admittedly the Klopeks act a little weird, like dig up the garden at night and beat up the garbage cans, but Ray and especially his friends (a tactics-obsessed war veteran and a chubby guy obsessed with murder stories) are pretty deranged themselves. The Burbs thrives on over-the-top comical situations, far-fetched misunderstandings and delightfully grotesque acting performances. The pacing is quite energetic and doesn't allow you to contemplate too much about the exaggeratedly stupid concept. The horror elements of the film are obviously very soft, still the sequences inside the macabre house of the Klopeks are quite atmospheric and the set-pieces (all the stuff in their basement) are effectively sinister. Deep down in his heart, Joe Dante primarily remains a horror-director, so his fans also this means that The Burbs is literally stuffed with slick references/tributes towards classic genre films and real-life terror. The giant family dog is even named Landru, after the infamous French serial killer! Nowadays Tom Hanks is a highly respected actor and frequent winner of prominent awards, but personally I'll always prefer his joyful 80's comedies. Hanks is truly terrific in this role here and he's got a superb supportive cast to back him up, including familiar names like Bruce Dern, Rick Ducommun, Carrie Fisher , Henry Gibson, Cory Feldman, Courtney Gains (the creep from Children of the Corn) and Dick Miller. The Burbs is by no means classic cinema, but an irresistible and charming piece of entertainment nonetheless. "},{"Title":"Waste of time","Date":"26 March 2013","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" If you are very bored and just want a film to kill time, The 'Burbs might do the trick. If you want a film that will intrigue or inspire you, stay far from this one.The film centers around three utterly unlikable suburbanites Hanks as bland weenie Ray Peterson (could the filmmakers have picked a more generic white-bread name?), Ducommun as grating slob Art Weingartner, and Dern as a wacky over-the-top veteran Rumsfield. The film could have gone in any number of clever directions with these characters, but they are all very dull and 2-dimensional. Ducommun's character fails to ever be clever or amusing, instead just being obnoxious with no payoff--many viewers tend to mute or skip through the drivel featuring him. I hoped that Rumsfield would be quirky and interesting, but he's a very stereotypical and predictable character. Thankfully, Hanks turns in a passable performance, but Ray is such a dull everyman character that we never become invested or even interested in him.The plot involves the protagonists becoming suspicious of their Eastern European neighbors, the Klopeks, and ultimately trying to prove that the Klopeks are psychotic murderers. Cheesy, predictable and slapstick hijinks ensue. The protagonists are too selfish and mean-spirited for us to like or care about them, and so there is no tension or suspense to draw you in. At the end, the movie looks as though it will feature a satisfying twist about the self-righteous, xenophobic main characters being proved wrong and having to own up to their mistake. Unfortunately, they are all proved right and vindicated in their small-minded, nasty outlooks.The film starts out with plenty of promise but goes nowhere; its ending, however, makes it utterly irredeemable. It sends an unpleasant, stupid and destructive message that people who don't conform to the privileged white American's way are insane and criminal. If you pay any attention to this film at all (instead of just using it for background noise at a party or something), you will find it either nasty or pointless. "},{"Title":"Not Great but Worth Checking Out","Date":"7 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I recently rewatched this movie with my wife who is much younger than me.  I saw this movie back when it first came out and thought it was wonderful.  My wife was not impressed but she has her own account so here is what I have to say.The comic next door neighbor is played real well and he makes the film more amusing at times then it should be.  Cory Feldman also does great with his small but important role in this film.  As for Tom Hanks, he does great with the part that is given him.  It definitely wasn't award winning but sometimes you have to do the fun film.  I also loved how the movie played with people's paranoia.  It shows just how far people will go if they listen to rumors instead of trying to find out things for themselves in a normal manner.All in all this film is funny and probably one of the great 80's film.  As for teens now they will probably not like this film due to the gap that sometimes arises.  I still think it was good and a fair watch. "}{"Title":"Very silly &#150; but OK dumb fun","Date":"22 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Stressed out suburbanite Ray Peterson takes a week off work to just do nothing at home.  However when a new family move into the street he notices strange things about them.  With the input of his friend Art and his military minded neighbour Mark, he comes to the conclusion that they are part of a cannibalistic cult.  They set out to get the proof.Despite Tom Hanks winning all these Oscars and doing very worthy films, he'll never be able to forget that he made tonnes of daft comedies like these!  Here the plot is just silly but it's very good fun and it makes fun of those of us who live in quiet streets and are curtain-twitchers by trade!  The comedy is very simple but it still works.  If you're looking for the plot to mean anything or be clever then you'll have given up hope by the time the `shock' climax is revealed.Hanks is good but plays it like a cartoon character.  Ducommun isn't really anyone &#150; he's just taking up space as Hanks' straight man (or at least less crazy).  Dern is the best part of the film as he is way OTT and very good fun with it.  Support from Fisher and Feldman is OK and Gibson is in the type of creepy role that he always gets.  It also good to see Dick Miller in any movieOverall this is hardly a great movie never mind a classic comedy!  Instead it's an easy to watch, easy to forget comedy that'll entertain you for 90 minutes &#150; just try not to take it seriously at any point. "},{"Title":"Pretty darn good.","Date":"25 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I had a few laughs during this film, but there could have been some editing done (it ran long for what it was).I love Tom Hanks, and this movie didn't change that view. I giggled, I was disturbed mildly, I was thrown off a couple of times, and I was glad I saw it. Don't expect to be blown away, but be ready for 80's movie fun. I dug it. ) "},{"Title":"A light dark comedy. (Contradictory, huh?)","Date":"25 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  A fairly light dark comedy. A lot of the physical comedy was funny, particularly Bruce Dern. It was nice to see Tom Hanks back in his comedic phase. This film was amusing, far from great. I did laugh out loud a couple of times. Worth seeing, not worth buying. Grade C "},{"Title":"Don't waste your time","Date":"10 April 2010","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" A new family moves in to a Halloween-type house next door to Tom Hanks' family. Yet, no one sees these people during the day. BUT strange happenings occur at night. Strange sounds, light and smoke are emitted from the basement. People digging in the yard at night are reported. Only action at night is ever seen. So...Hanks and two other street residents--with the help of a younger denizen, decide to try and find out what is really happening. If you have a tolerance for utter stupidity, then please, rent or buy this movie. However, if you have any intelligence at all, stay away from The Burbs. It is Horrible. Completely stupid. Thank Heavens Hanks improved in the years after. "},{"Title":"Who needs Suburbanites?","Date":"15 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is not Tom Hanks best work by far, but it's not his worst either. The film is sort of a new classic that will probably appear a couple times a year on one of Ted Turners networks. Only mildly funny The 'burbs seems to run out of fuel before it ever gets started. I am a huge Tom Hanks fan, but I could not sit through this film again. It is worth seeing at least once, but I think you'll agree once is enough.The story is about a new family that moves into an all American suburb. After living there only a short while it becomes apparent that no one has ever seen them in the daylight, but strange things occur at their home at night. The nosy neighbors are so engrossed with what is going on that one even spends his vacation at home to observe. The only thing anyone knows is that their last name is Klopek. Eventually the film climaxes with a disappointing ending.   "},{"Title":"Watch Once.  If you're bored.","Date":"6 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Vaguely amusing comedy.  Hanks is alright, quite a good comedy actor (although he was better in Batchelor Party), as is Dern.The plot and script are nothing special and the picture passes you by.They would have been better off hiring Ackroyd or Candy for the part of Art and REALLY gone for it.  Instead in potters in like like an athlete in 16th place in the 10,000m.Good to see the Tom Hanks Appreciation Society so active.5/10 "},{"Title":"Could Have Been So Much More","Date":"9 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Disappointing Tom Hanks vehicle about suburbanites who think that their strange new neighbors are murderers.  The customary confusion takes place and there are enough twists and turns to keep the audience watching, but not really caring.  Hanks proved again that he can handle comedy, but this is just a carbon copy of a dozen other earlier films.  Bruce Dern and Henry Gibson are hilarious in supporting turns.  However, the direction and screenplay keep the film grounded throughout.  2.5 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"could have been better","Date":"30 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Ray Peterson (Tom Hanks) and wife Carol (Carrie Fisher) together with their perfect son, the Petersons are so clean that they squeak. Thus, when new neighbors The Klopeks (Henry Gibson, Brother Theodore and Courtney Gains) begin evincing bizarre behavior, Ray is slightly put out. Carol thinks that Ray is getting all worked up over nothing. After Ray and his fellow suburbanites have endured all sorts of slapstick misadventures in the vain hope of getting the goods on the newcomers, we're inclined to agree with Carol. The Burbs was a decent movie, but I thought it could have been a lot better, they could have used Corey Feldman more than they did. "},{"Title":"Tom Hanks' Conclusion To A Terrible 1980's Film Output","Date":"5 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  As years passed, Tom Hanks' films got better but his output throughout the 1980's was especially horrid and this 1989 Universal release is one of the very worst of a bad bunch. Comedy and horror are terribly blended in this tale of a married couple (Hanks, Carrie Fisher) who believe that their suspicious new neighbors may be murderers. Hanks' last film of the decade is certainly far from his best. Things would pick up for him as the 1990's progressed.  "},{"Title":"One of the two movies I give a 1 rating to.","Date":"27 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I saw The Burbs in 1989, in a theater, with a lady. After about half of the film was done we turned to each other and said, You really want to see this all the way through? We walked out. I've been watching movies for about 50 years, all the way back to Gene Autry and Roy Rogers as a kid. I've walked out of only one movie in my whole life, because I generally try to identify with what the writer and director were trying to do. I walked out of The Burbs, it is that bad. It is dark and dumb. It is not interesting. It puzzles me to this day that some actually think this is a fine movie. Just wanted to add a comment to try and give a balanced perspective. The other film I gave a 1 to is The Blair Witch Project, but I at least was able to watch it all the way through. Maybe that's because it was at home on DVD.  "}{"Title":"Too self-consciously weird to be funny.","Date":"6 April 2001","Score":"6 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"     Weirdness can work in sketch format.  This is because there is no setup or explanation required for what is going on; the humour is supposed to be instantaneous.  We see something that is weird on screen, and we laugh because it is weird, also in the knowledge that whatever's on screen will go away shortly.   There is potential for comedy to be found in the premise of The 'burbs, but unfortunately the script fails to extract any of it.  I know the ineptitude of the film can be traced directly back to the quality (or lack thereof) of the script, because director Joe Dante is capable of crafting great entertainment given the right material (Gremlins, Innerspace).  There are also a number of usually reliable performers here struggling with the weakness of what they are given.  The paucity of the end result that reaches our screens can be explained by the approach that the script tries to take.   This is a feature film, so some attempt should have been made to flesh out the main character, to make the audience relate to him.  You have a basic plot here, USE IT!  USE IT TO AT LEAST HALF OF ITS FULL POTENTIAL PLEASE!!!  There is no need for the humour here to be instantaneous like a sketch show, because we're working from a much broader canvas where the plot can even be established before the humour arrives.  The 'sketch' analogy that describes the approach of the movie presents various problems which dog the film throughout its running time.  In a sketch, we laugh because something is weird.  In a film, we expect the comedy to originate from the situation that has been presented to us.  Too often in this film, we are shown things that are strange, and are expected to laugh because of this, despite the fact that their importance to the situation is TOTALLY arbitrary.  The situation would still be the same if they weren't there, they're just thrown in to make us laugh.  I would say though, that if you can't develop the situation competently enough so that it makes us laugh on its own, without the aid of cheap gimmicks, then comedy isn't your forte.  That's a message to the writers...  Also, as I said, we laugh at a sketch because we know it will be over shortly.  It should be obvious that the funny parts of the sketch are not strong enough to be sustained over a longer period.  One of the worst things about watching The 'burbs is that if you don't find the 'awkward' weirdness funny (as you can surmise I didn't), you know that the execution period won't be mercifully brief, unlike a sketch.  It was an awful moment when I realised I had to sit through this unfunny tosh for AT LEAST another hour and twenty minutes...   If you like the idea of stupid events that don't sit well with the overall plot of the film, then you might like this.  The rest of us will just scratch our heads in wonder at why anybody might enjoy a comedy that is otherwise laugh-free. "},{"Title":"Pretty bad","Date":"3 April 2002","Score":"5 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Tom Hanks is now considered a great actor. After the huge successes of Philadelphia (1993) and Forrest Gump (1994) (along with two Academy Awards), every film he's in is a hit. But, back in the 1980s, he made a string of pretty bad comedies (Splash and Big are exceptions and I have a soft spot for Bachelor Party). But does anyone remember Volunteers? The Man With One Red Shoe? And the one we're talking about now?It's pretty mediocre. A strange family moves into a picture perfect neighborhood in suburbia and people come to believe they're murderers. Basically this is a satire on suburban living but it doesn't say anything new or different about it. The cast is great, it has beautiful production designs and a fantastic score that is very clever---but it has a bad script.The jokes are there but they aren't funny--after a while it becomes a chore to watch this movie. I was dozing off during the last half!The only thing that keeps this watchable is the good acting by the cast--especially Tom Hanks (who is always good), Carrie Fisher, Henry Gibson and Bruce Dern. Also it's the late Gale Gordon's last movie. It's always great to see him and he was always funny, but he looks terrible here. Sadly he was suffering from cancer. So, this isn't unbearable just not very good.A few lines do work, but it's not worth seeing. Go rent Splash or Big instead. One of the few bombs director Joe Dante has done. "},{"Title":"Tom Hanks Goes Back to Square One.","Date":"13 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  THE 'BURBS is another weak comedy for Tom Hanks.  This forgettable tale of a suburban resident who suspects that his next-door neighbors are from out of this world, does not take off as it should.  Joe Dante's direction is not much to root for here either, and the premise is not very clear.  Again, this is a movie that only a true fan of Tom Hanks would most likely enjoy.2 out of 5 "},{"Title":"Absolutely horrific","Date":"9 February 1999","Score":"5 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I like Tom Hanks more now than I used to, but I do like some of his earlier films.  This, however, is just a piece of junk.  It has an incredibly lame story, good actors (like Hanks, Bruce Dern, and Carrie Fisher) who are wasted, and who look embarassed to be there, and a plot that goes nowhere. Thank goodness Hanks has moved on from this and become one of the best American actors today. While watching this on tape, I found myself fast forwarding through the movie just to get to a scene with any substance.  I'm just glad I didn't have to see it in a theater.  What a waste. "},{"Title":"Not worth your time","Date":"2 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" An odd little film, possibly good enough for a thirty minute twilight zone episode, but not 100 minutes. Aside from a few recognizable regulars from previous Joe Dante films (Henry Gibson, Robert Picardo, Dick Miller, etc.,) there is nothing in this film to indicate that Dande directed it. None of the odd twisted humor he brought to Gremlins, none of the manic action he brought to Innerspace. Duds like the 'burbs and Small Soldiers are simply below Dante's comic talent, and what was the writer thinking? As to the cast; Tom Hanks looks lost, possibly imitating Chevy Chase, Carrie Fisher's depressing presence reminds one of how beautiful she was long, long ago, and Bruce Dern, an actor who often goes from over-the-top loony performances to interesting thought provoking performances with surprising ease, appears to be sleep walking through every scene. The only standout performance here is Henry Gibson, but he's not worth the price of admission. "},{"Title":"Poor Casting Choices Ruin Great Idea","Date":"10 July 2008","Score":"2 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I really wanted to like The 'Burbs. I really, really did. But the choices of the normal neighbors ruined any fun I may have had with it. Don't misunderstand me. I loved Henry Gibson, and you shouldn't be able to go wrong when you have Brother Theodore in your movie. But Tom Hanks, I'm sorry, is not a good actor, and despite what many of you may say, an Oscar does not exclude someone from such criticism. He's simply exceedingly mediocre, and casting him as a mediocre person does not help matters. Steve Buscemi, as evidenced by the movie The Big Lebowski, would of made a much better choice in terms of making a dull person interesting. Corey Feldman, well, I just don't like him. He hasn't made a good movie since The Lost Boys, and even that one's up for debate. His part seemed to of been as a sort of narrator, then the script got changed after he signed up. In other words, his part was really unnecessary, get rid of him. But most of my rage goes toward Rick Ducommen, who plays the annoying neighbor. Now some people, Randy Quaid for example, can make an annoying character likable. Ducommen's portrayal is simply annoying for the sake of being annoying, and I find myself using the mute button a lot when he's on screen. That said, I enjoyed most of the characters otherwise, especially the Klopeks themselves, but they receive so little screen time, and a majority of the movie was spent hanging out with these people I did not want to hang out with. Now, perhaps this was the point of the movie, that suburbia makes you dull and have to hang out with people you don't like, but that doesn't give the filmmakers the right to both bore and annoy me with it. The production design is also top-notch, but a pretty piece of crap is still a piece of crap. All in all, I recommend you FFWd 50 minutes, when we finally join the Klopeks, and keep the FFWd button handy for when they're not on screen from then on. "},{"Title":"Tom how could you???","Date":"21 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I admit I do have this movie on tape but it is far from Tom's best work but at least it is not as bad as that insepid piece of garbage 'Bonfire of the Vanities'. I am a huge Tom Hanks fan and have almost all of his movies including this one but I barely even watch this junk. Tom Hanks had to have lost a bet to be in this movie if he did not lose a bet than he most assuredly has fired his agent for ever handing this script to him. The writer obviously was drunk and needs to be kept away from pens pencils computers or any other insturment that could be used to write for the sake of the entire world's sanity. If you want to see a really funny movie might I suggest 'Radioland Murders' "},{"Title":"Fails In Its Potential","Date":"13 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Neighbours from hell ? Boy could I give you a few horror stories and I bet you could give some too . Hey somebody start a thread on the boards and we`ll swap tales of terror Yeah , many of us have suffered in this way and hopefully with THE `BURBS the audience will be able to relate to the premise. Unfortunately we cant , not really because there`s a slight problem with Dana Olsen`s script . It`s maybe just a little too slapstick and not serious enough to be persausive enough to be true therefore the movie doesn`t really work as either black comedy or satire and I can`t help feeling this movie might have started along the lines of STATIC another film poking barbed fun at American surburbia  Strangely director Joe Dante both increases and decreases the movie`s intelligence . He plays up to the movie`s slapstick element , a good example being the oft shown clip where a bone is found and the camera pans in and out of the characters screaming faces , but he also refers to other movies like having music culled from PATTON  and HELLRAISER and having Bruce Dern playing the stereotypical ex- Vietnam vet which does improve the enjoyment of a film that would have probably have been very forgettable otherwise    "},{"Title":"A bad excuse for a film.","Date":"4 November 2003","Score":"4 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The burbs has to be one of the worst movies i've ever watched. I'm sure Tom Hanks would like to forget this one. Even one of my favorite acters B. Dern couldn't help this movie. Now i know why i had never heard of it before. Anybody who thinks this movie is good doesn't have a life. I rated this movie at the bottom of the heap, i give it less than a 1. Look, even an Okie who doesn't see alot of films has enough sense to know this movie is a brick. If you really want to get sick go ahead and watch it! "}]