[{"Title":"Utterly romantic","Date":"17 February 2006","Score":"80 out of 104 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Romanticism originally doesn't mean romance. The 19th century romantic hero was always a doomed one. The romantic characters long for something larger than life. The frailness, lightness of things is unbearable to those sensitive beings. This is why romantic stories typically end with the death of their heroes. Romanticism is the opposite of Hollywood, as there is no happy end. The epitome of a romantic story is for example Romeo and Juliet, where death is preferred to an impossible love story.Because such intense feelings are a threat, some people try to escape them by taking nothing seriously. For example, Tomas (Daniel Day Lewis), a young surgeon living in Prague in the late sixties. He is a perfect womanizer, but he never sleeps together with any woman, because he instinctively refuses any attachment. Such is also sensuous Sabina (Lena Olin), his favorite mistress and best friend, whose utmost erotic weapon happens to be... a bowler hat.When Tomas is called for an operation at a small country spa, he seduces a young ingenuous waitress named Tereza (Juliette Binoche), but is not aware that she does not take things as lightly as he does. Bored to death with her provincial life, Tereza longs for something larger than life. She is vulnerable, sentimental, attaching. When she shows up by surprise at Tomas's apartment in Prague one evening, he lets her stay. He is trapped.Neither of them suspects that they are living an intense moment in a crucial place. This is Prague, Czechoslovakia, the Eastern Block. But the winds of change are blowing in general enthusiasm, and Czechs believe that they are about to create  socialism with a human face. Encouraged by Sabina, Tereza becomes a photographer, and captures on film all the small daily life scenes, the beauty and uniqueness of every moment. Tereza's caring love can't stop Tomas having affairs with other women, much to her disarray. As she finally can't take it anymore, she decides to leave. But as she steps out on the dark streets, it sounds like an earthquake is coming. The Soviet tanks are entering the city. The reconstitution of Prague's invasion in this movie is extraordinarily intense, even more so as clips of the real events are included in the footage. Those few moments alone are strong enough to make this long movie worth seeing. Tomas, Tereza and Sabina exile themselves to Geneva. Sabina has an affair with a married Swiss man, who doesn't like bowler hats. As he eventually decides to leave his wife for her, she is very shaken, but she disappears. No attachment. It's lonely to be free. As for Tomas, Switzerland can't stop him either playing Casanova. Tereza still can't stand it, and she suddenly goes back to the land of the weak. But I said it, Tomas is trapped. He can't live without her. He can't help following her back to Prague, although it's clear there is no future for them there anymore. The story is an adaptation of a novel by much praised Czech novelist Milan Kundera, and it is one of those cases when the movie is more intense than the book. Whereas the movie is highly emotional, the book's tone is dry, cold, almost clinical.Made by American director Philip Kaufman, this picture is European in every way. It captures perfectly well the old world nostalgic atmosphere of Czechoslovakia. The music score by Czech classical composers is gripping, sometimes melancholic, sometimes frantic. The lead actors are giving their all, and this film is certainly among their best performances for all three. The supporting cast also has some big European names in it (Erland Josephson, Daniel Olbrychski, Stellan Skarsgård). Cheerful performance by Czech actor Pavel Landovsky, who personally lived the Prague events. Here, he appears as a jolly and solid peasant with a pet pig called Mephisto, who follows him just everywhere, even at wedding parties!Tomas and Tereza's pet is a she-dog called Karenin. She is the symbol of their love. They adopt her at the beginning of their relationship, take her together to Geneva, but as she escapes, Tereza takes her along back to Prague. As Karenin gets ill in the end, they make her a lethal injection so that she doesn't suffer. Pretty much what will happen to them too.And well, I never knew bowler hats could be so erotic! "},{"Title":"Memorable and beautifully done","Date":"15 April 1999","Score":"57 out of 70 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I've not read the book this is based on, so have no way to comment on how this movie translates it.  But the film itself has stayed in my mind like few others.  Yes, it's very long, but the characters are so memorable that the length didn't bother me at all - I loved the time spent in their company. In particular, Juliette Binoche and Lena Olin are each astonishing in their own way.  Olin is ferociously sensual and mesmerizing, while Binoche is superlatively sympathetic and sensitive.  Two of the best female performances I can remember.  By the end of the film I was totally wrapped up in these people's lives.  This film is deeply erotic but in an intelligent and adult way that puts most other film's treatment of sex to shame.  I thought it was beautifully handled by all concerned, and if I ever want to cry, I only need watch the scenes with the dog and the final scenes, both pulled off superbly. "},{"Title":"Moves You in a Totally Different Way","Date":"4 July 2005","Score":"52 out of 63 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A few weeks ago I decided to drive from San Diego to Michigan because my cat had died and I was depressed. On the road I listened to several books on CD, one of which was The Unbearable Lightness of Being. The book intrigued me, partly because near the end, like me, Tomas and Tereza had to deal with a dying pet, but also because it dealt with big themes like love, sex and loyalty in a very unusual way. Along the way, almost incidentally, it shows you what life and politics were like in Czechoslovakia's spring, before and after the Soviets moved forcibly back in the tanks.So when I got back to San Diego one of the first things I did was rent the DVD of the movie. And I wasn't disappointed. First off, I think the movie is as faithful to a book as a movie could or should be, remembering that we're dealing with two different types of media. In the commentary on the CD, for example, the screenwriter explains they decided to leave out scenes with Tereza's mother because they realized that Juliette Binoche was communicating that part of the story merely by the way she (brilliantly) portrayed the character of Tereza.Kundera's themes of lightness, heaviness, and repetition are very deep; I don't pretend to understand them completely. For me, it's enough that they intrigue, and the movie does them justice.The acting of all the principals is astounding. I never had seen Lena Olin before, and I appreciated Juliette Binoche and Daniel Day Lewis more than ever.And as much as I liked listening to the CD of the book, it did not make me cry at the end.But the movie did. "},{"Title":"Unbearably Beautiful - one of the best films ever made","Date":"11 August 2001","Score":"71 out of 102 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  One of the most romantic films ever made, it shows the problems of people whose intimacies and personal conflicts are being interrupted by history on the move. I think this film surpasses the novel, which is utterly cynical (although understandably). Even in the last moments of the novel, Teresa is concerned that Tomas is cheating on her. The film also does well by dropping much of Franz's character - he was kind of uninteresting compared to Teresa, Tomas, and Sabina. It also drops such deadweight characters as Teresa's mother, Tomas' son, and Franz's wife. Also, a ton of different coworkers are combined into a few, so that their characters have time to develop. By concentrating on the three central characters, this film blossoms past what the novel ever achieved (although the novel is arguably more historically important). Philip Kaufman and Jean-Claude Carriere also add a couple of beautiful scenes that weren't in the novel, including Tomas' and Teresa's wedding, which is one of the most beautiful scenes in filmdom. "},{"Title":"A wonderful Film","Date":"19 January 2005","Score":"52 out of 70 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a great work. The Actors, director and all involved in this production should be very proud. It is wonderful Film.The acting is pure and real. Juliette Binoche is truly a remarkable actor. Her desperation is beautifully played ( I know he loves me.). Only a cold heart could not be moved by such a truthful performance. Daniel Day-Lewis plays his part with such realism, that he seems almost not to be acting. That is the art of his game. Lena Olin is outstanding. The scene in which she complains about the music is, I feel, a classic.I love this film, and thats what it is, a film. Not a book. This Film seems to tap into something truly moving and touching. Thank you to all the crew involved. A Classic of Cinema. "},{"Title":"Only what is heavy has value","Date":"25 July 2003","Score":"36 out of 56 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Imagine you're at the theater attending a live performance, a truly living performance in which both axioms and mythological truths are entered into and shared by actors and audience alike.  Now suppose that the backdrop for all the action is dark, oppressive, and heavy, while all that transpires before it is light, glib, and ineffectual.  Now consider that, through the course of the play, all that is bouncy and trivial becomes overwhelmed and absorbed by the gravity of the background, like light being sucked into the gravity of a black hole, so that what was once meaningless and unimportant and even silly becomes increasingly momentous and important and valuable as the play progresses.  If you can see this outline in your mind's eye, you have a good idea about The Unbearable Lightness of Being, Milan Kundera's novel by the same name brought to life as a movie.  The film, like the novel, declares one thing  `only necessity is heavy, and only what is heavy has value.'  I so love this idea, this earth shattering insight  it effortlessly capsizes our Postmodern zeitgeist in one innocuous little phrase.  And the film expresses it beautifully.  Set in the Prague Spring of 1968, when the Soviets put down Dubcek's `Socialism with a Human Face,' the weight of these events draws the lives of a Czech doctor, his wife, and his lovers, into its orbit.  And instead of crushing them, as one might assume, it becomes the fire that purifies gold.  Tomas (Daniel Day-Lewis), for example, had previously written a treatise on Oedipus, a witty exercise in sophistry aimed at the Communist regime as a provocative analogy, nothing more.  But as the essay becomes an object of obsession to the Communists, we see Kundera's definition of vertigo come into play.  It is not the fear of falling, but the soul's defense against the desire to fall.  Tomas wanted to fall.  Why?  Watch the movie, and find out for yourself.     "},{"Title":"Sublime","Date":"22 November 2000","Score":"31 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Well acted and well directed. An uninhibited examination of lust vs. love, and the comfort of monogamy vs. the prison of possessiveness without over-dramatization or false emotion. Kaufman's depiction is faithful to Kundera's work, even if some depth is lost, as is inevitable in any film adaptation of a novel. "},{"Title":"One of the finest works of the '80s.","Date":"4 November 2007","Score":"15 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Using the Prague Spring of 1968 as a backdrop, The Unbearable Lightness of Being weaves a story of three very real artists and their journey through love, sex and revolution. The film begins by introducing us to Tomas (Daniel Day-Lewis) a very charming womanizer and very intelligent, political doctor. Through all of his one night stands and emotionless sexual encounters, he only has one real lover; Sabina (Lena Olin) is a seductive, carefree artist. When Tomas gets a call to perform an operation in a spa town, he meets the woman of his dreams; Tereza (Juliette Binoche) the shy waitress who dreams of leaving her dull, unchallenging life and heading to a place with intellectuals. When Tomas heads back to Prague, she shows up at his door and they quickly move in together.This move changes his life completely. He no longer has numerous flings and one night stands, but instead only makes time for Tereza at home and Sabina on the side. When Tomas begs Sabina to provide Tereza with a job, the three embark on a journey of sexual tension, intellectual discussion and artistic wonder. However this love triangle is cut short as Soviet tanks come roaring through Czechoslovakia endangering the freedom of all three characters, who then decide to flee to Switzerland. By this time Tomas and Tereza have been long married, and Sabina meets a new man in the form of Franz (Derek de Lint) a married man who eventually leaves his wife and family for her. The danger of commitment drives Sabina away and she moves to the United States, disappearing for the entire third act of the film.It's this act that is the most interesting, as it truly examines Tomas and Tereza's tumultuous relationship. Tereza realizes that she is too dependant on him, while he could leave her at any time so she moves back to the now Soviet-controlled Prague and Tomas' love for her drives him to return there. Of course Tomas' political values, including an article he wrote criticizing the Soviet Union and 'implying' that they should all pluck their eyes out doesn't shine too well with the Soviets and they ask him to sign a letter to repudiate his article. Tomas is too proud and declines this offer, which leads to him losing his license and he has to settle to becoming a lowly window washer. But he can't hide his womanizing desires, and his infidelity drives Tereza to the same crime. Eventually her shame and the potential of her awkward lover being a Soviet who will blackmail the couple leads to the two of them moving to a rural village and living their life their together.The most beautiful and romantic elements of the film are portrayed once they move to the village. Without the temptation of infidelity and the power of political intrigue, their life becomes euphoric and simple. Tomas works in the field all day, while Tereza cooks and cleans and they are never too far away from one another. During a trip to a relatively local bar, Tomas is presented with the opportunity of an affair but quickly brings his gaze back to Tereza showing that he is finally complete with her. This blissful relationship provides overwhelming satisfaction and closure to the chaotic life they had led up to this point.Highlighting this impeccable picture are three sensational performances, a masterfully adapted screenplay full of beautiful and intriguing dialogue and quite possible the finest cinematography of the '80s. Day-Lewis perfectly encompasses the charm of Tomas with a subtle charisma that keeps my eyes glued to him every time he appears on screen. The young Juliette Binoche is adorable, shy and emotionally powerful but also plays it off very subtly. Lena Olin is overwhelmingly seductive and crafts a sense of freedom unlike any I've ever seen. These characters are all very human which means they have their fair share of flaws and the performances capture every essence of them so perfectly. "},{"Title":"Previous reviewer misunderstood movie...","Date":"21 July 2003","Score":"34 out of 58 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I would have to disagree with the previous reviewer.  First of all, the movie should have a euro feel to it because it's about Europeans, in Europe, and their European mentality.  No car chases here, hot shot. That being said, I only have great praise for this film.  It's a tremendous attempt to put to screen the subtle understanding Milan Kundera has of the human condition, and it surprisingly succeeds.  For those more interested, I recommend you pick up some of his novels (start with a short story if you are pressed for time) and you, too, will realize why he is one of the best storytellers alive today. "},{"Title":"A very poor adaptation","Date":"14 November 2008","Score":"13 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" After reading the book, which had a lot of meaning for me, the movie didn't give me any of the feeling which the book conveyed. This makes me wonder if Kaufman even liked this book for he successfully made it into something else.Either that or he is simply bad. Most importantly where is the lightness?! From the very first scene, music drownes out most of the dialogue and feeling, and this continues right through the movie. I think the makers thought that by having upbeat music playing right through the movie, this would make the story feel light- however they have completely failed here. Instead the music manages to give everything that 'movie feel', in a way dramatising events so that we linger on them, so that everything actually feels heavy.Another example of the how this adaptation fails is by embellishing the story line making it more dramatic. In the movie we see Franz passing Tomas on the street, who is on his way to see Sabina. The introduction of this chance meeting/passing, which im sure didn't happen in the book, gives Tomas' story more significance than it does make it light.There are many other examples where the continuity of the story has been changed, imo for the worst, however this might have been done because the book simply doesn't convert well into a movie, such is Kundera's style. This makes we wonder if all the generous reviewers on this site were writing with their book AND movie experience in mind rather than writing about just the film. A film which is as long as it is uncompelling. For those who haven't read the book yet I recommend just reading that. For those who have, I have to say you will just be wasting your time and probably end up here writing similar stay-clear warnings. "}{"Title":"I don't understand the fuss about it","Date":"31 May 2006","Score":"20 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" *** Contains Spoilers ***I did not like this movie at all.I found it amazingly boring and rather superficially made, irrespective of the importance and depth of the proposed themes given that eventually we have to die, how should we approach life? In a light way, like Tomas; in a heavy way like Tereza; or should we find ways not to face that question, like Sabina? How much is fidelity important in a relationship? How much of the professional life can be mutilated for the sake of our loved ones? How much do we have to be involved in the political life and the social issues of our Country?Unfortunately, I haven't read Kundera's novel but after having being let down by the movie I certainly will I want to understand if the story was ruined by the movie adaptation (which is my guess) or if it was dull from the beginning.I disagree with most of the positive comments that defined the movie as a masterpiece. I simply don't see the reasons why. What I see are many flaws, and a sample of them follows.1) The three main characters are thrown at you and it's very hard to understand what drives them when making their choices.2) The secondary characters are there just to fill the gaps but they don't add nothing to the story and you wonder if they are really necessary.3) I did not like how Tomas was impersonated. Nothing is good for him. He is so self-centered and selfish. He is not human, in some sense. But when his self-confidence fails and he realizes that he depends on others and is emotionally linked to someone, I did not find the interpretation credible.4) It's very unlikely that an artist like Sabina could afford her lifestyle in a communist country in 1968. On top of that, the three main characters are all very successful in their respective professions, which sounds strange to me. a) how can Tereza become effortlessly such a good photographer? b) how can they do so well in a country lacking all the economic incentives that usually motivate people to succeed?5) The fake accents of the English spoken by the actors are laughable. And I am not even mother tongue. Moreover, the letter that Sabina receives while in the US is written in Czech, which I found very inconsistent.6) Many comments praised the movie saying that Prague was beautifully rendered I guess that most of the movie was shot on location, so it's not difficult to give the movie a Eastern European feeling, and given the intrinsic beauty of Prague is not even difficult to make it look good.7) I found the ending sort of trivial. Tereza and Tomas, finally happy in the countryside, far away from the temptations of the metropoly, distant from the social struggles their fellow citizens are living, detached from their professional lives, die in a car accident. But they die after having realized that they are happy, indeed. So what? Had they died unhappy, would the message of the movie have been different? I don't think so. I considered it sort of a cheap trick to please the audience.8) The only thing in the movie which is unbearably light is the way the director has portrayed the characters. You see them for almost three hours, but in the end you are left with nothing. You don't feel empathy, you don't relate to them, you are left there in your couch watching a sequence of events and scenes that have very little to say.9) I hated the stop the music in the restaurant scene (which some comments praised a lot). Why Sabina has got such a strong reaction? Why Franz agrees with her? I really don't see the point. The only thing you learn is that Sabina has got a very bad temper and quite a strong personality. That's it. What's so special and unique about it?After all these negative comments, let me point tout that there are two scenes that I liked a lot (that's why I gave it a two).The Naked women Photoshoot, where the envy, the jealousy, and the insecurities of Sabina and Tereza are beautifully presented.The other scene is the one representing the investigations after the occupation of Prague by the Russians. Tereza pictures, taken to let the world know about what is going on in Prague, are used to identify the people taking part to the riots. I found it quite original and Tereza's sense of despair and guilt are nicely portrayed.Finally, there is a tiny possibility that the movie was intentionally designed in such a way that Tomas types are going to like it and Tereza ones are going to hate it. If this is the case (I strongly doubt it, though) then my comment should be revised drastically. "},{"Title":"Frustrating","Date":"20 December 2003","Score":"11 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  If you have read the book, the movie is frustrating. If you haven't, it's just a bad movie. The sex scenes are terrible. Tereza looks like a stupid girl. And all the reflections that make the book wonderful are lost and vague in the movie, and just can't be expressed in the dialogs or Tomas thoughts. "},{"Title":"Just a love story","Date":"16 July 2007","Score":"28 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The Unbearable Lightness of Being is one of those occasional attempts by American filmmakers to make a European art-house movie in English, in this case taking on an 'unfilmable' novel and trying to solve the problem of turning inner monologue into a credible narrative. Despite, or perhaps because of Jean-Claude Carriere's presence as co-writer with director Philip Kaufman, this tends to take the form of the odd conversation between shags rather than an attempt to turn ideas into images, leaving a rather conventional narrative about a philandering surgeon who ultimately needs the oppression of the Russian invasion rather than the freedom of the Czech Spring to focus his emotional commitments and principles. Some of this is done well, some of it less well, but at the end of the day it's just a love story, although it deals well with the personal consequences of the political crackdown and the ending is quietly moving. Which, in a way, reflects some kind of emotional triumph &#150; whereas for most of the film we don't really care for the characters, merely go along with them, by the end, like he hero, we have at least attained some genuine level of emotional commitment.Whether that entirely justifies 171-minutes of screen time is debatable, though in its defence the film never feels that long. There are moments that grate, not least the sporadically clumsy integration of the main characters into archive footage of the Russian invasion that draws attention to itself by the crude device of adding scratches only to the new footage. The photography session doesn't quite work either despite an interesting start, not quite pulling off the shift of power and veering off into self-indulgence. The performances are slightly problematic too, especially with the Czechs limited to the smaller supporting roles in an Anglo-French-Swedish-American cast leading to a variety of composite accents (often more Germanic than Slav) and a feeling that the casting directors thought Yeah, he sounds foreign, he'll do at times. Daniel Day Lewis fares well as the coldly charismatic and fickle doc but still hadn't shrugged off that well-trained British stage actor feel to his performances; Juliette Binoche is genuinely appealing in one of her more open performances, although it's a bit of a stretch that her character never loses her naiveté; but as the more passionate of his loves Lena Olin is somewhat more problematic, her performance getting less convincing as the film progresses until rediscovering its humanity in her final scene. Of the supporting players, Erland Josephon has one good scene as a former ambassador reduced to being a janitor that underlines the way that even love and sex can be used as weapons of political oppression merely through the introduction of doubt &#150; an idea that becomes strangely more powerful because of the way Kaufman frequently fails to summon up much in the way of eroticism because he generally regards sex as joyfully comic. "},{"Title":"A lack of philosophy","Date":"7 July 2013","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The best thing about the novel was that the events were more meaningful because along with each event came a piece of the author's philosophy which made not only the plot seem whole but the author's main philosophical argument materialize more and more as we read on.The movie was only a documentation of the plot and because it was a movie I guess it could only lightly touch upon the author's philosophy. Maybe a narrator in the background could have filled us in? I watched the movie not because I enjoyed the plot but because I enjoyed reading the author's ideas about life. They weren't as evident in the movie, but I gave a 6 because the acting and cinematography were good. "},{"Title":"Personal meaning in love, in expression, and between ordinary people","Date":"20 October 2010","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The Unbearable Lightness of Being (1988)I liked this book a lot, and I like director Philip Kaufman's approach to movies. The best of this movie is terrific, as well the wild culture of personal and cultural freedom at the start, the chilling invasion of Soviet tanks in the center, and the last half hour of idealized romance and happiness in the country.That kind of gives away the movie, it would seem. But in a way, the movie is about how all these things happen. This is where it gets to be about taste and patience. It's a long movie, and much of the events are not really a development of plot, but a steady continuation of a variety of relationships (mainly between the lead man and the two main women). There is a plot behind all this, especially around their leaving Czechoslovakia and then finding a return to bliss in the Czech countryside, but this doesn't drive the movie overall.For me, it wasn't enough to see these people enjoying sex and discovering conflicts between the three legs of the love triangle. Scenes were often leisurely in a way that implies we were glad to just be there and watch things happen within a pocket of frozen time, rather than through time. By that I mean, it wasn't where you were going with the emotional aspects, but it was where you were, the now of the interactions. The might actually be where the book was so successful--it created moods and scenes where you were, actually, glad to just be absorbed. For me, that wasn't always the case in the film version.Part of the problem might just be Daniel Day Lewis, who is a bit too self-satisfied, not as a character (that is certain) but as an actor. He lacks the magnetism that might sustain the unlikely and ongoing love the two women have for him, even as they know about each other. On the other hand, it's a huge, epic tale about true freedom, and a very real pursuit of happiness. And when the energy gets going, and the mood is fully expanded, there is magic. Especially, again, at the end, including the famous fade to white in the last frames, it is about a kind of heaven on earth. Who can object to that? "},{"Title":"Bad","Date":"10 March 2012","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I watched this with an open mind. I loved the book (LOVED) and knew (read) that the movie wasn't a direct reflection of the book , which, given the nature and style of the book, makes sense. But what I didn't expect was how shallow and bad the 'adaptation' was. I thought that when a director decides to tackle such issues and to deal with such a great book, he would try harder, or at least be much deeper, and I thought such actors would not take part in something that bad. From the very beginning I was very unsatisfied. I thought I was watching a comedy. Something very American about the first part of the movie. The scene in the spa, the way Tomas was portrayed. Too cocky. A character with no 'weight' or even flesh. It's as though the director told Daniel 2 words to describe his role before they started shooting You are a cocky womanizer. period. The way he was inspecting Tereza after she got out of the pool! I couldn't believe that it was actually happening. I was laughing, whereas I would be reading Kundera's deep thoughts about this chance encounter. about Fate. Did Tereza really have to pick her nose while waiting at Tomas' door for the first time? Is this really the way to show us how naive and simple she is? really, what kind of woman picks her nose while standing in front of a man she has a crush on (or any man)? And did she have to act like a dumb retarded person the whole time? Tomas.. I don't remember ever meeting someone like Tomas, in real life. He is so unconvincing. It's like a kids movie where characters are either black or white, so the little ones can tell who is good and who is evil. Can't a womanizer be more subtle? OK, he is handsome and we know he sleeps around and loves women, can you now make him a real human being, so we can buy the whole story? And what about the silly accents? Are they Czech? is that why they have accents? why are they talking in English then? If you want the audience to forget about the whole language issue, then make them speak in English and forget about the accents. Lets forget about the language and focus on the dialogue. But what's the point in making a British actor fake a strange accent in order to play a Czech character who speaks English with his Czech friends???? it only helped in keeping me aware all the time that these people are acting. Sabina's character was very irritating to me, while she was very intriguing in the book. The Stop This Noise scene was very bad. Franz was a character with no flesh or meat. Was he a weak character? why was he agreeing with her like that? In the book, we knew enough about him (and Sabina) so we could make sense of their relationship and interaction. But not here. It's as though the director relied on the fact that we know about the characters from the book and will fill in the gaps. That's what I was doing at least, relying on my knowledge of the characters to make sense of some scenes.I can go on...I think if you attempt to turn this unusual book into a film, then you should be able to use unusual ways to create an unusual film with unusual structure, as opposed to the conventional usual narrative and storytelling. It takes a brave daring filmmaker to deal with such book. Mr. Kaufmann is not. He belongs in Hollywood.This film proves one thing if you base your lousy film on a great book, there's good chance you will get away with it, and even get praised for it. "},{"Title":"emphasis on the 'unbearable'","Date":"30 October 2005","Score":"18 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" yeah cheap shot i know, but this movie is a great example of how a collection of signifiers of 'deepness' (political turmoil, love/lust) can be combined haphazardly to great critical acclaim (see also 'american beauty'). kaufman's movie plods along with gratuitous sex scenes interspersed with often painful dialog sequences (in one scene i counted three different 'generic European' accents affected by the actors) and displays of state might run amok, yet fails to tie them together into the coherent meditation kundera offered. and in its over-long three hours it manages almost completely to gloss over franz,the missing fourth piece in the love triangle that lies at the heart of the plot, and in this manner sacrifices the novel's central mechanism of displaying the spectrum of emotions and of power relations that obtain in love affairs. it also fails to even include token screen time for tomas' son, used in the novel to exemplify some of the political points kundera was making in the novel. combined with the overweening soundtrack, these flaws make this movie's three hours unbearably weighty in tone yet light in content. "},{"Title":"A major-major disappointment","Date":"23 October 2000","Score":"25 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  It's frequently said that movies can never equal the original book. Well, in this case, not only the movie is not as good as the book, but is an insult to the book. I'd rather see Milan Kundera's novel turned on fire than into this something, which the director probably calls adaptation.All the beautiful philosophy that asks is it better to carry a heavy load on your shoulders, or cope with the unbearable lightness of being? is put aside, and instead, all the movie deals with is Daniel Day Lewis' (I cannot say Tomas) sexual adventures with his dumb wife, his mistress, and his other mistresses. François Truffaut already said it bad directors make bad movies. Don't waste your time and money. Read the book instead, it's really worth it.  "},{"Title":"One view of the unbearable lightness","Date":"17 August 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Milan Kundera's philosophical novel 'The Unbearable Lightness of Being' was always going to be difficult to film, a story of lives lived, ordinarily, against a backdrop of politics and eroticism. Philip Kaufamn's attempt is long, has a wonderful score, chooses to have its cast speak English in eastern European accents, showcases Juliet Binoche's beauty, and I think succeeds in avoiding the heaviness, the moral weight, that the story's characters find fundamentally absent from the business of simply being alive from one moment to the next. What it doesn't quite capture is the novel's intellectual playfulness, the authorial wisdom within which the original story was set, which in the book substitutes for the enforced narrative drive of most novels. Whereas some films are best enjoyed by those who haven't seen the source material, this one might work best for those who have otherwise, some audiences could miss the point. Nonetheless, the ending is strangely affecting and true to the original story; and Daniel Day Lewis surprisingly good as a middle class Czech philanderer. "},{"Title":"Too uneven and too long -  but with great performances","Date":"13 March 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Although the screenplay is based on the great and world-famous book by Milan Kundera, it was written by others (Jean-Claude Carrière and the director Philip Kaufman) and thus lost its original touch and approach - as was pointed out by Kundera himself who withdrew from the outcome. On the other hand, fragile feelings, ponderings and internal doubts are very difficult to express on the screen - without losing the pace and uniformity of the plot. It is also pity that Prague was not / could not been used, as it is a beautiful city and gives more realism than the French places used. Depicion of the socialist/communist oppression is, however, rather perfunctory, seeming not so serious as it really was in the 1970ies within the Warsaw block when hopes of intellectuals for the so-called human-faced socialism vanished as liberal steps were diminished or repealed.The cast is, of course, brilliant, in particular the bohemian ménage à trois members Daniel Day-Lewis as Tomas, Juliette Binoche as Tereza and Lena Olin as Sabina - all later multiple Academy Award winners and/or nominees, and from different European countries (the movie itself is still the US one). They and some other fine European actors have provided the movie a real European atmosphere, without a Hollywood studio feeling as sometimes perceived in older movies.Nevertheless, The Unbearable Lightness of Being is still a movie high above average, enhancing historical facts as well. But it is hard to say whether is is recommendable to read the book before or after... "}{"Title":"Kubrickian Kundera from Kaufman","Date":"17 September 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Milan Kundera's masterwork is one of the most profound, powerful and perspicacious work of literary fiction of all-time. However, as one either already knows or soon discovers a novel and a film are completely different media.Kaufman's vision is elegant, eloquent and enigmatic. This is necessary to translate the directness and deepness of Kundera's prose. The film unable to delve into the innermost feelings and proclivities of its characters tries to say more by saying less. The movie takes the essence and uses powerful, calculated imagery as its driving motor. This is how this strongly resembles the late Stanley Kubrick's work meticulous, hard on the actors and often also demanding on the viewers.Kundera is heard throughout by having some of its most essential prose and ideas integrated into the dialog now and then, but as you've probably guessed, the film cannot capture the sublime subtleties and evocative expansions of the novel. Franz's and Sabina's dictionary of incomprehension is only hinted at, while Tomas' son is nonexistent and Tereza's turning moment at the mountain foregone. The focus is highly on the sensuality and, primate, playful to intimate, infidelity. This was a good choice as this dichotomy requires little words to be heard. However, when the characters do speak, the dialog dashes across the screen and dances in your head to be sure. The political overtone is also present with the departure and return to Prague being treated as almost opposite end of a colour spectrum. Kundera hypothesizes on how politics and nudity are one and the same, but Kaufman shows it with vivid imagery on both sides and emblematic parallelism.The acting and editing make it all work together although there are a few low points in both instances. The two female leads are pretty much incredible. The classic music is charming and appropriate. The writing and directing are on point and the philosophy and melancholy of Kundera finds an appropriate echo in this visceral art medium.With a slow beginning, the movie quickly builds momentum and the viewer hardly realizes its long running time. The character interactions and tensions, the stunning cinematography and succession of memorable scenes and dialog inspired greatly by the original work, make the viewer actually wish the movie would go on a little longer, whisper something more to its ear. Tomas sums it up by stating his general happiness despite his unforeseen and unwanted condition. After all life is light, you cannot take it too seriously. "},{"Title":"The unbearable length of the film","Date":"26 July 2003","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Unbearable Lightness of Being tells an old story about a  womanizer (Day-Lewis) who has an agreeable relationship with a woman (Olin) who is equally unable to commit beyond casual sex when a woman who equates sex (Binoche) with commitment enters his life, wants to love him and he her, but he is conflicted. The film asks the question can they find happiness together?  On the upside, this flick has an excellent cosmopolitan cast, is shot on location, and offers all the usual trimmings. On the downside, the characters are too flat, too laconic, and too enigmatic to create great depth and the film is just plain too long and stuffed with too much inconsequential filler. I watched this film in 1988 and found it quite forgettable which accounts for watching it a second time. Fodder for critics and buffs, the person seeking sheer entertainment should beware. (B) "},{"Title":"Ambitious Notion of the Camera","Date":"31 July 2002","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Spoilers herein.This film is a failure, but one I really like because they tried to do something ambitious. The book was steeped in Eastern Europeanisms, an intimate linkage of interlocking clockworks political, artistic, erotic. The book is highly introspective lot's of glosses into selfaware annotations on itself. Sabina's art (and the fabric of the place), Tereza's photographs (and the films of the invasion) are merely the keystones for promiscuous philosophy.The sexual promiscuity is only the landscape for these explorations. But here, the manifold is linearized. It really is about sex in the context of power. All the meandering philosophizing is strained out. In its place are very serious efforts to _look_ Czech. It is a thin substitute.We have many (many!) of the best actors in the world in the traditional, non-ironic, non-layered tradition. So the thing is transformed into something, well more kitsch. But taken on its own terms, simply, it is lovely, just because there is a deliberate European flavor. The mix of American goals and European execution evokes charm, especially when we are turned over to these remarkable women.Ted's Evaluation 3 of 4 -- Worth Watching "},{"Title":"Unbearable, indeed","Date":"16 January 1999","Score":"22 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I think Phillip Kaufman read the cliff's Notes version of the Kundera novel and then set about making this film. Okay, of course it won't have the punch of the original. Kundera's novels are great because of his manipulation of the narrative concept, his ability to step in and out of stories he constructs. This film does not even try! The one dream sequence of Tereza's, so vital to the atmosphere of the book, is reworked and makes no sense whatsoever. Also, and this is perhaps a lesser point, Daniel Day-Lewis looks a lot like Ben Stiller in this (I know it's not really a valid complaint, but hey). A perfect example of the Hollywood-izing of otherwise fine literature. "},{"Title":"An Unusual Adaptation","Date":"8 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" In 1968, a Czech doctor (Daniel Day-Lewis) with an active sex life meets a woman who wants monogamy, and then the Soviet invasion further disrupts their lives.As someone who loves Milan Kundera, and considers him the greatest living novelist (as of 2015), this is a strange adaptation. While it has been several years since I read Unbearable Lightness, I do not recall the preoccupation with sexuality. The Czech-Russian interaction is heavier in my mind. Of course, this could just be my memory and the aspects that stood out for me.In a note to the Czech edition of the book, Kundera himself remarks that the movie had very little to do with the spirit either of the novel or the characters in it. And that seems right to me, as the film completely removes the philosophy and reflections on Nietzsche. Jean-Claude Carrière and Philip Kaufman were nominated at the Academy Awards for Best Adapted Screenplay, which is interesting should adaptations be literal or merely inspirational? "},{"Title":"Beautiful and Atmospheric Period Drama","Date":"31 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Here is a late 60s period drama set in former Czechoslovakia. It is done in beautiful detail and atmosphere. Lena Olin certainly is the best of the leads during this movie, a quite long 2 hrs and 45 min or so. She fills many scenes with her fabulous eyes and vibrancy. The other leads are also pretty good. With so much runtime, the movie amply explores the characters and their development in the volatile and changing world of communism. It examines love and especially sexuality of characters. Juliette Binoche and Daniel Day Lewis round the competent cast. Directed by Phillip Kaufman very well. Some of the best scenes were in the well-created backdrop sets mimicking the communist state. (spoilers) The tragic ending seems a bit misplaced and almost a footnote, although the movie is taken from a novel so may be called for. I liked it and am glad to have watched 7.5/10 "},{"Title":"There's the book and there's the movie","Date":"30 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" OK, so i've read some of the reviews of people feeling really disappointed with the movie, because it was a poor adaptation of the book, Kundera himself said he would never allow a book of his to go on screen again. I agree with Kundera and the reviewers, it is actually a very poor adaptation of an amazing book, and i have to say that The Unbearable Lightness of Being is the book of my life, i've read it more than once, so i was with high hopes for the movie, specially after i saw the cast. As an adaptation is bad, sometimes really bad. Many details are incongruous with the book, and i felt specially disappointed with the character of Tereza, Juliette Binoche failed to deliver an honest performance, she screams and tosses and turns for no reason....that is not Tereza! Tereza felt things deeply and with such profoundness that she had to scream sometimes to release all the 'unbearable' feelings she had inside...not Binoche, she screams because she doesn't know what she's doing. Lena Olin, on the other hand, delivers a great performance, because of her i fell in love with Sabina, more than i already was. Daniel Day-Lewis is also great as Tomas, i really liked him, and i felt that Tomas could be exactly like that, the looks and the personality.All this to say, that i gave the movie a 9 because i really loved it, in the end i tried to see it as a movie alone and not an adaptation. If you read the book then don't see the movie with high hopes, but if you haven't i'm sure you'll love it, i just don't think that seeing the movie will make you want to read the book. But as a movie by itself, is a good one. "},{"Title":"special","Date":"9 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" for the courage to adapt the Kundera novel. and for science to not be only an adaptation. for superb acting and for care to details - the black umbrellas is only an example. for delicate poetry of images and for inspired use of politic frame for reflect the nuances of lead characters. and for the message who, for a viewer from East Europe , has a fundamental sound. because is more than a story about choices, forms of love, fragility and need of the other, roots of freedom and pure joy in a dark universe. it is a perfect reflection to remember the web of past as embroidery of life crumbs. and admire the admirable manner of actors to give life to the characters shadows and lights. "},{"Title":"Springtime For Dubcek And Soviets","Date":"30 October 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" By all accounts - many of them here, on IMDb - this went down well on its initial release possibly because of the similar blend of politics and great loves to that we had already seen in Dr. Zhivago, another movie in which Russia was the third angle of the eternal triangle. Like Zhivago this was also based on a well-known novel albeit one I haven't read so I can comment only on the film. This may be only the second film featuring Daniel Day Lewis that I have actually seen albeit he appears to flavour of every alternate month and the delight of the Academic-Pseud axis. I found no evidence of why this should be so in There Will Be Blood and nor do I here. I see an actor who is competent, knows how to hit his marks and deliver dialogue but anything more than this eludes me. Juliette Binoche is, as usual with her, outstanding, and Lena Olin manages to hold her own. Apart from that ... "},{"Title":"Pretentious Rubbish With Two Redeeming Elements.","Date":"2 August 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Aka My Left Testicle , aka The Unbearable Pretentiousness of a Dreadful Film.Absolutely awful . Dreadful script , comically bad acting , especially from the perpetually smug Daniel Day Lewis and his terrible mid European accent.It does though warrant 2 stars for the acres of bare flesh displayed by the equally gorgeous Lena Olin and Juliette Binoche.So don't waste 150 minutes of your life , search the net and find the 15 minutes or so of Olin and Binoche at their beautiful best. Don't waste your time on the other 135 minutes. "}{"Title":"Not a happy movie","Date":"24 September 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I began watching this movie with a set of expectation having read several reviews. That said, the movie was not what I expected but it is a very good film, a powerful film but don't expect a happy ending. For me the most difficult scene in the film was euthanizing of a pet (but not the cause of the sad ending!). I'll never understand why directors feel the need to show the details of this process. Although the ending was sad, getting to it was extremely engrossing, with a love scene between Lena Olin and Juliette Binoche one of the most erotic I have ever seen in any film. In fact, the scene left my mouth agape as it was so explicitly sexual but without being overly graphic. I have not read the book and I am sure it would provide far greater detail of life behind the Iron Curtain but for those not interested in weighty novels, and having spent some time in eastern Europe, I can testify that this film gives the viewer some notion of what life must have been like, including the crushing of the Prague Spring of 1968. I found the inability of two obviously capable people, Day-Lewis and Binoche, to survive in the West profoundly sad, and, that they would give up personal freedom for a life where many decisions about life were made by the state hard to fathom. Yet in the end, the two came to experience a simple happiness. The three stars worked well together and there was definite chemistry between Day- Lewis and Binoche. Well worth a look for people who like to think about what they watch. "},{"Title":"Almost Unbearable","Date":"9 August 2002","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I kept waiting for something wonderful to happen in this film. It always seems on the verge of happening. Just something. But It's more like a long, drawn out Peyton Place than anything else. It has the touch of a Euro film...lots of yak about,  well, nothing in general and it's all supposed to mean something. And there are so many questions...If Teresa didn't want a womanizer then WHY MARRY ONE?  The Doctor is too smart to be drawn into some political street demonstration...but HE IS ANYWAY! I couldn't wait til this thing ended. "},{"Title":"Misplaced Focus Flat Philandering","Date":"4 February 2006","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Never before has a movie prompted me to write an online review. For some reason this one did. It's because the film critic majority, with whom I usually agree, appears to have inexplicably overrated it. It's also because the movie had the potential to be great but just wasn't.The cinematography, emphasis on Sabine in her Magic Hat, grabbed me from the beginning, but even then there was something drawn out about the pacing of the story that nagged at me. The addition of Tereza seasoned the infuriating slowness with equally infuriating character passivity. But she was undeniably luminous, and Tomas, though amoral, was charismatic, so I crossed my fingers that they'd grow as characters and went with it.I sat through Tomas insulting Tereza's intelligence by playing dumb about his infidelity. I sat through Tereza abdicating her own values out of desperation. I watched Tomas act surprised that amid his neglect and emotional detachment Tereza was not happy (imagine that!). Then, all of a sudden, about midway through, something happened. The very sight of Tomas became repulsive. I no longer gave a damn about him, and by extension I no longer gave a damn about the women who cared about him. Losing concern for the movie's characters meant I no longer cared about the movie.Which is a shame, because the politics were fascinating. The scene in which Tereza's photos result in a roundup of Czech rebels, and that in which Tomas refuses almost impishly to sign a communist declaration, were riveting. As was the emotionally complex photographic tango between Tereza and Sabine, which was anything but prurient. It was one of the most poignant power struggles I have ever seen on film, and it was the only part that burned my eyes with something like emotion. In fact, the theme of voyeurism throughout is deftly handled and arguably the film's most worthy discussion fodder.I would have enjoyed a movie whose focus was Czech-Russian politics, and sex only to the extent that intimate power-play clearly echoed and/or shed light on national power-play. At the very least, I would have appreciated a hint as to what was so gosh darn attractive about Tomas, or what screwed the women up so badly in their childhoods as to make Tomas actually look appealing to them. The mistake of the movie is its misogynist assumption that female viewers will fall for Tomas despite themselves, as Tereza did. Unfortunately for it, fortunately for us, we can see right through him. And what we see is merely a self-stroking philanderer, not worth 3 minutes of our time, let alone 3 hours. "},{"Title":"Overlong and slowmoving to the point of madness.","Date":"26 March 2004","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I know this is considered one great picture but I am one of the people who's attention was lost early on. I have read on here, people complaining about the length but it wasn't only the almost unbearable running time that didn't do it for me, it was also the extremely slow lackluster pace. If a movie moves at a brisk pace and is enjoyable to watch the length may not even be felt. I wanted to like this because I felt I SHOULD like this because it's considered such an intellectual film that it's almost like you HAVE to like it. But I didn't.I'm not saying it's not an interesting film just not for everyone. The characters themsleves, lost me early on and there was such a slow buildup it was maddening. Add to that, the almost unbearable length of the picture and it's really hard to sit through.I know this film has it's fans but reading the comments here it looks like I'm not alone in my thoughts on this. This is the type of movie you watch to have long, deep analytical discussions about after but in my case the only discussion I could come up with is turn it off.   "},{"Title":"Unbearable Lightness of Watching","Date":"17 August 1999","Score":"11 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is quite boring. There are snippets of naked flesh tossed around in a lame attempt to keep the viewer awake but they don't succeed.The best thing about the movie is Lena Olin--she does a masterful job handling her character, but Day-Lewis garbles most of his lines.Kaufman clearly had no idea how to film this. The incongruities in bouncing between domestic household/marriage issues and political crises are badly matched. Character attitudes change without explanation throughout. Badly disjointed. "},{"Title":"Long, pretentious, boring.","Date":"15 August 2006","Score":"17 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Oh, I heard so much good about this movie. Went to see it with my best friend (she's female, I'm male). Now please allow me a divergent opinion from the mainstream. After the first couple of dozen take off your clothes, we both felt a very strange combination of silliness and boredom. We laughed (at it, not with it), we dozed (and would have been better off staying in bed), we were convinced we had spent money in vain. And we had. The plot was incoherent, and the characters were a group of people about whom it was impossible to care. A waste of money, a waste of celluloid. This movie doesn't even deserve one out of ten votes, but that's the lowest available. I'm not sure why this movie has the reputation that it does of being excellent; I don't recommend it to anyone who has even a modicum of taste or intelligence. "},{"Title":"A Masterpiece!","Date":"26 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" An adaptation of the novel of the same name by Milan Kundera, 'The Unbearable Lightness of Being' is A Masterpiece of a film. Its difficult, saddening, challenging, but ultimately, affecting. The Top-Notch Performances only add more to the narrative.'The Unbearable Lightness of Being' Synopsis In 1968, a Czech doctor with an active sex life meets a woman who wants monogamy, and then the Soviet invasion further disrupts their lives.Writer Jean-Claude Carrière portrays the effect on Czechoslovak artistic and intellectual life during the 1968 Prague Spring of socialist liberalization preceding invasion by Soviet led Warsaw Pact and subsequent coup that ushered in hard-line communism. Its an extremely disturbing story, that has layers of some great sexual power, beneath all the sadness. The characters are complex, but expressive. And their journey bristles with anger in those rousing 171-minutes, while this story unfolds.Philip Kaufman's Direction is excellently done. He deserves credit for churning out a film that turns out to be much more than just a dramatic exploration of its characters. Cinematography is proper. Editing is decent. Art & Costume Design are flawless.Performance-Wise Daniel Day-Lewis, Juliette Binoche & Lena Olin deliver superior performances. Day-Lewis is in very good form, measuring his performance perfectly between sexual temptation & of being a victim of his surroundings. Olin is a marvel, stealing some of the film's best scenes with her seductiveness. Binoche is quietly devastating in her portrayal, matching up to Day-Lewis & Olin at all times. On the whole, 'The Unbearable Lightness of Being' is A Must Watch. "},{"Title":"what a threesome","Date":"11 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" It's 1968 Prague. Tomas (Daniel Day-Lewis) is a womanizing doctor. His often-lover Sabina (Lena Olin) is a liberated sophisticated woman. At a country spa, Tomas is taken with local girl Tereza (Juliette Binoche). He sets free the mousy Tereza and they have a passionate affair along with Sabina. Tomas and Tereza get married but jealousy overwhelms her. Then the Prague Spring erupts.There has been many threesomes in cinematic history. The acting power in these three is one of best. Daniel is able to make the charismatic cad likable. Lena is sexual dynamite. Juliette is pure magic in this one. It is a great threesome against the backdrop of compelling political turmoil. "},{"Title":"Bad","Date":"17 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The Unbearable Lightness of Being is an amazing novel. Therefore one would expect its film adaptation to be at least decent. But no!!! This is just too bad! I admit that I already had an opinion of what the characters should be like. I visualised Teresa as a young, ethereal beauty, with fragile charm which would be enough to make a committed bachelor feel like he needs to take her under his arms and protect her. Albeit, Juliette Binoche acts like a caricature, seems almost mentally challenged at times and fails to portray an amiable character. On the other hand Tomas is a charming mature man of a pensive nature that never fails to smile to and flirt with women. What did we get? A flamboyant womanizer, yet one more caricature, that shared nothing with Tomas and made this film comical and flat. And why the silly accents? Either make a Czech film or an English film. I found this offensive if I am honest. I have not seen any other Kaufman films, but I very much doubt that I will after this traumatic experience. This film is a poor adaptation and even as a stand-alone makes not much sense, being long and slow but without exploring space or time! "},{"Title":"thoughtful and provocative","Date":"12 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Director Philip Kaufman's ambitious screen adaptation of Milan Kundera's elaborate lover's triangle is, despite its cumbersome literary title, intelligent pop entertainment an intimate epic of sexual freedom set against a vivid backdrop of political repression in Czechoslovakia during and after Prague Spring.The complexity of the tripartite relationship between incurably promiscuous man of medicine Daniel Day-Lewis and two contrasting women (mistress Lena Olin and naïve but knowing wife Juliette Binoche) more than compensates for the occasional broad-as-a-barn-door strokes of pathos and humor (step forward, Mephisto the pet pig). Both women are natural extensions of their mutual lover's divided attitude toward the other sex, with photojournalist Binoche regarding life through the honest, unblinking eye of a camera, while the more uninhibited Olin reflects her experience through the deceptive imagery of art (using mirrors as her medium).The eroticism is fairly explicit, but Kaufman's interpretation (with old pro Jean-Claude Carrière) of what could have been a difficult literary exercise (by Hollywood movie-making standards) is both thoughtful and provocative, even if the director's commercial instincts are sometimes at odds with the highbrow material, for example during the final return-to-the-soil farm idyll. The highlight of the film is the 1968 Soviet invasion of Prague, brilliantly recreated using actual documentary footage, seamlessly integrated with dramatic inserts into one of the more exciting passages seen on the big screen in quite a while. "}{"Title":"Not even close to what i expected","Date":"19 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I actually saw the movie with a lot of expectation. The title itself was very catchy at the same time mysterious. But i have never before been this disappointed by a movie. It started out with the story of a young doctor with numerous sexual partners who falls for a meek, typical good girl who expects a monogamous relationship. throughout the movie what i searched for is some level of ingenuity, spontaneity or even a beautiful romance. Sorry but i didn't find any. the film itself makes no sense, mainly because there is no naturality at all, especially how he falls in love with the lady. He saw her, next moment they talk for a second, he leaves, reaches home, she shows up that night, they make out and they get married. All this in a span of 2 days or so. this applies to the whole of the movie. To conclude it was a mistake to watch this movie for me. "},{"Title":"Confessions of Dr. Zhivago - or Fanny and Alexander Solzhenitsyn","Date":"23 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Daniel Day-Lewis is a philandering Czech brain surgeon who goes on to marry naive medical receptionist -turned-photographer Juliet Binoche, but still can't stop chasing girls and still carries on with his soulmate Sabine because of their shared bowler (Derby) hat fetish. In the end, The Soviet Union's 1968 occupation of Czechoslovakia indirectly gives Daniel and Juliette's fragile relationship the boost it needed, only for tragedy to strike, in a 'Wages of Fear' kind of way. Yes, I did watch to the end.The dishy doctor's chat-up line is 'Tek off your cloze. Seems to work every time. That's about all that happens for the first few hours. We get a lot of shots of panties, then bottoms and bosoms, but still no real plot. It seems that Prague in 1968 was a seething hotbed of sexual experimentation.TULOB is a quality epic - big budget, big names, many locations, much period detail - but deadly pretentious. Daniel Day-Lewis's Tomasz is like Sam Malone from 'Cheers' with a very serious case of pathological narcissism. Juliette Binoche overacts terribly; were her character a real person everyone would constantly get very annoyed with her. Lena Olin puts in a believable turn as the exotic, possibly bisexual Sabine, who has a fling with a married man in a subplot that is completely pointless, something like her love affair.It's atmospheric, immersive, and reminiscent of a modern Dr. Zhivago - star-crossed lovers against the background of political upheaval with a tragic (and predictable) ending - but the supersoft-porn aspects are ridiculous; obviously done from a commercial imperative and nothing else. You could speculate that Juliet Binoche's wide-eyed character (raped by a Russian) symbolises the Czech republic's burgeoning yearning for freedom, but then the pseudo-intellectual police would be at your door in a flash.I knew the dog was doomed, and actually predicted the 'Tek off your cloze' line the third time - but that was half the fun. Well, I've gone on long enough, it's a shame nobody told the director Phil Kaufman after ninety minutes. "},{"Title":"poet-philosopher guy, kinda crazy, who just goes around having sex with women","Date":"11 April 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I watched this movie on Korean TV, when I was about 16. It was dubbed into Korean, and I did not bother to try to understand it (English is my native language); actually I didn't even pay full attention to the video images, other than the sex scenes. Basically, it seemed to be about this (French?) poet-philosopher guy (Daniel Day Lewis), kinda crazy, who just goes around having sex with women. The sex scenes seemed pretty intense, with loud moans and shrieks by the women. The rest of the movie seemed boring with quaint European landscapes and historical cityscapes, the beauty of which a teenage boy shouldn't be expected to appreciate. Juliette Binoche was the guy's beautiful girlfriend or wife, who was always hurt by his womanizing but didn't divorce or break up with him (or did she in the end? I don't remember). I did not really understand the deep philosophy or message of the movie, if it had one. "},{"Title":"I Read Too Much Before I Saw It","Date":"5 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" It was hard to keep aesthetic distance after reading so much review material before seeing this. I have to agree with those that criticize the length. There is a sense of rambling and lack of meeting of forces that turned me off a little. I thought a little tweaking of this would have made the film get to its point. Nevertheless, I didn't say it isn't a decent film. While I find self-indulgent types like these hard to take, they certainly light up the screen. Here are some of the best actors of our time. There is also a political threat that is nicely intertwined among the rest of the love story. I felt sorrow for the young woman who just wanted to be cared for. She is dealt a nasty hand. But if you know it's a snake, be ready to be bitten, as the old fable tells us. The strongest part of this is the cinematography. Cameras within cameras, sharp, insightful scenes put before us, subtle facial expressions, all this. I've never read the book, but I feel I may need to do so. Perhaps with a more insightful character development only a novel can give, I would enjoy the people more. "},{"Title":"Victims of Circumstance?","Date":"3 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Kaufman's probing drama which centres around the Russian invasion of Czechoslovakia seems to suggest throughout that our very existence is always shaped, influenced and, to varying degrees, controlled by the dramatic events in our world. In short, we are victims of circumstance.The story, co-written by Kaufman and Jean-Claude Carriere, is an amoral one concerning the extra-marital activity of Tomas, a doctor married to the young, timid Tereza who struggles to come to terms with his unfaithful lifestyle. Day-Lewis solidified his reputation with this accurate portrayal of pleasure seeking self-indulgence, and together with Binoche's touching portrayal of innocence and dedication, the two keep the audience interested. Lena Olin also turns in a fascinating performance as the third in a love triangle which threatens the young couple's marriage yet provides them both with their strongest friendship.Kaufman, adapting from Milan Kundera's novel, constantly tries to add a human touch to the turmoil in the world surrounding the players in his film. Mostly he succeeds, though often it is hard to sympathise with a hedonistic, self centred anti-hero.Art director Pierre Guffroy and Director of Photography Sven Nykvist have combined to grace the film with some splendid visuals and a most convincing look. Four editors conspired to under chop the final product.Wednesday, October 1, 1997 - Video "},{"Title":"Exactly how I have Imagined it, awesome!","Date":"2 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I couldn't pretend better than this. This movie shows exactly the meaning trough the lines of Kundera's novel. Daniel Day Lewis has been great and to be sincere when I was about to watch this movie I was scary to know who's gonna play Thomas character, to who I really felt close to, but when I read Daniel Day Lewis I took a breath, and I can say obiouvsly I was right. Great interpretation, and even Teresa, Sabina...so cool, and Franz cool too, even in the novel is the one with the less sympathies on.I love the plot, and now I love even the filming of it and I'm pleasured to have the imagine of Thomas made up from Daniel Day Lewis.If I can say the best scene of the movie, or peraphs the one I like the most...what about Thomas met Sabina in Geneva? That dancing of body that they started together and the final imagine with the Sabina at the mirror with the hat, oh wow! And...yes, the end of the movie still reach that sadness that I felt reading the novel, even without some parts of it, like the dream Teresa's made. So sad and pure at the same time.I ain't give a 9 because it needs a little more from Teresa and Sabina...just a little, but great job! And great director, good choice about the black and withe scenes too! "},{"Title":"Still better after 19 years","Date":"23 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I bought the DVD with fond memories of the film 19 years ago and was gratified to like it still more at a second viewing. Daniel Day-Lewis is superb as the randy neurosurgeon Tomas - still at it though reduced to window-cleaning - Lena Olin is stunning as his sexy mistress and Juliette Binoche, so young, so heart-rending, astonishes as Tereza. The eclipsing of the Prague spring, with cunningly interwoven newsreel shots, is devastating, as I well remember at the time. I went to Czechoslovakia with the Tower Theatre Company's 'Comedy of Errors' before the Iron Curtain rose and can vouch for the authenticity of the Prague sequences - even though they weren't filmed there! Derek de Lindt is poignant as the Professor who fatally falls for Ms Olin, Pavel Landovsky is huge fun as a bibulous farmer, but the dog Karenin and the pig(s) Mephisto almost steal the film. Masterly sequences include the ribbing of Communist bigwigs in a nightclub, Tomas' intimidation by an insidious official when he has been reduced to general practice and Tereza's reluctant seduction by 'the engineer'. The fatal ending is perhaps arbritary, but after 3 hours the film had to finish somehow! "},{"Title":"The Unbearable Lightness of Being","Date":"18 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Philip Kaufman and Jean-Claude Carrière adapted the screenplay from Milan Kundera's novel. I haven't read the novel so I can't judge about whether this is an advantage or rather a disadvantage. Philip Kaufman's The Unbearable Lightness of Being is an episodic film with some extraordinary good sequences and some mediocre ones. All in all this results in an interesting picture which gave me a very strong ambiguous feeling. On the one hand there are strong scenes with political content (for example the black/white montage of the riots) and on the other hand there are equally strong scenes that concentrate on the intimate life of our three protagonists and seemingly offer a last resort from these circumstances through sexuality. Both of these strings are very strong but I found that there was a certain lack of connecting tissue, which reduced my emotional involvement rapidly from time to time. Very, very good, however, was the acting. Daniel Day-Lewis amazing. Juliette Binoche amazing. Lena Olin amazing. "},{"Title":"The Unbearable Lightness of Being","Date":"17 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" so far it is a very great joy to watch The Unbarable Lightness of the Being.to see this piece of art made by an average director like Philip Kaufman.i do congratulate him to have courage and make this astonishing film.the philosophy of the script is perfect,the vision of the film about love,dignity,war,Europe,couples and so many things are astonishing. being such a cold hearted man like Tomas is great.the whole storyline goes in 1968 about Tomas(Daniel Day-Lewis),a doctor who is in close sex encounter with women.but the woman who understands him the most is Sabina(Lena Olin),the woman who seems to love Tomas but Tomas never wants to be involves with love or marriage or things like that.once he goes to Prague for an operation and he meets Tereza(Juliette Binoche),and find himself in affair with her,but he leaves the city to his normal un-moral life.Tereza comes to his apartment in Prague and starts to fall in love with Tomas.and asks him to marry to her...the whole film is about to affairs that Tomas is involves with,but the most sensitive affair that Tomas is involved is Tereza's.he finds purity and innocence in her love.thats why he cant go on with many women around him.such as Sabina or the nurse or so many others.but since he lives with Tereza,he can not resist others attraction.the message of this movie is that love is pure and makes the soul of one man free. this film must be Philip Kaufman's masterpiece.and the star of this film is Lena Olin.she shows the performance of her career as Sabina.her sensitive way to manner,her strange habits like stealing Tomas's socks wile having sex with him,her hat and above all her deeply love to Tomas.also her kindness to everybody despite her appearance.that shows a femme fetal.but she is the jewel of the film.others are really great like Daniel Day-Lewis as Tomas,he is as fantastic as alway.charming and splendid as always.the way that Tomas looks at women is typical.the way that he talks to women is also typical.he is really great.and also Juliette Binoche.that she plays the simply innocence Tereza that finds herself drown in Tomas's love.Juliette's performance shows Tereza's fetal love and also suspicion to Tomas.her little naughty manners and her tears of regret gives the 24 years old Juliette Binoche something like a very breakable angel.she shines above Tomas's meaningless life and gives him the jewel of love. the direction upon a adopted script needs a really expert director and Philip Kaufman does exactly the job.he directs the cast very skillful.and the picture is well made.specially the chaos part and the part that Tereza is photographing nude Sabina. Master work in this masterpiece. 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Sex and politics- a worthy adaptation of Milan Kundera's novel","Date":"18 August 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The year is 1968.Tomas is a Czech brain surgeon.Sabina (Lena Olin) is his lover with a bowler hat.They are sexually very active.He is that with other women too.He meets the young and sweet Tereza (Juliette Binoche).With her it's more than sex.The situation creates some jealousy.The political situation in Czechoslovakia is not so good.In 1968 The Prague Spring took place.That was the good period when reformist Alexander Dubcek made an effort to liberalize the Communist regime, to create socialism with a human face.That meant loosening of restrictions on the media, speech and travel.Those changes weren't liked in the Soviet Union and its leader Leonid Brezhnev.The Soviet tanks start rolling into the country on August 21st.Tereza is a photographer and she takes photos of the Soviet invasion.They don't like that.Philip Kaufman's The Unbearable Lightness of Being (1988) is a near masterpiece.It's based on the wonderful novel by Milan Kundera (written in 1982) which I read a few years ago.Daniel Day-Lewis is known as a man who picks his roles carefully and keeps winning awards.His work as Tomas is excellent.Juliette Binoche is amazing as Tereza.Lena Olin is a perfect choice for the part of Sabina.This was the American debut for this Swedish actress.Other actors are also great.Donald Moffat plays Chief Surgeon.Stellan Skarsgård plays The Engineer.And let's not forget Karenin the dog.The Czech filmmaker Jan Nemec worked as an adviser in this picture.They use some of the stuff he filmed during the revolution.We actually get to see him in the archive footage and also in a small role in this movie.The Unbearable Lightness of Being is an erotic tale mixed with politics.It all works very well.This is a highly intelligent movie.Not too many of them around. "}{"Title":"unbearable lightness of different kinds","Date":"17 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  though it runs nearly 3 hours, I did not find it tedious at all. On the contrary, I wished another hour of plots coming up before they subsided in the car accident. It was all because this movie caught my eye and my mind so tight that I felt myself merged in the characters.Tereza can't bear Tomas' multiple sex partners, she can't bear making love without being in love. Tomas can't bear the thoughts oppression. He is so self-conceited. Sabina can't bear the  plodding life. She is an artist who need changes to inspire. And all this ended by the accidental death. There would be no more unbearable things in Tereza and Tomas just like their loving dog.When people alive, there seems to be so many unbearable things. We are agonized with these. While the death came up, what is more lighter than the life of being?So, I am grateful to the director that they are in happiness leaving all unbearable behind before they left.A must-seen movie, not only for its superb romance and beautiful scenery but also for its philosophy. 8.8 out ten "},{"Title":"moving and delicate..","Date":"20 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I first saw this film on the wide, wide screen - in one of those theatres that boast a 'three storey high' movie screen - and then a couple of years later on a rented VHS tape.It made no difference.  Although it was bigger and louder on the wide screen, the points that make this movie a special one run true even on a mediocre television set you feel that you are watching the lives of people, not seeing constructions forced into a contrived plot.You can see how Teresa, Tomas and Sabina's actions flow from what they are on the *inside* how Tomas is driven to his womanizing by his need to be 'light', and how Teresa finds this 'lightness' unbearable by her need for intimacy.Add on the absolutely mesmerizing cinematography (it acts as naturally as Teresa, Tomas, and Sabina do), and music that seems written for the movie yet is over 60 years old, and you get a movie that is breathtaking and can easily be as enjoyed on both a TV or a movie theatre. If you can, see it on the big screen. If not, don't hesitate to rent it.(PS I've read through the comments here and must disagree strongly with it being equaled to The English Patient. I found the English Patient to be horribly contrived, a hodge-podge thrown together with the specific purpose to try to be 'deep'.In fact I thought it did the art film a great dis-service by coloring people's expectations when seeing films that aspire to be works of art. Trust me folks - not ALL artsy films are pretentious. Go into them with an open mind and let yourself flow with the movie. And only AFTERWARD decide whether the movie you just saw was pretentious. You'll do yourself a great service and enjoy the movies more.)  "},{"Title":"Bravo!","Date":"22 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Life is a collection of experiences, unique to each individual. This film lets us see how its characters experience events in their lives, at times very intimate events.  What is boring to some is beautiful character development to others. Erotic, yes. Boring, no. A great film.   "},{"Title":". . . this film is forever etched in my poetic memory...","Date":"23 September 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I read the book (yes, a masterpiece), saw the film when it first came out, & I own several versions of it. The movie stands firmly on its own stunningly photographed, inspired & masterful direction, a haunting score(Janacek's exquisite music as narrator), brilliant performances by everyone, including minor actors, & heart-wrenching, inter-cut footage of the actual invasion in 1968 of Czechoslovakia by the Soviet Union & most of its Warsaw Pact allies. In counterpoint to this horror, there are haunting & shimmering images of Tereza looking at Tomas after she knows he has been with another woman (Must it be? It must be.), Tomas & Sabina twirling in each other's arms reunited in Geneva, Tomas wading into water with swans in twilight, & the touchingly expressive face of a dog who teaches Tereza what love is. This film tries to explore the law of eternal returns here on the planet of inexperience using as examples Sabina's hat to represent the comfort of the old ways, before Communism, Tomas' infidelity as a character flaw but also as a coping mechanism to compensate for his loss of free will, & the existential choices each character must make. All three main characters embark on their journeys & the ending invites us to decide which journey was most (eternally) rewarding. This film is forever etched in my poetic memory. (all quotes - Milan Kundera) "},{"Title":"A betrayed novel","Date":"13 January 2000","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  When Milan Kundera saw this movie, he decided from then on to write novels that nobody could turn into a film. The novel is partly constructed with non-narrative philosophical parts that brings an ironic distance from which your point of view as a reader slightly changes. Either this was impossible to adapt either Jean-Claude Carrière decided to ignore it, but this very important pattern in Kundera's work is totally absent from this flat adaptation of the events of the story.  "},{"Title":"A perfect movie","Date":"31 July 2001","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  If you've spent some time recently soaking up Hollywood schlock you'll be amazed by the absolutely believable characters and their lines. This movie brilliantly captures a characteristically Czech atmosphere. The reasons why the romantic scenes are so damn sexy is because it's so easy to identify with the characters. At the same time, the 1968 invasion is not used as a gratuitous backdrop, but rather the unifying theme from which hangs absolutely everything in this film. At least that's how I see it.If you are smart enough to feel insulted my most new movies, go rent this. "},{"Title":"endearing, human.","Date":"13 October 2003","Score":"11 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  As a long time resident of Eastern Europe (born there) my two cents have to be a praise for the excellent cultural localization of the movie, a praise for the humor and sensitivity of the portrayed situations and characters. Great.  "},{"Title":"Unbearable Longness Of Boring","Date":"8 February 2006","Score":"12 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Harsh, yes, but I call 'em like I see 'em.I saw this in the late 80's, and it was truly one of the most awful, boring films I've ever forced myself to watch.Yes, the cinematography is lovely. The Czech settings are truly stunning. The political backdrop is enticing, but unlike similar historically set stories (e.g. _Dr. Zhivago_ (qv)), this one failed to make the politics relevant to the story, or even interesting.Sure, Olin and Binoche are beautiful. But this film manages to make even erotic scenes plodding and slow. I'm all for romance, but this movie was so boring, I started hoping the Russians would shoot them all and put an end to my misery.I'm sure if I'd read the book, the story would have made a bit more sense. However, life's too short to expend any more time on this one. "},{"Title":"Dubious","Date":"20 December 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Oddly I enjoyed the dubbed version much more than the English-language original, in which all characters speak in a fictitious Slavic accent. This was the film-makers' solution to the problem that the movie is set in Czechia and that the actors come from all over Europe (Juliette Binoche = French, Lena Olin and Stellan Skarsgard = Swedish, that professor in Geneva = Dutch). This however leads to the annoyance of Daniel Day-Lewis, a native Londoner, speaking as if he was suffering from a speech disorder or doing an awkward impersonation of a Frenchman.As always, if you read the book you'll likely be disappointed. Although Juliette Binoche does her darndest (in fact, I'd say she tries too hard), she isn't anywhere near as charming as the book version of Tereza. Because the book Tereza is my personal dream woman, whereas I have to share the movie Tereza with several million movie goers. And so on for all the other characters.The movie also suffers from a heavy dose of cheese. I thought Tereza's character was way too harmless and cutesy, I didn't buy the fact that Sabina could live so well off her art, the pastoral idyll at the end was unrealistic and soppy, the description of the Prague Spring was superficial.The payoff is a light, romantic, entertaining movie with some great acting (Lena Olin steals the show) which won't offend anyone. And it's a chance to see Juliette Binoche and Daniel Day-Lewis at the beginning of their careers and looking unbelievably young. "},{"Title":"Smells like Frida","Date":"27 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" In so many ways, this movie is like Frida, or Frida is like this, whatever. A political backdrop, a Casanova, with a wife adamant on changing him, communists, nude scenes etc. It is based on a novel by the same name, whose author actively assisted in writing the screenplay for this movie. Though once the movie was released he thought it didn't do justice to the original story. May be it didn't. I would recommend everyone who has seen the movie to go through the wikipedia entry on the novel(NOT the movie), to get a better understanding of its characters.Also, it is a 1988 movie, so it's rather slow.Note  I watched Frida before I watched this. "}{"Title":"A novel is a piece of literature, film is a visual medium","Date":"31 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The criteria for producing a great film is different to the requirements of a classic novel. Whilst it is possible to capture the spirit of certain novels on film, this should not be what one looks for when you see an adaption. You will inevitably be disappointed.Whilst the makers of the latest Enid Blyton novel filmed - Noddy may not find it so difficult to capture what is within the pages on celluloid. Transferring the lines of Milan Kundera's deep philosophy is another matter - in fact an almost impossible task! You might ask yourself Why bother?The answer is that you might produce a small masterpiece such as this film. Both the movie and the book are brilliant, BUT they are different! how can two distinct mediums convey such complex emotions and events in a similar vein.I think if there is going to be any solution to this debate, then it would be better to take one or the other and settle for that. The book or the film? If you can accept the differences then you will be delighted by both "},{"Title":"Juliette Binoche is such a doll!","Date":"10 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Saul Zaentz is my hero. I really enjoyed this film, even though Day-Lewis's Transylvanian Count accent grated on my nerves at times. Lena Olin is at her finest and Juliette Binoche proves once again that she can completely transform herself. She is not her character from Blue, (although she swims in that film as well), and she is not Hana from the English Patient. She is merely Thereza, a simple Czech girl. This movie is also worth seeing, for the effects used in the failed revolution scenes. I believe that Tomas and Thereza were added to actual archival footage of the uprising. It's a nice movie about the intricacies of relationships and how men and women relate to each other with a tumultuous Communist backdrop. Tomas could remain true to himself and not sign the retraction, but he never could stay true to his wife.  How heavy life is for me. "},{"Title":"The Unbearable Lightness of Being","Date":"22 September 2009","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This Philip Kaufman adaptation of the famous Milan Kundera novel is.. so-so. The best bits have to do with the quasi-documentary portrayal of Eastern-Block era Czechoslovakia. The rest is little more than a melodrama, guised in art-house artistic-credibility visuals. Two questions though, first, why does Juliette Binoche put up with Daniel Day-Lewis, who is essentially a male prostitute, when she's not into the libertine lifestyle? And secondly, why does Daniel Day-Lewis sabotage his life so much just so that he doesn't renounce his anti-communist past? What a moron! This film doesn't make much sense, but then again, such is the unbearable lightness of being. "},{"Title":"A classic case of nice film, shame about the lack of excitement - 73%","Date":"2 February 2009","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" After watching this during a surreal snow storm outside, I can honestly say I have thought more about this review than any other. Not that my brain has been damaged by the amount of booze consumed during last night's Superbowl, oh no. Nor is it due to a particular fondness for Juliette Binoche. You see, in terms of cinematic value, this is a breath-taking exercise in film-making. Every shot feel lovingly crafted, every line of dialogue is poetry and the editing is some of the best I have seen. It's just that, in terms of entertainment, I personally found it uninvolving at times and a bit dull. Call me what you will but on some levels, it just didn't work.Adapted from the acclaimed novel by Milan Kundera, The Unbearable Lightness Of Being takes us back to Prague in the days before Soviet occupation. Care-free surgeon Tomas (Daniel Day-Lewis) spends his days sleeping around, usually with his bohemian artist lover Sabina (Lena Olin) and occasionally doing some work when he's not chatting up the nurses. After being sent to a nearby town to treat a patient, he meets the beautiful Tereza (Binoche) and against his will, Tomas falls for her after she follows him back to Prague. Gradually, Tereza and Tomas are accepted by Sabina and the three strike an unusual friendship - a friendship forever altered by the dramatic invasion of the Soviet forces and their subsequent emigration to Switzerland.I'm still not sure exactly where I stand on this film. Feeling reminiscent of Lust, Caution (which isn't a bad yardstick, as things go), there is not a single frame of this picture that looks anything less than beautiful despite the occasionally bleak subject matter. Olin and Binoche are brilliant but strangely, Daniel Day-Lewis lets the side down. He comes across as a selfish, manipulative dandy and I found it difficult to emphasise with him. I also felt he looked like Ben Stiller going through college and once that thought was there, it stuck! The supporting cast, largely unknown to most English-speaking audiences, were all faultless and deserve as much credit as the director for creating a sublime, smouldering masterpiece. The story also had its moments where it was genuinely upsetting but for the most part, it lacked any sort of narrative. It seemed to wander at will, from country to country, with little to link it like a bad James Bond movie. It also isn't as controversial as it would like you to believe - the sex, while moderately graphic, isn't a patch on what we see in mainstream movies today. This is no Monster's Ball.Maybe I'm missing something. At times, I felt like the movie was talking to me on a different intellectual plain that I couldn't understand and the fact that a lot of dialogue seems to be whispered didn't help - I needed the DVD's subtitles, that's for sure. It doesn't confuse you like Donnie Darko did but instead tests every sinew of attention as there's every chance that a small but vital line is missed or overlooked. So I'm afraid that The Unbearable Lightness Of Being didn't float my boat as I was hoping it would but it is a glorious, beautiful film which looks and sounds the business (despite its age) but doesn't offer much in the way of entertainment. Personally, I think that Secretary is a better kooky and controversial romance than this is or even Binoche's other legendary skin-flick Damage. This is more high-brow, thoughtful and European than that though and if you like a challenge then this could be the film for you. "},{"Title":"no need of accent","Date":"24 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I wonder why all the actors and actresses had to talk with an accent. Czech people are supposed to talk their native language among themselves not English. If they talk English as their native language then there would not be an accent. All the actresses and actors lost time while trying to accomplish it. Besides this accent issue I like the movie. Daniel Day-Lewis is a very good actor. It was the first time I see him acting in 1990 in this movie. Recently I watched it once more. In between I watched five more movies in which Lewis had part and none of them was similar in any way as most of the critic and audiences thought. Also Juliette Binoche appeared in different movies . In most of them her acting was impressing. But her face and impression were almost same in each one of. Lena Olin has not achieved works as good as the others. I think she is acting too much and very deliberately. It was sad to see end of the Prag spring even all of the iron curtain has been put down now. People should not be forced to choose the lesser evil. They are supposed to be free but poorer and not much happier than before. "},{"Title":"A Magnificent Performance in a Film with a Few Flaws","Date":"15 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  To be honest, I do not have much of an urge to review this movie as a whole. Most of the comments written previously seem to be justified and informative.  I had to write this, however, in order to urge any one who enjoys films at all to see Juliette Binoche's performance as Tereza.  I have perhaps never been so captivated by a single actress performing a single role.  Her acting in this film seems effortless, although surely it could not have been.  She masters every detail of an adorable, sensual, intelligent, and complex character.  I am embarrassed to say that, between the writing of her role, her acting, and Binoche's physical beauty, I totally fell for this fictional character by the end of the first hour.  I do believe that, aside from my personal attraction to her, Binoche's performance is spectacular in an objective sense.I liked this film, quite a bit.  It is thought provoking, emotionally stirring, and wonderfully filmed and produced.  Daniel Day Lewis' acting missed the mark often, and with his accent and the accents of much of the rest of the cast often being the unbearable part of this movie, I found myself wishing that i was reading subtitles.  The performance of Binoche alone, however, will be enough to make me watch this film many more times. "},{"Title":"The Unbearable Lightness of Being ? Or The Unbearable Only ?!","Date":"22 February 2010","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Yes, there is that meaning about how heavy we are with nothing but material desires only. And how light we become with a cause in life or a real love anyway. But I already knew all of that not from the movie, rather by a conversation with a friend who read Milan Kundera's book that the movie was based on, because this meaning is hardly noticeable in the ocean of sex and nudity that I watched. Simply, this movie is very very *heavy* itself ! The script is pure idiot all along, or just focuses on what it wants; which's anything but serious. The heroine turned from a complete fatuous child into great freedom fighter just like that. Generally all the characters' attitudes change all the time just like that ! What this movie did to present the motives, the history, the milestones of the characters ? None. I didn't see a relation between the political scene and the shown events. The nudity and sex were freely sometimes (or most of the times !). The lesbian thing was too. Just watch  the striptease that the woman gives to the lead while his work as a glass cleaner, or the naked woman who he sees in the shower, or the aged women who the heroine sees naked in her daydreams about her love to catch on VERY WELL what I'm talking about! I couldn't understand what the need for the murder of the pet is?, I couldn't understand who sent the letter at the end ? (since the leads just died !), and I couldn't totally understand what Daniel Day-Lewis had to be able to seduce ALL OF THESE WOMEN ???(Philip Kaufman) used to write and direct good action and thriller movies, so what the hell he was doing in Europe with this meaty stuff ? (meaty indeed !). We have 3 gifted actors with nothing visible to be shown by this die-hard commercial script. I didn't read the book but when I told my friend, who did, about this movie in full details, he was astonished, goggling at me in silence for a while, to say eventually  &#x85;and where is the novel ?I found nothing in this movie to think about. Save the young (Juliette Binoche)'s incredible beauty, I found nothing to amuse either. Unbearable is the right word to describe it. I remember saying, for the first time in my life, while watching a movie Will I live to see the day that this movie ends in ?. This is real heavy, and the worst part is that it tries to allege a high meaning it absolutely doesn't say or even know. In fact the only high thing here was the title. However, that title was misplaced, whereas the more fit title for this movie should have been (Take off Your Clothes) ! This is nothing but soft porn with a name of big novelist on it. "},{"Title":"Modern Classic","Date":"10 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Unbearable Lightness of Being is a long Euro-look bittersweet romance, with some comedic moments, set in late 60's Central Europe.It asks, what makes life worth living?  Various answers suggested during the movie are an epic sex life, one's career, being true to political beliefs, artistic expression, Western materialism, monogamous dedication, and the simple pleasures of rural life.  See which of these the main characters settle for and which are discarded.In addition to being excellent food for thought, many other facets make it a modern classic.  The women and Lewis are magnetically charismatic on screen together.  The camerawork is genius, making communist Czechoslovakia look dreamy and romantic.  The score is memorable and imbued with vintage old-world charm.  It is one of the few movies that gives me a lump in the throat.  "},{"Title":"Pseudo-intellectual tripe with a side of porn to boost popularity","Date":"8 June 2010","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The Characters I cannot figure out whether the acting was overly stylized or simply flat. Either way, Tomas' character was essentially a composite of smoky looks and jaunty smirks, devoid of substance. I could not figure out through the entire film whether Tereza was actually soft in the head, or whether the impression was unintentional. Lena Olin gave a decent performance, despite the fact that she portrays a glass artist who works in her lingerie (yeah right).The Story (or lack thereof) At first, I was convinced that between the flat acting, tortured dialogue, and gratuitous sex, the movie was actually a porno being marketed as High Art. Then came the Soviet invasion footage, which was apparently tossed in as a substitute for actual character development. It was never clear after that what the point of the whole thing was, or why we were following such hollow characters. Half an hour in, the only decent ending imaginable was one in which all the protagonists died, except that when it finally happened, it felt cheap and unsatisfying.The Pacing As far as I could tell, Tereza and Tomas marry within two weeks of Tereza's moving in. Two weeks later, the Soviets invade. T&T flee to Switzerland for a month or two (this is a generous estimate) before returning to Czechoslovakia. They live in the city for a few months before relocating to the country. After another month or so (perhaps a year from the start of the movie now), the puppy that they adopted on their wedding day is now grown, has cancer and cataracts, and looks like it is fifteen years old. What. The. Hell. It is incredible that a 3-hour movie could fail so fantastically to portray the passage of time. I can't even fathom how they did it.Miscellaneous Most over-used line? Take off your clothes. (-Retch-) Also, the priceless moment where Tereza says to Tomas, 'I know you've told me a thousand times there's a difference between love and sex,' as if we've seen them have even one conversation about ANY subject, let alone a thousand on that topic alone. Then there's the simple fact that Tereza is a stalker and Tomas is a philandering player, and it makes no sense whatsoever for him to take her in, let alone marry her.If you want to see a good adaptation of a novel that is subtle and cerebral, try Revolutionary Road. If you want to be bored for 3 hours while characters stare silently at each other for embarrassingly long periods of time, try The Unbearable Lightness of Being. (The 'unbearable' part is dead-on.) "},{"Title":"May be a great book, but not a great movie","Date":"26 February 2001","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I've never read the book on which this movie was based, so I can't compare the two as other reviewers have done.  But as a standalone work, this film has serious problems.  Essentially it about three bohemians and the inter-personal problems.  The Prague Spring of 1968, although dramatically re-created, serves as a minor inconvenience to the main characters.  Our protagonists are never detained or sent to a labor camp or forced to live in substandard housing or suffer from malnutrition.  Instead, their worries center around their sex lives and dysfunctional relationships.  But even these problems are handled superficially.  Daniel Day-Lewis gives one-note performance, with an annoying accent to boot.  Lena Olin is sexy and mysterious, but her character is a spoiled brat.  Only Juliette Lewis gives a great performance and has a character who can evoke empathy from the viewer.I don't understand why this movie was so popular when it was released. Maybe it was the reputation of the book.  Maybe it was people's fascination with the crumbling Soviet empire.  Maybe it was the film's glorification of the bohemian lifestyle.  Maybe it was the steamy sex scenes.  Whatever it was, the film doesn't hold up in the new millenium. "}{"Title":"This one tops the 2000+ films I have ever watched so far.","Date":"8 March 2003","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  First, it is not so Hollywood.  Music is perfect for the film.  The intelligent Tomas and the sensitive Tereza provide the contrast that provokes lots of thinking.  The film is so good that it made me read a few books of Milan Kundera.The introduction of Tereza when she jumped into the pool is an excellent way to start telling this great story.  The ending is perfect when Tereza asked Tomas what he was thinking and he said I am thinking how happy I am. Perhaps that is what eventual happiness is supposed to be.Since 1988 I have watched it over 10 times.  I still have my VHS although it is not playable.  Thanks to DVD technology that I can rewatch it as many times as I am in the mood. "},{"Title":"Disappointingly straightforward","Date":"13 July 1999","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  By the time the end arrives, with its depiction of domestic harmony finally attained and tragically stolen, the movie seems little more than soppy; but even at its best, it's a disappointingly straightforward tale of narcissism and rootlessness put through an artery-hardening political and moral obstacle course. The movie is well choreographed, never more striking than in its images of the Russian occupation, but its aspiration to classic art-movie eroticism threatens to reduce everything else to mere gymnastics. Day Lewis is not quite real in his role - an androgynous, closed off icon of self-regard; the so-called lightness of his being seems less a psychological state and more a symptom of the movie's too-easy conceptions - as it goes on, the cards seem to be shuffled almost randomly, which serves neither the sex nor the politics well. "},{"Title":"3 hours...of...infidelity","Date":"27 June 2002","Score":"9 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Sigh. Another boring Daniel Day Lewis film... I'm waiting. So far, I haven't seen a film he's done that hasn't boredme to sleep... I like Phil Kaufman's work a lot- in fact, the Kaufman directed TheRight Stuff, and Kaufman written Outlaw Josey Wales are two ofmy all-time favorite films... BUT three hour epics about unfaithfulness is NOT my idea of goodentertainment. I'm sorry, I didn't care about these characters ortheir story. Even now, the morning after seeing the film, I'm having trouble remembering the final outcome for several of thecharacters. I liked this film in the same way I liked the English Patient- not atall.  "},{"Title":"Puh-LEEZE!!!","Date":"24 September 1998","Score":"11 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The title should have been The Unbearable Longness of Sitting in a Movie Theater Having Your Absolute Ass Bored Off.  Bloated, arty, pretentious chick flick would make a nice double bill with The English Patient for the Sensitive, Caring Set.  Good dog in it -- who unfortunately dies before the other characters, and WAY before this dog gives us its final fade. "},{"Title":"incredibly bad","Date":"8 March 2006","Score":"12 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Seriously, Why do American and Frech actors pretending to be Czechs need to speak perfect English with a fake Russian accent? I am a man, so i enjoyed the gratuitous nudity--but a soft porn flick would have more of that, and at least wouldn't pretend it's artistic.All the political statements where painfully didactic- has the director heard of subtlety? The acting was also woody and melodramatic, and the comic relief was never funny. The characters were very shallow, and I just couldn't identify with them at all.The bit where I did laugh was when they cut the actors into archival footage of the demonstrations in Prague - and they were black and white and then sepia to match the footage-just ludicrous.I read many of Kundera's short stories (not The Unbearable Lightness of Being), and there are good things about his style of writing (although his themes are one big male fantasy)-and I have to say, the film did NOT convey any of the goodness of Kunderas style. "},{"Title":"Favorable","Date":"9 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I think this is one of the great art films of all time.  It has the wondrous breadth of history like a Merchant-Ivory production yet without the slightly stodgy feel.  This is a terrific achievement, probably one of the five best of the 80's, especially considering that the source material was considered unfilmable.  This film has subtle, intelligent humor that hinges as much on the craft of the film as from any punch line.  The historical and political undertones strengthen the plot and the ending us utterly haunting. "},{"Title":"Wonderful Cinematography","Date":"2 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  It is one of the most memorable movies I have seen in the last 10 years.  It is not a classic, nor a great movie, but I truly enjoyed it.  Superb acting and visually stunning. "},{"Title":"Overrated mess","Date":"7 April 2012","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Maybe it's because I'm not old enough to have witnessed life in the sixties myself, but nothing in this movie made any sense to me.The dialogs were strange and often nonsensical. People's behavior was often strange and the movie never gave any real insight into their motivations. And if there was any character development, it certainly was lost on me. I found it pretty impossible to connect with any of the main characters at all, and for a movie like this it seems pretty essential to be able to connect with at least its main characters.I hoped the movie would start making sense by the end, but unfortunately it never did. It was a total waste of almost 3 hours of my life... "},{"Title":"A beautiful movie about human freedom","Date":"21 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is both beautiful and profound. The message seems different from the book, or maybe it's just a lot clearer. It is about the limits and paradoxes of human freedom. The different characters display different aspects of it. Tomas is a philanderer but a very serious person in his other life, seems very free but in the end is tied, Sabina is fairly traditional but incredibly brave(and hence free?) when her country is at stake, Tereza is the closest to genuine freedom, but at the end her future looks doubtful and we question her level of freedom too. The message seems to be that total freedom forever eludes us, that we must compromise within that knowledge and look for and accept an optimum rater than an absolute level. "},{"Title":"A beautiful film, although loses a lot of aspects of the novel","Date":"25 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The Unbearable Lightness of Being, as a novel, has a very intriguing love story, one of the most intricate and beautifully complicated I have ever read. But it also is a very philosophical book, using the story of the novel to explore many different philosophical aspects. Also, the book has a cynical, almost satirical spite to it, which uses the backdrop of communist Czechoslovakia as a major part of the story.A major disappointment of this film was the limiting of the character of Franz. Even though he is considerably less themed in the book, he is still a very important character, and possibly my favorite out of the four main characters of the book. Also, the exclusion of characters such as Tomas' son, Tereza's mother are disappointing, as these are enjoyable characters whom are not very important to the story of the book, but are very important to the characters.I would say that the film uses the great story of the book, and only the story. It loses all the cynicism and philosophy that make it such a great book. There is nothing wrong with doing this, as it is a wonderful story, but having read the book before I saw the film, I was disappointed.If I had never read the unbearable lightness of being, i would have given this film a higher rating, but as it is with so many books turned into films, the film does not follow the book correctly. It is a beautiful film, and I would have maybe given an eight, maybe even a nine, If I had not read the book.PS Great Acting "}{"Title":"How could they possibly have adapted Unbearable Lightness of Being?","Date":"21 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is competent on its own merits.  Good performances all around, slow, thoughtful directing style, etc.  However, although the film is faithful to Kundera's storyline, it is still not faithful to the spirit of the book.  You can't really blame the movie--after all, the book was almost completely unadaptable.The book was all about events followed by philosophical discussion.  The philosophy and explanation of events is completely lost in the movie.  Please, if you want to experience the full depth of THE UNBEARABLE LIGHTNESS OF BEING, read the book before you watch the movie. "},{"Title":"The Bearable Lightness of Watching","Date":"20 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I think that we can divide the critics of this film into two groups; the people who do and the people who don't get it.Firstly, 'lightness' signifies freedom and not necessarily, weight of responsibility as indicated by previous critiques. Freedom for self and for sexual expression. With self expression repressed under the dictat of the Soviet, sexual expression becomes a cry for freedom within itself.Daniel Day-Lewis is brilliant as Tomas, the brain surgeon cum lothario. His performance is disciplined and understated as events overtake Tomas's ability to control his destiny. He has an arrangement with Sabina (Lena Olin), a sculptor who also can find no place for love without freedom in her life. Their relationship is based upon friendship and convenience. Their lovemaking is passionate but not empty or cold. If there is love, it is left unspoken.Kaufman uses this relationship as the foundation of the movie with most of the dynamic being centered upon the naive country girl (Juliette Binoche) who rebels against the crushing of the Prague Spring by photographing the brutality.The trio escape to Switzerland. Geneva then plays a major role in this film as being emblematic of an alternative freedom; a freedom that feels heavy with responsibility. Maybe, within western democracy, when everybody has a voice, then the individual can no longer be heard. Maybe, if there are no small victories, then there is no true lightness. Their freedom can only be felt within context.Finally, Thomas and Tereza return home to a Soviet Prague. Again, via censure, the communists provide the answer.Sabina finds a beach side property in California, opting for bland airbrushed seascapes. She lives alone. Her spirit has been quelled by the freedom that surrounds her.This is truly a beautiful European film. Not in the ersatz 'Chocolat' style, but in the tradition of Krieslowski and Wajda. Within itself, it is a very moral film. It has a simple beauty, that does not wear its heart on its sleeve, but within the wonderfully understated performances. These also include Derek De Lindt and the great Stefan Skarsgaard, one of the finest actors anywhere today.This is not just a movie, it is also thought provoking cinema. The majority of people will find it boring. But thats a good thing, isn't it! "},{"Title":"An epic film that manages to be intimate","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I recently saw Unbearable Lightness of Being on DVD for the first time since I first saw it on its release in 1988. I'd forgotten so many details, and I was newly impressed at what a great film it is. Daniel Day-Lewis is perhaps my favorite actor of all; there's simply no one that comes near him in sheer talent in my opinion, and he gives an extraordinary and moving performance as Tomas, the Czech surgeon, playboy, and reluctant patriot. Juliette Binoche (who I've been in love with since I saw her in Blue) gives a radiant performance as Theresa. Lena Olin was unforgettable as Sabina. The script, the cinematography, the film editing, and of course the performances are all superb. It is an epic film that somehow manages to be intimate, and in my opinion is a masterpiece of modern cinema.  "},{"Title":"An amazing journey with superb performances and emotional landscapes.","Date":"16 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  An amazing film. Would probably be classified as a modern epic if it did not rattle the delicate sensibilities of many of todays reviewers and moral gatekeepers of society with its eroticism and political expressions. Good acting and an even better story makes this an amazing journey. Should not be missed.  "},{"Title":"Well-acted, but a bit meandering...","Date":"19 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I honestly don't see what other people got out of this movie.  Daniel Day-Lewis and Juliette Binoche are truly brilliant in their roles, and the cinematography is well-done, but I found the script in bad need of a rewrite.Certainly, not all artsy films are pretentious, but this one became quite so.  I would agree that the length is unbearable, because I think the film fails to fully connect the personal lives of the leads with the historical back drop.  I found much of the sex and nudity gratuitous, detracting from much of the movie.  I also found the musical score distracting and awkward in places.The cinematography was well-done, especially in the use of what looked like old news reel and home movies.  Other than that, the cinematography was solid, neither innovative nor dated.The main actors were all tremendous in their roles, and they truly made this movie worth watching.  Nonetheless, this movie was slow, meandering, and perhaps not fully realized despite being as long as it is.  I think a truly good movie (such as Trois Couleurs  Bleu in which Binoche is excellent) leaves you wanting more.  I think this one left me wishing that someone else directed it. "},{"Title":"Very satisfying film if you can sit thru it to the end","Date":"1 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  One previous reviewer disparaged this film as being a chickflick. Well, I disagree. I am all male and I enjoyed the film very much, especially Juliette Binoche's being so naive. I can see why Daniel Day-Lewis is considered to be the great actor he is. "},{"Title":"I am in love with this film...","Date":"1 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Reading the Kundera novel beforehand will deepen your appreciation of this film, I believe. The movie deals openly with sexual relationships, undresses for you in harsh fluorescent light. Juliette Binoche's Tereza is heartbreaking in her pure adoration of Daniel Day-Lewis's Tomas; anyone who has experienced unrequited love will be touched by the distance she goes for him. This isn't the best movie I've ever seen, and there are sequences in the middle (of a Russian occupation of Prague) which are a bit lengthy, but this movie has heart -- which, I think, is superior to technical finesse. Astounding philosophical insights about sex and love -- among other things -- can be found in the book and film.  "},{"Title":"Beautiful and haunting.","Date":"27 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  One of the most haunting aspects of this movie is that my video store has it under the Hot & Spicy section.That aside, I must say that despite the length (and a tendency for some parts to be longer than they should have been), this is a very good film. Daniel Day-Lewis plays Tomas so brilliantly, it's hard to think of him in his other familiar roles (Last of the Mohicans, for instance). And also great is the ever attractive Juliette Binoche.The cinematography is beautiful and the landscapes (specifically Prague) are haunting. Supporting characters come and go, and the tone frequently changes with little warning. But those two things work perfectly within the context of the movie.Again, the only problem I had was the length, but if you are looking for a beautiful film about characters and how environments affect relationships at all levels, do check this out. "},{"Title":"A truly memorable one !","Date":"13 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one of the most memorable movies I have seen. Juliette Binoche did a great job as the naive Tereza, which is very convincing at portraying her pain when married someone so different from her. The scene which Tereza tried for sex with no emotion attached is so heart-breaking. I can feel the pain or the agony when Tereza laid flat on the couch. Daniel Day-Lewis as a veteran actor did well. I saw this movie 3 years ago and still remember the heaviness of it. The ending is great. "},{"Title":"This film has aged well","Date":"5 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I saw this film twice when it first came out. And then, a couple of years ago on a whim I bought the DVD. I sat down and watched it today finally, and was pleased to see that it is as good today as it was almost 20 years ago. The story is so powerful -- the interweaving of the passions of the three main characters with the Soviet invasion of Czechoslovakia and what it did to that country. It was refreshing to see Daniel Day-Lewis, Juliette Binocche, and Lena Olin in their youth after having seen all of them in more recent films. The performances by all three of them are worth the price of a rental alone.While there are some parts that could have been cut to reduce the almost three hour length, this is still a wonderful film that is among my top two or three favorites. It is incredibly erotic, and yet in a way that does not come across as exploitive or detached from the story. Some have complained that the movie is not faithful to the Kundera novel, but I would argue that the movie stands on its own as a work of art not to be missed. "}{"Title":"Engaging","Date":"9 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Not too shabby of an adaptation of a truly wonderful and classic novel. Daniel Day-Lewis is stellar as are the rest of the cast. Beautiful and heart wrenching. It could highlighted the intense love between Binoche and Lewis that was so apparent in the book and so important to the story. It would have brought more understanding to Binoche's perplexing obsequiousness. Other than those things its a very moving film.  "},{"Title":"Too Long???  It wasn't long enough!!","Date":"8 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Much to the agony of another reviewer here (Leo), Unbearable ... and The English Patient and my top two films. They are both tragic love stories in a sense, and both long and sensuous. With their wonderful soundtracks and beautiful atmospheres, they are great escapes into a different time and place. I would love to meet the man who can sit (and stay awake) through both of these films and actually enjoy them. If you've got to have lots of action and intense music to tell you there's about to be action, these films aren't for you. Then again, the person who has the patience to enjoy the sensuality of these films, probably takes his time to enjoy other things.  "},{"Title":"Awful","Date":"24 January 2003","Score":"8 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Absolutely the worst movie I have ever seen in my entire life. I saw it in 1988, and nothing has yet dethroned it from its position at the bottom of my list. Calling it boring and tedious would be too generous -- a waste of celluloid. "},{"Title":"The Unbearable Dullness Of This Movie","Date":"29 April 2015","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" According to a number of reviews that I've read (here on IMDb) - This 1988 movie was, apparently, an absolute corruption of the novel, which was written by Czech-writer, Milan Kundera, in 1984.Perhaps this was so (I haven't read Kundera's book) - But I will tell you one thing that's totally true - At a 3-hour running time, The Unbearable Lightness Of Being was, indeed, totally unbearable to tolerate.Regardless of containing some deliberately distracting, soft-core erotica, thrown into the story for good measure, the love-triangle that transpired between Tomas, Tereza and Sabina was such a tiresome, little, cry-baby affair that any gratuitous sexuality wedged into the action only served to render the rest of the story as being nothing but a blasted bore.Set in Prague in the year 1968 - Believe me, this film was very-very dry storytelling.And, I think that that dullard, actor, Daniel Day-Lewis, was totally miscast as the fickle, conceited, playboy doctor who seemed to spend a good part of his waking hours dutifully jumping in and out of bed with one babe after another. "},{"Title":"Unbearable Boredom","Date":"22 March 2011","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This adaptation of the popular Kundera novel looks at the lives of a womanizing doctor and two women he becomes romantically involved with in 1968 Prague. The story is very simple. Although there is hardly any plot and the characters are one-dimensional, the film is dragged out to an ungodly three hours. Much of the time is wasted on mundane events lacking in drama or wit. Given the ample running time, it is especially surprising that there is no character development. Day-Lewis, Olin, and Binoche are good actors but they are not given much to work with here. The blame for this must go to Kaufman, who not only provided the lethargic direction but also co-wrote the lackluster screenplay. "},{"Title":"Wonderful Direction","Date":"26 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The direction of this moving just draws you into each of the characters so deeply that you are able to feel for each of them so strongly as individuals and not only as an ensemble. The scene between Lena Olin and Juliette Binoche when Lena is taking pictures of Juliette is so intimate and sensual, it is my most memorable scene in the movie and quite sexual without being bawdy!The intensity of love that each character has for the other is so moving. I found myself wanting to be a part of each scene as it all seemed so real. I can't say enough wonderful things about this movie. All these years later, I can visualize each moment on the screen as if I saw this movie yesterday. I recommend this movie to everyone I know, as both Lena and Juliette give such sensuous and real performances. "},{"Title":"Two excellent woman actors in a very long film.","Date":"5 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Unbearable Lightness of Being is an worthwhile but significantly flawed film. The female leads are played beautifully, but Daniel Day-Lewis' deadpan acting is just a little too deadpan for the male lead.   It's hard to keep up interest in such an unresponsive person, and almost impossible to see how the women can remain interested after the first couple of rolls in the hay.To continue the negatives, the film is a series of jerks.  On first sight, the real reason for the  back and forth, back and forth is fairly well concealed.  I'm probably not too sharp, but because the appeal of DD-L escaped me, it took a long time for me to realize that it is his adulteries that drive the plot.  If someone with more sex appeal were playing the part, I think the title's implication that the protagonist suffers a tension between lightness and being would come through with some force.On the positive side, there are those two women.  Binoche and Olin drive the film from beginning to end.  It's wonderful to see such unselfconcious and uninhibited performances.The ending is obviously just an excuse to stop after nearly three hours.The commentary on the DVD disk is revealing.  Most of it is from the editor, and hearing it you realize how the trees are being carefully cultivated with little concern for the forest.  It is also a very good looking picture. "},{"Title":"Cui dono lepidum novum libellum?","Date":"9 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Whatever you think of this film, it has one merit it forces one to think once more the eternal question of inter-media translation, specifically, the relation between literary and visual works. Whoever knows Kundera, even superficially (and I don't think one can appreciate this film without knowing Kundera), has a pretty good idea of the impossibility of bringing his books, as they are, on the screen.His multifaceted relation with the story, in which the writer is always the most important character, at one time telling the story and of the story doesn't translate very well into the concreteness of the film language, unless one decide to resort to such devices as the narrating voice. In this case, however, this would have been little more than an easy device, and bravo to the director for not resorting to it.All this said, the question of what kind of film is this remains, and I will not attempt an answer. It can't be taken as an introduction to Kundera, because it presupposes Kundera. I can't even completely agree with the Hollywood trivialization theory. There are enough bad John Grisham novels around to produce Hollywood movies for the next 100 years.This film may have been an attempt to establish a new relation between film and novel, one characterized by a greater interpretative freedom and greater adaptation to the need of the medium in which the novel is translated. If this was the goal, then Kundera was certainly an ambitious start, and the fact that the attempt was only a half success should be taken as a credit to the director, and not as his failure.P.S. I write this after I tried to watch the film on TV. Don't try it. At least, not in the US. The editing for content make it unbearable. After half an hour, I gave up, went out and rented the tape... "},{"Title":"Lust, love, revolt & struggle for power","Date":"7 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is difficult to comment on as it offers such a multitude of themes that constantly interactlust,love,revolt and the struggle for power, both in a human context as on a political level. The book on which the production was based offers the reader a somewhat more intimate and less complex experience than the screen version.As so often happens with the adaptations of novels, the director tries to catch the unique essence of a book by extending the length of the movie and in most cases obtains quite the opposite. On the whole the story is an interesting and captivating experience which demands a high degree of concentration and patience on the part of the viewer and will mainly appeal to the more literary inclined minds. Excellent acting and an indeed very aesthetically erotic Lena Olin. 8/10 "},{"Title":"it's worth seeing!","Date":"7 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Firstly you'd better read the novel by Milan Kundera, so it will be easier to understand the plot. The movie doesn't show all the ideas of author,  but I think that the movie is quite good though. It's impossible to show everything in 3 hours, it would take 6 hours instead of 3, I guess. But anyway, the movie is good. "}{"Title":"There is nothing I do not love about this film.","Date":"14 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  There is nothing I do not love about this film.  One of the most beautiful films I have ever witnessed.Brilliantly acted and filmed.  Ranks at the very top of my all-time favorites.  And one I view often.  "},{"Title":"Good film, but could have been better","Date":"23 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was good enough to make me want to read the book, but lacked enough to make me suspect that the book was a lot better.The biggest lack was that the film simply didn't fully convey to lightness of being in one of its principal relationships, the one between Tomas and Tereza. Tomas seemed inappropriately heavy. Sure, he was an unabashed womanizer, but his womanizing seemed more like a obsessive drive than a fun, lighthearted pursuit. Could the director lightened him up by using an actor less gaunt and intense than Daniel Day Lewis? I suspect so, although DDL lightened up considerably in some of the movie's later scenes.Juliette Binoche as Tereza, in that sense, seemed completely the opposite of Tomas. Rightly or wrongly, her playfulness went past the mark into childish habits such as picking her nose in one scene. And of course, she was noticeably sexually repressed compared to Tomas and Sabina. Despite her claim late in the movie that her emotional weight was stifling him, when the couple was together, she seemed to be the playful one, while he was ever taciturn and moody. Probably, he found any sort of monogamy stifling. On that count, the movie didn't adequately show why he agreed to marry Tereza in the first place. Did the book?In any case, the movie did a wonderful job of displaying varying kinds of emotional lightness and showing how any one of them can be decisive or divisive in a relationship. Certainly, the commitment-versus-freedom dichotomy was a stumbling block in Tomas's and Tereza's relationship, and in the developing tryst between Sabina and Franz. In contrast, the lassitude between Tomas and Sabina was a strength. It played into Tereza's relationship with her countries of residence and into Sabina's relationships with hers. It was also interesting to see how Tereza's career in photography varied from light female nudes to heavy violence in the Prague uprisings.All in all, a solid film that probably didn't quite do justice to the book. "},{"Title":"An alternative way of reading a book!","Date":"18 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  When Milan Kundera wrote the story of a political event in Prague he made a manifesto on the lightness of our existance.That means that we have to decide which way to take without even having the chance to change.How hard this could be?It is,when you have to face a tragic political history and mainly an evil enemyour deepest desires.The book has a special way of presenting its facts.It is really special and Kundera used to keep this style in his next texts.If you want to film this book you may have many choices;you can find the facts,you can realize the deeper philosophical ideas and you can create a film about the book.Or you can create an atmosphere of the million chances that a doctor in Prague can have in the 60's and how he chooses the less obvious and then you can create a film that can be read.When Sabina smells the shock of Thomas after the quick sex making is one of the moments that made me tear.  "},{"Title":"Anti-hero (but we still love him)","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The first time i saw this film, it touched a chord within me, it was such a beautiful story. Day Lewis is truly memorable as the philandering doctor.The second time I saw it, I recollect a collective sigh rising in the audience as the leading actor appeared for the first time. Daniel Day Lewis epitomises the man who is bad for a woman, but whom a woman so desperately and wantonly wants to know (and love). "},{"Title":"One of the finest adaptations of a philosophical novel","Date":"14 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  It securely captured both points of Milan Kundera's book, but did not capture the protest to the Czechoslovkian occupation as well as the book did.  "},{"Title":"seriously sexy Sabina","Date":"25 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Milan Kundera's novel of lust and love against the backdrop of Eastern European revolution was brought to the screen by Philip Kaufman, with the accent on the sex rather than the politics. Soaking his story in a liberal smattering of Janacek tunes (and an excellent version of Hey Jude), Kaufman's film follows its three protagonists - Tomas (Daniel Day-Lewis); Sabina (the lovely Lena Olin, who provides the defining image of the film, crouched with her hat at an angle); and innocent Tereza (the first time many of us saw Juliette Binoche, who was excellent).I remember 'The Unbearable Lightness of Being' with affection as it was one of those 'forbidden' films which appealed to the adolescent as well as those looking for a bit more political consciousness. It proved that Day-Lewis was an excellent actor, and in Sabina, it gave us one of the classic sexy images of modern cinema. True to Kundera's novel? Well, perhaps in the spirit of it rather than being totally faithful. But never less than engaging. "},{"Title":"The superlative analysis of infidelity","Date":"6 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I read Milan Kundera's book when I was about 12 but have since forgotten it. Nevertheless, I decided to given Kaufman's cinematic adaptation of the book a try since I've heard so much good from it. In short, I find little wrong with this film. I like how the movie utilizes the characters more than the plot itself, primarily because I miss movies that emphasize character development over spectacle. In terms of analyzing the characters I think we see how tradition and antiquity (represented by Sabina's hat) are the things we cling to in order to achieve some degree of continuity in life. Still, there are moments in which you have to reach outside of the characters. For instance, to analyze Tomas' infidelity, the historical context of the movie must be emphasized since the antitypical symbol of infidelity in the film is the demonstrations of protest against the communist takeover of Hungary in 1968. This is also one of those rare movies where the melding of docudrama and romance works perfectly. I'm glad that I've seen this film, I can't say if it achieves the same greatness as The Right Stuff (how many movies do?), but still, a great film. "},{"Title":"Unbearable Longness of Movie","Date":"26 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Yup, that's what i said.  Unbearable Longness of Movie.  My friends Val, Jill and I saw this back in the 80's.  I guess because of its reputation; yada, yada, yada.  All three of us just couldn't wait for it to drag through and end.  And when it was over for the next decade, all we could say was Unbearable Longness of Movie. "},{"Title":"This movie is just really good.","Date":"17 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have been meaning to see a Philip Kaufman film, preferably this one, for a while.  After seeing it, I have a hard time seeing myself liking any of his other work more.  I have not read the Milan Kundera novel, although I surely plan to, but the film is something like I have never seen before.  I would go so far to say it is The Last Tango in Paris without screwing around and actually saying something in the end.  A week after seeing the film, I was still thinking about it.  The unprolific Daniel Day-Lewis turns in a good enough performance.  However, Lena Olin and Juliette Binoche turn in a couple of the most subtley profound performances by any actress.  Surely Binoche should be considered one of the great females in film in the next decade.  ...Lightness... is very moody, and this is often the film's strongest point.  Even when it seems there is just not much going on plotwise, you are simply pulled in by the haunting cinematography and rich characters.  The light, playful piano riffs serve as a very appropriate supplement to the film's bleak tone.  The picture repeatedly refuses to give into conventionality, and just when we don't know what else it could do, it surprisingly shifts into a sentimental gear for the last act.  This is, however, credible and unmanipulative.  The characters shed much superficiality by this point, and by the end they are not annoying soap opera characters in a love triangle, but rather real people with real problems.  I am glad the studio allowed the near three-hour running time, because, otherwise, we would not feel as if we have just finished the journey of character that the principle on-screen characters have.  Thank you Philip Kaufman for NOT turning in a crowd-pleaser. "},{"Title":"The KITSCH Kundera strongly struggled against come back all the time.","Date":"23 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  It has always been a disappointment to see the film after you had been excited about the original book.Because here the unbearable thing is no more the lightness of being but love, romance of Hollywood style.You may find that certain important events are missing here, like Franz in Vietnam, Thomas¡¯s refusal of signing the petition, Teresa¡¯s mother etc. Because they are disintegrating the film, or simply because they are not relevant to love affair.It is somewhat unavoidable that the point Phillip Kaufman choose to evolve this film become love affair and Daniel Day Lewis choose to act like he is a don Juan(unfortunately, not of a genuinely Czechish style).Thomas maybe called a Don Juan, but a Don Juan is still far from a Thomas. That is the fundamental characteristics of Milan Kundera¡¯s hero.The most disappointing thing happens when toward the end of the film someone is expecting that truly shattering declaration of ¡°I have no missions. No one has. And it¡¯s a terrific relief to realize that you are free, free of all missions.¡±, they just heard somebody murmuring ¡°I was thinking how happy I am¡±. "}{"Title":"The film should have been named Tereza!","Date":"5 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Who ever read the book cannot appreciate the way it was implemented here. OK, I agree, it is unfair to compare books to the film who rely on them. Nevertheless, In my opinion, the director lacked a little bit of imagination and just echoed the book, a big mistake I think. Tomas and the political tension in Prague is here the central character, but from my point of view there wouldn't be this book and thus this film without Tereza. She is THE story.I am not a director, but viewing the story from the young Tereza's angle, the unplanned child and maltreated but very ambitious young girl whose mother and step father are unable to give her the love and affection she needs. She flees their home in their village to live with Tomas, a surgeon from Prag she met two weeks ago in the pub were she used to work. Tomas turns out to have a weakness for women and though Teresa manages to achieve a good career as photograph, this situation poisons their relationship... "},{"Title":"A classic, for those who love art, romance, and a good story","Date":"4 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  What is light to some, is heavy to others. Tomas loves sex, it is his sport, his relaxation. This is a wonderfully romantic film. The characters are people you can relate to, the story is believable. How everything is resolved in the end is sublime, a touching and fitting finale to a beautiful film. If you are a hopeless romantic, and have a taste for European artsy films, this is for you. This film is so good, I am tempted to give it a perfect score 9/10. "},{"Title":"i loved every second of this movie","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  a very absorbing story. in spite of it's nearly 2 hour and 50 minute running time, this film is never dull. it is in fact one of the most beautiful movies that i have ever seen. the 3 leads... day-lewis, binoche, and olin are all fantastic. the music is haunting and outstanding. the cinematography is amongst the finest ever captured on film, and the ending is absolutely unforgettable. i would highly recommend this movie to anyone who prefers an art film with and unusual ( but beautiful) love story.... to the countless box office winners that could have well been written by the average 12 year old. the end of the world can't be too far away when films like.... the matrix and fight club are rated higher than phillip kaufman's the unbearable lightness of being. a near perfect film 10/10 "},{"Title":"Superb","Date":"16 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  That's the only way I can describe this movie.  I'm surprised it only has a 7.3 rating.  As a movie of great emotional depth, it deserves at least a 9. The three leads are portrayed beautifully by Daniel Day-Lewis, Juliette Binoche and Lena Olin.  Maybe this type of film is considered to be too artsy for the typical Hollywood crowd, but those of us who enjoy being entertained yet having our hears & minds challenged will certainly find pleasure in viewing this type of film.   A somewhat slow-paced but equally intriguing picture.  Definitely one of Philip Kaufman's best, and one of the best films in the history of cinema. "},{"Title":"Great movie. Film at its best!","Date":"19 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Unbearable Lightness of Being is one of the few great novels that has been made into a great film. While not for everyone, most will enjoy this movie. If you enjoy philosophy or just thinking about the world and especially relationships then this is YOUR movie! Daniel Day-Lewis should have won an oscar for his role as Tomas. The cinematography is atmospheric, sometimes gritty, sometimes clean and beautiful and a great asset to the movie.P.S. if you like the movie you'll love the book. "},{"Title":"My favorite movie of all time-a masterpiece","Date":"5 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I first saw this beautiful movie when it first came out in 1988. I was 18 at the time, and I remember thinking that I would probably never see a movie that captivated me so, and I was right. The Unbearable Lightness of Being is a masterpiece-combining politics, history, sex, love and mortality in an uncommonly brilliant piece of filmmaking. The screenplay is superbly written and remains true to the beauty and tragedy of Kundera's novel.I have to agree with the previous reviewer who called this film sublime. I defy anyone who sees this film not to be moved by it in some way, and how many movies have the power to do that, especially these days?In addition, the performances by all Day-Lewis, Binoche, and Olin are masterful. I believe that it may be one of Daniel Day-Lewis's best performances. "},{"Title":"Good Movie","Date":"11 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'm really surprised by the previous viewer's comments. Perhaps one's take on this movie depends on whether or not one has read the book.  I happened to have read it before watching the movie, and as a result I love the movie.  Each word and gesture evokes Kundera and it is worth seeing the movie just to remind one of the book. I can see how someone who hasn't read the book might not like the movie so much.  Almost all of the philosophical depth of the book is lost here. Nonetheless, the movie is visually beautiful, the characters are memorable, and the dialogue is great. The pig, Mefisto, is a great pig. One of my favorite movies.  Definitely worth seeing. "},{"Title":"One of my favorite movies of all time","Date":"30 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is absolutely stunning! Normally movies don't live up to the quality of the books. This movie is based on the book of the same title by Milan Kundera (an excellent book) and does more than translate it into film. The characters are wonderfully portrayed, their personal philosophies coming into conflict in an incredibly sensitive and tragic way. This is an epic film set against the turbulent background of the Prague Spring of 1968 when Russian tanks invaded Prague. There is nothing I didn't like about this film and along with The Double Life of Veronique it is perhaps my favorite film. True quality. "},{"Title":"They did it!","Date":"2 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  They did it! They brought Kundera's tenderness and passion to its most sensual heights with the personification of this love triangle by absolutely natural lovers. Only 170 minutes, but you'll remember them forever. How many movies have you seen as a teenager that will still make you laugh, and cry, and scream for love 12 years later? "},{"Title":"Fine Double Feature With Kaufman's Other Classic!","Date":"22 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  First of all, I cannot believe the primary user review for this film is Leo Whatshisnam. I may have had a similar opinion of the film when I was a child of 15 - unware of love and loss. But this film is a beautiful companion to 'Henry and June'. (which most of my friends yawned through as well, not being seasoned men of love, lust and women in general.) Sure, you can take your female companions to this film and they will enjoy the depth of emotion involved (as well as being a great literary translation), but if you're a man who loves football and potatoe chips, take your significant other to 'The Waterboy' instead. "}{"Title":"Masterpiece !","Date":"27 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Based on Milan Kundera's highly rated novel, this movie achieves a level of honest cinematic drama rarely seen. With as many political comments as examples of human behaviour, this movie effectively conveys the passion of Milan Kundera. It is not however for anyone looking for a movie with cheap thrills. The whole movie revolves around the lives of the three main characters. Juliette Binoche's brilliant portrayal of a childlike naive waitress shows that she already had the makings of an Oscar winner early on. The same can be said of Daniel Day Lewis. Phillip Kaufman's easy understated direction draws attention and is brilliantly contrasted with authentic scenes of the invasion of Prague with the actors in the background making the whole feel very realistic and almost documentary-like. I would recommend this masterpiece to anyone looking for more than just easy watching film. The more you see this film, the more you can take from it. A brilliant study in behaviour. "},{"Title":"A lot to like...","Date":"9 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film has so many great qualities it's hard to believe that anyone who would want to see it could walk away disappointed. I can certainly appreciate that fans of the novel may be let down because the film is quite different than the novel. However, all of the meaning is there. Seldomly does a film ever fulfill the intentions of the book it is based on. But with this film, it goes beyond the book's intention by throwing in a lighter context. The book is excellent, and I did read it before seeing the film. There are so many qualities in the book I would have hated to see attempted on screen. There is so much of what's explained in the book that can be easily implied in the film. I'm not saying you have to be familiar with the book to understand the movie. That is what is so amazing about the screen adaption. The characters are so vivid thanks to the incredible performances by the entire cast. If anything, it's like watching a novel come to life. The cinematography is almost half the reason why this film is so bold, thanks to Nykvist. As with any great film, the musical selections were all carefully picked and appropriate. This is quite an underrated gem. "},{"Title":"Bravo!","Date":"22 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Life is a collection of experiences, unique to each individual. This film lets us see how its characters experience events in their lives, at times very intimate events.  What is boring to some is beautiful character development to others. Erotic, yes. Boring, no. A great film.   "},{"Title":"pretty nice indeed ...","Date":"9 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  philip kaufman did quite well indeed, what else could we expect as there are names like daniel day-lewis involved. although the book is far better than the film, the unbearable lightness of being is - compared to other literature films - more than just ok.  "},{"Title":"Unbearable is right!","Date":"11 March 2011","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Takes place in 1968. Something about a Czech man named Tomas (Daniel Day-Lewis) who (somehow) has a VERY active sex life with numerous women. Then some revolution occurs...or something. Frankly I was so utterly bored I could have cared less.I caught this up a theatre with a friend in 1988 (she's female, I'm male). Neither one us read the book and had no idea what the movie was about. We just knew it had gotten raves from critics. Both of us are intelligent with college degrees and have no problem with a talky movie. Well this movie was virtually all talk. Sadly none of it was interesting! For starters it was badly cast. It was almost funny to see all these women eagerly undressing and jumping into bed with Tomas. Day-Lewis is (to be blunt) ugly here and gives a dull and lifeless performance. The women in his life are given next to no personality of depth. They're just there to be used. The story droned on and on and on and ON! My mind kept wandering while trying to figure out what the hell was going on. Towards the last hour or so I was fighting to stay awake. My friend agreed. We walked out of the movie tearing it to ribbons pointing out the lousy acting and incomprehensible story line. I tried watching it again recently and gave up after 45 minutes. Again--the acting sucked and the story went NOwhere! Skip this one. Even Day-Lewis didn't like it. "},{"Title":"Great Novel, great movie!","Date":"14 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The title of the novel has a great impact to the reader. The movie is well played out. The Unbearable Lightness of Being is one of Milan Kundera's finest novels. The characters Tomas(Daniel Day-Lewis), Sabina(Lena Olin),and Tereza(Juliette Binoche) are the most notable in the book. These stars play it out very well. Tomas is a womanizing physician, his wife Sabin is no unhappy wife herself. These two play sex games with whoever they encounter. Sabina wears this old derby which I think is a turn on, and a teaser. When she wore that lingerie along with the hat, it brings the character truly to life. So when Tereza enters the picture, the chemistry between the two is non-stop. The examination scene between the two is what I liked. The question is, Who came on to who? Despite the political upbringing in Europe, Sabina did find a better life in the USA. The movie is self-explanatory, but the book is the real deal, either way you see it, they're both good! 5 stars! "},{"Title":"the man vs women","Date":"22 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The movie is i think excellent..Because...man vs women ..(*) ..I underline the singular man and plural women words...the relation among them is always non-touched topic of the world...or uncared...A good movie..To see...Regards.... "},{"Title":"A bit long, but a good flick","Date":"19 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Although the movie is too slow in the beginning and immediately after the invasion, it picks up nicely at the end.  The scenery of central Europe is stunning and adds to the sensuality of the movie.  Daniel Day - Lewis fills the main role well and Lena Olin is stunning in her supporting role. Juliette Binoche has been better in other movies.  "},{"Title":"excellent except director","Date":"26 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I believe some common director can do this work. Of course, he needs these so excellent crew and original writing include Unbearable Lightness Of Being -- the best great novel of Milan Kundera; cinematography --Sven Nykvist which worked in Bergman's virgin spring; cast -- the best actress Binoche; soundtrack -- the nice piano works of Janacek. I agree the crew is very good but the film is director's film instead of crew's. Furthermore not the literature. "},{"Title":"Not so great","Date":"2 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Just my $.02 this film could have been so much better. Unfortunately, it looks like the director didn't strain himself with too much work. For example, main characters in the film speak English with eastern-european accent. HOW LAME IS THAT? I would understand if Czech actors were employed in this film and they would spoke with their own accents. Fine. But English/French/Americans trying to mutilate English language to sound eastern-europeish do not deserve more than pity. Overall, it looks like the main plot of the film has been ripped off the book leaving important sub-plots hanging in the air. In a film of this length, so much more could have been said (6/10  "}{"Title":"I didn't get it","Date":"13 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Maybe I'm being a bit intellectually lazy but I just couldn't see the entertainment value of this movie. I'm sure it was quite deep but it was too much trouble staying awake to work it out. My fiance and I bought the dvd and watched it over three nights and the joke was that they didn't call it unbearable for nothing.  I don't usually question characters' motivations or behaviour but the young wife was annoyingly passive and naive and should have dumped her womanizer husband like a hot potato but then that would have made the movie pretty short. The scenes when they were running around taking photos of the political unrest and the lesbian photo shoot were sooooo long and boring.  By the last half an hour I was counting the minutes until it ended.  The only good part was the ending (the ending scenes, not just the fact that it ended). Plus the dog was cute.  It wasn't absolutely dreadful, just a bit too arty and drawn out for my liking.  Some people really like those so you might love it.   "},{"Title":"The key word is unbearable","Date":"14 March 2004","Score":"5 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is possibly one of the worst movies I have ever seen.  I don't care what the critics say, it's bad.  I think the problem is with Kundera's novel.  It's not that it's unfilmable; it's just that like 99% of his work, it's pretentious and overdrawn.  He seems to be enamored with himself,his characters come off as navel-gazing, and his novels as a whole are misogynistic. I have read many of his works (even his Socialist Realist poetry.  That was truly awful) -- I just don't understand what the fuss is about. Characteristics (like the self-absorption) in his novels make for infuriating reading.  In a movie, all the things that I dislike about Kundera were magnified.  Maybe I just missed something, but I don't think so.  On a side note, I cannot believe that this is a Criterion Collection DVD.  No way is this movie THAT essential.   "},{"Title":"A European film in English","Date":"28 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Europeans are obsessed by certain things that most of the English speaking world generally ignore or treat in a completely different way. The unbearable lightness of being is a European style movie in English and so automatically has its audience.The movies opens in the 1960s in Czechoslovakia where it is the swinging 60s. The young Czechs are dancing and grooving to the people's revolution as many people around the world did.Tomas is a brilliant brain surgeon with the appropriate 1960s sex life (but surely his apartment would have been bigger and better and he would be driving some sort of sports car).Then he meets Tereza reading Tolstoy and he finds monogamy of a sort. She is monogamous and faithful and he still sleeps around. This is where the title comes in. He is a light person who floats over the troubles of life and she is much heavier. Perhaps they balance each other out.Such little problems as their sex life don't matter much when the Russians send the tanks in. This is really just the challenge needed to explore their characters.This is probably one of the most overrated movies from the 1980s. Bland, European style sex scenes contribute little the story while the dialog either progresses the story or is simply explaining what the author thinks. The characters are reduced to cyphers and I am sure Daniel Day-Lewis's hair cut says something important but I don't know what. Surely the first things the soviets would have done is make him get a sensible haircut.This movie does say something and that message is the reason to watch the movie. But the characters and story are just not worth the trouble. Certainly those people who love the many similar movies from Europe will find something here. "}]