[{"Title":"Venue is Perfect for an Ideological Drop of 2000 Feet!!!","Date":"30 October 2005","Score":"71 out of 88 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" From the offset, I knew this was going to be a terrific movie, the pace, the cinematography, personalities indigenous to the Dallas area, the diversification of characters, not to mention the director Oliver Stone and of course Eric Bogasian...The film starts out on a Friday (suggestively occult in the first place) and begins with a radio station in Dallas that is hosting their number one talk show, The Barry Champlain Show (Based on the Talk Radio Host Alan Berg)...Barry (Eric Bogasian) is the abrasive radio talk show host and his job is such whereby it is compulsory to pontificate all of the sensationalistic nuances of the radio audience feeding into his show...He attempts to commiserate with a bunch of societal deviates turned lonely, vulnerable, obscene phone callers who have the masochistic craving to be publicly vilified, Barry Champlain is effective in coping with this precarious ilk, by socially debasing them rather than simply subjugating them to mere admonishment...New technologies serve a stigmatic purpose for the Dallas radio audience, and paramount concepts take a backseat to perversion, talk about Baseball Scores, Orgasms and People's Pets!!The whole thing is a cacophony of drug-induced diatribes and a potpourri for psychopathic paranoia!! This high profile cannon fodder is something that Barry Champlain thrives on!!! The convoluted pathos, the deranged proclivities deeriving from inaneities and puveyors of pornography and the overall pop culture afflictions serve as volatile ammunition for Barry Champlain's stilted battleground!!The setting for this movie is perfect in that there is a two thousand foot drop in terms of ideology.. In the the center of Dallas there is an overbearing sense of cosmopolitan awareness, whereby 20 miles away resides a significant chapter of the Ku Klux Klan!!...The play is based in Denver,that is where the actual story takes place, other small theater plays depict the cities of Louisville, Atlanta and Cleveland. Dallas is the city where the film takes place, I thought it was an excellent choice!!...This movie illustrates how people have a horrid and erroneous and deadly misconceptualization of the Jewish people in America, whereby they control the banks, their agenda is different than everybody else's and their intellectual literature leads to perversion!! These preconceived notions compound Barry Champlain's overall dilemma!!! Barry Champlain's personal undoing is whereby he is irascible and non-responsive to his alcoholism, and his abrasive and politically controversial nature is his ultimate undoing, this is what makes the film so believable!!The characters in the movie were well portrayed, Dan, the tailor made for middle management hatchet man (played by Alec Baldwin) who was constantly monitoring Barry Champlain's every move!!..Laura, his girlfriend, also his producer, will constantly feel Barry is someone who is always misunderstood!! Ellen, his ex-wife, is a recipient of Barry's anguish and selfishness, but cannot quite relinquish her feelings for Barry regardless of the path of personal destruction he winds up resorting to!! The Dallas radio audience is a melting pot of socially misplaced retro-bates who are dementedly amused by their own real shortcomings!!!...In part, everybody's hang-ups including Barry Champlain's own hang-ups are what do Barry Champlain in!! His audience ogles depravity, solicits amelioration and ultimately becomes Barry Champlain's pet project for prescribed sinners!! Social culture conflicts become Barry Champlain's downfall!! This movie is superb!! In my opinion Oliver Stone's best picture, including Platoon and Natural Born Killers..That statement in of itself tells you how magnificent a film Talk Radio is...The story consulting and acting and co-producing of Eric Bogosian is simply compelling!! The camera angles, the dialogue, the haunting character portrayals, all top notch..The cinematography of the Dallas skyline at the end of the movie is terrific!! Dallas has the dubious distinction of being deemed a mega metropolis...So now, just like Los Angeles and New York, there are crack baby cases too numerous to count, low cost housing neighborhoods from Hell and budgets cuts that will mean there will be a significant number of people who will be dead by this time next year!!!!...Dallas asserts it's status as a major metropolitan area in the precarious manner by which human debauchery prevails!! The city has it's lynching radio listeners who have given a pejorative spin to the marvel of nationwide air wave communication!! These are the culprits in the movie!! The ghoulish tabloid derelicts who want to meet the big bad wolf, and their decadent curiosity has morally obliterated The last neighborhood in America "},{"Title":"The best movie you've never seen","Date":"1 February 2003","Score":"44 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" When you think 'Oliver Stone' the movies that come to mind would be his biggest and most controversial ones like Platoon, JFK, Born On The Fourth Of July, or Natural Born Killers. Talk Radio usually doesn't. It's a pretty small movie, actually. More than half the movie takes place with Barry Champlain at his radio station talking into his mike. But believe me, this is one of Oliver Stone's greatest movies and should NOT be missed.Above all things it's a character study. Barry Champlain is a rude, self-destructive, risk-taking talk radio show host who says one too many things and starts to get in trouble with his boss, his lover(s), his fans, and even some Nazis. He doesn't like his audience and callers and a lot of them don't like him (eithor that or do like him, but have no idea why). But, at the end he says on his show I guess we're stuck with each other.See Talk Radio, even if you don't like Oliver Stone movies. You might be surprised. I sure was.My Rating 10/10 "},{"Title":"Still one of Oliver Stone's directorial triumphs; Bogosian is captivating","Date":"10 August 2005","Score":"32 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" In one of the more under-seen films of the late 1980's, at a time when Oliver Stone was riding high with Platoon and Wall Street (and before his opus Born on the Fourth of July), he co-scripted and directed this look at the world of radio, specifically one radio host in the middle of Texas. This man is Barry Champlain, in a once-in-a-career turn from Eric Bogosian, who wrote the original play and also co-wrote the script. Barry is like a mix of Howard Stern and one of those pundits you hear on the radio stations many of us might turn off. He's got ideas on his mind, opinions, and he's not only un-afraid to speak them, but also to stand up against the phone callers. The callers, indeed, are the driving force in the film, as Barry has to combat against the mindless, the obscene, the racist, and the purely absent-minded. As this goes on, he also has to contend with his boss (Alec Baldwin) and a hit or miss deal to go nationwide, outside the confines of the Southern way station he's in.While after seeing the film I felt curious as to see how it would've been done on stage (I'd imagine it was a one-man show, as Bogosian has had several on the side), the direction of the film is phenomenal. Stone has been known, almost typecast, as a director who loves quick cuts, the limitless effects of montage, and effects with the styles of camera-work and other little tricks, that give his films in the 90's a distinctive, almost auteur look. But in the 80's he had this energy and feverish quality to the look of the film, and wasn't as frenzied as the other films. In order to add the proper intensity that is within the studio and head-space of Barry Champlain, he and DP Robert Richardson make the space seem claustrophobic at times, gritty, un-sure, and definitely on edge. The scenes in the middle of the film, when Barry isn't in the studio, are fairly standard, but the style along with the substance in the radio scenes is among the best I've seen from the Stone/Richardson combination.And one cannot miscalculate the performance of Bogosian, who can be obnoxious, offensive, angered, passive, and everything that we love and hate in radio show hosts. There is also a funny, near distracting supporting role for Michael Wincott as Kent/Michael/Joe, who prank calls him one night, and the next gets invited to the studio. These scenes are a little uncomfortable for a viewer, but it does get very much into the subculture head-space of the 80's that Barry is as intrigued as he is critical of. The stoner may not 'get it', but as he says to him it's your show. Indeed, it's hard to cover everything that goes on within the talk, and there is a lot of it. But it's never boring, and like Champlain himself, it's not easy to ignore. And when Bogosian goes into his climactic tirade on air, with the background panning around in a continuous 360 spin, it becomes intoxicating, and a reason why freedom of speech is so powerful.Stone has been synonymous as a filmmaker of hot-button issues, who takes on subjects that were or still are controversial, and gives them a life-force that isn't always great, but is all his own. Here his skills and ambitions don't get in the way of Bogosian's- it's boosted, if anything, making an extremely skilled vision of what is essentially a near one-man show, which in and of itself is already well-written. "},{"Title":"Talked to Death","Date":"14 June 2005","Score":"26 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" ***SPOILERS*** For some strange reason Oliver Stone's Talk Radio based on the Stephen Singular book Talked to Death and the films star Eric Bogosian's play, about the 1984 murder of Denver talk show host Alan Berg, has never gotten the recognition that it so rightfully deserved. The 1988 movie was prophetic enough to recognize the underground movement that was developing in the farm and hinterland of America. A movement that spawned, some seven years later, the likes of an angry and disgruntled Gulf War veteran Timothy McVeigh who's hatred for the US governments actions in Wacco Texas lead to his and friend,Terry Nichols, detonation of the US Federal Building in Oklahoma City on April 19, 1995 that took the lives of 168 people, the worst act of terrorism on US soil up to that time. The movie is, as far as I know, the first time that any major branch of the entertainment media mentioned and elaborated on the rural militia novel The Turner Diaries by the late William L. Pierce, that has since become a chilling underground classic. The Turner Diaries forecast a domestic and utterly disastrous terrorist attack, like the Oklahoma City bombing, on a US Government Federal facility which was the FBI Building in Washington D.C. Dallas radio station KGAB talk show host Barry Champlain, Eric Bogosian, is the top rated show in the Dallas listening area and is now about to go national. Barry get's his high rating by his razor sharp wit and abusive behavior when he's on the air. Taking on all comers and ducking no issues, no matter how unpopular or taboo they are, has gotten Barry to be the most listened to as well as hated man on radio. Barry being a showman at heart and not thinking that his talk can lead to violence keeps up his abrasiveness to his call-in listeners as his rating go up to the celling. But there are those in the listening audience, mostly ultra right wing types, that don't take too kindly to his in your face attitude. One of them decides to take matters into his on hand at Barry's expense. Powerhouse performance by Eric Bogosian as the tragic Barry Champlain who crossed the line from entertainment to hard reality in his actions on the radio. Thinking that he's not that important to be sought out and murdered for his on the air opinions which is enemies dislike he found out only too late that there are those out there who are crazy enough to do to him on the outside. Also in the movie Talk Radio is a very young Alic Baldwin as Barry's boss Dan who tries to have him soften his tone but in the end goes along with his talk show style since he's killing the competition not realizing that in the end it's him that he'll end up getting killed. Both Ellen Green and Leslie Hope are the two women in Barry's life his ex-wife Ellen and now lover and talk show producer Laura whom Barry uses to his advantage and almost ends up losing both of them at the same time. The 1988 film Talk Radio is so far ahead of it's time that even if you watch it now in 2005 you still think that it's too disturbing to be shown to an over sensitive and delicate American public. "},{"Title":"Hugely ignored classic","Date":"8 January 2005","Score":"22 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I have seen it a few times and get completely glued to it every time. It is very suspenseful and intense. To describe it sounds boring but it is amazing. It is the kind of movie where you need can't miss a thing, but if you soak it in it sticks with you long after it ends. Now thinking about it I don't even know what Stone was trying to make us see. Just the story of Alan Green? I don't think so. It was a look at ignorance, stupidity, self-absorption, and a guy just loosing his grip. Maybe he had more grip than the listeners though. I didn't like Barry but still seemed worried about him for some reason. I was perplexed at why I couldn't get him out of my mind when the movie ended. I wish I could see inside Olive Stone's mind for this one. "},{"Title":"Stone's Cruelly Underrated Satire On The Media Remains Masterfully Amusing, Bold, Exhilarating, Fearless, Fascinating and Stark. Possibly Stone's Most Honest Film To Date","Date":"11 March 2007","Score":"17 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I have never been a great fan of Oliver Stone, often because I have found his films to be forced, preachy and generally flawed. The two Stone films I truly like are JFK and Talk Radio, yet Talk Radio takes the cake for being Stone's finest achievement. Stone is a director whereby you are either a fan or you are not, it is safe to say that before watching Talk Radio I was not fond of the guy and considered one of the most overrated directors in the film industry, though after watching Talk Radio some of my perceptions have changed. Talk Radio is an unsettling and amusing attack on what is now known as reality TV.Talk Radio follows a self-indulgent, dysfunctional, determined, hysterical, outrageous and perplexing radio host, named Barry Champlain who hosts a controversial late-night radio show in Dallas. Quickly becoming well known for his bold and quirky air-presence he becomes a late night sensation, whereby depraved junkies, delinquents, racists, sociopaths, sickos, perverts and morons call in to be ridiculed on air. The film shows the rise and fall of the man's career, carefully making an accurate portrayal on freedom of speech. Originally adapted from a stage-play, the film attaches itself to the theatre theme that it was originally built around, wonderfully conveying the film's fierce nature.With the ferocious energy and non-stereotypical air, Talk Radio brings all the hilarity behind crass media. It remains even more poignant today than it was in the late '80s. The film goes into depth studying the likes of arrogance, self-obsession, offensive behaviour, controversy, hypocrisy and ignorance. The film shows through a controlled manner how it is good to have a personal opinion and freedom of speech, yet it is something that should be used wisely rather than shamefully blunt. Stone tries to show how freedom of speech is a crucial importance in life, but is something that we should be wary and cautious about. The film asks the question of is our main protagonist just the same as the sad people who call up the show? Stone fabulously creates the film's key set-piece (the radio station) with an ambition and cold atmosphere. He then succeeds in capturing the isolation, fear, ambiguity and the dangerous emotions that are built up at the radio station. Eric Bogosian is perfectly cast as the isolated, self-absorbed and complex genius, Barry Champlain. He fits the role perfectly letting off his lines with such enthusiasm, urgency, perplexity, brusqueness and ultimately the bold hilarity of his offensive nature. The performance brims with spark, which was evidently robbed of an Oscar nomination. His voice suits the character, being that a primary element of a radio host and his power of acting along with tragedy and comedy works brilliantly.There is a strong use of editing in Stone's films and Talk Radio boasts some of his cleanest, most rhythmic editing. He uses beautifully controlled camera techniques, which differ from being calm to suddenly becoming turbulent. There is a vibrant energy behind the film, with its raw and wonderfully delightful script working as a centre-piece for the greatness of the film. The striking and virtuous cinematography stands out in the moments inside and outside the studio, most impressively capturing the city at night. Not forgetting the hauntingly heartbreaking and yet darkly funny climatic spiral to decline is ultimately remarkable cinema.Talk Radio is an essential modern masterpiece, I am certain you will be surprised by just how great it really is. I highly recommend Talk Radio for anyone interested in media or film. Talk Radio is a fine example of top-notch, intellectual and insightful entertainment, which still packs a well-earned wakeup call. Finally, if it was not for Eric Bogosian the film would not be the fun, delightful and enduring masterpiece it is today. "},{"Title":"Underrated masterpiece","Date":"10 February 2006","Score":"18 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Talk Radio is my favorite Oliver Stone movie, though he has made many great ones including Salvador, JFK, Natural Born Killers and Platoon. But I like the intimacy of Talk Radio, a cinematic expansion of Eric Bogosian's searing stage play that was based on a real life account of a Dallas talk show host. Working with ace cinematographer Robert Richardson, Stone turns what could have been a very set-bound exercise into a visually arresting ideological battle that presents a radio station as an arena of war. Bogosian is devastating as tortured on-air spouter of abuse Barry Champlain and conveys the conflicted, destructive nature of his character with conviction and a generous dose of self-loathing. Alec Baldwin, as his Alpha male boss, strikes the perfect note as a man driven nuts by a guy whose monstrousness he helped nurture. Ellen Greene is fantastic as Barry's sweet ex-wife who ends up becoming another target of his vicious personal vitriol. Stone and Bogosian fill every frame with interest and every line of dialog with sweet poison and cutting ambiguity. John C. McGinley, as Barry's long-suffering screener/technical producer Stu, turns in a hilarious, sharp performance, as does the great Michael Wincott. The film is a flawless, underrated masterpiece of superb writing, awesome acting and brutal, uncompromising direction. The Stewart Copeland score is brilliant, too. "},{"Title":"Interesting Character,  But Not A Fun Guy","Date":"2 June 2007","Score":"23 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I found this fascinating when it came out. How I would feel about it now might be different, knowing Oliver Stone's beliefs and how he likes to put them on film. Back then, I didn't care. I just looked at this as a character study of a nasty and very disturbed radio talk show host who had nutty callers and was nuts himself.I have to warn viewers - and this has nothing to do with politics - after the riveting first 30 minutes, this lead character Barry Champlain (Eric Bogosian) wears thin big-time. He is so obnoxious that he makes this movie uncomfortable to watch in a number of areas. This is not fun to witness, folks, but Bogosian does a super job in the lead role.Personally, this story is so full of anger, hatred and sordidness that I wouldn't watch it again. However, if you know all this in advance and appreciate fine acting and different kind of story, it's worth checking out. Just don't expect to be uplifted! "},{"Title":"Barry Champlain hates you","Date":"5 August 2003","Score":"12 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  *SPOILER ALERT* *SPOILER ALERT*Barry Champlain, (Eric Bogosian), hosts a late night radio talk show. He talks about how he despises each and every one of you. He berates anyone who calls him. Even fans get put through the wringer.  He is very good at pushing people's buttons. He's so good that a big corporation wants to pick up his show for national syndication. He may be a little too good as he is also inflaming most of his deranged fans to the point of death threats.Talk Radio is a great movie. The tagline for the movie is The last neighborhood in America. That claim may have been superseded by message boards on the internet. Of course, the principle is still the same Anonymous people yell at each other over some random topic. Nothing ever gets solved. The talk is the entertainment. How effectively you can upset your opponent is how you win the game. Champlain is the master.Bogosian is the movie. We watch him launch tirade after tirade against his listening audience. It's hilarious. His stress management consists of him having a cathartic experience every night. He still ends up hating everybody. And himself.See this movie.  "},{"Title":"An interesting film, though it could've been stronger","Date":"16 February 2005","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I tend to be inclined towards movies about people who choose to cross the barriers of censorship, and express what they really want to express. Eric Bogosian's character of Barry is like Howard Stern, but much more intelligent. The character itself is very fascinating. As an Oliver Stone film, I guess I was expecting more. The film sags a bit during the third act. Plus, it's pretty obvious that Talk Radio is based on a play, with its long dialogue scenes. But overall, the film works. Bogosian is great in the lead, and the fact that he also wrote the play from which the movie was based on probably helped him. If you want to check out one of Stone's greater films, I better suggest you check out JFK or Salvador. This is not his best work, but a good movie nonetheless. "}{"Title":"Best American film of the 80's","Date":"5 October 2006","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Talk Radio is of course, probably not the most well known of Stone's films, but don't let that put you off, this film is ripe for discovery, I defy anyone not to be entranced by it. Along with the best performance of 80's cinema by Eric Bogosian, for me (along with JFK)this remains Stone's finest moment. Stone doesn't seem to comment much on it these days and didn't do a director's commentary on DVD like all his other films. Stone has nothing to be ashamed of, most directors would kill to get a shot @ a film like this.The claustrophobia of the studio is intense and the opinions of Champlain are still very crucial arguments for today. The legalise all drugs speech is powerful and you might find yourself agreeing with him.In my opinion the film is about freedom of speech and how sometimes people don't like hearing things they don't agree with.The speeches and conversations with the listeners are very compelling, even disturbing, a chill ran down my spine when a crazed man calls Champlain saying he has to rape again because the city drives him crazy is totally shocking.The tension is sometimes unbearable with a scene when Heavy metaller Kent becomes unhinged, of course Champlain does himself no favours by ridiculing him. Champlain(or should I say Bogosian) is fearless in film and performance, totally mesmerising, a shame th@ Bogosians other big role was the villain in Under Siege 2(dear god!!)One scene th@ didn't ring true was when Barry's boss Dan(Alec Baldwin) gets him to calm down, Barry doesn't seem to be the kind of person who shuts up and does as he's told, it seemed a bit contrived and clichéd.The scenes outside the studio are criticised for being too formulaic, it's true because Stone is trying to make the film more cinematic and allow the viewer to see Champlains beginnings but it doesn't entirely work. It is a brilliantly cinematic film with extreme close-ups, deep focus, extremely fast cuts a fantastic 360 set which is used for the final breathtaking monologue. Must see cinema, it makes it rare because it was ignored @the time but is now receiving attention again which it so richly deserves. A classic th@ should be studied by generations of film students. 10 out of 10 for inventive use of Bad To The Bone before T2, brilliant supporting cast including John C Mcginley(Dr Cox from Scrubs) as the sleazy Stu, Leslie Hope(24)as Champlains girlfriend, John Pankow and Alec Baldwin as the suits and Micheal Wincott who plays three roles( a very underrated actor), the tension between the listeners and Champlain which is very heart-racing @ times and of course kudos to the stars Bogosian and Stone for such a fantastic piece of cinema. Enjoy! "},{"Title":"PC it ain't","Date":"6 April 2007","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Oliver Stone is not one to shy away from a movie or theme for that matter. He is eager to confront people with their fears or show them their ugly faces in the mirror. Look on his CV for proof! This movie is not an exception, quite on the contrary, it is another gem, that unfortunately not many have seen.As controversial movies go, this is one that you should be thankful for. A movie that should encourage you to think about you, the people next to you. The prejudices that do exist and that everyone of us has in one form or another. Either we like to admit it or not, but it is easier to categorize people and be like Ah he's 'xyz', yeah he must be like .... Now I might be reading too much into it, but I don't believe that. I believe that Oliver Stone is a very intelligent filmmaker and that he was aiming for those things. And if that's something you want to explore (as a movie or within yourself), than watch this film and be excited! "},{"Title":"Sticks and stones can break your bones but words cause permanent damage! - Barry Champlain","Date":"18 May 2007","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Never having seen an Oliver Stone film before, nor any films starring Eric Bogosian, I didn't know what to expect from this film. Having toyed with the idea of buying it for a while, I finally got it for free as a supplement with a Sunday newspaper and I was hugely impressed.It tells the story of Barry Champlain, a talk radio host who can be incredibly rude towards his callers, often putting them in their place before they realise what's going on. Though this is what has made him a popular radio show host, it has also earned him numerous enemies.The acting in this film was hugely impressive with not one dud actor in it. Eric Bogosian is brilliant as Barry Champlain, the troubled talk radio host with Alec Baldwin turning in a strong performance as Barry's boss, Dan. It also features the voice of, and cameo appearance by, Michael Wincott (my reason for wanting to see this).The story was really well written as, despite his arrogance, you feel for Barry as more about his troubled life is revealed and you see how vulnerable he really is.I'd recommend this film to anyone as it is captivating and, more importantly real on numerous levels, two of which being that is was inspired by the life of an actual talk radio host and the fact that you do actually get radio show hosts, and callers, like the ones featured in the film in reality.High recommendation and 10/10.Aye yours, Cat Squire "},{"Title":"More ranting from Olly","Date":"5 December 2005","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Probably one of his lesser known films, it suffers from the same lack of exposure as Salvador in that its actually one of his best.Written by and starring Eric Bogosian, Talk Radio tells the story of an opinionated radio phone-in host who upsets the wrong kind of listener. The film is important, and has much to say on the issues of free speech and just how free it should be, and you can easily tell that it started life as a stage play. Know what you're getting into before you sit down to watch it and you'll be fine.There isn't much to the acting really as Bogosian pretty much steals the film, he wrote and is given licence to rant, I couldn't take my eyes off him and that was part of the fascination many of the listeners had; the people who hated him wouldn't turn off in-case they missed something.Not for everyone, but a very good drama and overall a very good film. "},{"Title":"WOW a masterpiece of a movie not to be missed","Date":"13 June 2005","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" WOW, a masterpiece of a movie not to be missed. I had no idea what this movie was when I started watching it late night. I didn't find out it was a Stone film until after the film when I went on IMDb. Watching it, I was mesmerized. The cast, especially Eric Bogosian is just superb. One of the best scripts and camera work ever...The movie drew me in and kept me entranced until the very end...I did not dare blink for fear of missing something...Amazing how a small-budget film can be so engrossing and well made while huge-budget films that feature tons of action and computer generated special effects can be so incredibly boring. Don't miss this film... "},{"Title":"Give Me A Break","Date":"31 March 2007","Score":"11 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The most remarkable thing about Talk Radio is how bad it is. The callers' voices all have a phony, reading-from-a-script ring to them. An evening with an annoying loudmouth at a Dallas radio station is told with the portentousness of a Sartrean glimpse into Hell. Stone tries for an existential revelation and gets unintended comedy instead. Whenever a caller makes a profound (empty) point about something, Stone shoves the camera at one of his character's face as they are stricken with some traumatic realization that is never revealed to the audience. Bogosian overacts throughout in one of the most irritating performances ever smeared onto celluloid. Underrated classic? Give me a break. "},{"Title":"One of my favorite films, I hope my review is helpful.","Date":"26 September 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Alright, the first time I seen Talk Radio was in a video store for only $2.00 on VHS believe it or not, and I looked at it and I thought it might be about Howard Stern, because I just looked at it for about thirty seconds, then just didn't see it again. Then I went to another store about a month later and I found Talk Radio on DVD for only $5.00. So I see it was directed by Oliver Stone, and I picked it up. So after the film was over I was speechless. I have never seen such a film like this. Here's the main plot, then i'll tell ya what I thought of it.It is about a Dallas talk radio host Barry Champlain, a Jewish radio host who talks about whatever other people bring up and he interupts, and is taking everything seriously. Now, a network wants to put his show live everywhere in the U.S. So Barry's show gets a lot of interesting phone callers like Chet (a neo-natzi), Kent (a rock n roll drugged kid), John (rapist), and others. Now some of the callers sound like the same actor/actresses. But still I think it fits okay.Now what I love a lot about this film is the dark corners and the paranoid atmosphere of the radio station. The dark music in the background fits very nicely too. It has a flashback scene in the film also how he started with radio, which I think they did good on. But the great thing about the film is ending. I was surprised by it, and it kind of makes you feel paranoid a little about the phone callers off the air and everything about it is wonderful. It also tells you how to say the right things to people over a big city like Dallas. One of Oliver Stone's underrated/weakest films mentioned, but I think it's his best in my opinion.But definitely get this film if you like films with paranoia-feel like films with a dark atmosphere with sinister music in the background. I still watch this film a lot of the times now when i'm bored, as matter fact I watched it tonight. Yeah, if ya wanna really get the sinister feel to the film, watch it at nightime with the lights off. I may sound crazy, but it makes the film better!Another thing I forgot to mention is that the reason I don't think the film did so well was maybe in my point of view because of the title. 'Talk Radio.' It doesn't sound very tricky or anything, it's kind of plain. A better title like the book Talked To Death or maybe The Abusive Radio Host or something catchy and not plain Talk Radio. Or maybe because of Universal Pictures? Oliver Stone usually didn't do Universal I don't think. Paramount might have been a good company. I don't know, something about this film didn't do so well, but I love it.Sticks and stones can break your bones, but words can cause permanent damage. "},{"Title":"Taut, Disturbing, Brilliantly Acted Story Of Infuriating Texas Radio Shock-Jock","Date":"20 August 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Barry Champlain is a radio phone-in talk-show host in Dallas, whose no-holds-barred ideas on a plethora of social issues disturb and offend many of his callers and listeners. Is Barry a media messiah in search of truth, or a social misfit out to assault his audience ?This is an intense, provocative character piece about a man with almost no redeeming features who at the same time seems to be onto some really profound philosophy. Though co-written and directed by Stone, this is really Bogosian's piece all the way and he gives an astonishingly hard-edged and penetrating performance from which there is no escape. Barry is at times one of the most loathsome characters imaginable, spewing bilious misanthropy at everyone around him, particularly those who care about him. But at the same time he is also strangely empathetic, hypnotic, sage, even lovable. Bogosian's hawkish features burn into the frame, with his green eyes constantly darting around as if permanently seeking an answer to some riddle. The movie is essentially an angry, self-righteous rant against all the bigotry, injustice and banality in the world, culminating in a wild three-and-a-half-minute rotating single shot of Barry delivering the ultimate I-hate-everything speech, but boy does it pack a punch. The support cast are great, particularly Greene as the ex-wife and Baldwin as the boss. Robert Richardson's keen photography manages to keep the single radio studio set looking interesting and there's a tense score by Stewart Copeland, with a moving coda featuring that endearing phone-music piece, Telephone And Rubber Band by The Penguin Cafe Orchestra. If you're unfamiliar with Bogosian, check out his amazing talent in this flick - like his contemporaries, Bill Hicks and Denis Leary, he's someone who rarely appears in the mainstream media, purely because his writing is so out there. I find Stone's movies variable; I don't much care for his big successes, but when he is more ordered and objective, as with this (or Salvador and Nixon), he is much more incisive and arresting. A great primal scream of a picture, based on a play by Bogosian, inspired by the true story of Alan Berg, a Denver radio talk show host who was murdered by neo-Nazis in 1984. "},{"Title":"A masterpiece of shadows and doom","Date":"25 March 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A top notch drama enhanced by Stone's  camera work. The story involves the  meteoric rise and fall of a popular  shock-jock. The main character's ego  and opinions drip out of his pores  like sweat on a hot afternoon. Stone's  camera sweeps and glides around the  radio studio like a hungry panther.  His use of reflections turns up the  heat until the whole world starts to  warp and melt around the main  character as his world starts to  crumble. Bogosian's dialogue is sharp  but sometimes preachy. The voices over  the telephone seem brainwashed and  generic but I think that was done with  purpose to enhance the DJ's view of  his audience as being mindless  followers. The technical work on this  film is what does it for me. It adds  up to a fine film. "},{"Title":"Riveting stuff","Date":"19 March 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Abrasive shock jock Barry Champlain (a bracing and bravura performance by Eric Bogosian, who also co-wrote the biting script with director Oliver Stone) has an exceptional dexterity when it comes to pushing people's buttons and eliciting the most vehement positive and negative reactions from his motley assortment of callers. Over the course of a weekend Barry gets offered a national syndication deal, but instead decides to push the limits of what his co-workers and audience alike are willing to put up from him. Stone and Bogosian do a masterful job of crafting a fascinatingly dark and despairing portrait of a self-loathing and self-destructive egomaniac whose abusive love/hate codependent relationship with his lonely and loopy listeners skirts danger and disaster at every turn. Indeed, the alarming and eye-opening expose of the fear, anger, confusion, ignorance, and instability existent in the troubled heartland of America possesses a profoundly unsettling sense of deep-seated hostility and misanthropy that still resonates strongly today in this age in which people have easy access to web boards that enable them to spew off all kinds of nasty vitriol and foul invective at everyone and everything. While Bogosian clearly dominates the picture with his dynamic acting, he nonetheless receives excellent support from Alec Baldwin as hard-nosed station manager Dan, Ellen Greene as Barry's sweet ex-wife Ellen, Leslie Hope as Barry's caring and concerned producer girlfriend Laura, John C. McGinley as loyal engineer Stu, John Pankow as pesky advertising executive Dietz, and Michael Wincott as zonked-out stoner fan Kent. Robert Richardson's restless and energetic cinematography keeps the movie humming. Stewart Copeland's spare moody score likewise does the trick. A really edgy and provocative knockout. "}{"Title":"What's wrong with movies that are missing action?","Date":"15 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Absolutely nothing. The movies that are great in this world are not recognized unless they are filled with gunshots, explosions, and death. This movie is filled with a man talking about showing you a more complex character than has been seen in many movies.When a movie is incredibly fast paced but stays mostly in one location it has to be the work of a genius. Surprisingly enough, it is, this movie is directed by Oliver Stone and therefore is one of the best directed films of our time.This movie's screenplay was co-written by Oliver Stone and Eric Bogosian (Barry Champlain, main character.). With Oliver Stone's help, the screenplay was created as a seamless, rolling script which keeps you interested the entire time if you have any amount of intelligence. If you have an open mind about any subjects, and the wit to comprehend others, then this movie is something which you should find some way to watch, immediately. "},{"Title":"A day in the life of a radio shock-jock","Date":"11 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Oliver Stone hits the bull's eye with this film, aided chiefly by Bogosian's electrifying screen presence and biting, brilliant screenplay. Every moment crackles with a steadily-growing tension, climaxing in a truly, memorable movie-going experience. If there was ever an indication of a writer and a director's ability to meld two highly volatile temperaments into a seamless union of creativity, then this is it! The result is a powerhouse achievement, made more timely now perhaps because of our culture's disturbing fascination with celebrity, and it's distorted interpretations of fame.An ultimate indictment of our society's increasing morbidity, and self-sickening hunger for the next big thrill.A film not easily forgotten. I highly recommend it to anyone interested in the darker side of human nature. "},{"Title":"Oliver Stone's Best","Date":"9 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  In my opinion this is the best Oliver Stone flick -- probably more because of Bogosian's influence than anything else. Riviting stuff -- full of dread from the first moment to its dark ending.  "},{"Title":"I Should Have Paid More Money...","Date":"19 December 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" When it comes to movies, I don't easily discriminate between crap, pure crap and masterpieces. I believe this movie is an absolute masterpiece and it's hard to keep me entertained for more than 90 minutes. This movie ran SLOWER than Mystic River and Harry Potter 3 combined and I still managed to stay riveted to my seat. For me, it was the passion that Eric Bogosian put into his performance. It's extremely difficult to pull off such a stunt and manage to garner any positive effect from it. Bogosian probably nailed one of the toughest single-man performances in modern cinema. I didn't have any respect for Bogosian until the end of the film. The entire monologue minutes before the inexorable climax was the turning point, it was the key that turned me around. This man hit a point so low that he knew he could never recover from it. The corporate boys congratulated him on the performance. His blistering prose made even the slimiest one in the cavalcade shake his head in awe. It made me realize that personal integrity and hypocrisy don't matter in the world of talk radio, even in the corporate world for that matter. Stone may have been pushing some uber-liberal agenda but it was the actual movie and production that got my attention. Oliver Stone is a minor master of the moody. The final third of the film had probably the best lighting and cinematography I have seen in any film. Stone artfully makes the DJ booth feel like five-by-seven cell in a nineteenth century prison. Visually speaking, it appears that Bogosian's only friend is the black foam that absorbs his routine vitriol. He speaks and it doesn't speak back. It's a sad metaphor considering the way he treats the people who handed him his success. Stone and Bogosian carved out a stunning film of a man who is trapped in both a prison of walls and a prison of self. This man is confined to his own volition and he can never escape it. The scene that made me realize his conundrum was when he was unwilling to his ex-wife back. He preferred his own prison instead of the world on the outside. Every story has a conflict and it came down to the simplest of all conflicts man versus himself. 'Talk Radio' presents this conflict in an intelligent, gripping, and artful fashion. There are no hidden messages in this film and the progression of events should be expected by any astute viewer. I just leaned back and let my mind be grasped by this film and I loved it. It's unheralded, unseen, and it will never receive its due recognition. Let's hope it stays that way because gems deserve to be found and then hidden again. It's a gem because I found it in the discount DVD bin at my local Wal-Mart store. For $5.50, it was worth the half-hour I spent digging trying to find it. I did and I got more than my money's worth. This is one of the best movies ever made and that is worth ten reasons alone. Ten reasons give a score of ten.Here ends my rant! "},{"Title":"radio days","Date":"26 October 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Oliver Stone, always ready to make politically-themed movies, makes another one here. Talk Radio is loosely based on the career of Alan Berg, a radio talk show host in Denver who was murdered by white supremacists. In this case, the character is Barry Champlain (Eric Bogosian), an outspoken talk show host in Dallas who loves nothing more than to irk the people who call in. As it is, most of the people who call in are a bunch of pigheaded racists. And things may be heating up more than anyone realizes.Bogosian's performance brings a light comical tone to an otherwise serious movie. I really liked the scene where he jabs at a redneck who calls in. Granted, I wouldn't call this Oliver Stone's greatest movie ever, but it's a good reference in an era when media gets more and more concentrated. Good performances by Ellen Greene and Alec Baldwin also help. "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"8 January 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Excellent and highly under-rated from beginning to end. One of Oliver's best. Well Scripted, Directed, Shot, Acted and Stuarts Copeland's soundtrack (Trivia the music during the end credits vaguely sounds like a late 90's Pop hit by Spacehog Band Eric and Cast are Brilliant, let alone the Callers. What a whirlwind of emotions. It make's your hair stand on end. (...Necks will be broke and whips will Crack--in a old female southern accent.. Yike! creepy. Scary than any Horror Movie.10 out of 10Em "},{"Title":"***** out of 5","Date":"6 December 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** Howard Stern! What was the first thing that popped into your head upon seeing that name? Was it perverting? Offensive? Maybe shock valuest? But I'll bet it wasn't revolutionary. I'm not going to sit her and try to convince people that Howard Stern is a revolutionary or even anything close to it, that's not the point I'm trying to get across. The simple fact is that 90% of the people who just read his name had an opinion of him pop into their head whether they have heard his radio show or not. Howard Stern has left a lasting impression on all who have heard of him, he has one of the highest rated radio shows of today, he has a number one selling biography called Private Parts and a feature film to accompany it. Although Stern's frank sexual discussions may be offensive and seen as nothing more than a mean for some sick voyeur to give himself a thrill we don't have his named embedded in our head because of this. The name Howard Stern rings a bell to the public because he went onto the radio and pushed it to the very limits of decency. Nothing was off topic on his show. He talked to porn stars and lesbians; he even gave a live caller an orgasm over the radio. He was not a man willing to silence himself because what he wanted to do in his life was looked down upon. Much like Stern there was another radio figure who would not silence his voice. That man was Alan Berg. Berg was a man who was not afraid to speak his mind. On one occasion he told a female caller that he didn't know anyone who would want to be like her after she condemned all those who were not the same as her. For this brutal honesty Berg was gunned down in his driveway on June 18, 1984. This film is the story of him. Well, kind of. I say kind of because the film is only loosely based on his life. The main character of the film, Barry Champlain, is nothing like Berg. Champlain hates his life and his job and is falling to pieces. But both men would stop at anything to have their opinions heard. This film showcases the career of Champlain. It is a big screen version of a play with the same name. Champlain will talk about anything on the air, be it religion, sex, drugs, race or politics, no one is spared from Champlain's verbal attacks. Back in 1978 a little film named Dog Day Afternoon received critical praise. But it was not liked because it was a bout guys robbing a bank. It was liked because that was just a means used to disguise the films true identity as a character driven social commentary. This film works much the same. We spend most of the time cramped in the studio watching Barry argue his case with callers on his show. But one day he realises through Kent, a drugged out teen who Barry refers to as the future of America who comes down to the studio to be on the show, that he is a hypocrite. He sees that although everyone hates him they tune in because they think he is funny and just joking around. Barry states throughout the film that people listen to him because he is their only hope, America needs Barry Champlain to set them straight. He says their lives are empty and he is their way of filling up any personal holes left inside. But it seems the only person who needs their life mended is Barry. Because he doesn't like himself he vents his frustration on his listeners but most of his listeners don't take him seriously. There is a scene in the film that stands out in my mind because it shows Barry breaking down on live radio and telling the listeners that he doesn't care about their opinions he only wants money and ratings. As this happens the lights go down and the room around Barry starts spinning, the world seems to be going in a downward spiral and it is only Barry whose life is in tact. Upon closer inspection is appears that it is not the world that is spinning but it is Barry himself who is the one spinning. Then comes Barry's death. He is shot in the studio parking lot by a neo-nazi hater who was fed up with his big mouth. This film is a wake up call because is this really how our world should be working? Are we taught to be bland and boring, to keep our opinions to ourselves because no one else wants to hear it? Although downright mean at times, did this man's life really mean less than his opinions? It must have or he wouldn't have been killed. The scary thing is that this is a very possible situation, just look at Berg, pretty powerful stuff if you ask me. This film was directed by the mastermind who goes by the name of Oliver Stone, who not unlike Barry is not afraid to say what he needs to say, even if it means offending a few narrow-minded people along they way. Stone works wonders for the film, which is suprising since he didn't write the script. He uses lighting as a big part of setting the tone and atmosphere in the film and uses wonderful camera techniques to convey his messages. One scene where this works wonderfully is when Barry's ex wife calls his show pretending to be someone else and tells Barry that she still has feelings for her former husband and wants him back. The camera pulls to a shot of the side of Barry's face and his wife standing in the background, on the phone, behind a pain of glass. Their faces connect as one while she is saying such things of Barry, suggesting that they will again become a pair. Then she turns black and only Barry is lighten. He yells at her that she blew it and should get over it. But even thought all of this is in the film it is not Stone's efforts that are the highlight for once. But The acting by the writer of the play, the script, actor of the play and now actor of the film, Eric Bogosian, whose acting is top-notch as Barry. Some people will do anything to get their name heard and they will become famous for it (look at Johnny Knoxville of Jackass fame). Then there are some people who will be brutally honest to get their name heard and they to will become famous for it, but it is these people that have the ultimate price to pay, making this film not only fascinating and spellbinding but extremely powerful as well. See it!  "},{"Title":"A film that gets you to the core.","Date":"2 May 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Sandwiched between his Oscar-winning films WALL STREET and BORN ON THE FOURTH OF JULY, Oliver Stone brilliantly blends co-writer/actor Eric Bogosian's original stage play with the real life murder of Denver radio show host Alan Berg in what is often called his most underrated film to date.Dallas radio show host Barry Champlain's penchant for abusing and pushing people's buttons has led him to an offer he couldn't refuse...A chance for taking his show to national syndication. Upon hearing the news, Champlain subjects his ex-wife (Ellen Greene, LITTLE SHOP OF HORRORS, LEON THE PROFESSIONAL) along with his co-workers to an unforgettable night of offending his audience. But somewhere, a mysterious killer is lurking in the shadows...Bogosian gives probably an ingenious performance as the arrogant host with intense energy and bravura presence. Another actor that also stood out is Michael Wincott (THE DOORS, THE CROW) as the air-headed metal kid who somehow ended up as an unscheduled guest. At the center of this chaos is Greene who brings sincerity and concern to her committed performance.Stone delivers a live-wire satire on Shock radio and the politics of adjusting Barry Champlain's controversial persona for the masses. However, the issue of media predominance would later be revisited in NATURAL BORN KILLERS six years later.TALK RADIO is a film that gets you to the core. It is an underrated experience that you will never forget. "},{"Title":"A highly captivating film!","Date":"1 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Oliver Stone is known for making somewhat controversial films that oftentimes shape history to his liking. This film is completely different than the normal Stone. It's a character piece studying the madness that a radio talk show host is thrown into, and 80% of the film takes place in one setting, which makes the film both perfectly uncomfortable and claustrophobic, and allows intimacy with the protagonist. In addition to that, this is shot so well, taking full use of the tiny little set used.Barry Champlain (star and screen/playwriter Eric Bogosian) is a talk radio host out of Dallas that hosts a controversial show offending many of his listeners. Barry has a failed marriage that he would like to rekindle, and even his fans seem to hate him. After being told his local show is going national, Barry has to put on one final local show, and in doing it, gains an insight into his audience.Eric Bogosian first wrote this film as a play, and it was fleshed out to make this movie, and really there could not have been a better actor to play Barry than Eric. In addition to his great voice, he brings the perfect level of arrogance to the role, which contrasts nicely against the moronic callers the voice their lack of opinion on his show. The whole movie has a lack of opinion, and becomes a movie about the lack of opinion in people, Barry's revelation about this is a great scene.The blocking and camera angles in the small radio set are great. Stone and his cinematographer Robert Richardson play with shadowy close-ups, and shots through windows with reflections, and angles that give the film a kind of creepy feel. The intimacy of the set, along with the callers who threaten to kill Barry give a constant feeling that something bad is going to happen. The direction and the writing meld perfectly together to make this fairly straightforward character piece a thriller. You don't really know what's around the bend, but the feeling of dread is strong. Overall, this film is a character study, and at the same time, a minimalist thriller, relying completely on the audience's imagination as to what is going to happen. The dialogue is sharp, the acting is great, and the cinematography is cramped in a good way, showing a certain madness. This is definitely right up there with Stone's very best work!My rating **** out of ****. 109 mins. Rated R for language. "},{"Title":"Solid and effective","Date":"23 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Talk Radio is a heavy-handed treatment of Eric Bogosian's superb stage play; Oliver Stone has never been famous for his subtlety or minimalism and he's having a hard time dealing with it, adding dramatic camera angles and lighting effects that don't always compliment the dialog. But it's still understated compared to Stone's other films, and his over-the-top touches aren't enough to really detract from the excellent text or from Bogosian's brilliant performance, that makes every expression and every facial twitch count, although they do spoil the ending. The film's great moments are its smallest, the ones where Bogosian is alone with his microphone, and in those moments it's truly a disturbing pleasure. With a more fitting director - maybe Scorsese, maybe Jarmusch or Lumet - it could have been a masterpiece, instead it's a solid and effective film that has stood the test of time surprisingly well and still packs a punch. "}{"Title":"Ba-ba-bad to the bone!","Date":"26 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" TALK RADIO is directed by Oliver Stone and based on the play created by its star Eric Bogosian and Tad Savinar. The movie takes place in 1988 at KGAB radio where Barry Champlain(Bogosian)rules the Dallas-Ft. Worth area airways with his late night acerbic venom talk-show insulting any and everyone that gets in the way of his caustic humor and controversial political views...political correctness has yet to be theorized let alone be honored. Champlain's antics have already started wearing thin with his chain-smoking engineer Stu(John C. McGinley). His producer girl friend Ellen(Ellen Greene)is but a doormat to the ego-swollen and pompous shock jock. His love is deflating his many callers daring to be cut down before being hung up on. The self-loving and larger-than-life air personality starts to spiral out of control when he finds out with practically no forewarned notice that his show it to go national after the weekend. Hiding his insecurity he phones his ex-wife(Leslie Hope)and wants her by his side as a crutch. Barry re-enters his control room to the sounds of his theme song Bad To The Bone by George Thorogood and begins to amp up his anger filled rants to further fearlessly irritate ethnic groups and listeners in general. Parts of this film is based on the assassination of talk radio host Alan Berg in 1984.Bogosian appears flawless in his characterization. Also in the cast are Alec Baldwin, John Pankow and Zach Grenier. Caller voices are provided by the likes of Alan Corduner, Michael Wincott, Park Overall, Earl Hindman, William De Acutis, Frederica Meister, Michelle Mariana and Rockets Redglare, who plays a pivotal role in the finale. Being in radio once myself for several years, I admit to several twinges of jealousy. It wasn't long lived. Every time I watch this movie I find something new. "},{"Title":"Dialouge is everything","Date":"26 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Everybody loves a good cynical movie, right? Right? Well if you don't then Oliver Stone's Talk Radio probably isn't for you. It tells the story of talk radio host Barry Champlain whose local Dallas, Texas show is about to go into national syndication. Barry is cynical, rude, obnoxious, yet truthful. He tells people how it is and he doesn't hold back if he thinks that someone deserves to be told off. Because of this he is becoming one of the most hated figures in Dallas. People call into his radio station with threats, dark remarks, and strong opinions about what Barry is doing. And he feeds off of all of it. But the growing hatred of his persona causes Barry to slowly break down as his coworkers at the station watch on, unable to connect to the man in any way. It is a tragically fascinating story.Any movie with a such a fast paced and snappy script I will automatically fall in love with. Thus after about fifteen minutes of Talk Radio I was star crossed. The dialouge in this film is excellent and it carries so well from start to finish. This film isn't flashy and grand. It is pretty limited on location and, in fact, about 85 percent of the film takes place in the radio station. The script is what shines in this film and it's very obvious. It excellently blends its element of short staccato dialouge with incredibly eloquent monolouges. The whole film is built from its sharp script.But where would a script be without fantastic actors and actresses available to deliver the witty lines. All I can say is thank god for Eric Bogosian, the actor who plays Barry. He is incredible in this film. He delivers all of his lines with a poignant eloquency that carries so well throughout the film and makes some scenes absolutely riveting to watch. This is a powerful film and Bogosian's incredible performance makes it all the more memorable. He also has that perfect radio voice. It's robust, it's articulate, and it is stern. He's a person I could listen to for hours on end, as many people do in this film, that is, the few who actually like Barry's radio show and aren't deeply offended by it. Bogosian plays this highly unlikeable character to perfection and makes him very enjoyable and fascinating to watch.This film was shaping up to be something that was amazingly mind blowing. That was until the ending. The final event of the film is hinted at throughout and you are in high anxiety while anticipating it. And when it finally happens it ended up being really cheesy and extremely disappointing. The film then ends with about five minutes of city pans with voice over that I found completely unnecessary. The voice overs are also coupled with a really lame soundtrack that just made me hang my head in shame. I felt the last five minutes of the film negates everything from the beginning and it really disappointed me. I adored everything about this film until those final few minutes when I was just sorely disappointed.Talk Radio is a fantastic film that needs more recognition than it has. It is compelling, riveting, and even pretty hilarious at times. It is masterfully made up until those last five minutes where my opinion of the film just started to plummet. But it doesn't mean I'm going to ever think of this film as a bad film because it is not. The other hour and forty five minutes are incredible. So much so that if it had succeeded in resolving well this could have made it into the list of my favorite movies. But instead it is just going to end up being a very good film that I won't forget, but won't revere as one of the greatest films ever made. "},{"Title":"arguably Oliver Stone's best film","Date":"6 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It's the last neighborhood in America, says shock-radio host Barry Champlain about his guerrilla war talk show, where every evening after dark he ignites the Dallas airwaves in a one-man assault against ignorance, complacency, mindless bureaucracy, redneck racism, and (most of all) against himself. The life and death of the inflammatory Champlain (loosely suggested by the neo-Nazi murder of Alan Berg) gives Oliver Stone his most challenging film to date, thanks in large part to a strong, stage-based screenplay by Eric Bogosian. The author himself portrays the late-night radio personality, an embittered liberal with a gift for gab, engaged in a masochistic tug-of-war with an invisible audience. His audience hates him but can't stop listening; he hates his audience but can't stop talking; and the more volatile his show becomes the higher his ratings soar.The anger and vitriol he invites from his fans might be good for business, but is it entertainment of public self-flagellation? The answer in Oliver Stone's atypically tense, claustrophobic portrait is a little bit of both, and Champlain's acid personality will either pin audiences to their seats or else drive them from the room. Without his own script to weigh him down the director is free to indulge his trademark camera calisthenics with persuasive skill, creating a lush midnight ambiance filtered through masochistic paranoia. Stone uses the stage-bound studio setting to good advantage, transforming it with his fluid, insinuating camera into a menacing, claustrophobic prison of glass, chrome and neon.But as usual the director wildly overstates his message. Like Champlain, Stone doesn't know when to quit, and the often extraordinary tension built into Bogosian's dialogue is almost spoiled by a long, pointless flashback (shot in standard flashback sepia tones), by redundant moralizing during the climactic on-air monologue, and by a typically overwrought resolution. Otherwise the film is an often spellbinding character study, and a sharply focused snapshot of the public and private paranoia unique to America in the mid-1980s. "},{"Title":"The Oliver Stone Show","Date":"18 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" More fast talking macho pyrotechnics from Oliver Stone, a director whose love for alpha men borders on the homo-erotic.Talk Radio revolves around Barry Champlain, a self loathing radio host who molests his callers through a microphone. Though he spends the entire film seated at a desk, Barry exudes pure sonic physicality, using his alpha dog swagger to simultaneously masturbate his listeners and cut them apart like a radio DJ rapist. In between these acts of audio sex, Barry indulges in doing what Oliver Stone's filmography does best; ranting about political and social corruption in the most didactic and obvious ways possible.Radio is fast, fun and gripping, the audience watching as Barry explodes, implodes, yells and reveals &#x96; rarely &#x96; glimpses of his own wounded psyche. Like the stage play upon which it is based, Radio then launches into a subplot about 1960s styled social passion being repackaged for 80s styled profit. Barry is himself your typical hippie truth teller, albeit one who has been seduced by power, adopting ridiculously cartoonish (and wholly constructed) personas in order to both connect to viewers and convey an illusion of potency. But this potency, and Barry's very identity, is based on self-delusion, the film drawing parallels between Barry's alienation, cynicism, impotency, hypocrisy and anger, and the very bigots who call and listen to his show.As it was based on a stage play (by Eric Bogosian), it's no surprise that Radio takes place at one location and unfolds on a fairly small, single set. Still, Stone keeps the pace fast. Though at times goofy, he, like Barry, inserts enough energy and muscular trickery to keep us entertained.8/10 &#x96; Stone's films tend to age badly, but Talk Radio has held up very well. Whilst most of his films are overproduced and self-important, this one is sparse and self-depreciating. It's also Stone's most autobiographical film, though perhaps unintentionally so. Worth two viewings. "},{"Title":"One man constantly upping the stakes and living the American Dream in his numerous promotions and career born out of free speech; but at what cost?","Date":"4 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Talk Radio sees a man somewhat accidentally stumble through life, indeed the American Dream, from whatever bog-standard and everyday job he has in a store; to presenter of a local radio show before going right the way through to the same job only later syndicated nationwide. It's a role he adopts out of his own aggression and natural mannerisms, a frothing mad approach to freedom of speech as he attacks just about everyone and everything, even those that often call up to agree with him or compliment him. His role as a man that rants on all things good, evil, right, wrong, political, religious, moral and immoral is something that people seem to take to in one form; that of 'it's entertaining and worth tuning in for', but additionally on a plane of rejection and antagonism &#x96; two things born out of the very things seemingly encouraged in professional working life in the Western World. This, towards a man as he gets to the very top of his game by way of the American Dream and dealing in freedom of speech as people take to a man but do anything but take to what it is he says.Talk Radio begins with a montage of tall, towering buildings in a business based area of Dallas, Texas. The skyscrapers are shot from a ,ow angle and tower over the viewer plus everything else in the general vicinity as this voice of one man tears through the images, belting out statements and information on items as these monolithic buildings dominate out screen. They are the very physical representation of capitalism, while the voice of what we learn to be a radio DJ is the oral representation of the free west; personal speech and opinions on anything and everything. Stone will finish his film in the exact same manner in which he started it, although the film is anything but a circular journey of any sort as the characters undergo monumental changes in both what they witness and their general livelihood. Rather, the shots of the buildings act as an anchor around which the study is observed. The ideologies and ideas of a way of life exist; people subscribe to them, but it does them more harm than good; before the re-establishment that this proud way of life still exists and will continue to exist in churning out the sorts of people on display in the film until someone or something drastically changes things.The DJ is Barry Champlain, a man with a radio show on a local Texan station dealing with just about anything. Champlain's somewhat carefree attitude to some pretty explosive content is established when he flies from one call with a bigoted man whom recently visited a Holocaust museum to a young drug addict whose girlfriend has supposedly overdosed and onto both the berating and mocking of a pizza shop. To us, the content comes across as quite shocking; to these people, everything seems to be business as usual which plants some serious seeds of both doubt and horror within the minds of us, the newcomers to all of this.What Barry's show is about, nobody ever seems to really establish everything and nothing. Indeed, time is taken in the form of either jingles or dialogue that the shows immediately pre and post Champlain's show are on specific subjects; gardening, for instance, and are hosted by calm speaking and methodical people whom, I'm sure, do not flit from one random or extreme to another all the time raising the stakes. One wonders what Barry's jingle is, the kind that plays around about lunch time during someone else's' show Coming up later, the Barry Champlain show! Featuring the village idiot and psychotic drug abusers! Indeed, his show's introductory piece carries a matter-of-fact tone, a shouting at the audience, as a loud rock track accompanies it.Barry's success arrives in the national syndication proposal. It's born out of confrontation and a relationship built on the contempt he has for his listeners and that they have for him. The furthering of the material and the upping of the stakes ought to call into question just how far they think they can take this, and whether this progressing down a track for sake of entertainment is really worth it. It is when the show reaches this level of broadcast that Barry seems to come unstuck for the first time in his broadcasting life, when a supposed serial rapist calls in and leaves mostly everyone slightly stunned. It's at this point the camera pauses on Barry, and by way of depth of focus, encompasses those same looming, towering buildings the film began with which stand outside of the window, directly behind Barry. They remain tall and proud. Specifically, of the ideologies they've been built on and this furtherance of freedom of speech in broadening Barry's show nationwide as one man climbs his profession's ladder suddenly clashes with the sort of content that's being offered. Everything reaches a point too far, and that with freedom, ought to at least come a sense of clarity rather than a mere revelling.Oliver Stone made Talk Radio right in the middle of both a fascinating and explosive period of film-making he had in the late 1980s. In this time, he produced a series of really well received films in a pretty short space of time; beginning with one of my favourite war films in Platoon before continuing with the quite brilliant Wall Street and eventually finishing with 1991's JFK. One might even say that this run continued on into the mid-nineties with Natural Born Killers. Talk Radio is like its lead character in the sense it's loud, booming, stark and confrontational. It isn't anti-capitalism, as much as it is focused on drawing a line between what is perceived as entertainment and what is just going too far for sake of popularity and riches. Talk Radio is certainly a film that sticks in the memory. "},{"Title":"Words are like weapons","Date":"23 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Eric Bogosian gives as great a performance as you'll ever see in an Oliver Stone film. His Barry character is an assault rifle disguised as a man and he blows away anyone, on or off the air, that offends him. Adapted from Bogosian's stage play, Talk Radio is a vicious and frightening ride that doesn't let you off until it's too late. By then, you've become familiar with the fringe of racists, rapists, paranoids, wannabe assassins and mere prank callers who listen, speak and lurk in the dark of Dallas nights. Stone behaves himself, if that's even possible, letting Bogosian dominate every scene, from Barry's humble beginnings to the make or break point when his radio show can reach national syndication. The rest of the cast are uniformly excellent as the lovers and/or co-workers that all have being used and tossed aside by Barry in common. The only thing I'd change is the recurring theme music, Bad To The Bone. I'd have used Bachman-Turner Overdrive's Not Fragile. A better song, one I haven't heard in a film so far and a driving, relentless tune whose ominous riff is like the true soundtrack to Barry's life.Listen if you dare! "},{"Title":"Powerful and Unforgettable","Date":"22 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" With boundless, raw energy and an uncompromising vision, Talk Radio brilliantly explores the public's fondness for reducing strangers' private problems into entertainment via the radio.Eric Bogosian is sensational as Barry Champlaine, a rude, in-your-face talk radio host. He's a natural for this kind of role, and fine tunes one of the most impressive, interesting radio personalities I've ever seen on screen. The timing and delivery of his insults to his various callers are strokes of genius.Alec Baldwin also shines as Barry's boss. He demonstrates the same explosive cynicism that he would later display 1992's Glengarry Glen Ross. But the supporting role that truly stands out is the stoned, seemingly brain-dead teen played by Michael Wincott. You have to see it to believe it.Oliver Stone and Robert Richardson do a great job with the photography, which is almost entirely confined to a single broadcasting room. The claustrophobic feel of the movie perfectly mirrors its tone. After all, one of the major points of the film is exploiting people's private moments to draw an audience. Stone demonstrates that these moments are often too private for the whole world to experience.Talk Radio is a film with strong emotional and cerebral impact - the likes of which are seldom seen today. "},{"Title":"An interesting look at the Radio Business....","Date":"7 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I have worked in the radio business as a Producer and board operator, as well as a DJ, and Eric Bogosian nails the role of talk show host! They are so in love with themselves and their own voices--almost the ultimate narcissists.I love how Bogosian used biographical info. about the late great Alan Berg, Denver's legendary talk show host who was murdered by 'The Order' in 1984. You need to read Stephen Singular's book about Alan's murder called 'Talked To Death'. It really tells the inside story of Alan Berg and talk radio.I grew up in Denver as a teenager listening to Berg and Talk Radio in general, and I love this movie!! "},{"Title":"The only Oliver Stone movie I really liked","Date":"8 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"       Oliver Stone has always specialized (supposedly) in painting his own viewpoint in what is wrong with American society, and pulls no punches with this one, but to me 90% of his movies (JFK, Natural Born Killers, The Doors), etc.) have been self-indulgent garbage. My main memory of this film was the fact that I saw it with my brother at a University of Texas campus theater the day before I left for basic training (and I've been in the Air Force ever since). I've hardly seen Eric Bogosian in anything else besides this and he totally blew me away as just about the most obnoxious, hardheaded, opinionated talk show host ever to hit the airwaves, just like Alan Berg, the murdered Denver talk show host this was based on. But you really look closely, there was decency and humility in his character as well, as he seemed sympathetic to every person who was hurting that called him. I loved the Dallas setting in this one,and yes, many of the people that insulted and threatened Barry are of that extreme-right mind set, unusual for this area fortunately. I think many of those callers spent too much time listening to the velvet Elvis on the wall of their house. One really brilliant scene was when Barry was debating one of his callers about the supposed hoax of the Hollocaust and end-times prophecy, a simply frustrated common working man sick and tired of the way American tax dollars are spent from the salts-of-the-earth who are just simply trying to make a living "},{"Title":"I've seen this movie five times and I'd watch it again","Date":"23 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is a film about passion.  The passion it depicts is largely misdirected, even for the leading man.  But therein lies the incredible power of this film  it shows us that what we believe can be contaminated by nonsense, and can even lead us to do things that are destructive -- to ourselves or others.  Moreover, those who try to escape from acquiring passion (watch the druggie who visits the studio) also risk self-destruction.The world needs to hear the message of this movie more often. "}{"Title":"Claustrophobic Joy...","Date":"12 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I love this movie!Oliver Stone's smallest pic is his best in my opinion.He takes a seemingly inhibitive setting, a radio station, and uses every possible angle to great effect.While I agree most of the credit should probably go to Eric Bogosian, I think the way Stone moves between the flashbacks and the present are great.The flashbacks don't seem to be popular with reviewers, but I think they work really well, especially the one at the suit shop.I wish Eric Bogosian was in more films (not like Under Seige 2) as I have little opportunity to see him strut his stuff on stage.  "},{"Title":"Oliver Stone's masterpiece...","Date":"8 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film is totally mindblowing. It manages to be thought provoking, funny, tragic, and cinematic yet claustrophobic.Although the flashbacks are unnecessary, the film maintains a pacy, punchy grip and the performances are all excellent, in particular Alec Baldwin, and the mesmerising Eric Bogosian as the film's anti-hero, Barry Champlain.  "},{"Title":"After a good start, it wear thin","Date":"13 January 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Eric Bogosian is electrifying as Barry Champlain, loud mouth and controversial host of a talk radio show. The opening 20 minutes or so is mesmerising, with its claustrophobic atmosphere and deep sense of impending menace. With the scenes involving Champlain's ex-wife, the temperature drops noticeably. The writers here take the easy option of making her too virtuous and Barry as gratuitously nasty and selfish, thus reducing any sympathy towards him. Back in the studio, the threatening atmosphere returns, but this time we have heard it before. Too many of the same callers saying much the same thing begins to pall. In particular the continual comments of an anti-Semitic nature simply wear thin. The writers once again make it easy for themselves in making all the bad callers white redneck neo-Nazis while the only obviously black caller was shown as almost Pollyannaishly happy. With a bit more variety and more honest writing (ie a wider cross-section of callers, not just endless white bigots) this could have been outstanding. As it is it is worth watching for Bogosian's wonderful performance. "},{"Title":"Great","Date":"14 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Probably the least talked-about of Oliver Stone's oeuvre, but it grabbed my attention more immediately than most. Like a black-tinged Frasier, or a more believable Howard Stern, a talk radio DJ baits his listeners throughout the film before the almost inevitable conclusion.  "},{"Title":"An underrated masterpiece by Oliver Stone","Date":"8 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie today, and I was very impressed. Eric Bogosian was outstanding in his Howard Stern like character. I did not agree with the characters opinions, but it was still a great character. This movie is the best movie I have seen in a long time. This is a low budget movie, but it is still very good. **** out of ***** "},{"Title":"Stone and Bogosian.","Date":"30 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is a very good film. Eric Bogosian and Oliver Stone have collaborated on a very solid screenplay. I really was annoyed by Bogosian's character. He drove me completely nuts. This is an interesting study in a self destructing man. There is a great monologue from Bogosian that Stone shoots on some kind of hoist and the scene slowly spins around. Great scene. Good movie. "},{"Title":"A Masterpiece","Date":"28 April 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Talk Radio is without doubt a masterpiece. Why Eric Bogosian did not recieve an Oscar for his stunning performance as arrognant motormouth Barry Champlain is a crime aganist cinema. Oliver Stone's use of air tight close-ups and dizzying camera angles do their screenplay justice and by the end of the film, as Barry delivers his monologue of hatred aganist the 'spineless, yellow bellied, bigoted little obscene phone callers' he torments every night, you just wish someone would end his life and put him out of his misery. The one problem I have is that I would have have liked to have known more about Barry's background i.e. his childhood and family so that I could have learnt why he is how he is. Aside from that it's a pure and simple masterpiece and the finest film of Stone's career.    "},{"Title":"Frustrating, Pointless Film","Date":"12 October 2007","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A very disappointing film from Oliver Stone which, unlike his recent epic J.F.K., fails to stimulate any sort of real emotion. Talk Radio is about talk-back host 'Barry Champlain', a very loud, opinionated man who manages to upset a lot of people and yet still draw an audience, most of whom mind you just want to ring up and abuse him. His boss in the movie (Alec Baldwin) sums up his character very well by saying he's just a shoe salesman with a big mouth. And as Barry (Eric Bogosian) gets death threat upon death threat, the final outcome is almost inevitable.This is the sort of movie that usually has something very powerful to say. However, Talk Radio fails to make a serious comment and remains a frustrating, pointless film.Thursday, September 17, 1992 - Video "},{"Title":"Talk, talk, talk.","Date":"10 May 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It's an interesting film, that's the least I can say about it, but I'm not entirely sure what I think of Eric Bogosian's character Barry and his acting or what Oliver Stone is trying to tell me here. The dialogue consists of many more or less obvious, juxtaposed points of view of the talk show host versus the listeners / callers, and after a while it feels sort of gimmicky. At the same time, there is a wry love story developing, and it even seems that Barry fore-feels his untimely demise. Politics, thriller, love story, they should only be mixed with great care. Bogosian and Stone surely try their best to deliver an edgy piece, but I suppose it worked in some parts for me. Michael Wincott's performance as a hard rock cliché come to life was hilarious to the point of getting scary, by the way. All in all, I had an interesting time with this, but perhaps I should see it again sometime to be able to wrap my head around all of the dialogue.A good 7 out of 10 for now. "},{"Title":"Compelling, packs a punch, prescient, foreboding","Date":"11 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Unforgettable. But in a way the civil discourse in Talk Radio is somewhat mild compared to now, believe it or not.Eric Bogosian owns the role (it's based on his stage role) and you either love him or hate him, or you cheer for him as he's the head of his late night community of listeners. You wonder if he encourages them, or despises them. But he needs them for ratings and to broadcast to a bigger market.This movie should be shown at any journalism school, particularly those seeking a career in talk radio.It's a cautionary tale for sure, back then and now. "}{"Title":"Interesting social commentary","Date":"21 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Interesting social commentary, adapted from a play by Eric Bogosian. Plot is good, and insightful. Solid direction from Oliver Stone, in a more low-key movie that is better than many of his more well-known offerings.However, the movie maybe feels too much like a play long speeches, basic set. In addition, the social commentary is pretty much rammed down your throat. There is hardly a likable character in the movie. A bit more subtlety and shades of gray would have been good.This said, it makes a good point, and the performances are solid. Eric Bogosian reprises his role in the play to great effect. "},{"Title":"A masterclass of pulpy thriller filmmaking","Date":"28 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Barry Champlain (Eric Bogosian) is a contemptuous talk radio personality in the Dallas area, boasting a caustic sense of humor his listeners love and his detractors loathe. Most of his phone calls involve loners, drunks, sex fiends, neo-Nazis, and many other unique souls, all of whom finding themselves cut down several sizes when they are placed on air with Barry, who gives them a far-left rant they never anticipated. Barry gets off on lambasting the public, often ignoring the instructions of his stressed boss Dan (Alec Baldwin), his long-suffering producer/girlfriend Laura (Leslie Hope), and powerless program director Dietz (John Pankow), all of whom preparing themselves for a national broadcast for Barry's program due to commence very soon.Oliver Stone plunges us into the lives of this soul in Talk Radio, arguably his most underrated film, and a soul, for that matter, who most of us would probably hate if we came in contact with in real life. There are hints of self-loathing on Barry's behalf throughout the entire film. Consider the scene when a sensuous caller dials into Barry's program and questions why he uses his intelligence to belittle people for their opinions and goes on to say it's because he is scared and fickle. Barry's face becomes void of any expression; the cool guy smirk and upturned eyebrows are traded for a blank stare and moistening skin. Barry is often greeted with so many strange, incompetent, sometimes incoherent callers that never question his personal ethos that when he finally finds a caller who does such a thing, he is momentarily silenced.Yet, despite infrequent setbacks like this, Barry persists on, turning talk radio dialogues into personal monologues driven by condemnation of culture, societal ethics, and misfit culture. When he has the mic, he is in charge above all and his greed monopolizes the entire scenario. He's like a more politically charged and less charismatic Howard Stern. He's stripped of every inherent thing likable about radio personalities, and yet, I found him to be one of the most fascinating anti-heroes and despicable characters I had ever seen committed to film. This very idea is what's exposed throughout Talk Radio; we are fascinated and entranced by people like Barry, who give us what we need to fulfill our ugliest human desires, metaphorically cleansing ourselves of deprivation, and yet, dirtying us up with a whole new layer of muck and rancid human hate.Writers Stone, Bogosian, Tad Savinar, and Stephen Singular (author of Talked to Death The Life and Murder of Alan Berg, concerning the life of radio personality Alan Berg, whom Barry Champlain is based upon) deeply consider this notion whilst fleshing out Barry into a thoroughly watchable presence. If Barry endlessly spewed hate without a shred of wit, we wouldn't buy it. However, Barry is smooth in his conversation, immaculate in his diction, and his ability to go off on two to three minute monologues, featuring a plethora of adjectives and complex political ideas, is nothing shy of entrancing. Bogosian gives an Oscar worthy performance in one of his few film roles (and only starring roles), making incredible use of the smallest film setting next to an elevator. His impeccable vocal delivery, which manages to send shivers down spines when he goes from casual conversation to intense, politically/racially-charged monologue, and his subtle, but very noticeable, mannerisms are all on point with every scene in the film.Talk Radio is also a film of sublime aesthetic quality, thanks to Stone and cinematographer Robert Richardson (who later went from working with Stone to working with Martin Scorsese on films like The Aviator and Hugo) making the most out of the tight-knit radio room. Every square-inch of the room is at Stone and Richardson's disposal, as they allow the camera to linger on shots of the radio switchboard, the yellow/red ON-AIR light, which becomes a blinding sight during a couple extreme closeups, the TV screen, which shows which callers are on hold, and, probably the most mesmerizing of all, as stated, Bogosian's facial expressions. These small transitory scenes allow for a huge impact on the overall project in terms of effectively creating a darker, more sinister mood and Stone and company certainly don't skimp on them. It's inclusions like these that make a good film into a great film, or even make a great film an incredible film.Above all, Talk Radio catches Stone in a mood of critiquing the media's influence on culture, even before Stone was haled for directing Natural Born Killers; what happens when dark, perverse programs like Barry's become the staple for a nation's culture? The opening monologue of Barry's has him condemning American culture as predicated upon pornography and slasher films, and Stone, in turn, spends the next one-hundred and forty-six minutes examining this idea. Through vivid camera angles, a magnificent and deep central performance, an immersing story and character at the core that do nothing but make the audience turn a mirror onto themselves, and gripping pacing throughout the entire film, Talk Radio is a masterclass of pulpy thriller filmmaking masquerading, though occasionally operating, as a drama.Starring Eric Bogosian, Alec Baldwin, Leslie Hope, Ellen Greene, and John Pankow. Directed by Oliver Stone. "},{"Title":"Talk Radio Speaks to Me","Date":"27 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" If ever there was a director who exemplified the liberal Hollywood attitude that many people scour at, Oliver Stone is that man. Since gaining prominence in the 1980's for such classic and caustic socio-political statements as Wall Street (1987), Platoon (1986) and Salvador (1986), Oliver Stone has since become a mouthpiece for issues ranging from the importance of Wikileaks to Scientologist rights in Germany.Whatever you may think of his politics you have to admit his films are powerful and poignant pieces of art; not the least of which is his tiny 1988 indie-flick Talk Radio. Released a year after the influential Wall Street and a year before the infamous Born on the Fourth of July (1989), Talk Radio never really made waves or felt especially important except for those familiar with the subject matter.The film is primarily based off of two main sources; the play Talk Radio written by Eric Bogosian and the book Talked to Death The Life and Murder of Alan Berg written by Stephen Singular. Incidentally Bogosian earnestly plays the lead role surly shock jock Barry Champlain, a role he first starred in when the play showcased in Oregon. You may remember him, as I did the first viewing, as the bad guy in Under Siege 2 Dark Territory (1995). I remember thinking the man had a sinister vibe and a great voice. Both traits serve him well in the role of Barry but his emotional investment in the character, no doubt from years of playing him, creates a level of unseen yet often felt intensity.It is that intensity that becomes the spirit of Talk Radio. You match it with the whims of a singularly passionate director and you have yourself a story that's way, way, way too big for its britches. This is not altogether a bad thing. The claustrophobic atmosphere of a fishbowl radio studio coupled with the incessant calling of a masochistic listening public dialing on the phone every two seconds makes things almost too hard to bare. The tension leads to a boiling point and catharsis near the end of the film when Barry finally looses it and spits bile into the airwaves. He chastises and insults his listeners with a barrage of taunts and pessimistic musings all of which falls on deaf ears.While Talk Radio is essentially a one-man-show, supporting cast does include the versatile Alec Baldwin as well as the enigmatic and underutilized Ellen Greene. One would wish that in a movie so filled to the hilt with rub-against-the-grain cynicism, calmer heads would give the story and audience a much needed respite. This is not the case in Talk Radio however. The only time we see Barry or anyone for that matter outside of the studio is briefly at a basketball game and in a flashback.That kind of overwhelming energy flow however can be forgiven given the subject matter. Barry isn't just a churlish radio personality but a target of anti-Semitic harassment. Many of the callers Barry is charged with communicating on his program are neo-Nazis and racists whom he gives airtime for the soul purpose of cutting them down the size. In those moments Barry is seen as a man of conscious but far from a good man in general.Just like in Salvador, Born on the Fourth of July, et al., Talk Radio is ultimately a character study about a man who has lost his faith in humanity. He sees a sliver of hope and salvation but finds it dashed by fate and the powers that be. Few main characters from the works of Oliver Stone come from favorable stock. They are our antiheros, the cautionary tales; the men we don't want to be.Oliver Stone is certainly a man I don't want to be. While I say what I must, I am far from a firebrand and polemic figure of the Hollywood elite. Yet Stone is a fascinating figure that draws my attention both in his movies and in his political advocacy. Some cannot divorce the man from the artistry but I implore you that even if you're not a fan of Oliver Stone, you take a good look and listen to Talk Radio.http//theyservepopcorninhell.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Almost Brilliant.","Date":"15 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Talk Radio is an excellent film with a phenomenal cast, brilliant writing and a brilliant leading man. Where it fails is with the cartoon character caricature callers who are plucked right out of the textbook of Texas stereotypes. Some of them actually sound like Warner Bros. cartoon characters from Bugs Bunny. It was really distracting. EB is a brilliant actor who really carried the film...with much help from the incomparable Alec Baldwin. If not for the goofy callers, this would be in my top 10 films of all time...up there with Fargo, Goodfellas and others. I was surprised to learn this was an Oliver Stone film because it didn't seem to get much publicity. Excellent story, brilliant script...very enjoyable. I highly recommend this film. "},{"Title":"Anonymity brings out the beast","Date":"17 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Oliver Stone had the good sense to bring Eric Bogosian on board to adapt his play Talk Radio into a film. Probably the most claustrophobic of his work, Talk Radio is set almost entirely within the radio studio in Dallas, Texas of controversial Talk Radio host Barry Champlain. By the way the original play was set in Cleveland, Ohio, but I'm figuring that Stone that Dallas with all it represents in American life is the best place to show an assassination.As it is his work Bogosian turns in one bravura performance of the protagonist character Barry Champlain. His confrontational style is winning him a lot of audience and he's got a sponsor ready to take him national. He's also got some personal problems including an ex-wife who won't let go, a boss in Alec Baldwin who's trying to put on some breaks and always his family of callers.The sheer anonymity of Talk Radio allows some really strange people to call in and express their views that they would never do over a polite dinner table. And like the people who enjoyed the Roman circuses we listen and enjoy and occasionally participate. Bogosian is getting his own kind of high with the power of the microphone and even more the power of the on and off button where he's guaranteed the last word.Stone was a prophet about Talk Radio. Even while this was in theatrical release Talk Radio was getting more and more powerful as an audience participation entertainment. For myself I want to be entertained, but television does that more than radio now. And if I want to be informed I'd better listen to all manner of views on all manner of stations and not just Fox radio or television. His confrontational style brings out the anonymous beast and Bogosian pays for it in the end.Talk Radio was based in part on the assassination of host Alan Berg from the Denver, Coloradio area by white supremacists. His killers were brought to some justice, one wonders if that will happen to Bogosian's assassin.In the supporting roles I best enjoyed Michael Wincott who played this metal head kid who on a whim Bogosian invites on his show. He's right in that if that is our future God help us. "},{"Title":"One of Stone's lesser-knowns, but no less noteworthy","Date":"8 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I imagine that back in '88, Talk Radio was pretty outlandish; a media satire in the network mold. Something that's fringe and probably won't ever happen. And even today, with a deluge of incendiary media personalities, it hits home, strikes a nerve. and that is mostly due to Eric Bogosian's whirlwind performance. He beautifully captures the character's inner angst, turmoil; a man with such loathing, not only of himself but outwardly directed. The guy's a basketcase, on the verge of snapping while still goading the crazies that patronize his show.As the movie wends through its closing moments, you know this will end either in Bogosian exiting the radio station to face another day of this insanity, or suffer the wrath of an unhinged listener. You just get that feeling. It's inescapable. But it's still a surprise, either way. This movie has an unbelievable knack for amping the tension (in an enclosed studio, no less) and getting under your skin.7/10 "},{"Title":"Classic Other Flick","Date":"15 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Director and writer Oliver Stone who also created other classic flicks, Nixon 1995, Natural Born Killers 1994, JFK 1991, The Doors 1991, Born on the Fourth of July 1989, Platoon 1986 and Salvador 1986 has created another gem in Talk Radio.Starring Eric Bogosian who has also been in other classic flicks, Wonderland 2003 and Under Siege 2 Dark Territory 1995.Also starring Ellen Greene who has also been in other classic flicks, Love Object 2003 and Leon The Professional 1994.Also starring Leslie Hope.Also starring John C. McGinley who has also been in other classic flicks, Identity 2003, The Rock 1996, Se7en 1995, A Midnight Clear 1992 and Oliver Stone's classic flicks, Platoon, Born on the Fourth of July and Nixon.Also starring Alec Baldwin who has also been in another classic flick, The Getaway 1994.I enjoyed the controversial views of the shock jock and listeners.If you enjoyed this as much as I did then check out classic other flicks, .45 2006, 1114 2003, 13 Tzameti 2005, Amateur 1994, Barton Fink 1991, The Cook the Thief His Wife & Her Lover 1989, The Game 1997, Last Exit to Brooklyn 1989, Naked 1993, The Naked Prey 1966, Short Cuts 1993, The Tournament 2009, The Trial 1962, Very Bad Things 1998 and Wake In Fright 1971. "},{"Title":"Dark and Disturbing","Date":"24 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is one of those shows that people don't talk about.  I never see it on cable.  It's like it's underappreciated.  Since I like talk radio, I enjoyed this show.  The radio personality was wild on the air.  His callers were so extreme.  It reminded me of Howard Stern's radio show in a way.  The overnight program reminded me of some overnight shows that I listen to. This is well worth a look. "},{"Title":"Talk Talk Talk the whole movie, Yet somehow its good.","Date":"1 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Oliver Stone= Americas #1 bold film maker.   The thing that is differnt about him and other Directors who try and stand out by being bold is that he is not trying to stand out.  These are his films and he makes them the way he wants to.  He does not try and be strange he is a MASTER MIND and in my view the greatest film Master mind of all time.  Talk Radio= A movie with only a few actors and Eric Bogosian does most all the acting himself. I dont how this guy does it.  I dont even think i could stand seeing Pacino talk for that long at a time.  Yet Bogoisian talks and talks for almost 2 hours and yet its still a great movie and i'm not thinking the hole time god would this guy shut up.  No because there is something about this actor that makes him able to talk and talk for the whole time and still stay interesting.   NOt only that but the Screen Play is very interesting(Screen Play also written bye Eric Bogosian)   "},{"Title":"The original play is better.","Date":"15 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is a very cool movie. The ending of the movie is a bit more defined than the play's ending, but either way it is still a good movie. "}{"Title":"Yakety Yak","Date":"10 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Eric Bogosian stars in Talk Radio, an Oliver Stone film based on Bogosian's own stage play, and the movie is exactly what you think it is Barry Champlain is our fictional incendiary shock-jock, equal parts Howard Stern, Rush Limbaugh & Morton Downey, Jr. He preaches a sarcasm-drenched nihilism and humiliates his callers whatever their views or background and, as in most movies about performers, his persona is no act&#x85; Barry is riddled with self-loathing, contempt, fury and fear. He's just about on the verge of implosion when his producer snags a deal to syndicate his show nationally, and tonight's show serves as his audition for the big stage. This wonderful premise is then taken to it's absurd conclusion&#x85; and beyond.Bogosian is no Brando, but he works hard to bring Barry to life, and for the most part he succeeds. We understand the man and why he's chosen this bizarre profession, but what we never understand is his callers who are they and what do they want? Why do they listen to his show if they hate him? Why do they call in if he rips them to shreds? Barry spends a good amount of airtime speculating, but Stone's direction is too diplomatic Is the hate-jock phenomenon a fascinating subculture to be celebrated or simply the lowest form of human entertainment? No one here knows, and you'll soon give up trying to figure it out for yourself.I enjoy ambiguity as much as the next person, but at some point you have to decide if your movie is about a hero or a villain, and that never happens here. Barry's anti-semitic assassination is an afterthought, and more than a little confusing Not all hate jocks are Jewish, and most wanted Barry dead based on his personality alone, NOT on his religion. Talk Radio stands as a reminder of a time before we were numb to controversy, so it's no surprise that it leaves us numb today.GRADE C "},{"Title":"My brief review of the film","Date":"31 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Eric Bogosian is excellent in this film that he co-wrote, playing a fascinating, clever character whose motivations are always a bit hard to decipher. It is interesting to watch how he acts, and marvel at the wit that so easily rolls off his tongue. Smart editing and some very good photography help to capture the intensity and the wry claustrophobia of the setting. Some of the sound work is interesting too, and Stone generally does a good job directing the material, although the flashbacks do look rather poor. More insight into Bogosian's character could have been good, and the film starts to become a bit repetitive in the final third, but it is mostly very solid stuff, with a power to draw one in. The lead performance tends to dominate, but John C. McGinley should not be forgotten. He played an important role in Stone's 'Platoon' and he is absolutely great here. This may not be such a great film if compared with 'JFK' and 'Platoon', but it certainly is something very good either way. "},{"Title":"Great Performance","Date":"16 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Talk Radio is about a man who shoots off his mouth at everyone who calls him up on his show. And some of them love him, but others hate him, and threaten him, and some of the one's who love him make stuff up to talk to him, than he blows them off. The story is good, but not really amazing. The writing saves the story with great dialogue, and characters. The acting is truly amazing the lead should have won an Oscar for sure. Alec Baldwin is also really good. The direction is Oliver Stone, thats really all I have to say isn't it, well actually after Alexander I might have to explain it. Its not Stones best direction, but its still pretty good, really good. The visuals are fair, but not great, in other words they just work. "},{"Title":"Very chilling","Date":"5 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I chose this movie really for my husband-who works in radio broadcasting. I thought that it would be more of a movie that he would enjoy and relate too, though it was from the eighties-so it was a little dated. This movie really draws you in. At times you just want to strangle the host, Barry. At times you just want to send some of the bigots who call in to a true concentration camp. At times you really feel sorry for Barry, because he has truly gotten too big for his jeans if you know what I mean. It was on the Drama channel on Encore-so I am thinking this is a true story. If you truly love dramas you will love this, even if you don't know all the ins and outs of the broadcasting business. If you are an Alec Baldwin fan and are watching it to see him, you shouldn't. His part is really a bit part in this movie. "},{"Title":"Play on screen","Date":"27 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A quiet, but intense dramma per celluloid from Stone. Bogosian plays the DJ who fights a simultaneous - and futile - struggle against twin scourges of the blank corporation and his own existential tinderbox (beset by the sparks of prejudiced phone-ins). He doesn't half play it either on screen for most of the film he is hardly filmed without actually saying something. Whilst the script is fine, some of the arguments go awry, I think - but this merely points up his neurosis probably.There's great support from McGinley (a stalwart from Wall Street, whose own quickfire style cast him on its own), and Alec Baldwin is fine as the realist producer looking for the big time. Above all though I enjoy the cutting and sound editing, keeping the pace fast and tension high, in a non-action psych-thriller. Not bad at all 6/10 "},{"Title":"Strangely fascinating","Date":"13 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Talk Radio peers into the studio and life of a late night talk/shock jock who has to keep the on-the-air patter going while juggling other issues. The film, which received good marks from critics and public alike, capitalizes on that same kind of strange fascination that turns motorists into lookie-loos at traffic accidents. Stone and Bogosian manage to deliver dramatic intensity in spite of a thin plot and little more than some of the usual love/hate Howard-Stern-esque talk radio repartee with a bunch of late night freaks and weirdos in this  pseudopsychodrama which will play best with talk radio devotees (eg Howard Stern fans), Jerry Springer audiences, Roger Ebert and the like. (B) "},{"Title":"Bogosian perfects the role of the despicable radio host, so much so that the viewers of this movie must have came to hate him too","Date":"24 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" If made today, this movie would have a much higher rating, and Bogosian would receive and Oscar Nomination. After seeing this film I respect the Academy so much less, especially considering that 1988 was one of the worst years for movies ever. The only performance I consider better than Bogosian's that year, is of course Dustin Hoffman's. This is probably the most undeserving film of its rating I have seen on this site. Shame to the shallow minded viewers. This only speaks more volumes of Bogosian's brilliant performance, as it seems that the viewers must have hated him just as equally as the callers did in the film. "},{"Title":"Needs to be remade for today.","Date":"14 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film was good but, would be much better if it were fo today. Talk Radio these days are filled with conservative talk shows all over the place. This film has the host as a shock jock. A real life Radio Talk show host named Michael Savage reminds me so much of him, the only catch is Savage is a conservative not a liberal shock jock like Champlain. It would make more sense to have a conservative talk show host these days. You may disagree with him, but you respect the fact that he is passionate about his views, also like Rush Limbaugh. This film has the right idea, but is outdated. "},{"Title":"Another masterpiece from our good friend, Oliver Stone.","Date":"22 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Talk Radio is one of Stone's very best films.  Adapted from Eric Bogosian's play and influenced by Stephen Singular's book, Talked to Death the Life and Murder of Alan Berg, this picture is a very effective thriller with an excellent script.  There is a brilliant performance by Bogosian here, along with Stone's masterful directing.  Talk Radio is one that any fan of Stone's will love.Note Oliver Stone is often picked-on by IMDb users for over-directing a lot.  The truth is that Stone is simply a better director than anyone out there, excepting Woody Allen.  His films are not made just so they can show off his talents.  Films such as Natural Born Killers, The Doors, and JFK are constantly called self-indulgent garbage by those who fail to realize how good the film and script themselves really are.  I can agree that The Doors was not as great as the other Stone stuff, but NBK and JFK are underappreciated masterpieces.  Those who detest NBK seem only to be looking at the screen and not listening to a damn thing that's going on.  There were some great ideas behind NBK as there are behind Talk Radio and most of Stone's other films.  So I suggest people stop simply staring mindlessly at the trippy visuals and LISTEN!  If you don't realize how good Talk Radio, etc. really are, then there's something wrong with you.10/10 "},{"Title":"Switch The Dial","Date":"7 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Oliver Stone, Eric Bogosian two self-important, index-finger-jabbing blowhards who were fated to collaborate. Back in the 80s, both of them were fast-rising up and comers, much lauded by the leading lights of the hipoisie. Time has not been kind to either man's resume, and it's barely more than a decade later imagine how phony TALK RADIO will look to Dolly the Sheep's generation in another decade or two. The type of drama on view is essentially a foul-mouthed updating of the old Rod Serling/Paddy Chayefsky PLAYHOUSE 90 model, tarted up with layers of exploitation, confrontation and narcissism. Though the events the movie is based on are true, every second of this loose re-enactment plays false. I don't know what we're supposed to make of Barry Champlaign, the anti-hero of this piece the way Bogosian plays him, you can't believe this man would make a career in radio to begin with. Bogosian's an interesting-looking actor with a soulful, hyperintelligent quality but I've yet to seen him in a role where he's not Eric Bogosian playing a character it's as if he thinks himself out of a good performance. Here, he's so ludicrously pent up with a viper's nest of cross-loathing - for his job, his listeners, his coworkers and himself - you can't feel any empathy for him, and you don't much care when he's eventually murdered. The laboriously heavy hand of Stone is evident as well, as the callers to Bogosian's talk-show come off as the standard liberal nightmare vision of that regrettable stretch of parking-lot representing America between the coasts relentlessly unintelligent, stunted emotional cripples with four teeth in their heads and Confederate-flag decals on their pickups. The message being sent - one we've heard and HEARD by now - is that these people, boobs at best and evil incarnate at worst, have guns and must be stopped. Never mind that every degrading 'caller' is an actor reading a script designed to make them sound like warped, gone-astray versions of the 'little people' so obnoxiously patronized by the likes of Chayefsky and Serling a generation earlier Eric and Oliver would never slant the material to make the boobs look worse, and the soul-searching Barry Champlaign more Christ-like in his torments as he dies for our beer-drinking, football-watching sins....after all, these guys are Artists, with a Muse and everything, and they're shotgun-married to the Truth, no matter how painful it may be to people who, by a convenient accident, already find them puerile and propagandistic. Funniest touch in the movie is Champlaign fending off the pressure of the 'suits' to tone his act down, lest he blow his shot at going national. Tone it down, huh? We live in an culture now dominated by Howard Stern, the WWF, 'Jackass' and 'The X Show', and these guys want me to believe that exercising restraint is the accepted route to media dominance? "}{"Title":"Ewik Bogosian Rules!","Date":"1 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film is a chilling portrait of late 1980's talk radio.  Eric Bogosian honed his performance in this flick with hundreds of hours of stage performances before adapting it for the silver screen.  Oliver Stone does a fine job of directing.  This was back when he made good films!  You'll dig Stew Copeland's original score as well... "},{"Title":"Voice in the crowd","Date":"26 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The most autobiographical of Oliver Stone's gallery of self-righteous, self-destructive scumbags, Eric Bogosian's Barry Champlain prefigures the shock jocks and tabloid-TV hosts of the nineties. The movie itself, based on Bogosian's play, feels like a single-set warmup for the tabloid apocalypse of NATURAL BORN KILLERS, and you can't say Stone's patented hysterical, post-Elia Kazan style isn't right for the material. Like Stanley White in YEAR OF THE DRAGON, like Richard Boyle in SALVADOR, Barry is an ass-grabbing, wife-crumpling, buddy-alienating loudmouth who'd rather blow out his brains than back down or apologize. As in those movies, Stone at least has the guts to confront the character's hypocrisy, the inner kernel of his defiant integrity. I don't care about you! I want money, prestige, ratings! I don't care if the world ends! Barry raves--and Stone follows through to show he's right.The question remains do we care? Somehow, Stone's manhandling approach made these antiheroes, indubitably pulled from the author's guts, commercial for a while; Stone's collection of bitter pills went over with audiences and reaped him three Academy Awards, while Paul Schrader's lonely men gathered dust. In retrospect, Bogosian's creation--creakily acted by the writer-performer--now looks like the bearer of bad tidings, not the lone truthful voice. The movie is like a sensationalist and self-important version of Jerry Springer's RINGMASTER.  "},{"Title":"If you wanted to speak every liberal thought, this is your movie.","Date":"8 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This film has everything I could ever want to say about society, how we act, how we betray ourselves, and how our actions have consequences.Barry is very cruel in this movie, but then again if you listen to his audience members, even you get frustrated waiting for an intelligent caller.This movie is clearly about talk radio, if thats a spoiler, somebody gag me...No but Barry/Eric Bogosian, is terrific. As he is in all movies as a Jewish man who speaks his mind, no matter what people think. And i just love that attitude, because it takes a very brave man/woman to do such a thing.I gave it a 10 because it speaks the truth of every negative thought.Oh and i love to argue. "},{"Title":"An Entertaining Misfire","Date":"8 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I'll call it a nice try, but there are just too many misfires here. The main problem isn't that our protagonist is an abrasive, obnoxious, offensive, and belligerent jerk &#150; the problem is that he's portrayed as being an abrasive, obnoxious, offensive, and belligerent jerk who never really had anything valuable to say in the first place. What are his beliefs? We never really get to know them because &#150; from his first day as a radio host &#150; he simply gets his kicks out of telling people off and perhaps squeezing some sort of societal statement into the fray. The film would've been a lot more interesting had it developed the idea that this guy initially had a plan and wanted to say something of value but instead let nonsense (these incessantly idiotic callers) cloud his train of thought. If interpreted as an examination of the radio lifestyle and not something like a proclamation on the state of contemporary North American society, this film is pretty effective. Barry's callers are just too hyperbolically caricatured for this to be applied to everyday life &#150; we never really get one normal, average caller. This simply shows us how crazy certain people can be when they have a lot of time on their hands. I guess all of the halfway-sane listeners never bother to call in. It's a shame about that scene in the gymnasium where everyone suddenly turns against him &#150; people simply cannot be this narrow-minded. People had trouble accepting the character of Barry Champlain (Bogosian) as a lothario because he's just such a detestable person. This wasn't really the problem for me &#150; history has proven that women seem to endear themselves to detestable men for whatever reason &#150; but I just didn't get the dynamics of the two relationships that we see (his current girlfriend and his ex-wife.) Each thing that we assume about these relationships turns out to be ostensible because of confusing contradictions that arise. And on a lighter note &#150; couldn't they have gotten someone who actually looks like a teenager to play the teenager role? (Not Michael Wincott.)I have to acknowledge Stone's always-interesting direction here &#150; it's a joy to watch his camera dexterously follow characters through the narrow hallways and small crevices of the radio station. There is also some amazing sound work in the film with overlapping dialogue that Altman would be proud of. But we ultimately get a film that says &#145;watch what you say' when it had the potential to say &#145;this is what happens when you try to say something of substance.'   "},{"Title":"Oliver Stone over-directs (again)","Date":"20 May 2001","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  What started off to be a biting social commentary and exciting movie is killed off by Oliver Stone's penchant to over-direct and to beat us over the head with his usual themes.  Talk radio might be nothing but a load of fools screaming out irrational nonsense, but Stone keeps drumming away at that theme over and over.  The 360 degree panning of Bogosian's character in the booth near the end is tiresome and amateurish.  Stone hammers his themes home with a sledgehammer in the terrible Natural Born Killers later on, and it's no coincidence his directorial career has gone downhill ever since.  Bogosian does a great job as the talk radio host, but the film gets bogged down after an electric beginning and one keeps looking at the clock in the last hour.   "},{"Title":"Hot Air","Date":"4 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It is a truth universally acknowledged that a man who hosts a talk show in the media must be a son of a bitch. In subsequent years (1956/57) half a century ago we were treated to hatchet jobs on a radio (The Great Man) and TV (A Face In The Crowd) host, both of whom bore a striking resemblance to the real Arthur Godfrey and both adapted from respectively a novel (The Great Man) and a short story (Your Arkansas Traveller) by two fine writers, Al Morgan and Budd Schulberg, both of whom adapted their original works for the screen. We never got to see Herb Fuller, the radio personality, because he was killed off-screen at the start of The Great Man and Jose Ferrer (who also directed the movie) was assigned to do a memorial tribute during which time he discovered just how big a son of a bitch the late Herb Fuller actually was. Lonesome Rhodes on the other hand was very much alive in the person of Andy Griffith in Gadg's A Face In The Crowd and turned out to be just as obnoxious as Fuller, hardly surprising since, as noted, both were based on Arthur Godfrey, who worked in both radio and television. It was a while before someone opened this same can of peas again and Talk Radio is essentially The Great Man/A Face In The Crowd with the f-word. This doesn't necessarily make it bad, merely repetitive and though the screenplay is good as far as it goes no one is seriously going to compare it with the top-drawer Morgan and Schulberg or if they do they risk being laughed out of Pretentious School. In Talk Radio's favor is the fact that its target audience would have barely been around at the time the two superior films were released and if you haven't seen - or possibly even heard of - either then Talk Radio talks a good game. Worth catching as a freebie with a newspaper but not shelling out for on DVD. "},{"Title":"Score of 7? HOW???","Date":"20 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" How? What did I miss? I love movies and I am extremely opened minded to all types of films. The best description I could give to this movie is it literally sucked 1.5 hours of my life from me. It is (no exaggeration) the worst film I have ever watched PERIOD. I want to know what movie these good review people were watching. Please, if you are going to respond back, please remember this. There is a reason 99/100 people have not heard of the film. There is a reason no one mentions it as one of Stone's best. There is a reason it is not on any favorite list of best movies (including yours). There is could go on all day. This movie made Bio-Dome look like an Oscar Award nominee for best picture. "}]