[{"Title":"Ecstatically beautiful on so many levels","Date":"15 June 2005","Score":"17 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is a film that operates on so many levels. The framework of the plot is that a group of friends in late 19th century London help Oscar Wilde put on a private performance of his play Salome, banned in Britain for its controversial political and sexual themes. We get to watch the interactions of the characters in the play, the interactions of the actors in the play (and offstage), and the interactions of the players with the sole member of the audience (the play's author). If you loved Lilies, you won't go far wrong with Salome's Last Dance -- both feature an immersive blurring between the action in the play and the actors portraying it. Don't let anyone tell you much more than that about the film, because there are some delicious surprises. "},{"Title":"A True-to-Wilde Adaptation","Date":"20 May 2004","Score":"18 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film WAS created in 1988 by a small group of professionals on a shoe-string budget. However, it is as beautiful and uproarious as the Oscar Wilde original. In fact, nearly all of the dialog is Oscar Wilde's 'Salome', and is executed as deftly as possible. While none of the actors are A-list Hollywood types, they add the spice of life to the dark, sardonic wit of Wilde with skill and saleability. For those of us who have loved this movie for ten years+, the great news is that this film is now available in DVD format. If you are not shy about subtle humor, social anarchy, and a touch of good-natured sodomy, give this film a view.  "},{"Title":"One of my favorite Ken Russell movies","Date":"23 April 1999","Score":"17 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Sick, twisted, bizarre, blasphemous, shocking, and perverse.  In short, everything I look for in a Ken Russell movie.  The 'professionial' critics really missed the point on this one.   "},{"Title":"Rare, Kinky and Cultish Classic Russell","Date":"10 February 2002","Score":"14 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"       There is never ending debate over the value of work by directors like Russell. He is almost universally written off by professional critics as a mostly sensationalist, tasteless crackpot who's real talent is questionable, yet he is passionately defended by other people and this deserves some comment. Russell's work is often described as tasteless, vulgar, unrestrained, even misanthropic and employing the imagery of sexual excess. One might make a case for the idea that these adjectives describe many fans of Russell's work themselves, or at least that they enjoy these themes in film. The latter is admittedly the case of this author, and unlike many people I certainly feel these are often necessary qualities of good art. Many fans of Russell attempt useless claims that his work is really quite tasteful and not offensive or over the top at all, but that would be somewhat inaccurate and in this author's opinion completely missing the point of his work. Compared to normal standards, Russell's films ARE as many critics claim they are, and they will offend people who for the most part should not waste their time viewing his work, and no, offending people is NOT the point of his films, and yes- many nice, healthy, well adjusted people feel his work is fantastic, ingenious and rewarding. Rather than digress into some probably useless philosophical (or political?) arguments over whom is correct or whom is better qualified to comment, it's better that the author's perspective be made clear from the outset. In the end, it might be argued that all ideas about the comparative merits of film or art are pointless, pretentious exercises used to promote arbitrary opinion based on personal taste.     When I saw this film (on DVD), I was under the impression that it was much older than 1988, for some reason. I have since found nothing online to confirm this, but I will always think of this film as something from the 1970's that was way ahead of it's time, and it has that feel to it. It included a copy of the entire film with live commentary by Russell himself that I found as interesting as the film itself. It is a simple, low budget film, almost deliberately retro in style. The work is Russell in a nutshell. What a man can do with a stage, almost no money, a camera, a few extraordinary friends (including a passionate costume designer), a love of irony and a profound sense of visual style. The elements are crude, simplistic devices- annoyingly, even deliberately so, like archetypal metaphors, and the results completely transcend the execution. That crucial departure is where many critics are simply left behind and forced to write off the work as plainly bad, manipulative sensationalism (unlike every Hollywood film? this film is NOT Hollywood in any way). I could not help thinking how easily this film could be adapted into a cultish, kinky and funny stage play.      Examining the psychology of eroticism is a hallmark of Russell and is put to great use in this film. That is not some simple offensive device used in Russell's films, it is the whole genius of his work! Sex and eroticism is the driving debacle of social, moral and religious history and deserves a great deal of examination. People have a crying need for Russell's talent of recontextualizing erotica in order to create self-understanding and inspire it's positive aspects within themselves. In other words, if one ever happened to fantasize about any of the crude scenarios Russell presents in his films (though no one can admit it), one might then find it incredibly beneficial to see it presented in an intelligent, imaginative way by someone else. If these themes interest you, I recommend the film highly.      Salome's Last Dance is spectacular only in terms of it's personalities, in no way is (and does not have to be) one of the greatest films, yet it is wondrously rare. It is uniquely stylish, and because of it's truly low budget and simple execution, I would say (in direct contradiction of many critics) it is amazingly unpretentious and humble, as well as beautiful. "},{"Title":"Oscar's Wild Story","Date":"14 March 2006","Score":"15 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Shocking. Revolting. Human. Those three words may sound like the description of a flop, but in reality those words describe the brilliance of this movie. Set in a theater-stage atmosphere akin to Joseph and the Amazing Technicolor Dream Coat, this movie sucks you in to a devilish plot dripping with intrigue. It leaves you feeling a bit dirty, too, like you've had a secret fling behind your spouse' back. Glenda Jackson (Herodius) absolutely shines in this production; a temptress of the same flavor as Joan Collins in Dallas. If I had four hands, this movie would get all four thumbs up. (Not for the squeamish - or the uppity prude).Important notes contrary to the false comments made by other people here about this film... The actress playing Salome is indeed a FEMALE - Imogen Millais-Scott - not a male in drag. Furthermore, some have said that the movie made a discrepancy by having Oscar Wilde arrested for sexual crimes on Guy Faulks Day (the day of the movie's setting) when in fact he was not arrested on that day - the actual truth being that the arrest in the film WAS FICTIONAL... in this movie he is arrested with everyone else in the brothel because the man playing Herod tells the centurion, Kill that woman! and he actually hurls a spear at Salome and murders her, and she falls off the stage impaled by the spear and the police find her dead body. As everyone is being tossed into the paddy wagon, Glenda Jackson attempts a defense by saying, She wasn't murdered! She slipped on a banana peel! "},{"Title":"A visual feast...","Date":"28 May 2006","Score":"12 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Currently selling for over $100 on eBay, copies of Salome's Last Dance are not easy of cheap to come by. Truly a cult classic. A few years ago it was available from Netflix, but no more.For those lucky enough to see the film (which I will not discuss) what awaits is a series of set pieces and costumes that manage to merge the magic of theater with that of Cinema. If you are in the right state of mind, few movies are as enjoyable to watch as this one... truly captivating.If you do choose to see Salome, please do others the favor of re-selling the DVD when you are done with it - think of it as a security deposit. The sound and picture quality of the DVD version is quite good. If you liked the Giger scenes in Alien, this movie is likely for you. "},{"Title":"Vastly superior to the better known Opera.","Date":"3 July 2003","Score":"16 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  	Oscar Wilde, who wrote the stage play Salome, was one of the greatest wits of his time, but lived a lifestyle that created continuous controversy in the society in which he lived. Today he is perhaps best known for authorship of The Ballard of Reading Jail, which was written during one of the times when he was in prison following a direct confrontation with the government of the time. When he wrote Salome it was banned for a time by the English stage censorship and, even though it can be a most rewarding performance to watch, stage productions of it are still relatively infrequent. Consequently many people today are more familiar with the bowdlerised opera which was based on the play and was composed by Richard Strauss. The opera has been filmed by at least two major directors, but for the cinematographic enthusiast there is also this very noteworthy film, directed by Ken Russell, which is much more closely based on Wilde's play. In my opinion this film is dramatically far superior to the rather pathetic opera, and is very worth while seeking out by anyone interested. Basically it exploits the psychological tensions which may have existed in King Herod's court, and which could have accounted for the demand by Salome for the head of John the Baptist on a platter; the story that is so baldly reported in the Bible.	The scenario of this film is set in a brothel where Oscar Wilde is treated to an illegal birthday performance of his play, acted by friends who include some of the employees of the host establishment.  This choice of venue has upset many critics but it is totally irrelevant to the play - it is helpful for a modern viewer to remember that, at the time in which this film is set, Oscar Wilde and his literary friends would meet regularly to present impromptu performances of works they had written, basically as a quality control procedure for the final product they eventually published; and this film simply exploits the practice. It is essentially a film of a play, with the story associated with the presentation of the play added to maintain cinematographic interest. 	Ken Russell is a controversial director but although the film is not without faults, the overall quality is outstanding, the cast is superb, and there are particularly memorable performances by Glenda Jackson as Queen Herodias and by Imogen Millais-Scott (who shows the capability of looking any age between thirteen and thirty) as Princess Salome. Both the play and the film effectively capture the decadence, which was characteristic of the royal courts of petty despots at this point in history, better than any other works I have seen. It should be a must for anyone who has the opportunity to see it.  "},{"Title":"Another great film by Ken Russel","Date":"16 September 2004","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film is actually an Oscar Wilde's stage play adaptation on film, so it won't appeal easily to ordinary film-buffs. This plus its controversial subject matter (commentary on religions, naughty humour, study of seducing, nudity), the old-fashioned style & dialogues will propably turn down many. Their loss. Ken Russel is for once more intelligent and even though a bit unreasonably obsessive with some key-phrases of Salome, his trademark visual style are still evident in this one as well. So, this ain't only for Ken Russel's fans, but also to any lover of true cinema. In these years of Hollywood films, it's not violence or nudity itself that offends. It's the way they are presented. In a typical Hollywood flick nudity (female, of course) as well as violence is shown to make the viewer feel better. In 'Salome's last dance', this is not the case, because its way is not something you're used to.  "},{"Title":"Ken Russell Fans Will Love This Movie!","Date":"26 May 2000","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I really love this Ken Russell film.  Very compact it features all of the qualities that I most love about Russell's work.  I am not sure if anyone outside of his fans will really enjoy it.  DVD contains entertaining commentary from Russell.   "},{"Title":"a memorable film","Date":"10 August 1999","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I love this film! But, it seems to evoke strong reactions from people. I've recommended it to friends who absolutely hated it. Oh well. Look for the scene where Salome tries to convince John the Baptist to kiss her. Kiss me with your lips, John the Baptist. It's a beautiful poem and so perfectly done.There's too much to say about this film. I'll just highly recommend it and leave it at that. "}{"Title":"Salome framed by its author","Date":"17 December 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" For a film made on a shoe string budget, one learns one too many a lesson; my favorite is the conception concerning the Baptist's voice coming up from his dungeon with fumes and a greenish light coming out of a Carpenter film, this demonstrated how the latter should profit from this for his metaphysics and his camp.There is a lot too appreciate here, in the Ruskin sense of the word; do not be fooled by either the budget or the fart side of the scale, this is a very, very shrewd and sly reading of Wilde his Salome and this Salome open up the new category of camp repression, with the film deliciously showing us that an author can be terribly indifferent to his work (especially when eager to amass all the boyish charm of a golden ass in his palm), a peculiar brand of catholic believer, Saint Oscar (Guy Fawkes Night is a great touch for this matter), that England is a brothel or only a brothel would have the courage to stage the banned play while at the same time entertain by its cast the imagination of its maker - and this is valid also for us we are strangely moved in the end after all this extravagance. Even if at some point Wilde exclaims that he should not bother his imagination with the proceedings implying that it is a sin and a hubris to pass imagination through a trial (sic), and with this and other witticisms and intuitions Ken Russell's framing device makes Oscar Wilde a character escaping from his play into the brutal rebuttal of the public and its mores as voiced by Glenda Jackson's Lady/Herodias it was not murder, but a banana slip!(Watch how one of Russell's signature modes, the camp, exaggerated close-up of Jackson's exclaiming the phrase echoes the one in the beginning just before the show starts on Wilde's champagne glass.) In the feverish, camp theater of his mind, Salome, impish (great acting by the half blind, puckish Imogen Millais-Scott), precocious, looking so much like her mother (Herodias AND Lady Wilde??), she is the author's stand in - or is it he hers, as the Bosie/Baptist reversal also implies (and is so blandly delivered in the end)? The murder/ banana slip line surely reaches into what last century was called Wilde's self-destructive element but also Russell's wild comment on himself. Through this kind of fictional biography Russell's intuitive violence reaches after even the pivotal Wildean witticism all bad poetry is sincere and, somehow, poses it on its head. We are strangely moved in the end. "},{"Title":"The Spirit of the Play","Date":"24 November 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I know that Ken Russel was put under fire so to speak from the critics for his scatological portrayal of the play Salome, however, this is one version of the play that people just don't forget. With shocking yet theatrical effects, it captures the mysterious and intriguing mood of the play, pouring drama. I mean, I watched the Opera version of Salome...and...needless to say, it had me wishing I was watching the movie instead of the opera!  "},{"Title":"SALOME'S LAST DANCE (Ken Russell, 1988) **","Date":"8 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is surely one of Russell's campier ventures (also considered by some as his very worst!) &#x96; in which he appears himself, sporting an all-too-fake beard, as a photographer! The film is an adaptation of Oscar Wilde's controversial play Salome (for the record, a viewing of the 1923 Silent adaptation of it with, reportedly, an all-gay cast! is to follow) which had originally been banned in Britain (having been deemed both obscene and blasphemous!) so that its first representation took place in France &#x96; hence, the text necessitating to be translated back into English for this version! Anyway, Russell has the notorious bisexual author (rather ineffectually played by Nickolas Grace) attend what he believes to be a typical night at a brothel on his birthday, only to have the owner, courtesans, clients and even his upper-class lover Alfred 'Bosey' Douglas surprise him with a clandestine staging of Salome (incidentally, the credits appear while he is ostensibly leafing through the programme)! Rather than be transported to the time of the narrative a' la the classic Laurence Olivier production of Shakespeare's HENRY V (1944), here we stick to this one set &#x96; presumably so that we can gauge Wilde's reaction to the interpretation of his text (and, in particular, Douglas' own acting in the pivotal role of John The Baptist). However, by doing so, the thing is never allowed to rise above the level of pantomime &#x96; though I am not sure the director (who wrote the script himself) intended it to in the first place and, in any case, the proceedings are never taken very seriously (as witness the flatulent running gag, for one!).Apart from Glenda Jackson (who, decked-out in rather impressive make-up, bravely took on the part of Herodias as a favor to Russell &#x96; even if her role is secondary to both Salome and King Herod despite being allotted top-billing), the cast is supbar, with only Stratford Johns (whom I have just watched in a memorable bit as Hugh Grant's butler in Russell's subsequent effort, THE LAIR OF THE WHITE WORM also 1988) attempting a real performance but, I guess, that was to be expected given the amateurish nature of the whole enterprise! As for Salome, played by Imogen Millais-Scott (a Bjork lookalike! while others cite Toyah Wilcox, who is more of her time), she is depicted as far more wicked than history would have it and, indeed, Herodias herself (who comes across as a dog that can bark but not bite)! In fact, the latter is not the one to suggest to Salome to ask for the head of The Baptist as a prize for having danced semi-naked before the Tetrarch but rather the girl's own idea, since she had earlier seduced &#x96; and been rejected by &#x96; the prophet (indeed, Salome becomes so obsessed with the man who spoke but ill of her mother that she has no qualms about kissing the lips of his severed head)! For the record, Russell stated in the accompanying Audio Commentary that the actress was half-blind, which perhaps explains why this was her introduction to cinema but also her very last film! Other notable characters here are a legionnaire in love with Salome and who commits suicide in fear of being found out over his having allowed Salome to see The Baptist; his own (gold-painted!) servant who, serving sic no other function after his master's death, takes his place beside the author and proceeds to distract him from the show (eventually disappearing behind the curtains to give vent to their passions &#x96; incidentally, the boy in real-life had been an object of contention between Wilde and 'Bosey', so that the latter eyes their dallying from the stage with indignation!); the two guards (there are also some females, naturally bare-breasted and prone to S&M antics!) in charge of The Baptist's incarceration, who supply comic relief all through the picture and, ultimately, take up with Herodias (or, more precisely, the courtesan playing her) &#x96; getting down to some 'action' inside a trunk immediately prior to Salome's famed Dance Of The Seven Veils (as it happened, the name of a controversial TV-film Russell made for the BBC in 1970, albeit about composer Richard Strauss, and which I watched earlier in my marathon tribute to the late director)!; and even a trio of bickering dwarfs dressed up as Hasidic Jews (for what it is worth, my twin brother's 'costume' for Brad Pitt's upcoming and Malta-filmed zombie epic WORLD WAR Z!).The title under review, then, ends with Herod ordering the execution of Salome and the Police bursting in on the scene to arrest everybody (with Jackson protesting her noble lineage) &#x96; by the way, the obscenity charge leveled at Wilde here was one he would face in real life (brought up by Douglas' own father, the Marquis of Queensberry, who frowned upon his son's unsavory relationship with the author!) and from which he never quite recovered. Having mentioned Wilde's trial, I still need to check one of two rival 1960 films about the case (with Robert Morley in the lead, it simply bore the author's name as a title). "},{"Title":"Interesting","Date":"12 December 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Late on Guy Fawkes Day, 1892, Oscar Wilde arrives at a high-class brothel where a surprise awaits a staging of his play Salome, with parts played by prostitutes, Wilde's host, his lover Bosey, and Lady Alice.The film was shot for $800,000 over a four-week period in London. Director Ken Russell had been signed by Vestron to a three picture deal after the success of Gothic, of which this was the first. Imogen Millais-Scott went blind three weeks before filming after contracting glandular fever, but Russell insisted on still using her. This was the right choice.This film met with modest critical acclaim. The review in the New York Times called it a perfumed, comic stunt, but noted that Russell forces one to attend to (and to discover the odd glory in) the Wilde language, which, on the printed page, works faster than Valium. And seriously, how can you go wrong with Jewish midgets, flatulence and Biblical sexuality? "},{"Title":"This is a fun  movie.","Date":"10 February 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a fun movie. It's decadent, crazy, and terribly naughty. It's a wonderful presentation of a Wilde play in the context of Wilde's lifestyle and social choices. I love this film. Now, if you are an easily-offended bible-beater who can't handle a little blatant sexuality, or off-color humor, then this will be a bad film for you. The critics all complained because this film was so brazen, but that's exactly what makes it wonderful. If you're a stick-in-the-mud, then watch something by Disney. If you're a fun-loving, open-minded sort, you'll love this movie- Especially if you enjoy a little naughty wit with your flagrant sexuality and scandalous behavior. "},{"Title":"He says Bernhardt, I say heartburn.","Date":"9 July 2009","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Ken Russell is -- how shall I put this? -- not to all tastes. He is a talented and distinctive film-maker who has little interest in courting a mainstream audience. Salome's Last Dance is clearly targeted for viewers who fancy their entertainment on the decadent side. There are several positive aspects of this movie, but most usefully it contains a performance of Oscar Wilde's play 'Salome'. There is some bookend material at the beginning and the end of this movie, but the main action is Wilde's 'Salome'.MAJOR SPOILERS AHEAD. Basically, 'earnest' male lovers Oscar Wilde and Lord Alfred Douglas visit a London brothel one evening in 1895 for the usual reasons, only for Wilde to be honoured with a surprise performance of his quasi-biblical drama. Afterward, as Wilde and 'Bosie' are leaving -- apparently without having indulged in the brothel's usual transactions -- police arrive to arrest Wilde for his sexual crimes. The actors' performances are mostly excellent, particularly that of Stratford Johns as Herod in the play within the film. (Full disclosure Johns was a client of mine; I did some publicity work for him in 1978 when he was Daddy Warbucks in 'Annie' at the Victoria Palace.) At the centre of this movie, though, there's a serious casting problem. Before the performance begins, Wilde is introduced to the child actress who will be portraying Salome ... and it's extremely obvious that this short-necked, narrow-hipped 'actress' is in fact a boy. At the climax of the film, when Salome drops her last veil, I was not remotely surprised by what popped out of it. Possibly Ken Russell intended this film for viewers who prefer seeing a boy dressed as a girl, rather than an actual girl ... however, his attempts to frame this as a surprise were utterly a failure. Russell himself appears briefly as a Victorian photographer, lumbered with an elaborate tripod-mounted bellows camera.There is one deeply disgusting moment when John the Baptist spits a gobbet of saliva into Salome's face, and Salome rapturously licks it off. Ugh! However, anyone familiar with Ken Russell's body of work likely expects to be disgusted occasionally.The art direction -- sets, costumes, lighting -- is excellent throughout, although I felt it unlikely that the brothel-keepers would have splashed out so much expense and effort on costumes for a single performance of 'Salome'. And the streets in the exterior shots are too clean.In any story putting historical figures in fictional situations, there are always some factual errors. Unfortunately, Russell commits errors here that are unnecessary. Wilde was arrested in April 1895, but Russell sets these events (including the arrest) on Guy Fawkes Night. I can't see any good reason for this. Guy Fawkes Day is an event that appeals largely to small boys (who beg financial contributions 'for the Guy'), devotees of fireworks, bonfire pyromaniacs and Catholic-bashers. I doubt that the Fifth of November had any special significance for Oscar Wilde.More fatally, there's a whopper of an error in the screenplay. Near the end of this movie, just before the peelers arrive, Oscar Wilde makes a sniggering comment about Sarah Bernhardt's wooden leg. In 1895, mind you. This is trebly an error #1 Bernhardt's right leg was not amputated until nearly twenty years later (well after Wilde's death). #2 Bernhardt chose not to wear a prosthetic limb her very few post-amputation performances were mostly done sitting down. And #3 Oscar Wilde publicly worshipped Bernhardt, so it's unlikely that he'd make a joke at her expense. (What is it with gay men and actresses?)I find this bad joke deeply emblematic of Ken Russell he makes movies about famous people, but he clearly isn't interested in their actual achievements ... he only cares for the celebrity gossip and scandal. To Ken Russell, Sarah Bernhardt's career dwindles into insignificance, and what's really important is the (alleged) fact that she wore a wooden leg. If Ken Russell made a movie about Vincent van Gogh, Russell would ignore van Gogh's artwork and fixate on van Gogh slicing his ear off. (Actually, van Gogh cut off only a piece of his ear.)Salome's Last Dance shows that Ken Russell has mastered the technical aspects of film- making, and that he clearly isn't interested in more conventional subject matter. To call this movie repellent or decadent would be interpreted (among Russell's fans) as paying a compliment. Purely since Russell so fully achieved what he meant to do here, I'll rate this one 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Much better than initially thought","Date":"19 January 2014","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Salome's Last Dance is one of those films that will fascinate people or repulse them very like director Ken Russell's directorial style. First viewing I disliked it, seeing it again in a better mood just recently it was much better than remembered, though for me one of Russell's weaker films. A few things stop it from being a masterpiece. Russell does go overboard with the excess at times- not unusual for Russell- and some of those excessive images are disgustingly ugly, especially with Salome licking saliva off her face. Russell also writes himself in an acting role as a photographer and is rather embarrassingly bad and in a somewhat creepy way. Imogen Millais-Scott I had mixed feelings on, she is gorgeous, seductive and age-appropriate, though with a tendency to mug. Even with the excess, Salome's Last Dance does maintain the spirit of Oscar Wilde's play Salome with its beauty and ability to shock. The film is expertly filmed and the production values are a mix of the hypnotisingly beautiful and the decadent, which is hardly inappropriate(Strauss' opera Salome, which I personally love, has those qualities too). The music is a hodgepodge of classical music, and a wonderful hodgepodge at that, Rimsky-Korsakov and especially Debussy the prime composers and they further add to the beautiful yet shocking atmosphere. They are performed very well and mostly fit within the film. The script is witty and uproarious, Herodias has some truly hilarious lines, and the story is interestingly structured with a good touch of the theatrical and the cinematic. You cannot take your eyes away from the dance scene either. Most of the acting is better than its given credit, Glenda Jackson and Stratford Johns especially. Jackson is a little bizarre but also very regal and authoritative and Johns is suitably wry and mischievous, making a potentially tiresome character interesting. Nickolas Grace is a witty Oscar Wilde and Douglas Hodge a mostly effectively warning John the Baptist though he does over-compensate a bit. Overall, easy to see why people will dislike it, it's far from perfect but has interest points and entertainment value. 6.5/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Simply Dreadful","Date":"26 December 2012","Score":"5 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Poor Oscar Wilde must sit and watch his play Salome performed by the inhabitants of a brothel. Russell occasionally turned out some fine films like Women in Love, but all too often he made films that reflected his bad taste and cheesy style. This is perhaps the most dreadful movie he ever made. From the look of it, it was probably made for a budget of about $1.98. The acting is uniformly awful. The sets are cardboard cutouts. The costumes look like they came from a rummage sale. These sins could have been overlooked if the film managed to be entertaining in some way, but it's a plodding bore featuring dull dialog and a non-existent plot. "},{"Title":"What's that smell?","Date":"19 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This tiresome movie is a gutless snuff film wannabe. Its prancing, simpering misogyny would never have succeeded if it weren't gauzed up with fashionable sexual preferences.Russell manages neatly to solarize Wilde's Salome, capturing and exaggerating everything in it that is opposite to the elements that make Strauss' Salome one of the great operas. Glib, arch decadence is a steamy, mechanical dead end, and this movie is the deadest. It has all the wit of poop jokes and pornographic caricatures of the Mona Lisa.D. H. Lawrence was contemptuous of decadence. The marriage of Lawrence and Russell was a rape, folks. And Lawrence was dead.  "},{"Title":"A short film that is too long","Date":"2 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Oscar Wilde's play Salome is staged within this movie as Wilde himself looks on from a couch in a male brothel. I cannot determine if Wilde's play is a bomb, or whether it is this amateurish production that is such. I have rarely been as irritated by a performance as that of Imogen Millais-Scott in her portrayal of Salome. I was grossly put off by her constant mugging. And after a dozen or so times of her saying, I want to kiss your mouth, John the Baptist, I felt that if she were to say it again, I would scream. She did, and I did.How Glenda Jackson wound up in this mess is a puzzle. What a waste. Nickolas Grace plays Wilde as a walking and talking epigram machine with no depth. Compare his Wilde with Stephen Fry's in Wilde and you will see how paltry Grace's performance is. Douglas Hodge, looking eerily like the late-stage Michael Jackson, plays John the Baptist (in the Salome play) with an overwrought energy that gets on your nerves. I felt like cheering when Glenda Jackson said, Shut him up. If you find flatulence and belching humorous, then parts of this film will entertain you. If not, be warned that that is how desperate things get.The music is a hodgepodge of overworked classical pieces.After the play within the movie ends we see tears coming to Wilde's eyes. I could not figure out if he was thinking, God, did I actually write that horrible thing, or That was so bad as to make one cry.I have to give this a star for the sheer spectacle of it - I give it credit for being uniquely imagined. And another star for the dance scene, even though a body double was used for the crucial climax.In summary, I quote Glenda Jackson's exhortation to members of the cast, Shut them up, they bore me. "}]