[{"Title":"Excellent But Frustrating Story","Date":"20 January 2007","Score":"33 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Boy, what a frustrating film to watch....even though it is very good and has been a part of my collection for a number of years now. Still, it's hard to see the good guy, the little guy, beaten up by the big guys. Here's one story where Goliath beats David. Anyway, this was an interesting supposedly- true-life story of how Preston Tucker got a raw deal form the Big Three car-makers of the day, and by the government after he built a much better automobile in 1948. The film details how the big boys made sure Tucker's company never sold any of those cars.As mentioned, it's maddening to watch at times, to hear lies and false charges brought against a man who had the right ideas about car safety and engineering and was way ahead of his time.The 1940s atmosphere in this film is very good and the old music is fun to hear, too. The cinematography is great, too, with some tinted vintage-type color at times. It looks wonderful on DVD.The car is super to look at and admire. Jeff Bridges does a solid job of portraying Tucker, an upbeat, positive-thinking inventor. It also was refreshing to see a nice, supportive family, too. I enjoyed all the main actors in this film Bridges, Joan Alen, Martin Landau, Frederic Forest, Elias Koteas and Christian Slater "},{"Title":"Gutsy, smart, way ahead of the curve","Date":"25 September 2004","Score":"27 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  It's been a while since I saw this movie, and I was already acquainted with they story when I realized they'd made a movie about it. The movie lives up to the reality.No question, Preston Tucker was brilliant. When Uncle Sam requested designs for combat vehicles, he submitted, and demonstrated, a design which significantly blew away all competitors. He was turned down because his design significantly outperformed what Uncle Sam asked for. Small-minded individuals, mired in the relatively wimpy requirements, wouldn't take the more advanced design. It boggled his mind that they would turn down steak with all the trimmings in exchange for a plain hamburger. I've been in the Military, so it doesn't surprise me.When he wanted to make a point about safety, emphasizing the need for safety glass and seatbelts (which were NOT standard equipment at the time), he invited the appropriate people to lunch, served medium-rare roast beef, then showed pictures of people who'd died in car accidents. Lots of blood, lots of raw meat. My driver's education teacher, trying to convince us to be safer drivers, did the same (minus the fancy lunch). Anyway, the similarities between what they saw on the screen, and what they'd just eaten, caused many of them to be re-acquainted with their lunch. I sincerely doubt they ever forgot the presentation, and his point was very well made.I like this guy. He's whip-smart, practical, maybe a little too optimistic.I identify with him.And they broke him.Welcome to reality. Bites, doesn't it?In the end, he knows he's beaten, but he still gets the last word in. I hope I manage to do so well.  "},{"Title":"This movie has style","Date":"28 December 1998","Score":"18 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Every decade has a style.  The 1940's after the war had a very slick style. This movie has plenty of this slick style.  The music is some of the best swing and the camera work and some of the way shots are framed is excellent. You can't look past the acting either.  Everybody plays their part to the fullest and there is a wonderful cameo by the late Lloyd Bridges as a dirty politician.  If you like cars, rent this movie.  If you like the 40's, rent this movie.  If you like good movies, rent this movie.  This is one of the most underrated movies in the last 15 years. "},{"Title":"This is one not to be missed.","Date":"21 May 2001","Score":"15 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Thus is a superb movie. Firstly, the story line is just great. The true story of a man who fights against all the odds to realize his dream. Secondly, it's hard to imagine a better cast. They do an extraordinary job in bringing to life all the wonderful characters involved. Jeff Bridges is perfect as Tucker, and Landau is brilliant as the money man. But what really makes this work, is the way Tucker's undying spirit is brought out. He seems to lose the battle of making cars, but wins the ultimate battle of fulfilling himself and keeping his integrity. They're only machines, the idea's the important thing. Over the years, I have collected many hundreds of movies, but this one has to be in the top ten. By the way, I just loved the music sound track. Very 40's. "},{"Title":"TUCKER--What a historical film should be.","Date":"17 January 1999","Score":"15 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Impressive styling of the 1940s era and fine direction from Francis Coppola, whose middle name is Ford (ha!), makes TUCKER a historical tribute to the revolutionary, all-too-superior car of tomorrow that never was destined to bury the Big Three. It's not an entire biography of his life, but an account of triumphs and trials in his short-lived business. Jeff Bridges' character he portrays is a cheerful, mind-mannered guy who dreamed of making these autos since his childhood. There's plenty to like in this nostalgic trip, as this was made in a genuine vintage style. The opening best compares to a true classic sales promo, an indication of brilliant film work. Joe Jackson's cool 40s tunes he composed are extremely well made, although they get in the way sometimes. Drive on over to the video mart and check this selection out! Perhaps if we all had a Tucker....   "},{"Title":"An interesting look into some American automotive history.","Date":"12 November 1998","Score":"18 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Preston Tucker was a man with a dream. He actually advertised his new car and even took advanced orders for it. But the truth is that there was never a chance that Tucker would ever  be able to deliver on his promises. Jeff Bridges plays the would be automotive tycoon with an Oscar going to his co-star Martin Landau for his portrayal of Abe Tucker's business manager. You will enjoy seeing most all of the remaining Tuckers in this film. This is a good film and I recommend it.  "},{"Title":"The magic of dreams","Date":"7 December 2006","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" A beautiful film which captures the spirit of a man's struggle to make his dream come true. Jeff Bridges is invincible in the role of Preston Tucker and effortlessly pulls the viewer inside the mind and spirit of this maverick entrepreneur who brought to the automotive industry seat belts, fuel injection, pop-out windows and most of all a legend called the Tucker Torpedo.Acting just oozes out of this fine actor and id consider it as his best performance ever. Excellent direction,screenplay and soundtrack. great duologue's too. especially can any one in this room look me in the eye and say we cant do it and on hearings a non-affirmative he replies except you.The courtroom speech is something which recharges your spirit and fills your body with passion. Very true as he puts it  fifty or fifty million...thats only machinery..its the idea that counts..the dream.. "},{"Title":"Coppola proves he's still at the top of his game","Date":"19 March 2006","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Overlooked yet highly entertaining drama from director Francis Ford Coppola and producer George Lucas, an amusing and nostalgic look at real-life idea man Preston Tucker who, in 1945, developed the Car of Tomorrow and hoped to put Detroit's auto business out of commission. A smart, knowing take on the past, a nice comeback from Coppola but one that did little business. The film has gleaming photography, a jaunty pace and a great cast. Jeff Bridges, not the most subtle actor, gives one of his finest performances in the lead. Supporting cast is made up of pros (Martin Landau, Frederic Forrest, Dean Stockwell) and fresh new talent (circa 1988) such as Joan Allen and the incredible Elias Koteas. *** from **** "},{"Title":"Tucker The Man and His Dream","Date":"17 June 1999","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Underrated film about dreams and desire in the  mind of Preston Tucker as he looked to create the car of the future. He faced hardship and defeat at the hands of politicians and other automakers. (Namely the Big Three) Bridges delivers Tucker with great  heart and devotion while Landau (Oscar nominee) stands out as Tucker's friend and partner. Dean Stockwell  makes a small cameo as Howard Hughes.  "},{"Title":"A nearly perfect movie","Date":"8 May 2003","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  The first time I saw this movie was in an Intro To Occupations class, I really enjoyed it that time, and when it came on TV, I taped it because I liked it so much.  Jeff Bridges deserved an oscar nomination for his outstanding performance as the determined Preston Tucker who has a dream to built a car, we get to see his progress, and dissapointments in the process. A nice supporting cast also livens the movie up even more.  This is an extrememly memorable film with excellent performances and direction. This is a film that more people should see.  ***1/2 out of ****. "}{"Title":"Interesting story of a man who believed in the American Dream","Date":"1 May 2010","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" This is a well crafted film about the saga of Preston Tucker, an energetic entrepreneur who had the goal of creating a radical new automobile, the Tucker Torpedo, which drew the ire of Detroit's Big Three. Possessing a remarkable drive to achieve his dream, Tucker met every problem head on and stopped at nothing to see the Torpedo come to fruition.Jeff Bridges gives a remarkable performance as Preston Tucker. He also shares some screen time with his father Lloyd, who plays a crooked politician out to derail Tucker's ambitions. The film also has a great score by Joe Jackson. Fans of classic films will enjoy the narration throughout Tucker. It is as if you are watching a newsreel at a movie theater in the 1940s. Speaking of that, for those who have seen movie trailers from the 50s on back You know how there were words splashed on the screen describing those films? You get that here as well, and it really adds to the nostalgia of the picture.Francis Ford Coppola did a good job directing this story of a man who believed in, and is the epitome of, the American Dream. Watch this movie and prepare to be wowed by Preston Tucker. "},{"Title":"Comes close to being a Frank Capra masterpiece","Date":"23 February 2010","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Before this movie I didn't know anything about Preston Tucker or his car. Therefor I can judge this movie only by its entertainment value and not by its historical accuracy. Ever since The Godfather and Apocalypse Now I've been a big Coppola fan. I like the fact that - like Martin Scorcese - he keeps looking for visual experiments. Remember the mirror scene in Peggy Sue Got Married? That was never done before. Or the way time was used in Rumble Fish. The staging of One from the heart. Original and daring. In Tucker Coppola goes to visual extremes. The whole movie looks like a big commercial for Tucker himself - and it all works great. The story - an honest underdog must fight against the system - reminds us of the works of Frank Capra. The always brilliant Jeff Bridges is a very (or maybe too) likable hero. In the beginning he's maybe a little bit too unreal until you see how he reacts when he finds real trouble on his way. Then he becomes more human. But the real drama in this movie comes from Martin Landau. His scene in which he confesses that he caught Tucker's dreams is a moving one. The way he gets accepted into Tucker's family is so natural. Besides Landau I liked almost all the cast. Frederic Forrest, Mako, Joan Allen, Christian Slater, Lloyd Bridges&#x85; their roles aren't earthmoving, but work very well in the whole picture. Tucker's meeting with Howard Hughes (Dean Stockwell) is pure magic.Together with The Godfather part I and II, Rumble Fish and Apocalypse Now I consider Tucker A man and his dream to be Coppola's best work. Too bad it's not available on DVD anywhere in Europe.9/10 "},{"Title":"Coppola's dream as much as Tucker's, the story of two  or three visionaries","Date":"18 January 2007","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Francis Ford Coppola first thought of making Tucker as a dark Brechtian musical back in the 70s and went so far as to have Leonard Bernstein think about the music. When he actually made the film in 1987, Joe Jackson provided the hopped-up big band licks and gave Mr. Coppola his best score since Rumblefish. No matter -- it's as much a director's biography in hidden form as ever there was, Fellini, Bergman, and Woody Allen notwithstanding. Mr. Coppola is the visionary who tried to buck the system and almost succeeded only to be brought down by forces, real and imagined, that control the way things run. Preston Tucker had a rocket ship of a car with turnable headlights and seat belts; Mr. Coppola had great movies about wiretappers, the nightmare of war, and a silly bit of off-beat stuff about lovers in Vegas. The specific points of such a parallel biography need not be driven into the ground here -- suffice it to say that one can imagine a young Francis telling his younger, equally visionary associate and design nut George Lucas (executive producing here) to grow a beard -- just as Jeff Bridges, in a career-highlight performance, tells his engineer played by Elias Koteas. Lovely Joan Allen plays Tucker's devoted, whip-smart wife -- an Eleanor substitute -- and Christian Slater is Tucker's eldest son, perhaps a stand-in for Coppola's son, Gio, who died before the film was made and to whom it is dedicated. Brash, fun, funny, melodramatic -- a visual feast that plays on 40s and 50s conventions -- Tucker the Man and His Dream couldn't be a better collaboration between visionaries Coppola, Lucas, and Preston Tucker. "},{"Title":"Not much but it's still good","Date":"26 October 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Tucker The Man and His Dream is a good spirited story of perseverance, loyalty, honor, and integrity from legendary director Francis Ford Coppola. Coppola's name is synonymous with landmark cinema that changed the face of the film industry forever with classics like The Godfather and Apocalypse Now. This movie is obviously not of that caliber, but it is an enjoyable experience nonetheless. In it, a thinner, younger, and clean shaven Jeff Bridges plays Preston Tucker, a likable businessman who had big ideas for the auto industry that would ultimately lead to bigger consequences. It's a true story about how one man tried to change the auto industry after World War II by creating the greatest car ever made. His financial support in the booming big government economy after WWII is an issue, but he perseveres through it all with the goal of achieving what others say is impossible. It's a happily inspiring tale, performed excellently by Mr. Bridges, one of my all time favorite actors.Coppola shows in this movie that he can still be a fine director without the backing of a gangster or Vietnam war epic. He has a straightforward directing style for this straightforward film, but it doesn't fault a movie that mainly focuses on character and plot, rather than visual aesthetic. However, the film did get nominated at the Academy Awards for best Art Direction and Costume Design, and deservedly so. Tucker The Man and His Dream is a period piece, and everything about the film stays true to its time frame. It is always interesting to see such a specific time period like the 1940's projected through an 80's lens, and Tucker The Man and His Dream does a captivating job at this. The costumes are interesting and relevant, along with the set design and of course the cars. And it is all backed by a fantastic early 1900's jazz soundtrack.The story itself stays mildly interesting the whole way through. It lags in some spots where not as much is happening, but it sets up for a great climax with a beautifully inspirational speech delivered by Bridges. The flow and pacing of the film has its noticeable issues and parts felt slightly choppy. The beginning of the film starts out with an infomercial/historical newsreel quirk that is very creative, but practically abandoned by the end of the film. Despite some minor flaws nothing significantly deteriorates the overall quality of the film.Tucker The Man and His Dream is a solid film that anyone can at least find mildly interesting, since it is based on a true story after all. Putting this film into today's perspective, it is still relevant and interesting what with all the auto industry crises going on today and how I'm sure we all wish we somebody as steadfast and innovative as Preston Tucker could pick the industry back up on its feet. I commend a film if it makes me think in terms of current events, so kudos to this film. I will say that as a Coppola film, it's nothing too special. I would obviously recommend the first two Godfathers and Apocalypse Now long before Tucker The Man and His Dream. But as just another film, this movie is plenty enjoyable and interesting to watch. "},{"Title":"Perfectly captures post-WW2 sentiment","Date":"13 October 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" This is one of the best films that take place during that key period just after the conclusion of World War 2. It was a period of unbridled optimism about the future of the United States and a time where almost anything seemed possible.The film tells the true story about Preston Tucker(played by Jeff Bridges) and his attempt to create the perfect car for the future, the Tucker. This car would have everything in it from a rear engine to fuel injection. However, as he gets started building the cars, he realizes that his goal may have been an unrealistic dream as the big three automakers use their power and political influence to try and block him from creating something that would compete with them. The Tucker character is one you cant help but cheer for as he never gives up on his dream.The 1940's feeling of the film is perfectly captured by a zippy score by Joe Jackson and Joan Allen perfectly plays Tucker's supportive wife who stands by him every step of the way.This is a terrific film about a man who never gives up. "},{"Title":"We need to resurrect the man and his dream  to help restore the republic","Date":"28 January 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" This movie I kick myself for having missed when it came out 20 years ago, and it was only last week on HBO that I actually got the Tucker experience with both barrels. The two main ideas for me of this all-American Horatio Alger rags-to-riches story are 1) Innovation in conflict with the stale old dead way of doing things (out of collective ignorance and blind obedience to authority)&#151;call it the Pleasantville barrier&#151;and 2) Man against the state, particularly the US state and its insidious methods of coercion working in harmony with cartel business interests&#151;call it the Kleptocon barrier. Without question, the ebullient, imaginative, brilliant, individualistic, hard working Preston Thomas Tucker is more deserving of the quintessential American Hero designation than anyone Ayn Rand ever imagined&#151;from the iconoclastic/artistic (humorless) Howard Roark to the ethereal/scientific (humorless) John Galt. Or anyone else ever imagined for that matter. Preston Tucker had it all a joie de vivre that made everyone around him want to sing for joy, a similarly eccentric loving family with hearts as big as Texas, the imagination of a precocious child, and the hard driving intelligence of a man who wills himself to be the best....For my complete review of this movie and for other movie and book reviews, please visit my site TheCoffeeCoaster.com.Brian Wright Copyright 2009 "},{"Title":"Great Docudrama About American Innovation Being Undermined","Date":"7 November 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Tucker The Man and His Dream is a bitter sweet docudrama that makes you appreciate the wonderful look at an enthusiastic and innovative man, his supportive family & friends, and his embodiment of the dream of American free enterprise. Unfortunately the dream is crushed by a huge machine designed to destroy competition. In some ways the story is something like Rocky I building up hopes and even demonstrating worthiness & success, but ultimately overcome by the entrenched establishment.Innovators like the Jeep designers, Tucker, Jim Hall and his Chaparral Racing cars, Carol Shelby and his Shelby & Ford Cobras inspired me toward mechanical engineering and automotive technology. Along the way you find that the path toward true innovation not as encouraged as one would expect, or we would probably be driving cars on some form of extremely plentiful natural gas today.The hard lesson demonstrated by this movie is that many of the American dreams are fairy tales, that there is no true free enterprise, or not for long. Tucker tried valiantly to compete with huge companies who hate competition, who spend billions fighting it with legislation, government agencies and the media.The Jeep designers had to share production of their design with other manufacturers to get the government contract. Fortunately, Jim Hall's innovations were in race cars where innovation was not as restricted, but he did not really reap the financial rewards he deserved for his innovations that were eventually copied. Mr. Shelby redesigned existing cars, but is less well known for his own cars.It is bitter reality to find that people with great enthusiasm. innovation, and the ability to complete and test their superior designs are often stopped by a multitude of obstacles instead of encouraged. For Tucker to get his fifty cars built is a tremendous accomplishment under the circumstances, but the fight by him and his family was sure leave them discouraged from any similar effort.I would like to know more about his death six years after the trial. It seems suspicious to me with all the great ideas his sharp mind came up with. "},{"Title":"Beware of catching dreams!","Date":"17 October 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" This man and his family endure, endure, endure and support, support, support through some of the most trying times a family could go through. He inspires the same sort of loyalty and hard work in his employees and friends.It is so refreshing to see a movie about good people not compromising their values under pressure, although it nearly never goes the way they plan.It's easy to believe that the man who pioneered all these safety features, Preston Tucker, would be a man of heart, and that is how he is portrayed here. In fact that is what this movie is; a film with heart.Watch this but be careful! If you get too close you may catch his dreams. "},{"Title":"Bridges Embodies the Soul and Spirit of Preston Tucker","Date":"25 May 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Tucker, the Man and His Dream offers the quintessential Jeff Bridges performance. While not as tricky as his skillful turn in Starman, the role of Preston Tucker provided Bridges with a chance to use his innate optimism and unflagging energy to create an indelible character. Although nominated four times for an Oscar, Bridges was overlooked for this, arguably his finest performance. Perhaps the idealistic upbeat Tucker was too close to the real Bridges, and Academy members failed to notice that he was acting out the role of his career. The real Preston Tucker was a man of ideas that outpaced his time, which was the post-World War II era. Eager to produce a car that would embody all manner of advanced technology and safety measures from a rear engine to seat belts, Tucker's mind and spirit far outpaced the abilities of his engineers and backers to keep up with him. Unfortunately, he fell afoul of Detroit's Big Three automakers. The automotive giants felt threatened by the innovations that Tucker proposed and feared that the increased costs required to implement the new features would cut into profits. Fortunately, 46 of the Tucker automobiles that were produced are still road worthy and highly collectible.Directed by Francis Ford Coppola, who is reportedly the owner of a Tucker or two, the film boasts a cast of professionals that appear to revel in their roles. Martin Landau as the financier with a criminal record, Joan Allen as the epitome of a supportive early 1950's wife, Christian Slater as the devoted son, and a crew of mechanics that includes Frederic Forrest, Mako, and Elias Koteas all provide excellent support to Bridges's central starring role. Jeff's father, Lloyd Bridges, shows up in the small, but tasty role of a corrupt senator. The film begins as a glossy promotional documentary for Tucker, a la Citizen Kane, and the concept recurs throughout. Joe Jackson's music emphasizes the upbeat gung ho proceedings even in the face of adversity and captures the era effectively. Vittorio Storaro's superb cinematography and Dean and Alex Tavoularis's period art direction are as slick and shiny as the Tucker automobiles that come off the assembly line.While not in the same league as Coppola's Godfather films or Apocalypse Now, the film is an obvious labor of love. Like Scorsese, Hitchcock, and Ford, Coppola's second-tier works are still head and shoulders above the films of less talented directors. Engaging from beginning to end, the story of Preston Tucker could only have taken place in America, where an idealistic man with a dream can come up a winner even when he loses. Jeff Bridges also comes up a winner as Tucker even though he does not have a golden statuette to prove it. "},{"Title":"The American Dream wins out....sort of","Date":"23 November 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" I'm not sure this has a true 'spoiler' in it, but I put the check mark in just in case. I really wanted to like this movie because I love period flicks based on fact, I love older cars, and I love Jeff Bridges. Early on I wasn't sure about it, however. Jeff Bridges' eternal smile and optimism was starting to grate on me, but I stuck with it. From what I can tell, the movie was amazingly accurate. This is a film for someone who might be interested not only in old cars with futuristic ideas, but also the inner workings of big business and the government of the 1940's. This is a David vs Goliath film without a true fairy tale ending. "}{"Title":"about the dreamers and achievers out there, if only achieving some of the time, like Coppola himself","Date":"21 February 2010","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" On the DVD of Tucker The Man and His Dream, George Lucas comments that Francis Ford Coppola, the director of the film, shares qualities with Preston Tucker - both men have big dreams and always admire and gravitate towards innovation, and their ideas are always springing out in some eccentric but exciting ways. This is true, more or less, depending on when looking at either man's life (right now, for example, Coppola is fine just making wine with the occasional 'student' film like Tetro). But I would like to take the comparison a step further in the Tucker company and Coppola's film company, American Zoetrope.Looking at what happened to the two companies, at least in the scope of the story told in the movie (I can't say how true it is to real events, just how it's depicted here), there's glaring similarities, and things I am sure Coppola connected with. Both men had passion to take a dream of something- for Tucker it was a car line, for Coppola it was independent cinema and a means to break out of studio controls- and they went forward to achieve it, like outsiders but with skills and a drive to succeed. And, ultimately, both men didn't quite live up to the dream. It's somewhat ironic then that the only other guy to really get something out of American Zoetrope in its early years (not counting its peaks and valleys in the 80s), was George Lucas, who turns the tables on the usual dynamic of Coppola producing Lucas' early films to producing Coppola's own film this time around. It's a glossy and nostalgic look at dreams how they can go. At the least, Tucker and Coppola tried.And in the film on Tucker, Coppola and his crew, primarily in credit due to DP Vittorio Storaro, make what could be said like a filmic version of a Tucker Car. It's bright and fast and a little off-kilter and unusual. But we like riding in it, and it has an appeal that gives something just a little different, and it's also pretty to look at, too. This may be outside of Dick Tracy Storaro's most colorful color film, so to speak, with the bright primary colors and advertisement of 1940's Americana springing out in the screen. Now, this said, this is not exactly a 'rebel' picture like Coppola's early work. Instead it's in debt to the period in film as well, and the primary influence would probably be Capra. This I mean as a compliment - Tucker as a film is entertaining because of how endearing Tucker is, how Jeff Bridges plays him in this context (a guy with a pioneer-spirit, with a smile even when things look bleakest), and how the villains, corporate board members, a Senator, the Big Three come off.Coppola even has time to give us two really great scenes. Like they're so good that they could be put right up against some of the essential scenes in the director's films (almost up there, though not quite, with the Wagner bombing in Apocalypse Now and Vito Corleone's death scene). One is the unveiling of the prototype of the Tucker car. It's an intense scene, one that is full of a oh no! factor, even as in the back of our minds we know things will be alright. Mishaps keep happening as a crowd of hundreds waits impatiently for the car to come out, as the crew keeps retooling it so it can actually move (with a spy in the midst snapping embarrassing photos) and not totally break down or go up in flames. It's an amazing, uplifting scene. The other great one, not quite in tone like any other scene in the film is when Tucker meets Howard Hughes. It's a strange scene, as Hughes is in the dark aircraft carrier at night with his Spruce Goose and, as played by a withdrawn Dean Stockwell, is a bit frightening as an innovator who, perhaps, got too much of what he wanted. It's a brief scene, but an important one, to showcase the variance of the two men, Tucker and Hughes. "},{"Title":"Jeff Bridges in A Great Movie","Date":"9 September 2007","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" The little seen Tucker is a great movie. Jeff Bridges is one of those fine actors who is always professional and always innovative, and his performances are so reliably great one sometimes takes him for granted. I put him in the league of true movie pros such as Henry Fonda, James Stewart, Paul Newman and Kirk Douglas.Movie buffs will find the film splendidly acted and directed and car buffs will find this film intriguing for the Innovations that the Tucker Automobile had right after World War II that caused the Big Car companies to do all they could to shut down this Innovative Car Company. The Tucker in late 1940's had power steering, anti lock brakes, et al. Sadly the major Auto Manufacturers in Detroit would not be in the sorry state they are in at present had they been more creative and tried to do things better.Instead they felt that they had a lock on the American buying public and that no matter how good ( or weak) they produced a Car, the US Car buying public would purchase their products.This movie is not only about the Car Business it is about American Entrepreneurship and the spirit of competition and imagination that makes the US the wonder of the Business World. "},{"Title":"Nice movie, a pity about the facts","Date":"25 February 2004","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Those into 1940s period atmosphere and those interested in classic cars should like this. There's plenty of nice clothes, colors, swing music and of course cars.  Jeff Bridge's portrayal of Tucker is charming even if it doesn't quite ring true. And maybe Vera Tucker was as sexy as Joan Allen. The problem is that the real story is a bit different from this typically Hollywood camped up version.  Tucker was ambitious and daring but took on more than he could succeed with for technical and practical reasons in the time period that he set himself.  The SEC took him and five associates to court because his cars didn't have all the technical features that he had promised investors in his prospectus they would.  That stymied his ability to raise the money he needed to produce the 300,000 cars he had orders for. It was not a case of the big three motor companies acting to crush him - in fact Ford gave him steering wheels for the Lincoln Zephyr as a gesture of help.   The legacy is those attractive 51 cars that were produced which are today very highly valued. "},{"Title":"A GREAT movie!","Date":"11 February 1999","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  The colors in this movie were exquisite. The scene showing the colored car bodies coming off the assembly line was a vividly stunning visual. The fact that I was able to see it in an old fashioned movie theater with a HUGE screen surely made the difference in my appreciation of this movie.  Not too many movies make the audience want to cheer out loud for the hero,  this one did! "},{"Title":"underrated coppola","Date":"8 March 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Jeff Bridges stars as Preston Tucker, a pioneer of automobile manufacturing in the 1940s. The Tucker Torpedo was well ahead of its time, with disc brakes, seat belts and fuel injection, all new innovations. The big three auto makers plotted against Tucker, not thrilled with the new competition. A real life courtroom drama ensues with a David vs. Goliath like battle with crooked politicians, bad journalism and a man with a big dream. Coppola put his heart and soul into the making of Tucker, much like the subject did into his car. This film is a fine example of bringing to life a man with a dream who never gave up; very inspirational. "},{"Title":"car talk","Date":"8 November 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" More than simply the triumph of human spirit, Francis Ford Coppola's Tucker The Man and His Dream specifically shows how Preston Tucker (Jeff Bridges) sought to challenge the dominance of the big automakers and they set out to destroy him. I had never heard of Preston Tucker before watching this movie, so it was fascinating to learn about his deeds. Bridges is great as the entrepreneur, with Joan Allen as his wife Vera.I see that Coppola had weighed making this movie right after The Godfather Part 2. While I do believe that he made the correct choice in making Apocalypse Now - which I consider his greatest movie - this certainly would have constituted a fine follow-up to the films about the Corleone family. Definitely worth seeing.Also starring Martin Landau, Frederic Forrest, Mako, Christian Slater, Jay O. Sanders, Lloyd Bridges and Michael McShane (in his final role). "},{"Title":"A Marvelous Film","Date":"12 September 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" With just enough realism and surrealism, Coppola plays this documentary the way a documentary should be played - an individual with a vision and his attempt to push the limits of the envelope in post-WWII industrial America. The period costumes and music are excellent and accurate, the bittersweet punchline at the end is well done and just understated enough. The camera work is vivid in brilliant Technicolor as opposed to the black and white sometimes reserved for this time period. Frederic Forrest, Christian Slater and Joan Allen are all adequate and the gentle acting of Martin Landau complements Bridges frenzied portrayal. But the focus is always Jeff Bridges who carries Tucker's manic, obsessive, genius with amazing ease. Definitely one of my favorites. "},{"Title":"Good story, great film-making.","Date":"9 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" If I were to make a film about the power of dreams, I doubt I would start with a real-life story of a dreamer who ultimately failed because he had nothing BUT dreams. But as a film, Tucker The Man and His Dream works very well. It works neither because of nor in spite of whom Preston Tucker really was, but because he has been remade in the film to represent something larger--the postwar optimism that buoyed the nation for nearly two decades after the end of WWII. Lucas and Coppola were smart enough to realize that the factual story would resonate poorly with a late-20th-century audience if presented in a documentary style. So they skillfully crafted a tale that effectively communicates the real story, but does so behind the veil of fable.How this was done is a triumph of film-making technique. Rather than monkey around too much with the relevant (and ultimately disheartening) facts of the Tucker Motor Company's short existence, Lucas and Coppola took all the incidentals of the film&#151;the characters, the subplots, the sets, the costumes&#151;and skewed, streamlined, generalized and idealized them to the point of subtly but clearly communicating the filmmakers' intent that this be viewed as a morality play, not an historical account.The resulting film is visually and aurally gorgeous. The lush sets, rich, saturated colors and dramatic cinematography would border on hackneyed and cliché if they depicted any other era, but here they lovingly reinterpret the feel of '40s Hollywood dramas, meshing the film's message perfectly with the historical setting. A fantastic score by former-punk-rocker-turned-orchestral-arranger Joe Jackson artfully gives '40's swing a punchy, forceful modern makeover that helps keep the whole retro package accessible and enjoyable for modern viewers.Looking back, it may seem odd that unbridled enthusiasm such as Tucker's was so pervasive as the nation reeled from the horrible reality of World War II and came to grips with its cold war legacy. Perhaps America HAD to be optimistic; the fragile ability to hope and dream was indispensable therapy. Like Tucker's, everyone else's dreams of a forever-improving world would crash by the end of the disillusioned, turbulent '60s. Tucker The Man and His Dream is a very agreeable way to forget the past we KNOW and discover a more visceral history we can FEEL. "},{"Title":"Movie that looks like a play","Date":"30 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Though it bothers some people, I think the best part of this movie is how it occasionally looks like a stage play.  Whenever two people are talking on the phone, for example, they are rather obviously standing right next to each other with a wall in between them.  Also, the colors have a slightly washed out look that makes the movie look much older than it really is. "},{"Title":"One of the best films on American industry ever made!","Date":"21 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This is without question an overlooked masterpiece--an expose and celebration of American industry, the entrepreneurial spirit, and the flaws and strengths of the capitalist system.  Jeff Bridges and Martin Landau deserved Oscars (Landau was nominated) for their portrayals of Preston Tucker and his friend/manager, Abe Karatz--they show the intelligence, drive, and unquenchable dynamism of the American businessman in their quest to build the 'perfect automobile', only 50 of which were ever built but of which 44 are still on the road today!!!  It is also an indictment of oligopolistic business practices and the financial and political power of big business that keeps innovation from the American consumer in this flawed system.  It is Citizen Kane with--if not a happy ending, then at least an optimistic one.  Kudos to Coppola!! SEE THIS FILM!! "}{"Title":"Leaders never give up on their vision.","Date":"31 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Tucker is an excellent movie, a true story, about how one man ,Tucker, managed to achieve his dreams fighting against one of the most powerful industries in USA, the Automotive industry.Tucker started his company in a simple Barn, and from there he started producing cars in the biggest warehouse ever built.You can see Francis Ford Coppola's hand in the movie, the movie is from 1988, but it looks from 2011.I highly recommend this movie to entrepreneurs who are looking for inspiration.Gabriel Renom "},{"Title":"Great Docudrama About American Innovation Being Undermined","Date":"6 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Tucker The Man and His Dream is a bitter sweet docudrama that makes you appreciate the wonderful look at an enthusiastic and innovative man, his supportive family & friends, and his embodiment of the dream of American free enterprise. Unfortunately the dream is crushed by a huge machine designed to destroy competition. In some ways the story is something like Rocky I building up hopes and even demonstrating worthiness & success, but ultimately overcome by the entrenched establishment.Innovators like the Jeep designers, Tucker, Jim Hall and his Chaparral Racing cars, Carol Shelby and his Shelby & Ford Cobras inspired me toward mechanical engineering and automotive technology. Along the way you find that the path toward true innovation not as encouraged as one would expect, or we would probably be driving cars on some form of extremely plentiful natural gas today.The hard lesson demonstrated by this movie is that many of the American dreams are fairy tales, that there is no true free enterprise, or not for long. Tucker tried valiantly to compete with huge companies who hate competition, who spend billions fighting it with legislation, government agencies and the media.The Jeep designers had to share production of their design with other manufacturers to get the government contract. Fortunately, Jim Hall's innovations were in race cars where innovation was not as restricted, but he did not really reap the financial rewards he deserved for his innovations that were eventually copied. Mr. Shelby redesigned existing cars, but is less well known for his own cars.It is bitter reality to find that people with great enthusiasm. innovation, and the ability to complete and test their superior designs are often stopped by a multitude of obstacles instead of encouraged. For Tucker to get his fifty cars built is a tremendous accomplishment under the circumstances, but the fight by him and his family was sure leave them discouraged from any similar effort.I would like to know more about his death six years after the trial. It seems suspicious to me with all the great ideas his sharp mind came up with. "},{"Title":"A little disappointed...","Date":"16 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Although I love this movie and the way it was filmed and the fact that finally someone told the truth about Tucker, I am still a little saddened. Being a Michigander with a fierce pride in my home state, I find it more than a little disturbing that Mr. Ford-Coppola, a Michigan native himself, would take no opportunity whatsoever to use the beautiful and rustic scenery of Michigan in this film. Almost the entire film takes place in either Michigan or Chicago, and yet it was fully filmed in California. Shame, shame, shame.I know some would say that it doesn't matter where a film is shot. But think about how you would feel if something important happened in your neck of the woods and filmmakers couldn't even be bothered to get certain details correct. It is frustrating, because I find this happening all the time with respect to Michigan and its cities. "},{"Title":"Why was Lloyd Bridges not credited for his part as Senator Homer Ferguson?","Date":"25 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Why was Lloyd Bridges not credited for his part as Senator Homer Ferguson? He's Jeff Bridges' father and played a very crucial role to the plot of this film and the driving force behind Tucker's failure. The cinematography of this film was appropriately done in widescreen, in order to depict the immensity of Tucker's dream. Lloyd Bridges' portrayal of Senator Ferguson, was so well done that I really resented his position of power to be able to destroy this innovative automobile. I actually remember this car when my father brought home a brochure. I used to watch Sea Hunt every week and I feel Lloyd Bridges deserves to be credited in every movie that he has appeared in.Teddy "},{"Title":"As much about love and family as cars...and dreams","Date":"11 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  OK, I'll admit it...even though the man is a good 30 years older than me, I have a mad crush on Jeff Bridges! But even more than that, the man can act, and after 40+ years in the movie business, he's doing something right. Tucker... shows the story of someone who has a dream of making life better in some small way, appeals to the love of cars (the vintage ones used in this movie are striking!), and how you can't see a dream come to fruition without the ones who love you and believe in you (Joan Allen is great as Tucker's wife, and Christian Slater as the son looks like he could really be Jeff Bridges' son!). It is about the love and support of family in good times and bad as much as it is about building the perfect car. But what happens when your dream ultimately doesn't come true? When the people you trust turn against you? These issues are fleshed out beautifully and Jeff Bridges is perfect across the board as Preston Tucker. A great family film as well. "},{"Title":"Documentary and riviting all in one!","Date":"27 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Never have I seen a movie with such inspiration, drama, and comedy wrapped up in a documentary film.  Great work Coppola, Lucas, Bridges, and Landau! "},{"Title":"It's the idea that counts, and the dream.","Date":"8 May 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Here, Jeff Bridges gets to play a little bit of the good-natured kidder we've come to love... as Tucker, the eternal optimist and dreamer, we experience the reality that all dreams are met with obstacles sometimes... The flashy style of the director has the look and feel of a Life magazine or Saturday Evening Post piece... it's hype, sure, but it attempts to capture the entrepreneurial spirit of post-war America with the swing music and stylish clothing... Excellent performances by Bridges (both of them!), Martin Landau and even Christian Slater plays with much more subtlety than usual. Dean Stockwell does a pretty good Howard Hughes.All of the acting performances in this picture are superb, and the pacing is almost frenetic. These factors, along with a rather ingenious use of transitions by Director Francis Ford Coppola (who coincidentally owns one of the few Tuckers left in existence), create a busy feeling that conveys to the audience that Tucker has got the world by the tail and is pulling hard... hold that tiger! Combine all of this with an excellent soundtrack by Joe Jackson (unfortunately very hard to find these days), and you have what one reviewer accurately describes as one of the greatest movies that hardly anyone ever watched.Overall rating 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Entertaining but not complete enough","Date":"11 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" We need to start with the plot - it's engaging and relatively true. It captures the spirit of American ingenuity with decent acting and nice cinematography. But somehow, this film is laughable and almost a farce. As noted above, Bridges' performance is almost a sketch of a clown, rather than a visionary like Preston Tucker. He's likable and funny, but you never get the sense he takes anything seriously, unless it's his wife's dress color being denied a spot in the auto paint selection. The supporting cast is very solid, with Martin Landau and Lloyd Bridges showing their experience. Dean Stockwell has a cameo as Howard Hughes, the only part of the film which is not based on reality. Elias Koteas is also in the film, showing the promise of his future - he was also in Some Kind of Wonderful at the same time. Try comparing the roles and see his diverse abilities. But again, for some reason, the film just is not good. Perhaps it's the light-hearted way the screenplay touches upon antitrust issues and collusion between automakers and lawmakers. It's a big suggestion to make, and the film does not explore the conspiracy fully enough. "},{"Title":"Classic David vs Goliath story, but runs a bit rough","Date":"20 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" My favorite scene in Tucker The Man and His Dream comes in the last ten minutes the the closing arguments from Preston Tucker about the tenets of free enterprise and the little guy vs. big business. It's an impassioned speech and really where Jeff Bridges gets to shine in the lead role.Tucker's little guy taking on the Big 3 automakers is the heart of the story, and there's universal appeal in this. The film has a rose-colored glasses look on the past with its advertising style of telling this story (kudos to the art department on this), and its genial performances do suck you in. My problem was in the overall execution. This thing runs with a shuddering transmission; go-stop, go-stop. The characters' cheer whenever things go right is palpable, but there's tragedy lurking at every corner. It just doesn't stop. And the big reveal scene is dragged out to torturous ends - which is fine if that's what really happened, but it runs counter to the rest of the movie's slick polish.And things felt overwrought by the time we get to the courtroom drama, which is why that speech was such a breath of fresh air. I was hoping for that feeling from the rest of the movie.6/10 "},{"Title":"A story on how the big names snuff out people with great ideas","Date":"2 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" The story was a great one about how a revolutionizing idea will live on even after the inventor is thrown aside. Yet the story mainly focus on how the big names in industries will only think of their own gains and advantages to reap from the market by keeping their own outdated innovations and not letting the people to get the best that ideas can offer. The acting is a decent overall. Jeff Bridges gets into character nicely in he managed to maintain Tucker's almost persistent smile yet he can give out the heated anger scenes the live they need. It's nice too see Elias Koteas and Christian Slater adding the right tone here. Joan Allen has also did a good job in completing the spouses and family scenes well. "}{"Title":"hold that tiger","Date":"11 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" The real Preston Tucker wasn't nearly as handsome as Jeff Bridges, but for my money, few men are. As Tucker in Tucker The Man and His Dream, a 1988 film directed by Francis Ford Coppola, Bridges delivers an exuberant performance a man who, even facing defeat, always had a smile on his face and a dream in his heart.This is the true story of Tucker (1903-1956) who, after the war, had the intention of building an innovative car he had been thinking about for years. The three big car manufacturers of the day didn't like that, and they had the Senator from Michigan, Homer Ferguson (Lloyd Bridges) in their back pocket according to the film. In real life, it's only been speculated that Ferguson worked with the SEC to bring down Tucker.His prototype car received an enormous amount of publicity and brought in investors. But he was unable to purchase enough material to build his cars; the steel just wasn't available. Ultimately he was accused of stealing money and using it not to build cars but for his own gain, and brought to trial.It was Tucker's dream to build 60,000 cars a year. In the film, at the time of his trial, he had 47 completed, and legally he was to produce 50 to keep his company open. Though President Truman closed Tucker's business early and turned the factory over to the manufacture of fabricated housing, Tucker's employees build the remaining three cars before the deadline. (In real life, he only had 37 built, and his employees built the other 13.) Tucker won the battle, but he lost the war. Though he triumphed in court, Tucker's company closed. Always optimistic, he went into other projects, one with a car manufacturer in Brazil, but he didn't live long enough nor was he strong enough in his last years to help bring it to fruition. He died of lung cancer in 1956.Yet, as the film explains at the end, he left quite a legacy. Many of the features of the Tucker automobile are used by Detroit today. He was a man ahead of his time.This is a wonderful, poignant story of s man who embodied the true American spirit, a man who believed that anything was possible. The reality of politics and finances defeated him, as the film shows, but it didn't bring the man down. Had he lived, he would have had a second act.Fine direction by Coppola, a wonderful soundtrack, and a good cast -- Joan Allen as Tucker's wife Vera, Christian Slater as his oldest son, Martin Landau as his first business partner, and Frederic Forrest as one of his engineers, led by Bridges' strong performance, make Tucker The Man and His Dream a must-see. "},{"Title":"Preston's Dream.","Date":"29 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Francis Ford Coppola directed this entertaining biography of Preston Tucker ,(played with enthusiasm by Jeff Bridges), an ambitious inventor who, after WWII ends, devises a new kind of automobile with innovative features like seat belts(!). With help from his family, and his friend Abe(played nicely by Martin Landau) he gets the funding to build 50 cars after he leases a disused government factory. Things go wrong when the Big 3 automakers get wind of this, and decide that they don't want the competition, get their lobbyists out to destroy him, led by a sinister senator(played by Jeff's father Lloyd Bridges). Tucker is finally brought to trial for fraud, and must plead his case personally, despite the government turning on him...Stylish and entertaining film features fine performances by all, and a poignant yet inspiring story of one determined man's efforts to improve the automobile industry, yet being stymied the whole way. Memorable speech by Tucker at the end will seem quite prescient in later years. "},{"Title":"Winner takes all","Date":"5 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Francis Coppola had ambitions to take on the major studios and failed. His experience lead him to make the film of Preston Tucker who wanted to make better and safer cars after World War 2 and failed as the big boys of the motor industry flexed their muscles and crushed the little guy with big ideas.The film was a hit with the critics but failed to gain much headway with the public. Its beautifully filmed like a homage to those Preston Sturges films and the colourful Douglas Sirk films. It has a wonderful zippy script and a mesmerising performance from Jeff Bridges which should had led to an Oscar nomination. Bridges brings a lot of pizazz to a guy with big ideas and a big drive and he is ably supported by Martin Landau, Joan Allen, Frederic Forrest and even his own father, Lloyd Bridges turns up as a sinister politician.It is heartbreaking to see such dream and ambitions crushed by government and big industry and its a theme revisited by Martin Scorcese when he later made The Aviator, his biopic about Howard Hughes, a character who also features in this film.This is surely one of Coppola's most underrated film and one of Bridges best performances. "},{"Title":"A Must For Old Car Fans","Date":"11 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" This is a film which works on many levels. As an indictment of big business and their manipulation of the little guy, this is perfect. Preston Tucker dreamed of and actually built a few of his futuristic Tucker cars which scared the hell out of the big three. My late Father told me he rode in one of these cars once upon a time. The forties atmosphere is beautifully portrayed here, and the performances by Jeff Bridges, Joan Allen and Martin Landau hit just the right notes. The photography is stylish and the music great. The icing on the cake are those beautiful Tucker cars, supplied by the Tucker Owners Club which are seen throughout the film. If you get the DVD, you get a great extra in a short film, in color, made by the Tucker Corporation to promote the car. My late Mother once told me a joke that was popular around the time the Tucker was in the public consciousness Buy a Kaiser and surprise her, or buy a Tucker and -------! (Kaiser was the name of another all-new postwar car). "},{"Title":"A Most Magnificent Movie","Date":"4 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" A truly rich and rewarding Movie. This Story of a Man who naively tried to compete with the Big Three Automobile Corporations is Filmmaking at its most poignant. Although much of it plays like a Fairy Tale, although the unhappy ending is obvious, most of it is based on Facts and is pretty much the way the Saga unfolded in Real Life.It is a beautiful looking Film and is superbly crafted with a Love for the period. The Cast is strong throughout and things move at Highway Speed. This is the kind of Entertainment that rarely emerges from Hollywood (exemplified by the poor Box-Office). Ironically Folks malign the Dream Factory for the Trash it produces and then stay away from something as inspirational, touching, and relevant as Tucker.A must see Movie for all ages. It is a joy to behold with its life lessons, optimism in spite of adversity, and overall good feeling that is in every frame of this little seen, underrated, ignored, informative, and Fantastic Film. As good as Movie Making gets. "},{"Title":"Mr. Tucker Goes to Detroit","Date":"2 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Coppola achieves a fascinating fusion of vintage Capra and 80's grandstanding with this one - most of the time it works neither as realism nor as fantasy. The cinematography, production design and Coppola's camera tricks are gorgeous, but the parallels to Coppola's own life are obvious, and the lack of shading and detail makes them irrelevant and self-conscious in the worst way. His refusal to give Preston Tucker any semblance of an inner life or to treat the marginal characters as more than wallpaper drops the viewer in limbo - it's a drama/comedy about the strength and perseverance of character, with a conspicuous lack of character. Bridges, Allen and Elias Koteas have some nice moments, but the performances that stick in the mind are the uncredited Lloyd Bridges as Senator Ferguson and especially Dean Stockwell as Howard Hughes. To say the least, Coppola is very adept in creating a framework for Stockwell's cameo. It's as if his words pass directly into myth, and each second is perfection. "},{"Title":"not coincidental","Date":"3 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  A film about the act of creation and the individual standing within the industry system. The genius that makes his work of art in the garage at the back, in a strictly family business, that adapts himself but never compromises or sells out, that tolerates the mutilation of his creation but never gives up the Blue Vals color that reminds him of her wife's dress on their first date, the uniqueness standing apart from mere reproduction. Any similarity with Coppola and his films is not coincidental. "},{"Title":"Solid cast and THE CAR!!","Date":"15 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  From an actual complex and complicated story Francis Ford Coppola manages to tell the tale of Entrepreneur Preston Thomas Tucker in a great motion picture. The film surprisingly has only a few historical inaccuracies regarding Tucker and his attempt to build the car of tomorrow in the late forties The film never drags even during board meeting and courtroom scenes thanks to a great cast and Coppolas film making skills. A great score also adds to the films appeal. Then there is the car, which didn't have to do much to put in a great performance except let itself be filmed. "},{"Title":"Historical film","Date":"25 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This movie was a great movie.  It was a little slow but worth watching. It showed how a good moral man was trying to invent a new car and sell it to the people for affordable prices.  The business and politics got the best of him and show his struggles to keep his company going.  It has a great plot and very infomative.  I learned a lot from the movie.  The acting was terrific and is a movie I enjoy to watch more than one time. I recommend this movie to anybody, yet I don't think little kids will enjoy it as much.  "},{"Title":"Solid","Date":"1 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Tucker The Man And His Dream is a good solid film, but, as Coppola himself seems to realize (in his commentary), it's nothing special. Its stylized realism is appealing, but ultimately an empty appeal to nothing of substance. That's too bad, because throughout the film I was thinking that there is gold to be mined in the old adage that not all who think that others are out to get them are crazy. Trust me, I know. But this theme is not really even touched on in the film, and only glancingly so in the commentary by Coppola, when the filmmaker muses that newer Internet technology likely makes it easier to succeed against the powers that be (no quite so, Francis!). Nonetheless, the cumulative positives slightly outweigh the negatives, and even if they did not, the film's historical focus deserves viewing. Just, keep expectations in line (unlike Tucker) and you will likely find something of benefit, whether or not Coppola intended it or not. "}{"Title":"Ideas and Dreams that Count","Date":"2 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Tucker  The Man and His Dreams is a movie concerning a car designer during the 1940s.  Internal struggles within the company and government agencies funded by the major three major automobile makers destroy his dream.  The film depicts the ability of bureaucracies within our country to conquer the imaginative ideas of the working people. It is an interesting movie about a man whose dreams were incredible for the times. This movie is the first time Joan Allen, Jeff Bridges, and Christian Slater collaborated to make a film. The Contender is a better film and possesses higher quality performances from all three actors, but Tucker is worth watching.   "},{"Title":"Keep smilin' through","Date":"19 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Preston Tucker (as Jeff Bridges played him and as he appears in stills during the closing credits) may have actually been an energetic, gregarious, generous, optimistic, (manic?) and loving man. There is a real pleasure in watching this persistent, lovable lug who always (always!) wears a canary who ate the cat expression (as his wife's character describes him) through all his many turmoils. Trouble is, liberal Hollywood gets a hold of his story, Coppola in particular with his own axes to grind, and its loses all nuance. The sytem, the government, big business, the SEC, Truman, Detroit, the Atom Bomb, Japanese internment camps are all trashed in this sanctimonious feel good treatment of what might have been a more thoughtful story. But hey, the atmosphere, especially the clothes, are great, although one has trouble believing that in the late 1940's everyone's clothes, radios, furniture was all as shiny and spanking new as the 50 beautiful Tuckers right off the assembly line.   "},{"Title":"Scrapheap Challenge","Date":"20 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" The story of Preston Tucker, failed car manufacturer, as told in Francis Coppola's biopic, has a feel of a fable such as David Mamet's 'The Water Engine', an archetypal story of the little man with a dream, crushed by the system. It's therefore surprising to learn that, in essence, the story is true, and Jeff Bridges' portrayal of Tucker as a character of almost wild enthusiasm is also close to the mark. But even if it's it true, it still doesn't convince. Bridges plays Tucker as a man of nothing but enthusiasm, and it's hard to believe that anyone could have taken such a person seriously; or indeed, that such a person could ever have run a large business successfully, however great his judgement and ambition. He's also just too bouncy for us to really feel his pain as life turns against him, and there's an annoying depiction of his perfect family to boot in the classic Hollywoood manner. Above all else the film is a reassertion of the values of the American dream, and while it's amusing to see how Tucker assembled his first car in the manner of a competitor on 'Scrapheap Challenge', the point is that in 99 out of 100 cases, a dreamer wouldn't make it nearly as far as Tucker; in the real world, dreaming alone is rarely enough. Without this context, the film loses it's point and bite but it's nice to see 50 reconstructions of Tucker's futuristic creation, circling the block at the end at the film. "},{"Title":"more style than substance, but still worth a look","Date":"11 January 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Don't expect to learn much from Francis Ford Coppola about maverick car designer Preston Tucker or his dream of challenging the Detroit automaking establishment in the late 1940s. Coppola's long-delayed pet project is a transparent revision of the director's own equally futile, early '80s pipe dream of creating a rival Hollywood movie studio, with the blame for its eventual failure placed squarely on a conspiracy of corporate envy and bureaucratic greed. The film has all the depth and complexity (not to mention the same antic pace) of an old Warner Brothers cartoon, and like a cartoon can be a lot of fun, showing all the giddy optimism of post-World War II America, overplayed here to the point of near-hysteria. It's thin stuff, but on the superficial level of craftsmanship alone the film is a visual showcase, running out of gas (so to speak) only during the inevitable courtroom summary, set in Chicago but shot (to the amusement of Northern Californians) in downtown San Francisco. At the climax of his trial Coppola's screen analogue is allowed the chance to restate the theme of the film, which was never more meaningful than 'you can't fight City Hall'. "},{"Title":"Anothe quasi-true drama about how the big guy squashes the little guy","Date":"18 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I'm not certain I agree with the casting of this 'epic' movie. It takes too long to tell the story and finally we get a sort of 'in-your-face' closure to the whole story. Normally a story like this compels me to do a little research into the story but this left me flat If I have to listen to another story about the auto battle between the big guy and the little guy let it be of the style of 'Gung Ho'....that one at least had a laugh or two. Don't expect to laugh during this movie...it's against the plot..  "},{"Title":"Tucker The Dream","Date":"14 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Tucker The Man and His Dream is an expose on this idea of the 'American dream'. To be honest, I'd never even heard of Tucker before seeing this, but it turns out that he's a man that decided to build a new type of car that would revolutionise the car industry. Naturally, he faced much opposition from the bad guys along the way, but in the end good won out and Tucker got his cars made and revolutionised the auto industry forever. Oh say, does that star spangled banner yet wave...sing it with me now! Jeff Bridges is apple pie personified as the title character; a patriotic American that wants to live the American dream. Francis Ford Coppola creates a lovely 40's style that is pleasing to the eye and gives the film a very upbeat attitude. The stylishness of the picture comes at the expense of substance, however, and that makes the film hard to like because there isn't a lot of character for the audience to connect with. The American dream's hold over Tucker and the way that he continually gets pulled down lend it a sort of substance, as it's a comment on how adversity always exists, but it's not very personal and doesn't make the film easy to like. The film is also rather poorly plotted, with it all going well until we get to about the hour mark and then it takes a horrible downturn, almost into the realms of boring; this is a far cry from The Godfather films for Coppola. The film gets a little too chirpy at times as well, which will annoy and not intrigue, especially for the non-patriotic Americans in the audience.Don't get me wrong, this film isn't terrible by a long way but it isn't particularly good either and despite a lovely style, Coppola can't take the ball and deliver on the substance front as well. A shame, but there you go. "},{"Title":"Somewhat Uninvolving Bio-Pic","Date":"10 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" On being nominated for THE GODFATHER PART 3 ( And gawd knows why - That movie was utter crap ) Francis Ford Copppola was interviewed and he explained that he tried to his movies in a style based on the story hence APOCALYPSE NOW was a weird acid trip and TUCKER THE MAN AND HIS DREAMS was directed in an mechanical manner . I can recall that interview because I've just seen TUCKER and my slight problem with it is that it's directed in a somewhat mechanical manner ! I say  slight  because the movie is never as bad as it could have been with a sterile , emotionless , aloof feel ( Kubrick springs to mind here ) making the story completely uninvolving for the audience , but TUCKER isn't as good as it could have been . The cast do a good enough job with Jeff Bridges doing his good guy role to a tee while Oscar nominated Martin Landau making us forget he was the star of SPACE 1999 , a sci-fi show with actors that were even more wooden than the sets . But the despite the performances Coppola direction seems somewhat passionless and doesn't draw the audience into the story as well as he could have There is something that also needs pointed out and put into historical context and that's the automobile industry's attitude to road accidents till the 1950s . Up until then car manufacturers were of the mindset that car accidents weren't the fault of cars they were the fault of people driving cars hence seat belts and other safety devices weren't fitted in most cars in those days . It might seem somewhat callous on the part of car makers ( Preston Tucker excepted of course ) in those days but in 2005 how many people still take the attitude that if you get a smoking related disease or AIDS it's your own fault ? We still blame the victim in the 21st century don't we ? "}]