[{"Title":"It made me feel","Date":"3 September 2004","Score":"39 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I've seen this movie when I was young, and I remembered it as one of the first films I have truly liked that was not an action movie or a comedy. So, in my later years I decided to watch it again and see if it was just nostalgia or was there really something in that movie. To my surprise, the movie held to my every expectations. It's a great movie. Emotional in the right amount, some jokes, nice songs (not great though, and that actually explains why I did not remember it was a musical) and all in all a great use to my time. I was surprised because the last movies from my childhood that I have revisited did not even pass my minimal demands of a decent movie and yet this movie, which I first saw in the second grade, made me cry today just like it made me cry then. Maybe that's because my dog died recently and maybe not, but the important thing is that it made me feel, and that's why filmmakers make films (that and the money, of course). Yes, there are continuity glitches. Yes, the script has holes, but it doesn't matter. The movie itself is fun and smart. So don't be fooled by cynical people who always look for the bad things in life, because nothing is perfect, and this movie gets a 10 not because it is perfect. It gets 10 simply because it made me feel. "},{"Title":"Brings back memories","Date":"9 April 2004","Score":"35 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  All dogs go to Heaven is one of the best movies I've ever seen. I first saw it when I was like 3. Now I'm 12 and I rented it, it makes me think of things and it brings back so many memories, those were the days. I love the music, I love when Charlie is arriving in Heaven, I love the song Let me be surprised. I love how Charlie looks and his voice, Bert Reynolds could only play Charlie's voice this great. I love this movie, the 1st one is the best one because it's so original and great. It really does bring back memories that no one can describe, not even me. If only I could go back to those days. I love the characters. If this is the way the memories come back when I'm 12 imagine how I'll feel when I'm like 19, I hope I'll be able to watch this when I'm older. When I first seen this I never knew that I would really look back on it and feel this way , I hope it will be available to watch. I'm so happy that this movie was made and the amazing idea came to mind and heart. On a scale from 1-10 I'd give it a perfect 10. It's an amazing movie. It's so hard to explain the feeling, when I get older and if I have kids, I hope they can experience this feeling. "},{"Title":"Bluth's most haunting, unusual, and powerfully poignant film.","Date":"7 April 2006","Score":"32 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I loved this film when I was little. Today at 17 it is one of my all time favorite animated films. Beautiful animation and appealing characters are just two of the things to like about this film. Although many people might not enjoy some of the songs, most of them are well-done and go along with the story. It focuses on Charlie, a roguish handsome German Shepard who may seem unlikable to some at first... but eventually will win you over.Not a kiddie film by any means. Often very dark and frightening at times. A treat for Don Bluth fans and animation buffs. But do keep a tissue in handy. ADGTH never fails to make me cry and will do the same for those who are movie sensitive. Arguably one of the greatest non-Disney animated films of all time. Along with Watership Down and My Neighbor Totoro.BOTTOM LINE A heavenly masterpiece. "},{"Title":"One of the most memorable cartoons ever made, should never be forgotten","Date":"10 February 2005","Score":"29 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" All Dogs Go To Heaven is a movie that I have always liked. When I was a kid, I used to watch this every other day. It is underrated if you look at its IMDb rating and the comments of many people in general. This isn't a bad movie like many say, it is a very good movie. This is good and your kids will probably like it. Even though it's rated G, some parents may find this to be a bit violent. It is actually a pretty dark story, where the dogs are similar to mobsters who are involved in gambling, extortion, and even cold blooded murder. The movie follows a dog named Charlie who had escaped from the pound, is killed by his old friend, goes to heaven, but ends up coming back to earth. Many younger kids watching this movie may feel as though they are watching a big kids movie. There are some scenes that may scare little kids, but I'm sure they'll do fine. Every time I watch this movie, it reminds me of when I was a little kid. I'm sure everyone has a movie that reminds them of when they were younger, this is the movie that makes me feel that way. The performances from Burt Reynolds and Dom DeLuise are great, and this is the last movie that a little girl named Judith Barsi was in. Unfortunately, she was killed at a young age, which is a shame because she had so much potential and didn't deserve what happened. Now that I know her story, I can't watch this movie the same way anymore because her voice sounds so sad. The animation in this movie is great, the voice work is great, and the story is good, but a little bit different from many other kids movies. This was popular at the time of its release, but was over shadowed by Disney's mega popular The Little Mermaid. This is a movie that isn't conceived as well by adults, but if you're a kid, or if you grew up with this movie as a kid, then I'm sure you will enjoy watching it. "},{"Title":"Such a tear-jerker","Date":"7 September 2007","Score":"18 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I remember watching this movie with my friends when we were 4 years old, but the weird thing is that I never watched it after that. The other day I was babysitting and my cousin never saw All Dogs Go To Heaven so we rented both movies and watched them together today and he really loved these movies. So many memories came back watching this movie once again and I have to admit I even cried a little. I'm 22 years old and the ending still gets to me. All Dogs Go To Heaven is one of the most touching animated films and I'm shocked honestly by this rating of 5.8, I thought this movie would bring back good memories for others as well. I admit the animation was a bit typical but the story is just so charming and fun.Charlie is a gambling dog who gets killed by another gambling dog, Carface. But when Charlie wants revenge he comes back to Earth with a watch that can't stop ticking or that's the end of his life again. When he and his best friend, Itchy, look for Carface and spy on him they find out how Carface gets all his money, he has a little orphan girl who talks to animals and finds out who is going to win the races. Charlie takes the girl, Ann-Marie, and makes fake promises in order to get the money. But he ends up learning that maybe he should put Ann-Marie first before himself when Carface goes back to him with a vengeance.All Dogs Go To Heaven is the perfect family film, it's not Disney, but this is an excellent family film to watch. Not to mention that it's just so cute and touching. I know it's ridicules and some people call me crazy, but this movie for me when I was a kid made me believe that dogs have souls. How could they not? They're just so loving, and I think I'm going to cry again. But anyways, I would just recommend this movie for anyone, it's a fun movie to watch.7/10 "},{"Title":"Sweet and memorable.","Date":"27 March 2006","Score":"12 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" When I was a little girl (and my dad owned a video store), this was among my favorite movies. I hadn't heard much about it since then, nor did I really remember anything about it, it having been forgotten in the wake of Don Bluth's other, probably better films. I managed to track it down a few weeks ago, however, and was pleasantly surprised again. Set in New Orleans in the 1930s, the animation is delightful and the songs are memorable. There are a few goofs in continuity if you look hard enough, but they generally don't detract from the storyline, which leaves you smiling (and maybe even a little misty-eyed, if you are a lover of animals). The characters are believable (maybe even a little too grown-up for younger watchers), as well. Two paws up, and for those of you who haven't seen it in a while, definitely worth a re-watch. "},{"Title":"A Cute and Touching Animated Film From The Great Director Don Bluth.","Date":"25 July 2001","Score":"13 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  All Dogs Go to Heaven is a brillaint and cute animated film from the great director Don Bluth who directed the brillaint film The Secret of Nimh. All dogs Go to Heaven is the one of cutest Metro-Goldwyn Mayer animated films. Don Bluth did a great job directing and I enjoyed the voices of Dom DeLueis and Burt Reynolds. This is a classic family film that is a Metro-Goldwyn Mayer Classic. I give this great film a 10 out of 10!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Good 'dogs'","Date":"30 August 2001","Score":"14 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I don't like a lot of animated movies, but I absolutely loved ALL DOGS GO TO HEAVEN. I found it to be the most touching, funny, and enjoyable animated movie I have ever seen. Itchy was very funny and I loved Burt Reynolds as the voice of Charlie. He was great. I can't wait to buy the movie on DVD!!! "},{"Title":"Doggy Heaven from Homers Simpson's view. Santa's Little Helper Isn't there yet, but will be soon.","Date":"14 January 2005","Score":"16 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" An unforgettable masterpiece from the creator of The Secret of Nimh and The Land Before Time, this was a very touching bittersweet cartoon. I remember this very well from my childhood, it was funny and sad and very beautiful. Well it starts out a bit dark, a dog who escaped the pound, and gets killed by an old friend, ends up in Heaven, and comes back. But it becomes sweet when he befriends an orphaned girl who can talk to animals. Some scenes were a bit scary contrary to other cartoons, like the dream sequence of Charlie, but everything else was okay,and the songs were fair. A memorable role of Burt Reynolds and Dom DeLuise, I just love that guy, ahehehe. And Judith Barsi of Jaws The Revenge, may God rest her soul, poor girl, she didn't deserve to die, but she is in Heaven now, all good people go to Heaven. Overall this is a very good animated movie, a Don Bluth classic enough to put anime and Disney to shame. Recommended for the whole family. And know this, if you have the original video of this, you'll find after the movie, Dom DeLuise has a very important and special message, gotta love that guy, ahehehe. "},{"Title":"Nothing warms the heart like a cold nose","Date":"26 October 2006","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I can remember this movie from when i was a small child, i loved it then and I still do now. I managed to get it on DVD for my 18th Birthday and was over joyed because I had found it so difficult to find it previously and it had only be rented when i was younger. My favourite character is Charlie because he learns to be a good dog. The movie is filled with fun songs and music. The animation is brilliant and the character voices are perfect. This movie has always been a tearjerker for me but i think that if i hadn't seen the movie when i was small then i would not find it as brilliant and fascinating as I do although I still believe that I would still like it because I am Really into animated movies. "}{"Title":"The Best Movie EVER","Date":"13 January 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is one of the greatest movies ever maybe even the greatest movie ever. I had forgotten about the movie for about 12 years. Until I saw an add on TV for ADGTH and it brought back fond memories of me watching it when I was a little kid. And when I watched it a few nights ago I became addicted to the movie. Usually I don't like animated family movies but this one is special it is the perfect family movie.The ending of the movie always touches my heart and saddens me very much but that is what makes this movie amazing better than all of the garbage that is coming out for kid movies today. I mean the movie is G rated and it is about 2 dogs who are involved with gambling, there is a lot of smoking, drinking, murder, death and hell depicted in the movie. Which I Believe makes the movie from good to great. I mean movies today don't bring reality to kids and in this movie they did.RIP Judith Barsi & Dom DeLuise "},{"Title":"One of Don Bluth's Best!","Date":"21 July 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" All Dogs Go to Heaven is one of Don Bluth's best animated features. It's a great story about Charlie Barkin voiced by Burt Reynolds who gets killed but returns to Earth and must rescue a little girl named Anne Marie voiced by Judith Barsi from the evil Carface. Filled with great animation and a great story All Dogs Go to Heaven is a great animated film and one of Don Bluth's best. Burt Reynolds and Dom DeLuise gave great voice performances as Charlie and his partner Itchy. And Judith Barsi gave a good final voice performance as Anne Marie the little girl. Don Bluth has really shown us what really great an animated movie can do with a good story, great characters, and great animation. I give All Dogs Go to Heaven 10/10. "},{"Title":"You can't see anything like that elsewhere","Date":"15 May 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie has been overlooked so much, it saddens me every time I see an empty review about it that fusses over tiny elements.Yes, All Dogs is weird; There are dogs, orphans, corruption, murder, gambling, alcohol, afterlife, machine guns and a singing alligator, all mixed-up in the same movie. Yes, All Dogs has plot holes; Charlie can't talk to horses but can talk to alligators, the bad guy is allowed to enter heaven and the story is overall confusing.So what?This is one of the few movies that managed to make me feel, in the true sense of the word. Have you ever been sad and hopeful at the same time? All Dogs made me feel that way. It makes me smile every time I watch it -without even knowing why-, and occasionally makes me cry. All Dogs has one of the most powerful endings I have ever seen in my life. The art is sublime; the characters' expressions, the backgrounds and special effects are astonishing. The symphonic and jazzy musics rolling in the background make whole with the 30's atmosphere. The dialogs are all fitting where they should belong. There are so many things to tell about this movie... I've noticed that many reviewers have been disturbed by the unusually dark tone spilled throughout the film. In real life, people are able to drink, gamble and/or kill. Don Bluth seems to be one of the few directors that takes children seriously, and present them the not-so-bright sides of life.For those who are unsure about watching All Dogs or not because of some disturbing interpretations of the movie; Give it a try. You'll either hate it or love it to death, but one thing is sure you won't be seeing anything like that in the near future. This is one of the strangely addicting movies that you love without knowing why (see also Six-String Samurai and The Man Who Saves The World to see what I mean). "},{"Title":"I liked it more than ever the last time I watched it! )","Date":"8 March 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" When I first watched this, we borrowed it from our local library about a year ago and watched it about 3 times. We've just watched it again and I liked it MORE than I did the last time I'd watched it!! ) ()The film is mainly about two dogs called Charlie and Itchy (voiced by Dom DeLuise and I love Dom DeLuise!) . Charlie is half a gangster and half a goodie, which I like. Itchy is his sidekick. Charlie is killed by his friend (NOT) and sent to heaven. When Charlie comes back to life, it is the start of an amazing adventure.The five main reasons why I'm absolutely CRAZY about this film One I love the characters (except Carface). My favourite three are Charlie, Itchy and a little girl called Anne-Marie who comes slightly later. Two I love the period of history in which this film is set. It is set during the prohibition in the United States. Three The Don Bluth animation (as usual) is superb. The backgrounds are good too. Four There is a strange excitement in this film that keeps me on the edge of my seat. Five The songs in this are lovely. My favourite song starts with I need Brazil, the throb, the thrill...So, watch this lovely film when you can, you won't be disappointed! ) ;) () "},{"Title":"Quite original to see the dog play the Bad Guy","Date":"17 February 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I saw this movie when I was about 8-years-old and I liked it but it wasn't until I watched it again at the age of 13 that I really understood it for what it is; a cartoon about a criminal dog with a real heart of gold adopts a little girl in order to exploit her for her talents to talk to animals. The dog star,Charlie B. Barkin, is murdered by his formal business partner, Carface, (who is absolutely diabolical by the way). His soul then goes to where else but Heaven only to find a golden watch that is really his life's time, which Charlie, being the sneaky but lovable cad that he is steals and rewinds, sending him back to Earth. Once back on Earth, Charlie goes about seeking revenge on the evil Carface. This is how he comes upon young Anne-Marie, the lonely little orphan that can talk to animals whom Charlie plans to scam for her talents in order to get back at his enemy Carface. But scoundrel Charlie actually comes to care for young Anne-Marie and his plans unfoil as he must make up his mind to do what is right after Anne-Marie discovers what her best friend Charlie has really been using her to make money for a new and better dog casino. Now he must rescue her from the dreaded Carface. I still love this movie even at the age of 22. The idea and plot really are quite different and original from that of many other animated films. I especially like the idea that a dog plays the role of the villain for once. Carface was even better than he was in the All Dogs go to Heaven sequel. In that picture he appeared quite dubious to his role of villain. "},{"Title":"Good movie for older kids","Date":"2 August 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Lots of reviews on this page mention that this movie is a little dark for kids. That depends on the kid. This isn't a movie for a 2-6 year old; it's more geared toward the 8 years and older crowd. I saw this movie when I was 10, I absolutely loved it. At the time most animated movies were a little too childish for my tastes. This movie deals with more serious issues, and therefore has a little more emotional impact. In this movie characters can DIE, and be sent to HELL! This gives a little more emotional weight to the scenes where characters are risking their lives. The good guys aren't always perfectly sweet and nice (like other cartoons). They have real motivations, like revenge, and greed, but also compassion and friendship; shows that things aren't always black and white.Excellent Movie "},{"Title":"A Wonderful Movie","Date":"24 August 2004","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  May Contain Spoilers*All Dogs Go to Heaven is a great movie. I saw it in 1989 when I was two years old. I didn't understand it that well but as I saw it more and more times I started to love it. I love the songs in this movie. My favorite songs are Let Me Be Surprised and Soon You'll Come Home. Those are beautiful songs. The only thing that bothers me about the movie is Charlie dieing. When I was little my sister couldn't even watch that part. Other than that this movie is wonderful. My favorite part of the movie is when Annabelle and Charlie are flying around heaven. Heaven is beautiful in the movie and the clocks are very clever. I also love Itchy, in fact I have 3 dachshunds of my own. They are so cute. Overall I love this movie and suggest everyone should see it. I give this movie 10/10 stars. "},{"Title":"A very good movie but underrated","Date":"17 March 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" This has to be another underrated movie that is very good first the movies I like which are The love bug A goofy movie are another underrated films that where classic and I think this movie should get a better rating because it was charming fun and I love it first off I really want this movie on DVD and the 2nd one as well now lets start off with the story the story is about Charlie who gets hit by a car and goes up to heaven but comes back to life to help a little girl find a family the story is outstanding the movie having an adult touch put to it is very nice and some scary scenes as well this movie is just great and I love it as well as the 2nd one so lets give it a better rating okay. Do you know there is a blue ray one coming out as well as the 2nd one too did you know that so why not give this movie 5 stars in your book so if you have not seen all dogs go to heaven then get out on DVD as well as the 2nd too because they are really good movies Don Bluth is great he makes that family guy greater to his lose so watch any time you like get out on DVD as well as the 2nd too I give it a 10 out of 10. very good. "},{"Title":"Underrated gem","Date":"17 June 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is a rather odd premise for a children's tale, but it's neat that they went there. It's a story about Charlie, a dog who owned a casino until he was murdered by the evil Carface (cute huh). He ends up in heaven (hence the title) but he's desperate for revenge, he manages to come back even though by doing this he is warned he will go to hell. While back on earth Charlie makes friends with a little orphan girl named Anne-Marie who is able to help him. Only trouble is, he's afraid of what will happen when he ends up in hell! It's an interesting moral tale that kids should really enjoy even though the subject matter seems a bit harsh. I remember thinking this was a rather sad tale but I've not seen it since I was a kid so perhaps I'm not the best judge here. "},{"Title":"The best animated film ever made","Date":"21 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  All Dogs Go to Heaven is, in my opinion, the best animated film ever made. I'm not really a big fan of animated films, but there's something about this one that makes it better than any other animated film I've seen.  The music is wonderful as is the performances of Burt Reynolds, Dom Deluise, and especially Ken Page as the King Gator.  Let's Make Music Together is perhaps one of my favorite songs from any movie musical I've seen.  This is definitely a must see for people of all ages. "}{"Title":"One of my favourite childhood cartoons","Date":"23 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" All Dogs Go to Heaven plays on the canine criminal underworld. The film is a delight for children with a comical and dark-but-satisfying and happy-ending storyline with plenty of song and dance. It features outcast Charlie, a fellow canine criminal who is murdered but returns from the dead. He meets a homeless human girl who looks up to him, and through this relationship, he realizes the meaning of life and self-sacrifice. This is a cute animation loved very much through my eyes as a child. I would highly recommend this film to children. I'm unsure about how adults would react to it. (I tried to watch it a few years ago on VHS, but those recordings don't last long, do they?) "},{"Title":"All Dogs Go to Heaven is... different (minor spoilers)","Date":"4 August 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A look at the cover gives you the impression All Dogs Go to Heaven is another Disney rip-off that is fun, cheery, and basically the G symbol is a warning sign for parents who would rather not die of boredom while their kids watch. Isn't it? No. It is NOT. All Dogs is an original movie with a story-line completely unlike anything Disney would do. This is pretty much a cartoon tragedy, about a starring character who isn't even a nice guy. Robin Hood (1973) starred a thieving character, but he was a nice guy, risking life and limb to help the poor. Charlie (marvelous voice of Burt Reynolds) is a thief who would like to help himself to some pizza and a run of success in gambling.All Dogs is a sad story that depicts the canine underworld, a dog-eat-dog world of exploitation, lies and murder. Charlie is, as the rest of the dogs say, a dog with a record. In fact, Charlie gets run over... and this not being a Wile E. Coyote cartoon, he dies. But, of course, if he didn't miraculously return, this would be a short featurette. The way he returns is so original, and so dominant in what happens later on, you simply can't see how the writers ever dreamed it up. The story is spectacular and certainly a strong point, but that's not where it ends. The animation is mindblowing. Although not like The Secret of NIMH, it is still breathtaking, beautifully drawn and moves smoothly. The characters look like they're talking more than in many Disney cartoons. The effects, all hand-drawn, must have been extremely tedious to work on, what with sparks, explosions, powerful electrical charges, nightmarish visions of Hell reminiscent of Fantasia's Chernabog character. The characters, too, are unlike others. The usual story of an animated movie (actually, any movie) would be the righteous hero versus the evil villain. Sometimes, the hero isn't all he seems, but he comes round soon enough. In All Dogs, the battle isn't hero-vs.-villain, it's villain-vs.-villain, thief-vs.-thief, except we're supposed to sympathize with one of the combatants. We eventually do come to root for Charlie, and boo Carface. In such movies, the hero/thief is a nasty guy who's frosty at the surface but a good soul at heart. Charlie, by contrast, although not as evil as his partner-later-to-be-enemy Carface, is a bad guy who stays bad even after he's been betrayed. He deceives little Anne-Marie to get some money. Instead of the hero inside surfacing at last, Charlie's is a wholesale transformation from bad-at-heart to good-at-heart. That is extraordinary, and special. Plus, he has a wide assortment of friends, from a small but courageous dog to an opera-singing alligator, always helped along by a bunch of faithful dogs unlike Carface's thugs. These friends, however, rip off One Hundred and One Dalmatians (1961) by acting exactly like the dogs in that Disney movie's Twilight Bark. This isn't a genuine act of idea robbery; how the hell WOULD the dogs communicate, by mail?All Dogs Go to Heaven is one of the more complex animated movies. It involves stuff that will fly right over the head of little ones or traumatize them, like being eaten alive by bloodthirsty fish. It's more adult-oriented in its true theme and its true meaning, but kids will love it for the funny sidekicks, but they will also cry till their eyes are dry over the ending, that is one of the most emotionally powerful tragedies you've ever seen. Or is it? After all, all dogs go to Heaven. "},{"Title":"Best of Don Bluth","Date":"5 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" A dark film with an exquisite story set in New Orleans in 1939.All dogs go to heaven tells the story of Charlie B. Barkin, a German shepherd who runs a casino with his partner Carface Caruthers. Carface is unwilling to share the profits with Charlie and murders him, which sends Charlie to heaven even though he hasn't exactly been a good dog. Seeking revenge, Charlie escapes from heaven.This film is much deeper than you could tell from the release poster. And even if you dislike musical features, the main themes are dark enough to satisfy an adult viewer. I saw this first time when I was 8 years old, but I didn't catch all the aspects until probably 10 years later. The story is excellent. You just have to admire the intense plot which builds suspension all the way, and the ending is quite breathtaking. Quality of animation is good, and characters aren't as decent as usually in animations. Burt Reynolds shines as Charlie, since the character was designed specifically with Reynolds in mind. Truly one of the most underrated animations ever made in my opinion. The film was released on the same day as Walt Disney's The Little Mermaid, which may have impacted on its box office success. However, the film became one of the top-selling VHS releases of all time. "},{"Title":"An Underrated Epic","Date":"8 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" All Dogs go to Heaven is a Don Bluth animated feature, released in 1989. It tells the story of a roguish German Shepherd mix named Charlie B. Barkin (Burt Reynolds), who cons his way out of heaven using his life watch, in order to seek revenge on the dog that killed him (voiced by Vic Tayback). With the help of his hyperactive, flea-ridden best friend Itchiford Itchy Dachshund (Dom deLuise),and a adorable little orphaned girl who can talk to animals (Judith Barsi), Charlie embarks on a fantastically animated, highly original musical adventure of self discovery and right of passage.Maybe I am biased since it is one of my favourite movies, but I think this is an underrated movie. The characters are realistic and relate-able, as well as charming, funny, and fantastically acted - you truly feel for and understand them. Ann-Marie, the orphan, is as believable and lovable as a cartoon girl can get. The story is riveting and complex, but in what i think is an engaging and compelling way. The soundtrack can be out of place at times, admittedly, the best song being Let me be surprised, and the most bizarre being let's make music together, but I'm sure many ADGTH fans will agree it's the strangeness makes the music so wonderful and, um ... sing a longish.The movie is rather dark, but children could watch it with adult supervision. The messages may be mixed at first; is gambling good or bad? Is drinking always a fun time? Alas, the message is pure - you always do what's right in the end, and that's what makes you who you are; but you MAY have to do the wrong thing to see that. It's a realistic message, which is why it may stand out to many kids - doing the wrong thing will lead you into trouble, but life is a learning curve.One last word for you all, esp. to lovers of ADGTH, and that is ... BIG LIPPED ALLIGATOR MOMENT!!!9/10 "},{"Title":"Don Bluth's last great creation","Date":"20 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" It's a real shame that this was essentially the end of Don Bluth's steak as a great director of animation, going from animation classics such as Secret of Nimh to rather oddly created ones like Rock-a-Doodle. The thing that makes this film a children's classic is a mixture of Atmosphere, Character, Brilliant animation and Plot. You'd think a film about a dog that has conned his way into a second chance at life to claim his revenge would be a rather single minded plot like similar films of that context, but in fact, this film is unique in the way it executes this. The ending is my most memorable part of this movie, how for a moment Charlie comes back from the ether to give his final goodbye to Anne-Marie and his faithful companion Itchy before he has to finally disappear into the night to face his fear. It's a real tear jerker that comes about with many people who have witnessed death first hand, with visions in the night and visits from anon, it's something you can relate to and I feel it is the best way to conclude such a magnificent film.Another point with the film is that it adds a bit of Noire to it, tales of conning, murder and other threatening themes does make this movie different from most mushy kid films which try to dampen down the violence and other adult themes to the point of non-existence. Here Bluth has taken it almost to the limit of the PG rating but does it in a way that makes it acceptable. Also there are some really good musical numbers in here which (if you've watched Bluth's later works), are probably his last. Overall, this film is a grand piece of work and a real high note for a great animation director, although what followed next was much more disappointing. But as long as Bluth's better years as a director are summed up with films like this and Secret of Nimh, then the useless films that followed can be put in the cellar with the rest of those bad movies. "},{"Title":"An underrated classic from Don Bluth","Date":"10 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" When Disney's, The Little Mermaid, was released on November 17th, 1989, another animated film was released on the same day. The film was Don Bluth's, All Dogs Go to Heaven.This is one of my favorite movie's when I was little. It was cute, funny, it had some nice song's, and it had some good voice acting. I also found the story interesting. Because Disney's film's are happy and cute, while, All Dogs Go to Heaven, has a darker story.The only problem I have with this film is that some part's of the movie can be boring.Overall, All Dogs Go to Heaven, is a forgotten animated classic that should not be left out and the movie is also worth your time. "},{"Title":"One of my favourite childhood movies","Date":"30 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" First things first, I was never once scared of this underrated gem as a kid (Little Mermaid on the other hand...). As my title says this was one of my fav childhood movies that I still love as a teenager. It's a beautiful, bittersweet movie about a misfit German Shepherd called Charlie (fantasticaly voiced by Burt Reynolds) who is killed by his boss/partner in crime (is name ha,ha is Carface). Charlie is sent straight to heaven by default because all dogs go to heaven because unlike people, dogs are naturally good and loyal and kind. Chalie gets sent back to Earth 'cause he winded up his life clock where he gets into even more mischief with his best friend, Itchy and a little orphan girl, Anne-Marie. I used to watch this all the time as a kid and I still sometimes watch it. Anyways, it's a beautiful bittersweet film as I said before that might just leave a tear in your eye... "},{"Title":"Stone Cold","Date":"20 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Okay, I saw this movie as a child and really loved it. My parents never purchased the movie for me, but I think I'll go about and buy it now. I'm a sucker for pre-2000 animated films. Anyway, onto the actual review.WHAT I LIKED There was an actual portrayal of heaven and hell, one of the few I've seen in animated films. Character development existed! It's easy to classify characters in this movie (i.e. Charlie is the selfish mutt, Itchy is cynical but believes Charlie, Carface is obviously the relentless villain, etc.). I also loved King Gator's song. I've always loved loud, annoying, flamboyant guys. This song may have been random, but it was so fun. Finally, the detail of the animation was beautiful. You could tell Charlie was all gruff and stuff and the backgrounds were beautiful.WHAT I DID NOT LIKE The actual portrayal of heaven The way Charlie reacted to it, no surprises whatsoever, made it actually seem very boring. He denied a place in heaven and STILL got to return to it in the end. I remember a few lines of certain songs such as ... you can't keep a good dog down, ... let's make music forever, and ... welcome to being dead but I can't remember the majority of any of them. The songs weren't that catchy, to be honest. Whippet Angel She's annoying and that NECK! AUGH!WHAT PARENTS MAY NOT LIKE A few very scary (depending on the viewer) images of Hell are shown during the movie. Carface is quite threatening. Beer is also implied, but not actually DUBBED beer. Gambling is a key element in the movie. The good guy dies.OVERALL I LOVE this movie, even if it is a bit forgettable at times. The scarier children's animations are always my favorite ones. This was created back in a time when producers and writers weren't afraid to give kids a little scare now and then. Nowadays, this probably would have been rated PG. Kids under the age of 8 (or easily disturbed kids) should not watch this. Other than that, I give it 9/10. )Happy Viewing! "},{"Title":"Made a lasting impression","Date":"3 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I saw this film maybe twice about ten years ago and found it both unusually sad for a cartoon and very moving. The fact that it has stayed with me all this time says enough I think. Maybe I was a naive, impressionable little girl, but a film that showed a character dying and going to heaven seemed something strange and different. And the imagery of all those clocks having wound down at the end of people's lives...that's what I really remember. A brave film, but not one for the very young or easily disturbed. "},{"Title":"Strange....yet good","Date":"9 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a weird film but I like it.I first saw it when it was released back in 1989.I was six at the time and didn't really understand what it was about.I saw it again when I was twelve and liked it enough to go and buy the video.I just watched it again for the first time in a while the other day and still love it,its one of my favourite animated films. I admit that some of the characters get on my nerves now but I think that Charlie is a brilliant character.He's a liar and a user and yet still loveable.The end scene where Charlie says goodbye to Anne Marie still makes my eyes fill up.I don't think many young children would like this movie but I think its about right for anyone over ten. "}{"Title":"An adult film for the whole family","Date":"8 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I saw this film when it was originally released in 1989.  I enjoyed it then, and I still do now.  But what I realize now is that this is quite adult for a film with a G rating, especially the notion of dying and going to Heaven.  Burt Reynolds and Dom DeLuise work wonderfully together, and Reynolds' singing voice is appropriate for a junkyard dog.  There are some good songs ranging from upbeat (Let's Make Music Together) to downright emotional (Home to My Heart).  I found the plot good, although it does go off on a tangent once or twice.  The final scene of the film with Charlie and Anne-Marie is one of the saddest I've ever seen in animation.  A film worth experiencing. "},{"Title":"An entertaining film","Date":"22 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I loved All Dogs Go To Heaven ever since the film came out on video in 1990. After almost ten years of watching, I find a more deeper meaning in the film from when I first saw it (I was very young) The heartwarming songs to the emotion-stirring climax, All Dogs Go To Heaven is a wonderful movie for the whole family. I loved all the characters, especially Charlie and Killer, and I was thrilled when the sequel came out (though I was disappointed) You can never in a lifetime make a film such as this one so powerful, funny, and touching as this one. "},{"Title":"Very funny and entertaining, a little scary too","Date":"10 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I'm 14 years old and I love this cartoon. Burt Reynolds and Dom Deluise make a great pair. This movie is really funny and I love the songs. My favorite songs are You can't keep a good dog down and that song about sharing, I think it's called What's mine is yours. This was the last movie with Judith Barsi, who played the voice of Anne-Marie. My favorite character is Charlie but I find Itchy's voice is so fun to hear. Although some scenes I actually found scary, I still have a hard time watching the scene with Charlie's dream, and Carface scares the crap out of me. Other characters like King Gator I found really funny. The ending was adorable and was actually sad, made me cry a little. I give this movie 7/10. "},{"Title":"An awesome movie","Date":"14 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  In my case I liked this movie because when I saw it I found more than I expected. I mean, this is one of the few animated movies that made me think about its themes even long after I finished. It talks about death, vengeance and hell in such a way that it gets to you like a punch in your face, even reaching to suffer with the dream sequence in the mid-point of the film. That's what makes this movie so good the ability, unique in Don Bluth (director), to play with the people's feelings and make them love or hate a character in no time. That, and the fact that it has so many good characters like Charlie and Ann-Marie, that in the sad but happy ending you have to say I have something in my eye to hide the others that you cried. All I've said are just only some of the good points of this movie. As for the rest, you have to see them for yourself in a film extremely honest. Don Bluth, thank you. "},{"Title":"An excellent masterpiece!","Date":"19 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" ALL DOGS GO TO HEAVEN, in my opinion, is an excellent masterpiece. I felt all warm and tingly when Charlie (voice of Burt Reynolds) and Anne-Marie (voice of Judith Barsi) set out to get revenge on Carface (voice of Vic Tayback). If you ask me, Carface was absolutely diabolical. To me, he deserved to have them seek revenge on him. Before I wrap this up, I'd like to say that everyone was perfectly cast, the direction was flawless, and Disney has scored a big hit. In conclusion, I highly recommend this excellent masterpiece to everyone who hasn't seen it... especially die-hard fans of Burt Reynolds or Dom DeLuise. I guarantee you you'll enjoy it. "},{"Title":"From the creators of The Secret of Nymph,American Tail and the Land Before Time.","Date":"13 September 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I like All Dogs Go to Heaven because it reminds me about the Secret of Nymph, American Tail and the Land Before Time. Also All Dogs Go to Heaven was very emotional including making kids think that they were lucky to have parents or guardian that take care of them. Second, All Dogs Go to Heaven teaches children and people to be good so that God will let them Go to Heaven. Third All Dogs Go to Heaven have funny and very friendly characters including Charlie, Anne-Marrie and Itchy. Finally I like All Dogs Go to Heaven because when I watched this movie it helped me  felt that I can change my attitude to become a good, responsible and respectful student.I hope that God was proud and happy for the making of All Dogs Go to Heaven.I rated 10/10 for All Dogs Go to Heaven as  one of successful animated movies that have been produced. "},{"Title":"Good Little Non-Disney Animated Film.","Date":"4 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A fun-loving dog (voiced by Burt Reynolds) gets killed one night and goes straight to Heaven, but he decides to return to Earth for revenge rather than staying. What follows is a nice little family film that is admittedly a bit adult-oriented but still a good experience. The great voices make all the characters that much more lifelike. 4 stars out of 5.  "},{"Title":"Lazy Villain, but this film has almost all the right moves otherwise","Date":"21 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Some animated movies we grow to love as kids. Others we don't get an opportunity to see until we're much older. With this movie, I fall in that second category at the age of 24. To be honest, I don't mind having missed this as a kid, but that doesn't automatically make it a bad thing. I've seen better and worse than this as far as animated movies go.All Dogs Go To Heaven is a movie heavily centered on dogs, like The Secret of NIMH for mice and rats, Legend of the Guardians for owls, Finding Nemo for aquatic life, and Madagascar for a lion, zebra, hippopotamus, giraffe, and a group of military penguins. The main protagonist is Charlie, a happy-go-lucky carefree dog who goes through a plot I've seen before, done better and done worse. His plot is one of change, as in, he must change who he is to become something better. He does this through a little girl named Anne-Marie, who is actually a lost girl, but also smart and kind. To see such a change with Charlie through this little girl is heart-warming, but there were some parts about it that were cringe-worthy, so it wasn't all perfect.Then there's Carface, the villain. From the beginning, he really is more annoying and stupid than anything else. He makes harsh decisions for making the sake of making harsh decisions, he is a hypocrite, and he never thinks, blaming his stupidity on his subjects. His motives, or lack thereof, make him a lazily written villain and so Carface easily becomes my biggest gripe about the movie. However, the rest of the cast more than make up for Carface's shortcomings.The jokes and songs don't always land, but when they do, and they do often, it helps the plot of the movie and also make it better in itself. There sad scenes in the film were heartfelt and genuine, so it works. Being Judith Barsi's final film, the fact that the film dedicated so much to her memory, including the ending theme, was a very nice homage and I'm sure she is feeling honored watching this in Heaven even to this day.I wish I could give this film a higher rating, but Carface as a villain is a problem I cannot overlook and there were parts of the film I felt dry, so I'm stuck with giving it a 7. But it is still a good movie and worth a watch. "},{"Title":"Dog-Gone it! All Dogs go to Heaven is a pretty good movie.","Date":"27 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" In the 1980s former Disney animator Don Bluth gave Disney a run for its money with such hits as 1982's The Secret of NIMH, 1986's American Tail, & 1988's Land Before Time. Then in 1989, All Dogs Go to Heaven came out on the same weekend as Disney's Little Mermaid to try to put the death blow to Disney. What Bluth didn't know, is that Little Mermaid would spark the Disney Renaissance and he would find himself, for the next several years, playing second fiddle at the animation box office, with one last hoorah with 1997's Anastasia. While, Mermaid was indeed a blockbuster success, All Dogs Go to Heaven wasn't a failure. It had a good opening at theaters, but better sell in VCRs tapes than Disney that year. The movie tells the story of 1939's criminal dog, Charlie B. Barkin (voiced by Burt Reynolds) whom finds himself getting murdered by his business partner, Carface AKA the dog version of 'Scarface' Al Capone (Voiced by Vic Tacback). When Charlie to find himself in bored in heaven, he steals a magic life-watch and rewind it, so that he can relive his life, from the point of his murder. He goes back to earth to seek his revenge on Carface, with help from his best friend Itchy (voiced by Dom DeLuise) & a young gifted orphan girl, Anne-Marie (voiced by Judith Barsi) who has the power to speak to animals. The movie's title come from the movie concept, but could had derived from quotes ranging from Robert Louis Stevenson to Mark Twain about what life is in heaven in which Bluth got the idea from. The movie plot is similar to 1934's Little Miss Marker, also known as The Girl in Pawn. After all, Anne-Marie doe looks like an mix between Snow White & Shirley Temple with a lot of Barsi added to it. The movie has a lot of crazy violence, language, drinking, and dark frighten hell imagery that might be not for all children. The movie was actually supposed to be a little darker but they cut the hell scenes and change a tommy gun into a ray gun to get the G rating. It does have some great moral lessons, here about being honest, loyal and understanding love. The movie also has a great spiritual message that some people might love. The idea of heaven here is pretty open to all faiths as it doesn't single out, any one type of religion. Still, some people do believe that All Dogs go to Heaven is about the spiritual journey of humanity through all the stages from the book of Genesis to the New Testament. Let me example it, like Adam, the original man, he was born without original sin and able to live in Paradise. Since dogs are virtue in nature based of the movie, Charlie is able to live in Heaven. Like Adam, Charlie is cast out of heaven, when he steals the watch, which in this case, represent life or the apple in the bible. It wasn't until, he choose to be more Christ-like; he was able to come back to heaven. While, I do believe it's an interesting concept. There are some plot-holes in this interpretation. One might point that that Dogs in the film, already had free-will, and the whole argument of dogs being like original man isn't well-framed. Also, some people believe animals don't have souls, so there isn't a heaven for animals. Other has point that, animals would exist in the Kingdom of Heaven based on scriptures of Isaiah 116-9. Still, this really does make it, more complex, when the bible has a lot of negative things to say about dogs. The reason why dogs signify unclean in the bible is due to the fact that dogs eat unclean things. From this, others religions or cultural tradition outside the church control were often deems as evil dogs. To make it worst, bits of the bible also deem homosexual, women and other races as evil dogs. To some Christians, people that are deem dogs would never go to heaven in the bible. What I love about this movie is saying that all dogs go to heaven. If dogs are an allegory to human in this film, than that means nearly everybody should go to heaven. Even murderers like Carface got to go to heaven. Still, it was a bit odd, to see dog's hell play a big part in the film, when it barely has any dogs going there. While, most people might deem the Big Lip Alligator Moment as little to no bearing whatsoever on the plot. In an odd way, some people might see this as a symbol of homosexuality being welcome by new beliefs of Christians. Some view it, as homage to 1933's King Kong. Other view it, as Voodoo Witch doctor falling in love with a zombie. What-ever. It's just there. Another theme that seem to be running around is child abuse. Carface routinely mistreat Anne-Marie. It's really hard to watch, when you find out how much Barsi was physical and mental abuse in real life, before getting shot by her father before this movie came out. The voicing acting is alright. Reynolds & DeLuise really have chemistry, due to them previously appeared together in a number of films. The singing and music numbers weren't that great. 'Let Me Be Surprised' & 'What's Mine Is Yours' proves that Reynolds isn't a good singer. 'You Can't Keep a Good Dog Down & Let's Make Music Together was fun, but mediocre. Love Survives dedicated in Barsi's memory was pretty beautiful. The film inspired a theatrical sequel, a television series, and a holiday direct-to-video film, that weren't that good. Overall The animation is beautifully done, but the overall style is grotesque and disturbing. The bittersweet ending didn't help at all. From an artistic standpoint, I think it's a pretty amazing example of animation, but it's not something for all children. Still, it's worth watching. "},{"Title":"A oldie and still goodie","Date":"6 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" When I was a little girl, this was one of my all time favorite movies to watch. I would watch it over and over till the VCR messed the tape off and even then I would want to watch it more. Now as I'm older, it brings me back to those happy little days even if it does show how old it is.The story itself is a little clich in that it's about a 'guy' who was on the rough side of town and ends up getting a second chance to make up for his ways. On the other note, it really isn't that clich as we have a bit more to it. I use the word 'guy' loosely since its about a dog who needs a shock to turn his life around, namely dieing. When Charlie comes back, he isn't a whole new person like most stories tend to go. His personality is pretty much the same with a little more revenge mixed into it. It takes a little girl to show him what is inside his heart, clich I know, but actually rather believable.Most of the comedy that we get is the interaction between Charlie and Itchy as Itchy is sort of played off as the 'playful' sidekick that really does get kicked around a lot. The way the two interact makes you think there is a bit deeper bond like they might have been friends at a different time. You can speculate a lot about the two characters backgrounds since they don't really tell you what the back story is. I would have loved to get a bit more understanding into who Itchy is since all we got was the rather clumsy and silly sidekick. The only characters we really got personality wise was Charlie and some of Carface. I say some because other then him being a douche bag, there really wasn't anything else to his character. He didn't care about his subordinates, he didn't care about the little orphaned girl he had pretty much locked up, and he sure as hell didn't care about Charlie. All he cared about was himself.The artwork definitely shows signs of aging from the slightly grainy look to the sort of dark painted back grounds. Still, if you look at a lot of other shows around the time (Legend of Zelda The animated Series&#x85; Yuck) it still looks really well done. I fell in love with its sort of dark and dirty look at New Orleans back allies where you push to survive.The voices are really awesome except for when they are singing. I feel like a lot of the songs are really like Iago singing but it doesn't hurt my ears as bad as that. Burt Reynolds and Dom DeLuise do really nicely as Charlie and Itchy for the most part though the script doesn't do really good conveying what is going on. I have a small feeling that it's because of how old the script is.I fell in love with the show even through all its small problems. Most of the problems are only because of when it was made so I still think it's a rather good show. "}{"Title":"Touching and memorably haunting","Date":"24 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" In 1939 New Orleans, Charlie Barkin, a roguish German Shepherd (voiced by Burt Reynolds), is working with his gangster business partner, a smoking bulldog named Carface (voiced by Vic Tayback), at a casino fashioned out of a derelict oil tanker. Wanting to take all the earnings for himself, Carface frames Charlie and has him sent to a pound, but Charlie escapes with the help of his best friend Itchy, a nervous Dachshund (voiced by Dom Deluise at his funniest). The two of them arrive back at the casino in the middle of a rat race, and celebrate their breakout with the catchy as heck musical number You Can't Keep a Good Dog Down.But Charlie still believes that he and Carface are partners. Eager for 100% of the profit, Carface and his neurotic sidekick Killer (voiced by Charles Nelson Reilly) get Charlie drunk and then kill him by running an automobile over him. Charlie shoots straight into the sky and lands at the pearly gates. He arrives in what appears to be the sort of Heaven that a child might imagine, located in the clouds, where everyone floats around and is dressed in a robe with halos above their heads, and where lions are resting with lambs. A Whippet Angel there explains to Charlie that all dogs naturally go to heaven because they are inherently good, unlike humans. But because Charlie has spent his life being a gambler and drinker, he is unimpressed with heaven and how everything is orderly and pre-planned. He sings Let Me be Surprised, in which he complains that he wants to go back to earth where he doesn't know what's going to come. He cheats his death by stealing his life watch, a glowing pocket watch, and winds it up, allowing him to return to earth. For a place that knows everything that is to come, they sure didn't see that coming. Through the rest of the movie, the angel's voice coming from the watch says You can never come back, a very haunting and unsettling line. Back on earth again, Charlie reunites with Itchy and plots his revenge on Carface to ruin him and make him suffer slowly and painfully.You know, for kids!So as Charlie sneaks into an air vent to enter Carface's basement, he finds him there talking to a young girl named Anne-Marie (the voice of this character was Judith Barsi's last performance). It turns out she has a rare ability to speak to animals. Carface has her held against her will so she can talk to rats, giving him an advantage when betting on races, which are apparently rigged so that those who speak the rats' language can know in advance of the outcome. Carface keeps making promises to Anne-Marie that she can go outside the basement, but breaks them. Being an orphan, Anne-Marie is sad and lonely.When Carface leaves, Charlie rescues Anne-Marie and plans to use her in the same way Carface does. He says that in return he would help her find a mom and dad, though he has no intention of doing so. A memorable seen takes place the following evening when Charlie, Anne- Marie, and Itchy sleep inside a taxi at a landfill. Charlie is eager to get Anne-Marie to fall asleep so he can talk privately about his plan with Itchy, but she keeps getting up and asking him things such as Can I sleep here? or May I have a goodnight kiss?, to which Charlie is annoyed and more smacks her with is tongue than kisses her. She also prays to God, thanking Him for Charlie and Itchy, which is a bit confusing since the Heaven we see in this movie appears to be nondenominational. So the next day, they go out to the park to grab a few bucks from someone's wallet to start their betting, while Anne-Marie is just searching for a pair who might adopt her. As she introduces herself to a young couple, Charlie snags the man's wallet and takes Anne-Marie away. And before long, Charlie makes out like a bandit at horse races and other events including---kangaroo boxing?Soon, Charlie has his own bar and casino built. But when Anne-Marie becomes upset that he hasn't used any money for the poor, Charlie decides to stay to true to the promise. So he brings pizza to an abandoned church where a litter of a puppies are cared for by a collie named Flo (voiced by Loni Anderson). The pups start fighting over the pizza, leading to Charlie singing a sort of Jamaican song about the values of sharing. I guess the writers had to add in a message for young children, as the main theme of the movie is more adult.So Anne-Marie finds the wallet that Charlie stole from the man and sees the couple's wedding photo inside. She goes up to the church's attic to sleep, and sings a Somewhere Out There-like song, in an audibly different voice I might add, about how soon she will find a mom and dad.Though this movie isn't as dear to my heart as The Land Before Time (I admit I watched this one fairly recently), it's pretty good. Burt Reynolds was awesome as the voice of Charlie, giving him the charm of a con man, and in fact all the voice acting is excellent. The animation has the dark texture of The Secret of NIMH and the outstanding background details of The Land Before Time. The pacing does grow slow in the middle, but it all builds to the movie's truly moving conclusion. Young children may be confused and disturbed by the movie, but with the subject material, Don Bluth always respected them (in the 80s, that is). If you have the time, certainly consider the watch.7/10 for All Dogs Go To Heaven. "},{"Title":"How do things come together like this?","Date":"1 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I wouldn't rank All Dogs Go to Heaven as high as Don Bluth's previous movies The Secret of NIMH and An American Tail, simply due to all the stuff about gangster dogs. But I guess that as long as people understand the subject matter, then it's not a bad movie. It's a bit of a surprise to see this representation of 1939 New Orleans, years before Hurricane Katrina, with a roguish dog (Burt Reynolds) cheating death and returning to Earth. His dream about going to Hell was really intense.It's not a great movie, but OK in a pinch. I do recommend Bluth's earlier movies more, though. This one just comes across as a little extreme. Also featuring the voices of Dom DeLuise, Judith Barsi (whom Bluth had cast as Ducky in The Land Before Time), Vic Tayback, Charles Nelson Reilly, Loni Anderson, Melba Moore, Ken Page, Rob Puller, Earleen Carey and Frank Welker.PS Judith Barsi's parents were Hungarian immigrants who had fled the 1956 Soviet invasion. In 1988 (over a year before ADGtH got released), Judith's alcoholic father murdered her and her mother and then killed himself. Judith and her mother got buried in unmarked graves until a fund got set up to give them headstones, which they received in 2004. "},{"Title":"My childhood memory","Date":"12 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" It's been so many years since I've seen this movie as a kid, I decided it would be fun to look it up and watch it again.From the very beginning, the animation and the style is a breath of fresh air compared to recent animated movies. Even if you don't care one bit about the story, you can still have lots of fun just enjoying the wonderful animation.All Dogs go to Heaven is a movie about a dog called Charlie who gets set up and murdered by another dog called Carface. To his surprise, he goes to heaven, but finds a way to get back to earth where he and his sidekick meet a little girl who can talk with animals.The storyline is thin, but the likable characters make up for this. The songs are a bit dull at times, but will be liked by kids. The movie also has a lot of cute scenes, and I think the best part was the part where Charlie has to tuck in Anne-Marie.If you have any kids, watching this movie together with them will be a blast! "},{"Title":"A Very Enjoyable Film","Date":"1 April 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" All Dogs Go To Heaven is one of those animated cartoons that actually signal the end of an era. The characters are well developed and the artwork is good, and the music is of a terrific quality, with most of the atmospheric music in this instance provided by the late Ralph Burns, whose work with Woody Herman, Ray Charles...and countless others over a career of nearly six decades, makes the film very lively. The film had a Damon Runyon quality about it that I really liked. I immediately empathized and sympathized with Charlie, the German Shepherd, who has had a life of tough breaks and who winds up being murdered by the very ones he has come to call friends. I really like the way Charlie is drawn and characterized...he is a credible guy. The performances are good, as is the story. I found myself wiping away a tear or two for Charlie and Ann Marie because of the lousy deal life has given them, but they are admirable because they keep plugging away, trying to make the best of a bad situation. Valiant is the word for Charlie, and terrific is the word for All Dogs Go To Heaven. "},{"Title":"Not the greatest animation ever made, but well worth watching!","Date":"24 February 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I can understand why some people like this movie, and why some people don't. For me, though, I really like it, even if I noticed some good bits, and not so impressive bits. The animation was actually excellent, like Charlie's dream. The characters were a mixed bag, the best being Anne-Marie, voiced by the late Judith Barsi.(I was physically ill when I read what happened to her) Also, Carface is a very convincing villain,especially voiced by the wonderful Vic Tayback(I particularly loved Morons I'm surrounded by Morons) and along with Rasputin and Warren T.Rat is probably the most memorable of all the Don Bluth villains. Charlie and Itchy only just lacked the same sparkle, but I loved King Gator and his song. Some of the film is very haunting, like Annabelle's You can never come come back, which kind of scares me still. Unfortunately, there were some bits I didn't like so much. The story had a tendency to become clumsy and unfocused, but Disney's Black Cauldron suffered from the same problem. Also there were some dark scenes, that young children would find upsetting, but the ending is very poignant. However the biggest flaw was the rather bland songs and the way they were sung. None of them in particular stick out, with exception of Let's Make Music Together and Love Survives, and Burt Reynolds can't sing and Dom DeLuise has done much better singing. All in all, a watchable movie, that could have been more, but is definitely memorable, and I would definitely watch it again. 7/10. Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"A sweet, but genuinely bizarre children's film.","Date":"3 May 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" All Dog's Go to Heaven is an animated kid's movie like no other. Gambling, drinking, death, guns and Hell are all prominent in the plot, and though kids will get very little of it, adults will be scratching their heads as to why this movie was made to feel like some sort of gangster movie. The actual movie isn't explicit in any way, it's just an odd combination to make a kid's movie on.Charlie Barkin (Burt Reynolds) is a player dog, who owns half a casino with his partner Carface (Vic Tayback). After getting drunk (A dog....getting drunk...in a kid's movie. It just sounds weird.), Charlie is tricked and murdered by Carfax. When in heaven, he finds a way to come back to Earth, but he will no longer be allowed in Heaven. He still goes back to Earth and meets up with his old friend Itchy (Dom Deluise), and plans payback on Carfax. Meanwhile, Carfax has a little orphan girl Anne Marie held captive because of her amazing ability to talk to all species of animals, which helps predict races. Charlie and Itchy free her, and try to help her find a family, while learning a lot about themselves.This movie is one of the few non-Disney that will appeal to both kids and adults. Kids will enjoy the funny characters and lively animation, while adults will enjoy the nice, sweet plot, and the more than normal developed characters. One thing that keeps this down, is that it's a musical. Normally, that's a good thing, but the music here is honestly terrible. They tend to jump around, almost sounding ad libbed, with next to no instrumental backing. In fact, these are probably the worst songs I've ever heard in an animated movie, but luckily, the rest of the film is strong enough to not fall apart because of some bad notes.The ending of this movie works, but I honestly hate it. It's sad, but happy, but more sad than happy, and makes the movie feel like it needs a sequel. Considering how bad the sequel made to this was, I wish the ending wouldn't have warranted a sequel and it would've wrapped up into a nice, super happy ending. This is one of the few movies I feel this way about, but I do.Overall, this is a nice family film, with odd themes thrown in, but nonetheless, good entertainment.My rating *** out of ****. 85 mins. G. "},{"Title":"Good movie,nothing else","Date":"12 April 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is one of the first films I can remember, or maybe the first one. Exactly the beautiful kind of film than introduce a kid, sweetly, into the world of violence and addictions were we live. A little bit of Babe, Casino and Constantine, all this well mixed into a carton, and we get this. I don't know if its truly rated for kids, but I think it was very cool, very funny and interesting. I hate when a film (spescially a carton)can have a good end and its ruining because every character must have a happy end, even if it sounds weird (Im not a bitter person).But this was OK, he simply goes heaven and they let it in that way.All this is just a critic, Its a good movie an something new. very touching and I gotta go "},{"Title":"Saddest Movie Ever","Date":"3 January 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I wish kids movies were still made this way; dark and deep. There was (get this) character development (and Charlie is the epitome of the dynamic character), plot development, superb animation, emotional involvement, and a rational, relatable, and consistent theme. If not for the handful of song-and-dance routines, you would never have thought this was a kids movie, and this is why I give it such a high rating. This movie is an excellent film, let alone for a kids' movie. Which brings me to my second point this has got to be the darkest kids' movie I've seen in quite some time, this coming from a 22-year-old. I'd be shocked to see any child under the age of 8 not completely terrified throughout a great deal of the latter half and some of the first half of the movie, and it all ends with one of the saddest endings you could ever come across (ala Jurassic Bark, for those of you who are 'Futurama' fans), and this is what makes this movie so good. Just because the movie universally evokes emotions we don't normally like to feel and assume are bad does not make the movie itself bad; in fact, it means it succeeded. Good funny movies are supposed to make us laugh; good horror movies are supposed to make us scared; good sad movies are supposed to make us sad. My point is, good movies are supposed to MOVE you, not simply entertain; this movie moved me.Also, this movie is incredibly violent by today's standards for a kids' movie and contains subject matter that, by today's standards, may not be suitable for some children. Parents, I'd say watch it first. I'm not usually one to say anything about this kind of thing, but I just saw this yesterday and it came as a surprise even to me. "},{"Title":"i love this, excellent!","Date":"6 December 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" i just saw this film, i first saw it when i was 7 and could just about remember the end. so i watched it like, 10 minutes ago, and (i may seem like a baby as i am 12 ha-ha) i started to cry at the ending, i forgotten how sad it was. i think i was mainly sad for Anne-Marie because she said 'i love you Charlie' and also 'i'll miss you Charlie', just made me really cry ha-ha. it has to be one of me favourite movies of all time, it is just a film well worth watching. WATCH IT ha-ha, thats all i can say XDbut, i love this film, its a true classic.xx Maverick xx 10/10 "},{"Title":"Calling all dog lovers!","Date":"15 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" My dog recently passed away, and this was a movie I loved as a kid, so I had to see it to try to cheer up.(Beware of Dog, I mean Spoilers.) This movie isn't just for kids and it's far from ordinary. It was set in New Orleans in 1939. First and foremost, the dog was not portrayed as an extra family member in this film, but as an adult with his own complicated life to deal with.In the beginning, Charlie is not too different from his dishonest and brutal business partner, Carface. He is money driven, greedy, and just escaped death row, as he states in the start of the feature. The difference between Charlie and Carface is that Charlie can learn and is willing to listen to others; Anne Marie and his sidekick, Itchy. Carface will not even listen to the fat, ugly dog with the big glasses who happens to be closest to him.Carface attempts to murder the hero, because he wants 100% of the profits in their business and won't settle for only 50% - a highly unusual way for a German Shepherd mix to die. Also, being eaten by a prehistoric sized alligator who ends up sparing your life because you can sing is highly unlikely whether you are a dog or not. This is a cartoon, and that's why it is logical here.Carface's method of revenge is through murder, while Charlie believes success is the best revenge, financial success that is. After surviving death, he starts a business by taking Carface's source of financing, a highly talented girl who possesses the ability to communicate with animals. They win a whole bunch of races, and Charlie tells her he'll give the money to the poor - hint hint Charlie and Itchy live in a junkyard, and are therefore poor. He uses the money toward his casino/bar/theatre, and not the other poor. The reason why Anne Marie has the ability to talk to animals is that she has compassion, and she listens carefully. She teaches Charlie ethics by pointing out his gambling, lying, and stealing. Charlie tries to make up for it by buying her dresses. She added the ethics that his business needed, while Charlie did management, and Itchy provided construction.Carface uses violence and property damage to tear down Charlie's business, which is unprotected by the government. Charlie loses everything and all he has left is this little girl. In the end he had to choose between her life and his own. He first grabs the watch out of self preservation, and sets it down when the girl started to sink. Both the girl and the watch were sinking, and he had to choose which one, and he chose the girl.The great part about this movie that focuses on a person's ability to learn right from wrong over time, and a child's ability to cope with the natural occurrence of death of their pet, is that it never shows anyone dying! The watch symbolizes his life, and the watch is shown being submerged and stopped. All the deaths were suggestive, even for the villain. I didn't cry during this movie until now, and I have gotten so much more out of it, that I had to write it down and share it with you. "}{"Title":"One of my favorite movies from kiddie times","Date":"4 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  So, I saw this movie as soon as it came out, so I must have been...what, four? I loved it then, and I completely forgot about it until I saw it last week on HBO for some unknown reason, and I dug up my old, battered VHS copy of it from my basement and watched it again and wow, it's still an awesome movie! I love the songs, and I adore the voices behind them--Anne-Marie has got some of the cutest character designs I've ever seen and definitely the cutest voice I've ever heard (RIP Judith Barsi), and it's a good break from the happy go lucky Disney films of this day. Though it is a bit on the dark side, I'm glad I re-discovered this movie, it's too good to be hidden ) "},{"Title":"Beautifully Sinister","Date":"21 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" All Dogs Go To Heaven is on a par with Watership Down for scary kiddies films. Both were dark and pretty sinister, but at the same time the most mesmerising experience a child can have. This was one of my favourite films as a kid. I was in love with Charlie and at the tender age of about five or six, I'll admit... I had a crush on a cartoon dog. All Dogs tells the dark story of lovable cad Charlie and his partner in crime Itchy. The story starts with Charlie escaping from death row and swaggering off to the nearest club to do some gambling. Of course, as a child, I didn't understand the concept of this film. I loved the songs and the animation but as I've got older I do begin to wonder why I wasn't disturbed by this film as a youngster. It deals with pretty adult themes --- gambling, murder, hell and prison but in a world of goody-goody Disney films, it's something every child should watch once. Yes, there's some sort of crazy transvestite crocodile scene and the hell scenes scare me more now that when I was little, but it delivers such a poignant message that should not be ignored by parents! "},{"Title":"classically speaking","Date":"6 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  this film will always hold a special place in my affections it acknowledges that both children and dogs are people too!! something adults cannot understand and therefore i don't expect any to dig this. the relationship between the little girl and the Gorgeous Hunky Hound Charlie (yes please) is beautifully done and i think any one whose experienced similar will feel an affinity with this fim. Both characters are likeable (especially Charlie!) and the storyline is a breath of relief away from all the usual movie cliches - its unique.All Dogs Go to Heaven is very sad and i couldnt bare to watch it very often when i was said little girl but when i did it was always entertaining moving and lovely if all the films ever made were to be whittled down to a hundred to be placed in a time capsule (stick with me)  to represent human existance this should be one of them!! its also good for a laugh which is always a bonus ;) "},{"Title":"A child-hood film I will always remember","Date":"5 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie takes me WAY back, back in the days when I was around the age of 5. I would watch this movie non-stop,...right up until I was clumsy enough to break the only copy I had.I really like this movie it's another one of Don Bluth's amazing animated films; at least in my opinion. The animation is pretty good, though Don's way of drawing animals is a little bizarre and the story isn't all that bad either. However, if you are very protective and sensitive of what your children watch, then you may want to check this one out for yourself first. It's not like this a a cartoon of bloodfest and cussing or anything, it's just that Don's animated films tend to have a bit more of a maturity level, such as characters that bleed(just a little) and sometimes small suggestive themes. All Dogs Go To Heaven has dogs that gamble and smoke, and some murder(not brutal). So if you think your kids are not fit for this kind of stuff then don't watch.All in all I rate this movie an 8/10  "},{"Title":"It's not terrible but not that great either","Date":"23 October 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I've seen this movie many times and for the most part, I'd just put it in the Ok pile. The only parts I remotely enjoy are the first and third acts. The second act is actually really boring to me. The first act is interesting because it establishes the villain and you actually get a taste of the heaven aspect, which is actually rather nice. The third act is where the climax of the movie is and you want to know what will happen to the main character. The second act does have a sort of light hearted element to it, but for the most part nothing exciting happens. This is a film that I recommend for older viewers, with 12 being the absolute youngest age to be watching it. Mainly because of the villain and the sort of dark elements. The villain is one of the best villains ever simply because he managed to kill off a main character and is willing to make sure the main character stays dead. The dark elements, such as the Hell scene aren't TOO extreme, but children should still be cautious anyway. Overall, it's a decent flick for older kids who wouldn't mind having to sit through a bunch of boring scenes to get to the good parts. "},{"Title":"Flawed","Date":"17 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I liked the sequel better than this. And there's nothing special about that. But at least it was consistent. All Dogs Go to Heaven is on the track to be a great animated movie, but just doesn't sit well with me. Its well-animated, its got spunk, its pretty dark...its also generic and poorly scripted.At its heart, All Dogs Go to Heaven is your typical liar's tale. Guy's a scumbag, guy tries to rip-off innocent victims, guy learns to love them, guy is revealed, guy is rejected, guy saves the day, risking his physical desires for friendship, guy finds redemption. ADGtH travels through each of these plot points. More importantly...I kind of hate Charley. Even for this kind of plot, he's dumb, exploitative, and selfish. I struggled to believe any of his growth with Anne-Marie. Towards the end, I was suffering from whiplash - one moment, he likes her, the next he doesn't care, then he goes to save her! Ugh! >3<And, of course, who can forget the big-lipped, surprisingly-racist, giant alligator? An annoying creature in an elsewise relatively serious movie. And what was up with that ray gun? That was built up, then quickly reduced to a gag.Okay, its not as bad as all my complaints make it out to be. I don't hate it. Its defiantly overrated though. I'd only recommend it to those who love late 80s nostalgia. "},{"Title":"Why is it 6?!","Date":"13 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" It was a beautiful, heartwarming movie. Love how some parts are dark, because lol, kids had balls back then. Love the mature themes too I nearly cried watching this, and I never cry at movies, well, except for certain parts in How to Train Your Dragon 2.What is considered a 10 nowadays? Even TED got a better score than this. TED! Wtf. A talking teddy bear in a fail of a comedy. Humanity is going downhill.This movie is really, really underrated, along with other Don Bluth films I've come across.That hell scene though...not even remotely scary. "},{"Title":"Sumptuous, old school artwork has not dated as much as the rest","Date":"16 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" The classic animated tale from Don Bluth, the prodigious artist behind some of the 80's most enduring cartoons, continues in the tradition of quality with this release. Offering some of that same unique aesthetic which made his Secret of NIMH so appealing, Bluth takes this rowdy kids feature and blends it with dark atmospherics that help create the memorable surroundings where a criminal canine world is thriving.The animation is obviously not as fluid as modern eyes are used to, though the painstakingly detailed, hand drawn backgrounds retain more charm then anything created by computer in the last 15 years. There is a certain warmth emitted from this style that hearkens back to a day when cartoons actually used to be pure, and had none of the compromising marketing techniques thrown in to gather wider audiences, as mega-budgeted cartoon franchises pander today.The small but heartfelt supernatural story which explores the doggy afterlife of one street dog Charlie will remain a classic animated film for years to come. Overshadowed by some of his other work, Bluth still manages to prove why he is so highly respected in the business with nearly every concentrated frame. What does tarnish the film a bit however, is All Dogs Go to Heaven's insistence on breaking out into song every so often. The original music, and the voices who sing it (particualrly Burt Reynolds in the lead) are pretty awful, and noticeably sinks the film from being uniformly well received. The entire pacing may as well feel alien to young kids brought up on today's animated features, but for those willing to appreciate a time when hand drawn art was approached with more sensitivity in the American animated world, All Dogs Go to Heaven is a nostalgic treat. "},{"Title":"Adorable but definitely for older kids...","Date":"25 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I think All Dogs Go To Heaven was a fabulous movie.  I saw it when I was about 10 and I loved it.  I liked that it dealt with death and crime and other real-life things, I was sick of everything-is-okay-in-the-end movies. But don't let little kids see this movie, it might scare them.  I remember the scene in the end with that monster and all the bones everywhere...oh God.  Anyway, it's a wonderful movie but definitely for older kids.  The characters are sweet and realistic, (I love Itchy to death, he's the sidekick) and while the movie definitely has it's depressing moments, it's happy in the end and it does teach some valuable lessons. ) "},{"Title":"my favorite movie when I was little","Date":"30 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This was one of my favorite movies when I was little.  I grew up with this movie and loved it.  My favorite character was Charlie and when I was older, I realized that my favorite actor Burt Reynolds was the voice of him.  It was a wierd coincidence.  Anyways, this movie makes you think of the messages it was trying to say.  It's pretty good. "}{"Title":"The  most unique movie  ever","Date":"26 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  ''All  Dogs''  is  an awesome movie!  It's  animation  could have  been better,but  the songs are  golden.You  can't  keep a good dog  down''  is a superb  song.One thing I don't  like, however, is the  ending, too sad.I  give this movie 5 stars. "},{"Title":"You can't keep a good dog down!","Date":"1 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The first time I saw this movie, back when it was first released in theaters, I was only past a diapered dwarf, and couldn't understand much of it. I saw it again not too long ago, and all I can say is WOW. Don Bluth at his VERY, VERY best. The story is original and heart-warming. The animation is the dim, yet playful style that represents 80's cartoons. I'd say that the only flaws in this movie are some of the voices... ugh (those childish, broken records, dolly voices found in most Don Bluth movies) and that this film has far too many time filler's. Other than that, all is marvelous!Heavenly entertainment! "},{"Title":"Strangely good","Date":"22 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I didn't expect All Dogs Go to Heaven to be good.  I still don't know why it was.  I did, however, enjoy it and look back fondly on this decidedly odd movie.  Don't expect anything great and you'll hopefully be pleasantly surprised. "},{"Title":"A great family film","Date":"6 August 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  All Dogs Go To Heaven is a heart warming, entertaining, and funny film for  the whole family. Burt Reynolds is wonderful as the voice of Charlie the  Dog. The songs are all excellent, they range from being very funny to very  heart warming. All Dogs Go To Heaven is an unforgettable movie experience.  This is a movie that parents and children will love. "},{"Title":"Cartoon Noir","Date":"2 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  All Dogs was marketed towards children and the box just RADIATES cuteness and Oh-my-God you just HAVE to show it to Junior. But don't be fooled. It doesn't matter WHO a G-rated cartoon is intended for, it's always gonna be marketed towards children. All Dogs is a clever film directed by Don Bluth (NIMH, Rockadoodle, Land before Time) but is NOT for kids. You wanna show your kids a film involving murder, greed, theft and a villain coming across some people as a pedophile? The drawings aren't that great, the way their mouths keep changing shape, but it's nonetheless a good film and should be added to your collection. Just don't show Junior. It might mess him up. Plot-8/10 anim-8.5/10 acting-8.5/10 "},{"Title":"Well, there's ONE good thing about it...","Date":"12 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I don't know if this is a little harsh or not...actually, it probably is...but I think the story people working on All Dogs... should have taken a few more story-development courses.  As another user points out, there is a howling continuity error the dogs cannot understand other animals, but Charlie the German shepherd sings a duet with the alligator.  The songs are outstandingly forgettable.  The ending seems hastily written and tacked-on, as if the writers forgot the title of the movie.  The editing and transitions are abrupt and look like a bad television version of a cartoon; I was mentally devising where a commercial would go when I watched it the first time.On the upside, you've got a bizarre sequence where Charlie actually seems to visit hell; not many animated features have done that before.  And...well, I guess that's about it for recommendations.  This film should be good for kids aged 8-13.  That's a narrow target audience, but, hey, make a narrow movie, and that's what you get.  Sorry, guys, gotta tell it like it is. "},{"Title":"It wasn't the best.","Date":"8 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Don Bluth movies are usually a random case of excellency, and in this case it was aiming for a great mark, but it missed it by an inch. The story line could work if you erased your mind of the lame and pointless sequel, the main character however, is a criminal and not very likable at first, but he turns a new leaf at the end, the villain was a little pointless too, but the supporting characters voiced by the late Dom Delouise and Judith Barsi, are heart-filled and warm. The biggest flaw of this film is the utter randomness of the songs - from Charlie's first realization that he's dead and in heaven to him telling puppies to share food to the weird- looking alligator inspired by Charlie's singing howl. (Let's make music together.)Like some of Bluth's movies, this one is dark and haunting. It's heart-wrenching to know that little Judith Barsi who voices Anne-Marie, was murdered by her father prior to release. This should have been made as a tribute to her, but it wasn't, it instead relied on success and carried on for a second movie and even worse, a T.V series. It really should have stopped there, but all studios are interested in, even now, is just making money. "},{"Title":"I would have expected better from Don Bluth...","Date":"8 October 2012","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Don Bluth has made some pretty decent movies during the 1980's like The secret of nimh, an American tail, and others. It was all pretty good until the 1990's came around. His movies became bland and forgettable. And it all started with this particular film. Bluth's colorful animation is only saving grace. This film is packed with forgettable songs, unlikeable characters, and a badly set up story structure. Charlie is a jerk, Itchy is annoying, and Car face is evil (I know that he's the antagonist, but still). The songs are pretty bad, too. You can't keep a good dog down is a good example. They aren't even singing, they're TALKING. An what's up with the title? What about cats? Are they implying that they all go to hell? "},{"Title":"A Don Bluth Hit Or Miss...","Date":"3 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A lot of people absolutely hated All Dogs Go to Heaven. Others Loved it. It really depends on your film preference. If you liked The Secret of Nimh, you'll probably like this animated Don Bluth film.I myself found it a bit odd, but I wouldn't give it a bad rating per say. 2.5/5 stars "},{"Title":"A luciously animated but unpleasant and inconsistent misfire from a fine animator.","Date":"16 May 2007","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Around the late 1970's, animator Don Bluth, frustrated with the output his company, Disney was churning, defected from the Mouse House to form his own studio. His first production, THE SECRET OF NIMH, was a brilliant feature that still holds up well to this day. This was followed by AN American TAIL and THE LAND BEFORE TIME, both of which were made under the involvement of Steven Spielberg and were commercially successful. Although none of those two films had the dark adult appeal of NIMH, they still are very charming, enjoyable features for both children and grown-ups. But before long, Don Bluth had his first major misfire with ALL DOGS GO TO HEAVEN; critics were especially harsh on this film, and matters weren't helped by the fact that it opened alongside Disney's THE LITTLE MERMAID.Considering that the movie has such a friendly-sounding title, one would expect ALL DOGS GO TO HEAVEN to be pleasant family fare. Instead Bluth provides a surprisingly dark story involving gambling, deceit, crime, mistreatment, and murder. That itself is not a problem for an animated feature per say, but it does call into question over whether the film is for children. On the other hand, it's hard to say whether adults will find much to enjoy in ALL DOGS GO TO HEAVEN. In short, it's a movie with a major identity crisis.Set in a dreary junkyard of New Orleans, the movie starts out when Charlie B. Barkin, a rough-and-tumble German shepherd, is run over by a car courtesy of his former gambling casino partner, a nasty, cigar-puffing pitbull, Carface. Before you know it, Charlie finds himself in heaven, albeit by default. Here a whippet angel, Annabelle, tells him that all dogs go to heaven because unlike people, dogs are usually loyal and kind. This line represents the confused nature of the movie, since the dogs in the movie, the whippet aside, are presented as anything but.Upon realizing that he's been murdered, Charlie steals his way back to Earth and plots to get even with Carface. With the reluctant help of his dachshund pal Itchy, Charlie rescues Carface's prize, AnneMarie, a human girl who can talk to animals (in order to predict who will win the rat races). Charlie claims that he will help the little cutie find her a family, but in reality he is using her skills to win fortunes at the race so that he can build a more elaborate casino of his own to bring Carface down. Although he refuses to admit it, Charlie does grow to love AnneMarie...The concept of the story isn't as problematic as the execution. Aside from the human girl AnneMarie and a flamboyant musical alligator who appears about three-quarters through (with the vocal pipes of Ken Page), none of the other characters emerge as likable, nor frankly, are even worth caring about. Unfortunately, that also applies to Charlie; in trying to make him an anti-hero, the script (composed by more than ten writers) only succeeds in rendering the character TOO unlovable. As such, the audience feels no empathy for Charlie, and worse, his redemption at the end of the movie does not come across as convincing. (Further damaging to the character is the disappointingly uncharismatic vocal performance from Burt Reynolds.) Besides the lack of an endearing lead, the movie's other problem is in the structure of the story. The slowly-paced plot jumps all over the place and makes a habit of throwing in extra scenes which serve no purpose but to pad out the movie's running time. The aforementioned musical alligator (who resides in a danky sewer infested with native rats) seems to have been thrown in from nowhere, as does a scene where Charlie tries to show his generosity to AnneMarie by feeding a pack of pastel-colored pups pizza. The whole screenplay feels like a rough first draft; a bit more polish could have made this a tighter, impactful story.Matters are not helped by the lackluster musical numbers by Charlie Strouse and T.J. Kuenster (AnneMarie's song and the gator's ballad are the only good ones; the latter in particular benefits from Ken Page's mellifluous vocal) or the uneven voice cast. As mentioned, Burt Reynolds' stiff and lifeless Charlie detracts from his already unlikeable character even further (the only exception is a fiery confession to Itchy about his true intentions toward the end). Dom DeLuise as Itchy is pretty good, but he's had better roles, notably Tiger in AN American TAIL and Jeremy in THE SECRET OF NIMH. Ken Page, as mentioned, is awesome in anything he does, but his character has such a small part that his overall contribution is unremarkable at best. Similarly wasted are Loni Anderson (as a collie who once sired a litter with Charlie), Melba Moore, and Charles Nelson Reilly. Judith Barsi as AnneMarie is probably the only voice that comes across as truly memorable, partially because her character is the sole legitimately likable one in this depressing and joyless show.Barsi aside, the only real positive about ALL DOGS GO TO HEAVEN is the animation. Technically, this film has some of the most imaginative visuals from Bluth's team (by 1980's standards, that is), particularly a frightening scene where Charlie has a nightmare about ending up in a fiery underworld ruled by a gargantuan satanic canine-demon. If anything, the movie is more of a triumph of animation than storytelling.On the whole, however, I cannot recommend ALL DOGS GO TO HEAVEN as good entertainment. Even though I recognize that the movie has its fans and the climax does admittingly provide some energy and a moving conclusion, the overall package is not in the same league as Bluth's better efforts. Animation buffs will marvel at the lush artistry, but by the time it's over, ALL DOGS GO TO HEAVEN could very well leave a bad taste in your mouth. "}{"Title":"Uneven, marginally entertaining","Date":"25 July 2011","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Years ago I saw this film after hearing about it several times. I saw the secret of NIMH, Bluth's other animated venture, and thought that a film about a canine going to the great pound in the sky might be worth a night's viewing.Well, I bought a copy to have, saw it, and wasn't sure what to make of it. It was one of the most odd children's' films I had ever seen. Other animated films had a kind of grounding, but this film seemed to be really out there. That, and the animation by Don Bluth standards, wasn't all that good. It was decent, respectable, and passing, but not in line with his usual work. The facial expressions were great, but the entire film seemed more than just a little dark. I read that someone else stated that the colors were rich. I'm not so sure that that's the phrasing that I would use in this instance. Again dark comes to mind.We have a tale about a dog who indulges in the seamier side of life. His values are to get ahead by placating to desires of character weakness; gambling, drinking and so forth. He gets his break by stealing away a young girl superbly voiced by the late Judith Barsi. Reynolds, his then wife/companion Loni Anderson, and on screen friend Dom Deluise voice the key elements in the film, accompanied by the ever talented Vic Taybac playing the heavy.I didn't take a shining to it then, but, being a dog lover, I decided to hold onto a copy, but I had real qualms with the content. It's not a film that I'd take any child to see, nor would I even really recommend it to the adult animation enthusiast. Even so, it has marginal entertainment value.Watch at your own risk. "},{"Title":"One the bottom 10 animation?","Date":"26 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  No way. This was a great movie, with great animation, and a wonderfully charming dog. It gets a 10. "},{"Title":"Baffling","Date":"15 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Who knows what to make of Don Bluth, who left Disney because he was tired of its low quality and went on to produce some of the most bizarre crap the world has ever seen. He's made certain great movies like The Land Before Time, and certain awful ones like Rock-a-Doodle, and exactly in the middle of that spectrum are movies like... this one, which is just weird and doesn't feel suited for either kids or adults. It's certainly an imaginative and complex movie, but that's not really a good thing in itself. Some of the scenes are wild and wonderful, particularly Charlie's escape from heaven and his descent into hell, and some are just insane and annoying (the giant witch-doctor alligator in the sewer). Most of the scenes are extremely dark in tone for no reason. But the worst aspect of this movie, like all of Bluth's lesser work, is that none of it makes any sense. It gives us a 1940s-style mafia made up of dogs, and they somehow coexist with 20th century humans while knowing how to drive, shoot pool, etc... what in the hell. I'd really like to know what the brainstorming sessions sound like at Bluth Studios. "},{"Title":"perverse!","Date":"26 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  sappy story with Christian indoctrination (heaven & hell etc). this is not healthy, children can easily be scared by it. aside from the sneaky indoctrination, the story is badly created, and the animation and dialogue just plain sucks. "},{"Title":"Dogs from heaven but pure hell to watch...","Date":"21 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" When you think of a children's cartoon, what are the first things that come to your mind? For me, it certainly wasn't a casino-owning dog getting murdered and coming back from the dead for revenge, then again, if you're one of those lame adults who finds something in talking animals and that my dog is my fur-child nonsense, you might enjoy this. Myself, I thought this was like tripping and seeing some very strange hallucinations that made no sense.For a movie made in the late 1900's you'd think they'd be able to get facts straight. It's not the Great Depression anymore, orphan children rarely live in the streets with patches on their clothes.The dog, named Charlie, could speak to an overweight alligator, had a wiener dog sidekick, the animation was almost as bad as the plot and the soundtrack was bad and really weird. The whole heaven concept was unnecessary and lame. To make matters worse, they add the hell stuff in, which really isn't appropriate for a children's film. There are names of some of the animals make no sense, like Carface and Itchy.I'd never watch this thing again if you payed me, to put it bluntly. "},{"Title":"Is this really a kid's movie?","Date":"20 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Watching this movie, one question springs to mind Who is this movie aimed at? It's awfully dark for kids and offers nothing to entertain adults. Perhaps it's just me, but an animated movie aimed at kids that features gambling dogs, revenge, the death of a dog (twice over, if you could Charlie's death at the beginning) and orphaned little girls is not what makes an enduring animated classic. In addition to the story problems, the music was completely charmless and the animationwas murky and stilted. I would not recommend this to very sensitive children or anyone who doesn't want to be depressed or disheartened by their cartoons.  "},{"Title":"Not so heavenly viewing","Date":"21 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Is this supposed to be a children's film? The fact that it deals with the afterlife and dogs getting involved with organized crime might make some parents concerned. Well, this 1989 animated film is not a Walt Disney Pictures release so there's its excuse for being different right there. United Artists is releasing this one and the studio took some chances with releasing such a film to the family oriented market. However, few people noticed since the film was released around the same time as Walt Disney Pictures mega popular animated film The Little Mermaid. Rent The Little Mermaid over this one. Considering the talent involved (Don Bluth, especially), the animation in this film is a major disappointment and it winds up being strictly for the dogs rather than for the kids. "},{"Title":"Dull and dreary.","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Don Bluth never made rock solid animated greats but ALL DOGS GO TO HEAVEN was a punishment for everyone involved. The dark and dreary attitude DOGS make may have fit nicely if we were not forced to like most of the characters, particularly Charlie, from the beginning. Plot holes and inconsistency are everywhere. The characters are unique but not appealing. Nothing works in DOGS but a bit of charm that shines through.With help from his buddy Itchy, Charlie breaks out of the pound and gets back to the night life he created with his old partner Carface. Carface planned on getting rid of Charlie from the start and has him killed. Charlie escapes Heaven and plans his revenge by stealing Carface 's ace in the hole, Anne-Marie an orphaned girl who talks to animals.No one except for Anne-Marie is likeable. The charm that she brings out in the other animals makes ALL DOGS shine a bit. But past that, this movie is boring and may go over kids heads. The songs are just as rough as the movie. The story drifts especially toward the end. A dreary movie from beginning to end, ALL DOGS GO TO HEAVEN gets two thumbs down. "},{"Title":"More Bluth badness","Date":"30 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Don Bluth almost never gets it right. Who knows why? He created two lovable classics, The Secret of Nimh and Land Before Time. It's inconceivable that a man who created two fantastic animated movies could also create such awful animated movies. Yet besides those two, most Bluth movies are poorly executed, saccharine, and undramatic. All Dogs Go to Heaven deserves to be at the lower end of the spectrum. Right next to Rock-A-Doodle. Here, we get the same Bluth trademarks--confused storytelling, poorly executed script, sappiness, lack of true drama, etc. Bad characters and a story too sappy for adults but too scary for kids makes this movie even worse. A Bluth fizzler so bad it hurts. Avoid. "},{"Title":"A Real Dog of a Movie","Date":"11 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This bitter little piece of fluff was a little too depressing for me.  The title comes from the premise that all dogs go to heaven no matter what...which for our lovable dogs includes gambling, extortion, child slavery, abandonment of family, and murder.  And if you die a little prematurely you can escape from heaven and return to the life of the living to carry out a little bit of unfinished business...in this case it involves blood vengeance.Dark, unfunny, and definitely not for the whole family...actually not for any of 'em, old to young.A loser.  "}{"Title":"All Dogs Go to Heaven","Date":"15 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" When I was younger, I didn't intentionally want to see All Dogs Go to Heaven, but a friend of mine tempted me to see it. It isn't exactly the best film I've ever seen but it does have an interesting idea. A dog somehow dies and goes to heaven. Charlie (voiced by the sometimes annoying and silly movie star Burt Reynolds) dies in some kind of accident (or is killed by Carface the villain, I can't remember which) and he goes to heaven. But he somehow gets out of it and goes back to Earth with warning that he may not return to heaven after jinxing out of it. Charlie is just selfish and gambles and stuff, this annoys the little girl a lot. This is okay I suppose, the kids will obviously like it. Okay! "},{"Title":"Dear oh dear, what an odd movie...","Date":"29 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This was an awful idea for a follow up to the popular Land Before Time. Almost as bad as when Disney followed the Lion King with Pocohantus. I don't know what the script writer was on when he came up with this movie, but it must have been pretty bad cause this thing is almost totally incoherent.This is an overall annoying movie, but the two most irritating features of All Dogs go to Heaven are the amount of continuity errors and the little orphan girl.  These features are related because for some reason, the writers didn't think it would bother anyone that Anne Marie is able to communicate with animals when the animals can't talk to each other... MOST of the time (Charlie can't understand the horses, but he can hold a conversation with the alligator).  It doesn't help that any time Anne is on the screen, I cringe.I'm giving this movie a 2 only for it's parody value.  Otherwise, All Dogs is pretty much cartoon hell. "}]