[{"Title":"Give me flights of imagination over drama anyday!","Date":"19 October 2004","Score":"54 out of 62 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Wasn't feeling the very best today, but had to get on with it anyway, as you do, you know, and, when I finally got a chance to sit down in my own living room this afternoon who should come bursting thru the door but my 6 year old son and about 7 of his friends... JUST as this movie, which I've always adored, came on one of The SKY movie channels. I closed the living room curtains for cinematic effect and we all sat down and watched it. They were all entranced by it, even tho' some of them had seen it already. I've seen The Adventures of Baron von Munchausen myself many times and it never fails to fascinate me. It goes a very long way to explain many things that are omnipresent in life (war, sex romance, childhood innocence, adult disillusionment) by illustrating, and somehow making real, well-known classical myths and fairy tales. Oliver Reed deserved some sort of award for his portrayal of the god Vulcan. I read that Sean Connery was slated for the part of King of The Moon but it HAD to be Robin Williams. Mork calling Orson indeed.... This is my first review in this forum and, therefore, I will not go on at great length except to say that viewing this movie again made me determined to state that my favourite movies are movies like The Adventures of Baron von Munchausen, Pirates of the Caribbean and Yellow Submarine. May you all develop a talent for living happily ever after! "},{"Title":"Munchausen's tale as he himself would have seen it","Date":"11 November 2004","Score":"57 out of 70 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" This is NOT a movie for everyone. This is not a movie for people who want a fantasy plot... according to the rules of fantasy movies. This is a movie which has one great ambition and has ABSOLUTELY, TOTALLY, UTTERLY, FULLY, UNQUESTIONABLY fulfilled to present the story of Baron Munchausen as the real one would have seen it. This is a great piece of visualization of the culture of 18th-century Enlightenment (did you notice that the bad guys all wore uniforms from the Napoleonic age - as a sign of when this great period of human cultural achievement finished?). It is a movie in which the sets and costumes are THE ESSENCE - the mechanical giant fish, Venus getting out of the pearl, the small amours with the pink garlands, the pinkish clouds, the two-dimensional buildings on the Moon, the separation of the head from the body, the exoticising of the Grand Turk - these are all correct reproductions of both the imagery from, and the topics relevant for, the Baroque period. IT IS success. "},{"Title":"The King Of The Moon, and other wild things","Date":"25 April 2004","Score":"45 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" The Adventures of Baron Munchausen is one of those films that you either love or hate. You may hate it because the inner child in you has not been released. You may love it because the inner child in you have full reign and want a wonderful fairy tale. This film has all the elements, flying ships (A balloon made of ladies knickers), monsters (A gigantic whale that looks like an island), and a little girl observing all the fantastical adventures. A city is under siege and a theater troupe is trying to perform a play during all of this. In comes an elderly man (The wonderful John Neville)who claims that the troupe has it all wrong and that he, himself, is the real Baron and wants to tell the story straight. From there, his adventure really takes off. He and Sally (The cute as a button Sarah Polley)go off in search of his friends to help save the city Berthold (Clever Eric Idle), the fastest man around; Albrecht, the strongest man in the world; Adolphus, the man with the sharpest sight around and Gustavus, the man with the keen hearing and breath that can blow elephants off their feet. The gangs adventures bring them to the Moon, where the King (Wild as ever Robin Williams)has trouble holding on to his head, to the Underworld, where Venus (Beautiful Uma Thurman)drives her hubby Vulcan (The wonderful Oliver Reed) insane with jealousy. The story and the visuals (Especially the Moon) are beautiful and the ending is interesting. You get so caught up in the story that the viewer gets lost in what is real and what is not. Great for teens and up. Kids may get scared at some of the scenes. "},{"Title":"Wonderful Nonsense (a forgotten classic?)","Date":"7 August 2006","Score":"34 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" A young Sarah Polly is swept on a grand storybook adventure when her father's theater is visited by the source of its drama; the real Baron himself (perfectly played by John Neville). The town is under siege by the Turks and only Munchausen and his band of curious adventurers can save it, so long as Death or a doctor doesn't catch him.Terry Gilliam, having hit his stride with the 1984-and-a-half classic Brazil, went on to fulfill his ultimate fantasy film with a great cast of actors (Jonathan Price included), beautifully detailed sets and costumes, and a very strange yarn of a tale indeed. Bit parts are filled out by Robin Williams, the late Oliver Reed (seen most recently as Proximo in Gladiator) serving up a fiery Vulcan - husband to a young (not to mention stunning) Uma Thurman as Venus.A great deal of the magic that sparkled in Brazil seems to have been rekindled here, and while it may have been panned at the time of its release, time has treated it well. The effects have that pre-cg feeling that makes me warm and fuzzy inside, and while its a little slow to get started, it surprises around every turn. Fans of Gilliam's work (and those who still possess that curious inner child) will find much to enjoy here - even if it is nothing more than wonderful nonsense. "},{"Title":"Are stories real? They are certainly powerful...","Date":"26 January 1999","Score":"30 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  A magical film about the power and importance of story telling and imagination. The creation of the ever fecund mind of Terry Gilliam, this may very well be my favorite movie (ah, but it is so very hard to choose). Filled with a spirit of adventure, and a deftness far too rare these days, it is the delightful tale of the adventurous life of Baron Munchausen. He is a hero of the grand old sort, a kind of 17th century James Bond.Baron Munchausen has a knowledge of fine wines, is popular with the ladies, and is the finest soldier in the kingdom. He has a band of sidekicks (the fastest man, the strongest, one with amazing sight, another with amazing lungs and hearing) who assist him in fighting the Turks; traveling to meet the King of the Moon; falling into the center of the earth to meet Vulcan and Aphrodite; and playing cards with the Grim reaper, after being swallowed by an enormous monster-fish the size of an island.Along the way Gilliam's wit skewers rationalism, science, realism, practicality and pragmatics. As much an explication of faith as a depiction of what makes life truly worth living, and what is worth dying for, I rent this again and again. It is only my own foolishness that has prevented me from purchasing a copy. Literally wonderful.Watch for fabulous cameos from a whole host of unexpected people, including Robin Williams and Sting. "},{"Title":"Other people have seen it? And liked it?! I thought I was the only one...","Date":"24 September 2004","Score":"33 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I've only known one other person who has even heard of this movie(also the only other one who's heard of and liked Mel Brooks' the Twelve Chairs). This is certainly one of the most bizarre and unique movies I've ever seen but the more times I see it, the more I like it. Robin Williams and Eric Idle are great of course, but Neville does a good job too. The story is truly unique, leaving you wondering where fiction ends and reality begins. In fact, it's much like Adaptation in that respect, come to think of it. While not on par with Monty Python and the Holy Grail, this is a good piece of work. My advice let your brain take a vacation for a couple of hours and just absorb it. You'll appreciate it better if you try not to make too much sense of it. If it really confuses you, read the book. Yes, there is a book and there really was a man who called himself Baron Munchausen. The book is called <u>The Adventures of Baron Munchausen</u> and the edition I had explained his whole story. Terry Gilliam did a great job of bringing this man to screen and I highly recommend it if you're tired of the usual Hollywood fluff.  "},{"Title":"We're out of virgins.","Date":"24 September 2004","Score":"29 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Yet another wild, whacked out fantasy from Terry Gilliam, the only American born member of the Monty Python comedy troupe. This is the story of Baron Munchausen (Neville), an old man still being chased by an Arabian king because after winning a bet Munchausen took too much money out of the king's vaults and now the king and his army are apparently attacking a colony because Munchausen's there. With the help of toothy little girl (Sarah Polley before she grew up to do the remake of Dawn of the Dead) and rounding up his old comrades (among them Eric Idle, the third tallest member of Monty Python). All sorts of wild insanity ensues. This was the last of Gilliam's trilogy of the imagination, the other two entries in this so called trilogy being Time Bandits and Brazil. If Terry Gilliam has a flaw with his fantasies, it may very well be that he drags out some gags too long, even if its a really good gag. Though I'm not entirely sure I enjoy his work, I must say I admire Gilliam and the recklessness of his projects, because at least he's got the balls to try to do things differently. To this day, he still ranks as being one of the most off the wall, unconventional director chaps out there.All in all, I think I liked this one better than either Time Bandits or Brazil (though Brazil probably has the most racy commentary of Gilliam's so called trilogy). Best line We're out of virgins. - Jonathan Pryce  "},{"Title":"Brilliant!!!!!","Date":"12 October 2006","Score":"31 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" This has to be one of my favourite films ever, I'll admit it's not the greatest work of art ever made and to be honest it never tries to be. I get very annoyed with these armchair film experts who think just because they've sat on their backsides for twenty years, neglecting everything except their expanding waist lines feel they have a god given right to pass judgement on a great film maker's hard work. I've made films and let me tell you EXPERTS out their it's the hardest thing you could ever undertake, harder even than getting off your butts and getting some exercise.Baron Munchausen is in my opinion a visionary masterpiece, like Brazil and Time Bandits its pure escapism, but intelligent python-Esq escapism. I sat down recently and watched all three films with my girlfriend, (not in one night) and was dismayed when she started yawning and checking her watch every five minutes. I think I've come to a conclusion why......Munchausen is a film that people with an imagination will enjoy, but if sadly your a member of the Ally Mcbeal, lets go shopping watch American Pie and wear what every other moron wears generation, you won't get this film. Mainly because Gilliam is far more intelligent than you, both in his use of visual metaphors and sexual innuendo but also in the fact as a director he thinks of things even Tim Burton would be jealous of.Okay the film tales off towards the end, but after to been subjected to such a rich bombardment of visual genius can you blame Terry for being tired.9 out of 10 And my favourite bit is when Eric Idle chases the bullet!!!!! GENIUS!!! "},{"Title":"One of the Most Delightful, Non-Sense and Visually Stunning Fantasies","Date":"7 September 2011","Score":"17 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" In the late Eighteenth Century, a European town is under siege of the Turkish army. Meanwhile, the theater company owned by Henry Salt (Bill Paterson) entertains the dwellers with the production of The Adventures of Baron Munchausen. Out of the blue, an old man interrupts the presentation claiming that he is Hieronymus Karl Frederick Baron von Munchausen (John Neville) and he tells that he is the one to be blamed by the Turkish attack. The Baron Munchausen tells how he had won a bet against the Sultan (Petter Jeffrey) with the abilities of his servants Berthold (Eric Idle); Adolphus (Charles McKeown; Albrecht (Winston Dennis); and Gustavus (Jack Purvis) and earned his treasure. Further, he offers to help the locals against the Turks and builds a balloon to seek out his missing servants.During his journey, he finds the girl Sally (Sarah Polley) hidden in the balloon and they travel to the moon, where they meet the deranged King of the Moon Roger (Robin Williams) with his detachable head, and his wife, the Queen of the Moon Ariadne (Valentina Cortese) that has a crush on the Baron. They are arrested by the jealous Roger and find Berthold in the cage, but Ariadne releases them. When they escape from the moon, they meet Adolphus working to Vulcan (Oliver Reed) inside a volcano. The Baron Munchausen seduces the gorgeous Vulcan's wife Venus (Uma Thurman) and the jealous god throws them in a whirlpool. They are swallowed by a monster and they meet Albrecht and Gustavus in a ship inside the monster. They escape and return to the town to help the people against the invaders. But they are very old and their abilities are gone.The Adventures of Baron Munchausen is one of the most delightful, non- sense and visually stunning fantasies of cinema history. The Adventures of Baron Munchausen is also among my favorite books of my childhood and I first saw this film in the late 80's and then on VHS. I have just bought the imported DVD that surprisingly has Portuguese subtitles and today I have seen this film again. Terry Gilliam directs with his peculiar surrealistic and ironic style and uses magnificent special effects for a 1988 film. It is amazing to realize that twenty-three years have passed since this film was released. The sweet Sarah Polley shows her talent with a great performance in one lead role. Uma Thurman is in the top of her eternal beauty. Robin Williams is an unknown actor and uncredited in the role of Roger, The King of the Moon. My vote is nine.Title (Brazil) As Aventuras do Barão de Münchausen (The Adventures of Baron Munchausen) "},{"Title":"Great Surprise","Date":"12 July 2004","Score":"20 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  My kids, who are great Monty Python fans found this movie at the library. Thinking that I knew about all the successful Monty Python related movies I figured that this movie must have been a sleeper. I was greatly surprised by the movie.In my opinion this movie was much better than Time Bandits. Time Bandits was weak mainly because of the weak (or non-existent) ending. This movie had a much better conclusion. Plus, this movie also had a very strong thread running through the movie, without hitting you over the head with it.I also enjoyed the literary references and Robin Williams as the king of the Moon. My favorite reference was when Venus came out of the giant clam. It reminded me of Kilgore Trout's Venus on the Half Shell. (Kurt Vonegut). That was a very nice touch.  "}{"Title":"Romanticism v. Reality","Date":"2 April 2006","Score":"15 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" When this film came out in 1988 the criticism that followed was that while it had some great special effects, it was too long and too expensive, and did not make sense. But THE ADVENTURES OF BARON MUNCHAUSEN, while certainly very expensive, may be among the best film adaptations and adoptions of a well known fictional classic into a major motion picture. The stories it is based on are Raspe's 1780 collection of tall tales of that great adventurer and lover Baron Hieronymous Von Munchausen. The best known tale is how the Baron travels hundreds of miles back and forth during a battle by riding on top of cannon balls (as he does in the film) and how he visits the King and Queen of the Moon. The book made Baron Von Munchausen's name a synonym for liar (albeit a colorful liar). It was glorified by one edition in the 19th Century with illustrations by the great Gustave Dore, that was used by Terry Gilliam for his inspiration in this filmI might add that this was not the first time the character popped up on film. There was a Czech film THE ADVENTURES OF BARON MUNCHASEN that was made in the 1950s by the same creators of THE WONDERFUL WORLD OF JULES VERNE. And in the early 1930s an all star comedy was made in Hollywood called MEET THE BARON, based on a popular radio show of that time called BARON MUNCHAUSEN, with a comic named Jack Pearl as the Baron. Although it had the Three Stooges, Jimmy Durante, and Edna Mae Oliver in it, it also had Pearl. A bit more bearable as a dialog comic and zany than the abominable Joe Penner, Pearl gave a catch line that gained national attention in that period. When his garrulous count was questioned by his suspicious trapped listener the Baron would say, Was you dere Charley?, which would shut-up his questioner. But Gilliam is probing the reason for tall tales. A town in middle Europe is under serious siege in the middle 18th Century by the Turks. It is under constant bombardment. There is only one open theater working, and they intend to put on a dramatization on the career of Baron Munchausen. But they are finding that this dramatization is only being begrudgingly allowed by the local authorities (led by Jonathan Pryce, as an obnoxious diplomat and civil servant). Pryce does not believe in fantasy, and feels that the people should see only reality. Of course, as the film progresses one sees that Pryce's idea of reality is bloody and deadly to most people, and will only glorify the peacemakers (a role he intends for himself).As the play is put on by the father of the film's small heroine, Sally Salt (Sarah Polley), a man appears who denounces the story as false. He is Baron Von Munchausen (John Neville). He dismisses the actors (to the anger of the cast and the audience) but he manages to quell their anger by talking about why it was not a real version of his career. Soon he and Sally take a look at the deteriorating situation on the battlefield. They construct a balloon, and take off. And the film then follows their adventures around the world, and on the moon, and even with Vulcan (Oliver Reed) and his wife (Uma Thurmond). I refrain from going into detail but the part dealing with the King and Queen of the Moon (Robin Williams and Valentina Cortese) is very funny and exciting. In the end Munchausen finds his four old servants (Eric Idle, Charley McKeown, Winston Dennis, Jack Purvis)and returns to the town to save it.The film has a Chinese box type of construction. Surprise ending follows surprise ending building to the climax - a peaceful one but one that is shattering none the less. For after watching the destruction of the Turkis forces we learn that the Baron has been simply telling his tales to the audience, and they have been spellbound. Pryce shows up with a military bodyguard, berating the old windbag for wasting the audience's time with all this romantic claptrap. Munchausen points out the firing has stopped. Everyone notices (including an amazed and troubled Pryce - he has missed his chance of gaining fame by ending the war himself). The audience rushes to the gates, and finds the enemy has abandoned the siege. Romanticism, and it's calming effects - it's powers of giving our dreams and wishes wing to soar, has defeated the reality that Pryce offered. And the film ends.I like it. It is saying that in this rotten world there is a seriously place for imagination to comfort and sustain our spirits. The film actually was one of the best philosophical lessons in movie history. Being by Gilliam there are numerous Monty Python touches in it (including his pal Idle's appearances as the fastest man in the world - trying to outrun a bullet). Note too the artistic Turkish Sultan, who is composing an opera called The Torturer's Apprentice, which includes a device torturing a half dozen prisoners to yell Ow and Ooh in time. The performances were good, including Pryce's priggish bureaucrat, but best of all was Neville. Aside from his appearance as Sherlock Holmes in the film A STUDY IN TERROR, and his John Churchill in the television series THE FIRST CHURCHILLS, Neville never had a major lead role (though plenty of good supporting parts Lord Alfred Bosie Douglas to Robert Morley's Oscar Wilde in the film of that name, for example). He certainly made the most of this one, proving to be a wise old man, but having moments of serious doubt and personal sadness. In all it was a terrific performance in a remarkable film. "},{"Title":"Before The Golden Compass, and before Stardust","Date":"13 May 2008","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" And all the other fantasy market driven flicks to come out in recent years at the time of this writing, there was Gilliam's take on Munchausen.Though the miniature effects by today's standards might seem rather primitive, the scope and scale of the film, combined with some exceptional and exquisite art direction and acting, create an incredible visual tapestry. Unknown to much of the audience at the time, Gilliam's film was to be the future of movies in terms of genre and character exposition. I and an acquaintance of mine at the time were hopeful that The Adventures of Baron Munchausen would succeed, because then it would open the doors for other superhero films, and push story telling to its limits. But, that was back in 1989, and the boom that we anticipated took some fifteen years to take off. Well, at least our careers weren't riding on that hedge... but I digress.The other aspect of this film, as I was reminded of on the IMDb BBS, is that the story itself is a blend of both an old Russian tale, The Fool of the World and the Flying Ship, and Rupert Raspe's take on Baron Munchausen's tall tales. In short, without divulging facts of either sets of fables, the Baron, as originally portrayed, was just a little too robust, and the Russian tale offers a chance to splinter the Baron's self aggrandizement.Some facts you won't find in the film; Baron Munchausen was a real man, and liked to brag about himself (to put it mildly). He actually fought for the Turks, being a German mercenary for hire. He claimed to have all kinds of amazing abilities with a gentleman's character (even having visited Royalty as well as the U.S. and the president in the white-house), but was more or less simply a soldier of fortune.Gilliam's film, in this vein, pays homage to Munchausen, real and fictional alike by playing fast and loose with the facts of his dual existence. In this way it's a pleasant ride, and the sets and locations are incredible to look at.Critiques; there's a couple of miniature shots that bug me--in particular the ballroom dancing sequence. I'm sure it was a difficult shot to get, but some articulation of the models was really a must to sell this sequence. Using a process shot for the closeups kind of added to the destruction of the illusion. Putting the actors on a scissor's life, and shooting them against the actual set would've served the production better, and probably saved money (a must for this production). Also, it's a tragedy the moon sequence, as originally envisioned, wasn't realized. Were left with two actors to carry that sequence, instead of the highly populated kingdom as described in the actual tales.The new DVD is a blessing. The colors and details of the film are far richer than the original DVD release. The colors are vibrant and rich in luminosity. They accentuate the late 18th century visual thrust that this film is attempting to deliver. On top of that the overall level of visual information has been enhanced from both initial DVD and VHS releases. One can almost feel the texture of the clothes and clouds as they scroll and undulate across the screen. A definite plus.A very fine film that predates superhero and fantasy genres by almost a couple of decades. As I stated earlier, some of the SFX may not hold, but the overall scope of the film should prove more than a counterweight to this, and give to the viewer an emotional and visual effulgent experience.WARNING; it's not a film for everyone. As a family film it skirts the edges of PG and PG-13 territory, and the far-out nature of the film may be a bit too existential for some adults to absorb. Still, I liked it very much.Enjoy -) "},{"Title":"Fantasy adventure  filmed in Belchite location where took place the strongest battle in Spanish civil war","Date":"16 August 2011","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Fantastic film based on classic film from German Film studio UFA titled Baron Munchausen (1943) by Josef Von Baky with Hans Alberts. It contains stunning visuals - it's a feast for the eyes- , imagination and strange roles . The tall Baron Munchausen (John Neville), each time united his horse Bucefalo , undertakers several adventures and feats . He's a tale-teller who is accompanied by his faithful companions , a group formed by odd and riveting characters as a little girl (Sarah Polley) , an idiot (Eric Idle) whose feet run faster than sound , a giant man and a dwarf . Munchausen assured that he has visited the Moon and meets the king (Robin Williams) , Venus (Valentina Cortese) , visited inside of the volcano of the Gods (Oliver Reed) and fallen for Venus . Later on , being swallowed into the belly of a gigantic wale . All of this stories are woven into the movie's axis tale , the siege of a European town , Vienna, by a Turkish army whose caliph (Peter Jeffreys) is after Munchausen's head .This is an imaginative , glamorous , chaotic fantasy based on the wonderful trips carried out by Munchausen , though a little bit tedium too and paced in fits and starts . Marvelous special effects are visually stunning and magnificently realized with no computer generator . Slick narrative but often confused , proceeded in a circular pace by means of flashbacks that flow into the present from past time and never quite what they seem . Starring a considerable cast of top-names performers as John Neville , Jonathan Pryce ,Eric Idle , Sting and Uma Thurman and Sarah Polley , both of then practically unknown and nowadays prestigious actresses . Impressive sets and breathtaking production design , being filmed in Belchite (Spain) location where took place several hard combats during Spanish Civil War .This big-budgeted , under-appreciated film was a flop at the box office and panned by the critics ; however , today is best considered . Colorful and glimmer cinematography by Giuseppe Rotunno, Fellini's usual, and evocative musical score by Michael Kamen . The motion picture is imaginatively directed by Terry Gilliam , an expert on wonderful , surreal atmospheres ( Time bandits , Brazil , Fisher king , Doctor Parnasus). The film might be described as an extraordinary fantasy full of imagination and color . Rating  Good , better than average . Worthwhile watching . "},{"Title":"Tedious with occasional spurts of imagination","Date":"5 May 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I went to see this film in a bargain theater in 1988 after its disastrous release. I fell asleep and missed virtually the entire film.So after 22 years, I watched it on cable and realized that I probably was better off having a nap than sitting through this bloated, self-indulgent Gilliam extravaganza.Gilliam obviously has a wonderful visual sense, but his need to always go over the top has doomed many of his film projects. He tries to blame the failure of MUNCHAUSEN on Dawn Steel, and he certainly did get a bad deal from Sony, but this movie would never have been a hit even with major PR behind it. It's too confusing and dark for kids, and too boring for adults. There's no linear sense, just set pieces strung together. The truly inspired bits would take about 20 minutes to watch.I'm surprised that any studios ever green-light a Gilliam project, with his history of spending enormous sums with little return on investment. As far as I can tell, the last Gilliam movie that made any money was the excellent TWELVE MONKEYS in 1995.If you want to watch some films by a director with a knack for engaging visuals, but who also knows how to make a plot work, try Jean-Pierre Jeunet. "},{"Title":"A visionary masterwork from a master with a vision.","Date":"7 January 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" A visionary masterwork; simply the finest fantasy and kids film ever - it has everything they should have; unlimited imagination and extreme extravagance with common morality. It adapts to the general conventions of the superhero subgenre - an eccentric lead character (played by John Nelville) with servants of abnormal ability (one a man with strength, another with incredible eyesight, another with superb hearing and lungs and one with ultimate agility). There is not a moment in this film where I felt bored or unengaged with the 'normal' world being just as fun as the fantasy - though the film does not put a definitive line between the two. The epic set decoration and art direction left me in a state of absolute awe. The whimsical score also helped the cinematic value as this is a film that completely grasps its scale (which is all the way round the world and even to the moon). A comparison of the naivety between the two protagonists (the Baron and a girl he befriends - a young Sarah Polley giving one of the best child performances I've ever seen - and of which her father actually portrays the Baron in a play, with a neat twist of the actors playing the servants also playing the actors who play the servants) is a delightful and a key theme in enjoying it. In modern day films in the mainstream line, threats are usually ineffective because there's a definite certainty that the protagonist is going to survive, but in this film, despite following these same conventions the threats are still exciting. Every single attempt at humour is hilarious, no matter how corny or dry. One could see the film as a satire on heroism - the Baron as the hero cliché is supposed to save the town the girl lives in - but his servants are old, tired and unable to perform; which provokes the idea of heroism as a limited virtue but forever a standard - as a quote from the Baron suggests, I'm usually on the good side. It's the lust for reward and priase that causes this and finally allows them to succeed. It then presents us with the idea that heroism is indeed in fiction and true heroism is but a state on mind (perhaps a reference to Gilliam's previous film, Brazil). This film could also be interpreted as a satire on the ridiculous and pointlessness of warfare to prove ones righteousness as a quote from Johnathan Pryce's character suggests; We surrendered last time, it's your turn. Unfortunately the special effects are inconsistent - sometimes impressive but sometimes so basic (like models and objects on strings) it took me out of the moment. It also suffers from many contrivances in considering how the characters bump into each other as a consequence of a villain's action, especially since it was unintentional and the primary goal was to reunite the gang. Eric Idle gives a wonderful comic performance (like a jester figure) as does Robin Williams; plus a very, very sexy Uma Thurman. Very unpredictable screenplay - a factor I value greatly, plus it doesn't rush it's pace too much (at least in the first hour). This is clearly Gilliam doing exactly what he loves - a film with a big heart and passion behind it, and it shows.8/10 "},{"Title":"really something","Date":"13 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" The Adventures of Baron Munchausen has Terry Gilliam written all over it. The fantasy, the cleverness, and everything else. To me, the movie is looking at the challenge of distinguishing reality from fantasy, what with the possibility that the baron's stories just might be true. But whether or not they are, the movie is still really something. I personally think that Terry Gilliam has never gotten the credit that he deserves as a director (surely we have to agree that Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas was infinitely better than any Jean-Claude Van Damme movie).Anyway, this is one movie that you're sure to like. Since I first saw it, John Neville has had some neat roles (The X Files, Urban Legend, Sunshine). Also starring Eric Idle, Sarah Polley, Oliver Reed, Jonathan Pryce, Uma Thurman and an uncredited Robin Williams. "},{"Title":"Gilliam does it again...","Date":"15 November 1998","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  With Time Bandits and Brazil, Terry Gilliam amazed me with the way in which he directed and wrote some amazing works of fiction. A similar thing happens here but in a much larger scale. The film is so full of magnificent visuals, including the magnificent balloon ride in which they travel to the moon. Excellent stuff, and spellbounding everything!! "},{"Title":"Fabulous, Eye-Popping, Hilariously Insane Epic Fantasy Adventure","Date":"23 April 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" A town is besieged by a Sultan's army. At a rundown theatre, the ageing and eccentric Baron Munchausen appears and resolves to find his powerful allies and end the conflict. Escaping in a balloon made of frilly underwear he travels first to see the King of the Moon, then into a volcano to see Vulcan and Venus, before being swallowed by a giant fish, all the while accompanied by stowaway little girl Sarah. Can he enlist the help of his friends and return in time to save the town ?This is a wonderful and unique comedy adventure which truly embraces the concept of fantasy with breathless child-like imagination. The vivid imagery is stunning throughout; in one shot for example, our heroes tie a rope made of giant hair around the pointed end of a crescent moon and climb down while geometrically drawn animals spin through space around them. Gilliam, designer Dante Ferretti and cameraman Giuseppe Rotunno create an incredible universe virtually unique to their movie, with cannons shaped like dragons, opulent palaces, sex-crazed ogres with detachable heads, militant cyclops who work in a volcano, a recreation of both Botticelli's Birth Of Venus and the Book of Jonah; even Death itself (both the mythical figure and the act) is visualised better than any other film I can think of. If movies should be about images - and have no doubt they should - this is as rich a picture as any, which also happens to be hilariously good fun. It's essentially three tales book-ended by a larger story but it does not feel episodic - it flows seamlessly and any gaps in narrative logic are an amusing part of the fantasy (And that was only one of the many occasions on which I met my death., the Baron quips at one point). The marvellous cast hurl themselves into the madness with terrific abandon - both Neville and Polley (neither of whom had any real film profile before this) are a revelation, bringing gusto, wit and childish cantankerousness to their roles. What other movie has an eighty-year-old man and an eight-year-old girl as the main characters ? The supporting players are all superb, but I particularly like Paterson as the highly-strung theatre actor Salt, an unbilled Williams as the totally loopy Moon King, and especially Reed (in a rare comic bit) as the alternately soppy and temper-prone Vulcan; as he glares jealously at the Baron and his wife Venus waltzing on air in a palatial ballroom adorned with waterfalls and cherubs, he bellows, Nice, isn't it !! We've just 'ad it done !!. There is so much to enjoy in this film - Michael Kamen's fabulous score, Idle's (literal) running gags, the incredible big battle sequence, Pryce's derisory sneering, endlessly clever and beautiful shots (the most amazing of which is a shot of the night sky which melds into a shot of water which melds into a shot of sand, an effect achieved entirely in the camera) - that I can't begin to describe it all. Shot in Italy and Spain, by all accounts it cost a fortune and was a horrific experience to make but none of this shows on screen; all that remains is the director's genius. Written by Gilliam and McKeown (and dedicated to Gilliam's kids, for obvious reasons), the origins of the story are complex - there was a real Baron Munchausen, an eighteenth century German soldier, whose exploits were fictionalised as a series of stories by Rudolph Raspe, and there are two previous filmings; a German one made in 1943 and a Czechoslovakian one made in 1961. For me, this is not quite on a par with Gilliam's incredible Brazil, but is just as visually dazzling and filled with cracking performances and escapist good humour. Unmissable. "},{"Title":"Imagination triumphant","Date":"25 January 2009","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" A thrilling, lively Classical-era fanfare heralds the Columbia logo and signals high adventure and romance, as we open in the late 18th Century, the Age of Reason, on a Wednesday. Already we know that we are in the universe of the man behind Brazil, Terry Gilliam as the expectation caused by the opening chords is quickly subverted by the grim wartime feeling of a starving city under siege by the Turks. Even death itself makes an early appearance, a black winged skeletal angel that will continue to show up throughout the film and which seems to presage an ominous and early end indeed for the characters we meet in the beginning. Young Sally is the daughter of a traveling actor (and head of his theatrical troupe) who plays the magical Baron Munchausen, a fabulous hero famed for his tall tales revolving around such feats as a trip to the moon and the theft of a sultan's treasure. The pathetic troupe puts on its poor mockery of theater in a disintegrating, cavernous building as the town's leader, the Right Ordinary Horatio Jackson (note that title), only to be upstaged by the real Baron (John Neville), a drunken and crazy old man - with a real and sharp sword - who proceeds to tell the story of how the town got into this mess....Gilliam's film is the summation of all of his work as director up until this point, blending the childhood wonder of Time Bandits, the satire on bureaucracy and the feeling for the importance of imagination in the face of hopeless rationality of Brazil, the broad humor of Monty Python and the references to Alice in Wonderland and medieval romance and tall tales of Jabberwocky. Most of the film charts in a relatively linear way the adventures of the (real) Baron and Sally as they fly off in a balloon made of ladies' underwear in search of Munchausen's four fabulous servants - all of whom we have glimpsed in the opening scene, denying that they are anything but actors. Is the Baron crazy? Is the child Sally the only one who believes him, or in fact the only one who can experience his exploits, or save him from death? The film explores these and many other questions of storytelling and belief and the Baron grows more youthful with success, ages with failure -- as his friends seem at first not to recognize him, and then to be too old and feeble to help him. The baron himself loses faith at times, and only Sally is there to prop him up. At the end, a mind-boggling mixture of battles, triumph, death and funeral, resurrection and above all the Story of The Way It Should End all fuse into one of the most joyous and potent conclusions in film.Gilliam draws on a wonderful array of sources for this film, which is certainly postmodern in the lightest yet most serious and beautiful sense - there are nods to Alice in Wonderland, The Wizard of Oz, Pinocchio, Renaissance painting, Cyrano de Bergerac and the 1940 Thief of Bagdad among countless others, but the film never seems derivative or obvious; always it is focused on the pure joy of the tale and the strength and power of myth-making in the face of the tedium and joylessness represented by the unscrupulous and ultimately murderous Jackson - played with vicious glee by Jonathan Pryce in an ironic reversal of his role in Gilliam's previous film, Brazil.The cast is uniformly fine -- some may be irritated by Polley's admittedly shrill Sally though it seemed an appropriate (and necessary) characterization to me -- with standouts being Pryce, Eric Idle as the fleet-footed but somewhat dimwitted Berthold, and John Neville as the Baron in one of the most unjustly slighted performances from a banner year for film. Giuseppe Rotunno's photography makes much more of an impact on the big screen for sure but it is certainly beautiful enough (particularly in the outdoors/sky sequences) even on the DVD; and Michael Kamen's score is one of my all-time favorites and possibly the best work in his film career. The dialog may strike some as odd, in its mixture of late-20th-century idioms (particularly when voiced by the King of the Moon, Robin Williams) and the more carefully authentic 200-year-old jargon of characters like Jackson -- but like most elements of the film, this is carefully designed to throw us off and keep our sense of what is real and not always in doubt.This is a film I've seen over and over - it scored a big impression when I saw it new, alas not on very many people - and it grows greater with each re-watch. Gilliam really manages here to articulate a very profound statement about how we are losing out way, about how the bottom line and the rational way of winning a war - or making a film - may in fact be heartless, cold, and ultimately more dead than the Baron seems to be just before the triumphant finish of the film.Tied for my favorite film in the toughest year for me to pick a winner, with fellow masterpieces Distant Voices, Still Lives and The Last Temptation of Christ. Easily Gilliam's best film, and in its failure ultimately a signal for a new and less potent (though still interesting) direction in his work. A triumph then, and a tragedy - the film is the career, the career is the film. "},{"Title":"Colorful but boring","Date":"22 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Before watching the movie, I did some research and found out it had been one of the most expensive movies made at the time. Although I found it visually stunning and well made - it bored me because it was too long and confusing.The acting is impressive. I particularly liked Uma Thurman's performance. Sarah Polley also stood out.Even though this movie was very colorful and exotic with idiosyncratic characters the story is a fiasco.To summarize A colorful tall tale that turns out to be too long and confusing. "}{"Title":"When all the impossible becomes possible","Date":"19 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I know that after watching this film you will not believe but, yes, ¡there was the Baron Munchausen! His full name was Karl and Hieronymous Baron Munchausen was a German officer who lived in the eighteenth century and participated in the campaigns ahead with Frederick the Great Russians. Except that, ironically, few remember his career in the military, but instead, overflowing laughter and pleasure, have transcended the centuries and crossed five continents, their oral narratives full of creativity and imagination. Compiled in 1785 by Rudolf Erich Respe and then reworked by Gottfried Bürger, the incredible and unusual stories of this unique character, are a unique challenge to the imagination and the best cut proof that dreams are necessary to keep the hope.Baron shatters logic, bare their dreams and is released into the immeasurable extent of their illusions. Since then, all the impossible becomes possible, all the yearnings become palpable and everything goes to infinity limited size. These crazy and fascinating adventures, brought a third time to the movies (first was a German Josef von Backy, in 1943 with great success, and then a Czech Karel Zeman in 1961 with less importance), are now in version English Terry Gilliam, the realization of an ideal.This, put the Baron in the company of four super-friends and a plucky girl, and the result is a plethora of excellent fantasy film, which also mocks the style will seduce you with gifts, men's possessive and some other prototypes that this society so sick.One of the most significant fantasy films of the last century. "},{"Title":"Wonderful and imaginative fantasy-adventure","Date":"26 April 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I do like Terry Gilliam's movies, and The Adventures of Baron Munchausen is one of my personal favourites of his along with Time Bandits and Brazil. My only real quibble with The Adventures of Baron Manchausen is the odd scene that drags a little too much, other than that as a fantasy-adventure and a film it is wonderful.Visually it is a delight. The photography is truly beautiful and really helps in bringing the wondrous sets, production values and scenery to life. Also outstanding is Michael Kamen's score, it is absolutely stunning and fits perfectly. Not only that, I think it is one of Kamen's best.The dialogue is odd but in a delightful way being also clever and witty, and the story is widely imaginative complete with some fun literary and such references. Gilliam's direction is superb pretty much, and the characters are unique and engaging.The acting I have no problem with. The standouts are Robin Williams, Eric Idle and especially Jonathan Pryce, but this doesn't stop John Neville and Sarah Polley from being likable as well.Overall, a wonderful film that I have been very fond of since childhood. 9/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Sheer Brilliance","Date":"25 December 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" And to think that this was almost never made,when watching a recent documentary on the making it is incredible to even imagine that Terry Gilliams masterpiece almost didn't make it to the big screen and of course like so many the critics panned this movie before its release and its success was doomed even before it hit the big screen..... Enough said..the critics were wrong..oh so wrong because this is grand movie making at it very very best..perfect casting..amazing music score and a tale that captivates you from start to finish..not to mention the incredible visions that Terry Gilliam has brought in the past of worlds so fantastic it shows the sheer brilliance of his imagination and directing. Since its release there are few who watch this movie and don't rave about just how good it is and that is justice indeed for Terry Gilliam as it is such a loved piece of movie making. Simply put,sit back and immerse yourself into a tale that is grand in telling,grand in visual style and deserves nothing less than to be remembered as one of the great stories brought to the big screen of the 20th Century. Thank you Terry Gilliam for this masterpiece........ "},{"Title":"A fantastic adventure but not much else","Date":"3 January 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Terry Gilliam stands out as a true auteur. His wit and injection of satire into his work has made him one of my favorite writer/directors. In his films he often portrays a highly structured society that is cold and pedantic, stifling freedom and imagination. In Baron Munchausen, he uses an enormous budget from Columbia Pictures to create a vivid adventure in the late 18th century during the Age of Reason. Seemingly disdainful about this designation, he once again satirizes government and society, its cruelness, pettiness, and vanity, and the apparent loss of imagination to logic and reason.The story is highly fantastical and absurd, with an adventurer, Baron Munchausen, traveling the world in search of his old crew to end a war that he started long ago. Along the way he will go to the Moon and talk to the moon king, whose unique dichotomy of animalistic instinct and intellectual aspiration satirize the powerful. He will fall inside a volcano, meet the God Vulcan and the Goddess Venus, and later get swallowed up by a giant fish. This may sound great, and it certainly is. The reason this movie is not a 10/10, however, is due to some unfortunate weaknesses throughout. Though the scenery and special effects can be quite dazzling, and the sardonic humor amusing, this film lacks any real clarity or purpose, and the sheer madness can be tedious. At two and a half hours, it is also long. I found myself watching amused, but not engaged, all the way to the end; an ending which left me even more uncertain as to exactly what I had just seen. Great for the inner child, though you might want to keep away from real children as sexual content, poignant images (such as a man with his eyes sewn shut), and numerous beheadings might be disturbing to young ones. "},{"Title":"One of the greatest fantasy films","Date":"7 April 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I still remember reading in the trades back in the 80s about how much money was spent on this production in Italy, and I just have to say right off the bat that all of it is up there on the screen. This is just a gorgeous movie, with color contrasts that remind me of the MGM fantasy musicals of the 40s and 50s like The Pirate and some of the best matte work you will ever see -- all of these expensive effects are raised to a higher level by director Terry Gilliam's unique sense of proportion and his skills in animation. One of the more striking aspects of Gilliam's art is that he's one of the few directors to work in fantasy/sci-fi films in the last 30 years who has a really unique and identifiable visual sensibility that if anything is enhanced by rather than smoothed out by the effects work. Taken as a whole (story and visuals) I think it's one of the most entertaining and intelligent fantasy films ever made.John Neville makes a striking central figure as the Baron Munchausen, a figure of legend come to life in the setting of an apocalyptic battle between a German city and the Turkish army. Sarah Polley's performance is far better than Craig Warnock's in Time Bandits, and it's particularly interesting now in light of Gilliam's announcement that his inner child is a little girl (on the DVD for Tideland). There's so much of Gilliam in the character -- she is at the same time the most realistic and practical person on the mission who must remind the Baron constantly of the purpose of the mission and yet she is also the one with the most irrepressible belief in fantasy. Eric Idle's work is really exceptional in this film also; he has a unique way of saying his lines that just always brings me a laugh, like the way he says oh, all right after the Baron admits that he abandoned him on the moon and only came to rescue him because he needed him. He brings the Python sensibility to this movie that matches so well with Gilliam's style. Oliver Reed and Uma Thurman also did great work in their section of the movie. I've never been hugely into Robin Williams' performance here, much too broad as usual as if he was working for Blake Edwards, though his work was better when he and Gilliam did Fisher King a few years later so maybe he just needed some time to adjust to the pace and proportion of Gilliam's world.Gilliam has said that this movie forms a loose trilogy with Time Bandits and Brazil, those films dealing with fantasy/reality in the eyes of children and adults respectively and Munchausen closing the cycle by exploring the role of fantasy in the lives of people who are aging into the last stages of life. That's clear enough from the film, and it's also interesting how he uses the opportunity to satirically comment on the whole concept of modernity and the scientific revolution, much in the tradition of Swift's masterpiece Gulliver's Travels. Not having read the original Munchausen book I can't say how much of that is from the book and how much is from the film, but it does tie in rather strongly to the anti-bureaucratic perspective of Brazil (Jonathan Pryce even plays a character who could be said to symbolize the connection). It's interesting that Gilliam is so attracted to these types of characters who sort of cling to the romantic past and refuse to recognize rationalism -- in addition to Brazil he also has attempted several times to make a post-modern Don Quixote film. His brilliant Tideland shows how fantasy could be a more effective escape from trauma than reality, and his Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas is a heart-felt tribute to the idealism and hope of the 60s youth movement that was crushed by the cynicism and reality of the 1970s. There's a beautiful speech that Hunter Thompson wrote for the book which Gilliam really latched onto and emphasized, where he talks about the place where the wave finally broke and rolled back. I think Baron Munchausen is about the same moment but in a broader sense of the domination of science and rationalism over the ancient world of wonder and significance. Munchausen laments there is no place in the modern world for oceans made of wine -- his sadness is not just for our culture losing its ability to believe in dreams but also on a more personal level as an old man who no longer believes in his own dream.On a totally separate note, I'd like to just mention a few elements of this film that J.K. Rowling has paid tribute to in her instant-classic Harry Potter fantasy series. First of all there is the image of death as a hooded reaper, a fairly generic image but in this case we see death removing Baron Munchausen's soul as a glowing orb through his mouth just as the dementors do in the Potter books. There's also Jon Pryce's character, mayor Jackson, who reminds my girlfriend and I very much of Lucius Malfoy -- in very much the same way he rails against exceptional people who go out on a limb to help others, and Rowling has even lifted Jackson's line about such people facing a very sticky end. Of course the depiction of Potter's family and neighborhood are also very reminiscent of Time Bandits and Rowling is a vocal Gilliam fan -- she advocated him as director for the Potter films but the producers never took her seriously... a shame because most of them lack the rare kind of imagination and humor that Rowling and Gilliam share. "},{"Title":"The very definition of wondrous","Date":"11 August 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This struck me as the height of whimsy and marvel on its initial release, and it has only improved with each subsequent viewing. Wondrous and magical. The sets and effects are exquisite; the scene of the baron latching onto the cannonball always sends me into spasms of mirth. The performances are likewise uniformly excellent, from the main roles to the cameos Oliver Reed is hilarious; Sarah Polley turns in one of the most memorable child performances ever (and amazingly has gotten better and better since, as evidenced by The Sweet Hereafter and Go); and John Neville holds it all together mightily as the baron (Beautiful ladies! -- a treat for viewers who might only know him from The X-Files). Jonathan Pryce, Robin Williams, Eric Idle, Uma Thurman, etc. -- everyone outstanding. Munchausen melds the regular Gilliam themes -- adventure, fantasy, raucous comedy, melancholy, the struggle against mindless and repressive authority, the spectre of death -- into a jewel, his crowning achievement to date, topping even Brazil. Kudos, kudos, kudos. A true 10 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"A stunning masterpiece.","Date":"11 March 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Not to overload the reader, this movie isVisually stunningExtraordinarily funnyFilled with wondrous characters (and creatures)Profoundly brilliantPure entertainmentOne to add to your Must see list. "},{"Title":"Beautiful","Date":"14 December 2006","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Terry Gilliam at his best. Yeah, it failed at box offices, and it received pretty low score here. Don't let that distract you, as people don't know how to watch fairytale anymore. This ain't kids movie, kids would probably enjoy it, but it has so much more to offer to grownups. Where someone found it confusing and unentertaining, you might find it deep, poetic and philosophical. Uma Thurman, John Neville, Eric Idle, Oliver Reed in a epic tale of adventure, love, friendship and bravery. People that have any kind of imagination and inner life might want to give this flick a chance, others would probably be better off with Borat. "},{"Title":"Must underrated film of all time","Date":"14 December 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I've watched this film dozens of times and it never ceases to entertain me.It has incredibly high production values, excellent acting, including Uma Thurman in perhaps her first role.Of course some people won't like it... it's a bit whacky.People who are humor-challenged won't get it.The writing, dialogue and casting are all first rate and consistent through out.The biggest problem was that it got buried, and under-released.It deserves a lot more attention than it's gotten over the years. "},{"Title":"A different kind of Munchausen","Date":"13 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Although The Adventures Of Baron Munchausen went spectacularly over budget and drowned miserably at the box office the film in its after life of syndication and video distribution hasn't done all that bad for director Terry Gilliam. It's a different kind of Munchausen than the one that Dr. Goebbels produced for Nazi Germany during the height of World War II. That one was pure fantasy, this one has a lot of belly laughs which one would expect from a pair of Monty Python troupe graduates like Eric Idle and Terry Gilliam.Cast as the fabulous German aristocrat and teller of tall tales is John Neville who I first encountered and best remember as the Duke Of Marlborough in The First Churchills. He's as aristocratic as Marlborough as Munchausen, but plays it tongue in cheek with the ever present twinkle in the eye.You won't see my parent's Munchausen here. I refer of course to the famous radio show done by vaudeville dialect comedian Jack Pearl who told those tall tales to the listening audience and when getting a bit too outrageous and questioned by the announcer would give the ever ready answer, vas you dere Charlie.Kids of all ages might like Neville's version. As for the adults what's not to like about Uma Thurman as the goddess of love Venus. The adults will definitely rent this DVD for her. "}{"Title":"Amazing and Confusing Tall Tales and Highly Entertaining!","Date":"13 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Terry Gilliam and his motley crew goes far and beyond anything you have ever seen before in this live action extravaganza. A scrumptious cast including Robin Williams as The King of the Moon and Uma Thurman as Venus! I found some of it overly long (the visit with the King and Queen of the Moon) and very confusing (his magic white horse just kind of pops in.) It reminds you a bit of a good retelling of Gulliver's Travels, such as the Hallmark/Jim Henson version. Lots of explosions and fire! Staring every fabulous character you could ever possibly think of, including Winged Death, Vulcan, Venus, the world's strongest man, best marksman, most windy, tallest giant, and more. All utterly illogical, nonsensical, and preposterous. He travels by a balloon made up of elastic ladies girdles, on a cannonball, falls through the Earth to the other-side, flies in the sky, and, with the help of his comrades, defeats an entire invading army. Although he dies right after doing all that, he miraculously comes back to life to tell his tales. (Playing cards inside of a whale with his friends (and Mr. Death) is most amusing, indeed.) Engaging and exhausting to watch and somewhat hard to follow, you must view it more than once to see and understand it all. Also stars Sarah Polley of Avonlea TV fame as a precocious and totally adorable little red-haired girl. A fairy tale for adults although children will love it as well and the slightly naughty references will be over their head. "},{"Title":"A Visual Marvel That Requires Some Patience","Date":"4 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Clocking in at just a littler over 2 hours, Baron Munchausen is a very visually imaginative film that takes a while to get going.The Adventures of Baron Munchausen focuses on the titular character who is a decrepit old man that has gone on to become a legend of sorts. He visits a theater inside of a city in the middle of a raging battle between some Europeans and the Turks. The Baron is eventually recognized by the citizens to be the legendary figure and they plead with him to get reinforcements. He decides to get his old gang back together with the help of a littler girl traveling all the way to the moon and even into the depths of a sea monster's belly. Like Terry Gilliam's other films Time Bandits and Brazil, Baron Munchausen is about escaping the shackles of reality through imagination. For Munchausen, those shackles are outliving his usefulness and the inevitability of death. The story is somewhat disjointed but what pulls it together is the charming cast, Gilliam's unique visual style and complex metaphors about life. The best way to describe this movie is if Gulliver's Travels and Alice in Wonderland got fused together in a blender. It's a delight for both the eyes and the mind. "},{"Title":"A wonderful tale by Terry Gilliam (and Munchausen)","Date":"2 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" It appears the myth of the Baron Munchausen is based on the real person Hieronymus Karl Friedrich von Münchhausen, a German Baron who allegedly became famous for inventing preposterous, imaginary stories from the Russo-Turkish War.In this film directed by Terry Gilliam (a member of the Monty Pythons) the events take place during the siege of Vienna in 1683 by the forces of the Ottoman Empire. The citizens of Vienna are demoralized, hungry but try to hang on. They organize theatrical plays to lift their spirits. During one of these plays a middle-aged man (with an aristocratic appearance) jumps on the scene and claims that he is Baron Munchausen. He also asserts that he is the reason that the Turks want to sack Vienna and recounts some hilarious events during his visit in the Pasha's palace in Constantinople. He also believes that he can chase them away and keep Vienna a free city.People do not know what to make of him and the city authorities try to apprehend him. The old Baron, however, is too clever. He escapes and embarks on a journey to find his old friends and allies so as to save the city. A wonderful adventure begins.Gilliam's film is so good. Baron Munchausen personifies the power of 'imagination' which many times is in conflict with the realism of 'logic'. Nonetheless, without it our lives would be empty of feelings, of dreams and sentiments. The Baron appears to understand that only imagination holds the key to the liberation of Vienna against all odds dictated by the cold 'logical' reality. Munchausen, of course, was not the first to realize the power of imagination. Great storytellers of the past knew this and their writings also contained a fair amount of imagination and allegory Aesopus, Homer, Dante Alighieri, Goethe. A 9/10 from me for this wonderful tale of Gilliam (and Munchausen). "},{"Title":"Wonderful, watch it","Date":"26 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" A tired theatrical performance in a city under siege is interrupted by the real-life hero of the piece, and he sets out to regroup his fantasy buddies to save the city. With the help of a charming little girl.Absolute feast of the imagination, but sadly a film that still doesn't go down well. This is Gilliam's third masterpiece from the '80s every minute is lavished with wit and invention, and the cast, music, and sets are spectacular. Also an interesting appearance by Uma Thurman's decolletage.Criticisms? Repetition of much that went before in Time Bandits - you can feel that same rhythm all over again. The overindulgence of Robin Williams in a sequence that drags the pace back. And Gilliam's inability to escape the Oxbridge part of Monty Python - Idle is not as tiresome as Palin was in Time Bandits, but his relentless irony inhibits the Python genius.The themes are strong and, above all, optimistic - even if conservative in their support of individualism in the form of a Big Man who wills whatever he wants in defiance of reality. At least he's a flawed man under the eagle eyes of the Angel of Death and a bright child. This is a beautiful and wise fantasy, and I've always been puzzled why people disregard it so much. Oh well. "},{"Title":"Curious about LSD? Start here.","Date":"3 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Wild and super-well filmed fantasy movie with excellent special effects and stage settings. In the same vein as Brazil and Time Bandits.Seems like about what you'd get if you mixed a half a tab of LSD with a 100 million dollar film budget--it flies off in all directions, but somehow manages to stay on the rails. Thank God he didn't take the other half tab though. This is a very hard movie to describe, because it plays like a filmed dream with occasional nightmarish elements, although the overall tone is fun and optimistic. I think that to truly enjoy this movie you should have somewhat of an unconventional personality, as it's my experience that such intense and well-crafted fantasy visuals do not do well with many people; however, if you are a bit unusual (I don't want to say odd, do I?), then you might find this very unusual movie rewarding, as I did (and I'm not the least little bit odd, am I?). "},{"Title":"Wild convoluted wonderful mess","Date":"12 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" It's The Age of Reason. An unnamed city is under bombardment by the Turkish army. The Right Ordinary Horatio Jackson (Jonathan Pryce) is an absolute man devoted to reason and executes an overly brave soldier. A touring company is acting out the fanciful life of Baron Munchausen. An old man (John Neville) claiming to be the real Munchausen disrupts the play. He continues by recounting how he's the cause of the war. He challenged the Sultan and sent super fast Berthold (Eric Idle) to fetch a bottle of wine from Vienna. With Adolphus the rifleman, strong breath and hearing Gustavus, and strongman Albrecht, they win the bet and carry off with the Ottoman's treasury. The playhouse is bombarded. Young Sally Salt (Sarah Polley) attends to the old man and together they go on further crazy adventures.Director Terry Gilliam lets loose his insanity onto the screen. The style is over the top in the wonderful Gilliam way. It's bombastic with lots of bombs. The characters are beyond crazy. In one of the wackier turns, Robin Williams is The King of the Moon. I am conflicted. The beauty of the movie is its wild uncontrolled fantasy. Yet I do wish the movie has more control and maybe some simplification. There is no other movie quite like it. "},{"Title":"Hold on to your cannonballs, you're in for a wild ride!","Date":"25 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" This fantasy, directed by Terry Gilliam, is full of wonderment and adventure. Seldom is a film so immersive that a viewers disbelief is not suspended, but expelled. The film is an adventure that mocks logic and common sense to glorify the romance of imagination. Imagine your child self gained knowledge, but remained passionate, naive, and light of heart; that is the essence of this film. The film Follows Baron Munchausen as he recounts his larger than life adventures that led to the current misfortune of the nation which his audience members hail. The baron must undertake one last quest to gather his old gaggle of super-human friends and save the day. Can he defeat the turks, his own cynicism, and death itself? I don't see why not, after all, anything is possible. "},{"Title":"A sadly overlooked movie.","Date":"31 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" This film, borne of years of frustration, cost overruns and production delays, is a marvel, true example of fantasy filmmaking at its best. The mind blowing production values are one-of-a-kind, its stellar cast, phenomenal. From John Neville in the title role to Eric Idle in yet another marvelous comic turn, make for extraordinary viewing. After years of watching it, I never tire of its wonderful story telling, of its unending visual richness. The only thing that disturbs me is why it was never given the acknowledgment or box office success it deserved, somehow delegated to the dustbin of failed films, when it is in fact, a singularly great motion picture on every level. Rather than rehash its twisted turns and lush literary content, I can only say this Watch it. "},{"Title":"That Odd Terry Gilliam","Date":"12 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" An account of Baron Munchausen (John Neville)'s supposed travels and fantastical experiences with his band of misfits.Terry Gilliam is one of the strangest, yet most brilliant, directors working out there today. In this film, he completes what many call a trilogy, pointing to Brazil and Time Bandits. In many ways, it suggests the later Gilliam film of Imaginarium of Doctor Parnassus.Although the film was critically well-received, it was not successful commercial, due at least in part to the studio trying to kill the production. The cast also had generally bad experiences. Said Eric Idle, Up until Munchausen, I'd always been very smart about Terry Gilliam films. You don't ever be in them. Go and see them by all means - but to be in them, madness!!! Sarah Polley was not happy, either, and it is any wonder she continued acting. "},{"Title":"Ye Gods....","Date":"9 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" .I can't believe I actually sat through 1Hr 30m of this drivel, which goes on for an interminable 2 Hr plus. (I fast forwarded through the final scenes just in case something came up. It didn't.) Comedy, even fantasy comedy, has to have a structure. It doesn't necessarily have to be a logical structure (some of the best Monty Python sketches ARE the best because of their zany lack of it) but it must make sense on some level. This effort has absolutely nothing going for it, or for the tens of millions of dollars that were sunk into it.Robin Williams must have been having an off day when his agent suggested getting involved, and his non-appearance in the listings says it all.Gilliam's input in the Monty Python series was the weakest part and in Baron Munchausen we can appreciate just why.. "}{"Title":"The Adventures of Baron Munchausen","Date":"24 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Gilliam must be the king of fantasy films, his filmography lists some true cults and this tale of tall stories is no exception. What I find fascinating about this film is the fact its actually based on a real person and what he actually claimed. An 18th Century German nobleman who spoke or boasted of his outrageous adventures whilst at war against the Ottoman Empire. Whether of not this chap was possibly a bit tipsy at time I don't know but its quite amazing to think this man made himself into a bit of a legend through these tall tales.The films plot starts off in the present day of the film and then briefly as a short story told by Munchausen himself. It then leads back into the present day of the film again and carries on as an adventure, presumably the same adventures adapted from the Barons own stories. In short we follow the Baron and a little girl as he goes off to find his close friends so he can then return to this unnamed European city and save them from the attacking Turks.Surreal isn't the word...or maybe it is, as this film is right out there with Gilliam's other bizarre fantasy worlds. Of course the film is based on the novels that recount the tall tales of the real man in question so I'm guessing that what we see is actually the real Munchausen's imagination and Gilliam has just recreated it, with some artistic license I'm sure. What is accurate to the source material I can't say as I have not read the books.So the main plot point is for Munchausen to find his four compadres who are scattered around in this bizarre universe. We follow the Baron as he travels to the Moon of all places, to the South China sea, the belly of a huge sea monster (familiar story line for fairy tales) and deep below the Earth in the realm of the Roman God Vulcan. A heavily character driven movie with each little venture being hosted by new outlandish people. I think most viewers may have forget that Robin Williams was in this film as the headless King of the Moon...and oh my is he annoying, yep its that old Williams routine that makes you wanna slap him. I guess he suits the crazy character but it just feels like the Robin Williams show.Another performance that felt a little weird was Oliver Reed as the God Vulcan. I'm not entirely sure Reed even knows he's in a film here, he plays the character as an oafish quick tempered stereotypical British northerner, whilst also coming across like a simpleton and a bit drunk, so that's just an aging Reed then. A young Uma Thurman portrays his wife Venus which stuns you because she was actually pretty back then, doesn't say much though.There are so many characters in this film I couldn't possibly go through them all. Pryce is the perfect choice as the snivelling city official, Eric Idle and Jack Purvis take to this extreme fantasy like a duck to water with all their previous fantasy film/Gilliam experience but its John Neville who steals the show as the Baron. For a start the makeup is brilliant and really captures those typical aristocratic features, they really nail the real life caricature of Munchausen. I also loved that old fashioned gentlemanly lordly performance by Neville, both dashing and flamboyant in his beautiful period attire, sword at his side, elegant facial hair and perfectly pompous wig. One could say a dignified pirate appearance. Its a bit odd how his age keeps changing from time to time depending on the specific escapade they are on but every time Neville looks terrific. It really is quite incredible how he actually resembles some real historic images from the era.The film can't help but look a bit dated these days I'm afraid, for its time the film was top of its game but these days the cracks show. Not to say that dampens your enjoyment of the film, if anything it heightens it and adds to the delightful charm of all you see. There is something about Gilliam films, that unique look that has carried through with other projects like 'Time Bandits' and 'Jabberwocky', its almost crappy looking, obvious effects yet somehow it just works. This film has it all with the added bonus of some lovely period costumes and that wonderful theatre set opening.I must admit the film doesn't quite hold up the wonder it used to have for me when I was but a mere sprog. The fantasy element is excellent and feels more like a traditional fairytale or dream more than anything, not so much like an Indy type adventure. I think some bits work and some don't, the whole Moon part feels a bit stupid in all honesty and I didn't like Reed's God, but getting swallowed by the sea monster is the quintessential time-honoured fantasy fodder that I liked. There are many golden classic images and sequences in this film that have stood the test of time. That along with Neville's grand performance and some sumptuous sets and costumes you can see why this film was nominated for so many awards.7.5/10 "},{"Title":"A Forgotten Style of Filmmaking.","Date":"10 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" They don't make films like this anymore, I know that this phrase is a cliché, but for this movie it is one hundred percent accurate. Terry Gilliam is one of those filmmakers with an unmistakable style. You could see one scene and know that it is his work. A rare thing in Hollywood nowadays.'Baron Munchausen' has more imagination and effort put into to it than most blockbusters these days, CGI being a curse more than a blessing. Good old fashion set designs, models and pyrotechnics. It's what I grew up with and loved. I loved this movie when I was 9, 19, and 29 and will no doubt appreciate it for many years to come. It has what a lot of movies now lack; imagination. You can only imagine the amount of hardwork that went into its creation; the intricacies of the Turks' cannons, the air balloon made of undies, even the clam that a nipple slipping Uma Thurman steps out off.Oliver Reed is excellent, his portrayal could almost be called pythonesque, no doubt the influences from his co workers. Jonathan Pryce, a Gilliam regular, is also likable as the bureaucratic dictator. And not forgetting Sting's tiny cameo, a good effort on his part.I made my girlfriend watch this film on bluray recently, and I think that the magic was lost on her as I'm sure it is on plenty others. But it is my review and in love it! So there! "},{"Title":"Imagination. It is full of.","Date":"31 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Terry Gilliam films are an acquired taste. You either like them or you don't. I personally enjoy them. While I wouldn't call The Adventures of Baron Munchausen his best work, it is still good. The movie breaks away from the conventional fantasy storytelling of a linear plot and good versus evil. Rather, it is a collection of fantastic adventures put together in a collage. After all, nothing is really supposed to make sense, because it's about Baron Munchausen, an old man full of tall stories and fantasies. Or as the tag line reads about Munchausen Bull. He was full of. Each story though that Munchausen tells and Gilliam brings to the screen is simply a visual feast to view. The set pieces by Dante Ferretti are incredible and the visual effects even holdup today. How they were able to make Robin Williams' head float around in space without it looking like a cheesy green screen effect is mind-boggling. The final touching to this movie is Michael Kamen's score. it has that old, swashbuckling feel with a lush orchestra and at times a bombastic, heroic sound. Whenever I hear it, I can picture Munchausen riding on his horse Bucephaleus into the sunset.Overall, The Adventures of Baron Munchausen is fun entertainment. It's really not a kid's film. It is for more open-minded people who like their imagination to run wild. "},{"Title":"They just don't make 'em like this anymore","Date":"5 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I LOVE LOVE LOVE this movie. I don't know much about Monty Python movies (except Time Bandits, love that one too). But this movie; Love. Everything about it. The plot is unique, the characters are awesome, and the visuals are stunning. I was lucky enough to grow up watching this movie. I made everyone in the house watch it again and again. When you're young, you don't really get what's going on, you love it but, really, no idea. That just makes watching it as an adult that much more fun. As a kid, you love the stories of the Baron, as an adult you finally get to experience the humor that eluded you. Don't deprive your kids (or yourself!) of this, you'd be doing them a great disservice ) "},{"Title":"One of my all time favorites","Date":"9 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" This film is just incredible. When you're not being sucked in by all the imagination, visuals, and surprising interesting characters, you're sucked in by the technical wizardly that makes this movie work. But it's weird because not once do you question how they did so many of the effects; how can you when you have so much creativity just exploding around you? This is the amazing story of Baron Münchausen, who actually was a real life person in history (so he was a sort of Chuck Norris of the 1700), who wants to prove the authenticity of his adventures in a dark and greedy enlightenment time. The Baron and his friends will face the most extreme places and elements air, space, fire, sea and more. The many obstacles seem chaotic and impassible, but it's the golden and yet innocent heart of Münchausen and his friends that shows us the way. It's a wonderful movie about believing in yourself and how our dreams and imagination can bring us far. "},{"Title":"Good film","Date":"8 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" During his journey, he finds the girl Sally (Sarah Polley) hidden in the balloon and they travel to the moon, where they meet the deranged King of the Moon Roger (Robin Williams) with his detachable head, and his wife, the Queen of the Moon Ariadne (Valentina Cortese) that has a crush on the Baron. They are arrested by the jealous Roger and find Berthold in the cage, but Ariadne releases them. When they escape from the moon, they meet Adolphus working to Vulcan (Oliver Reed) inside a volcano. The Baron Munchausen seduces the gorgeous Vulcan's wife Venus (Uma Thurman) and the jealous god throws them in a whirlpool. They are swallowed by a monster and they meet Albrecht and Gustavus in a ship inside the monster. They escape and return to the town to help the people against the invaders. But they are very old and their abilities are gone.The Adventures of Baron Munchausen is one of the most delightful, non- sense and visually stunning fantasies of cinema history. The Adventures of Baron Munchausen is also among my favorite books of my childhood and I first saw this film in the late 80's and then on VHS. I have just bought the imported DVD that surprisingly has Portuguese subtitles and today I have seen this film again.Terry Gilliam directs with his peculiar surrealistic and ironic style and uses magnificent special effects for a 1988 film. It is amazing to realize that twenty-three years have passed since this film was released. The sweet Sarah Polley shows her talent with a great performance in one lead role. Uma Thurman is in the top of her eternal beauty. Robin Williams is an unknown actor and uncredited in the role of Roger, The King of the Moon. My vote is nine. "},{"Title":"The Magical/Mad World of Munchausen","Date":"25 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Though not as big of a hit as Time Bandits or 12 Monkeys or as big a cult favorite as Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas or Brazil, The Adventures of Baron Munchausen still provides all the spectacle and whimsy of director Terry Gilliam's greater works. Hieronymus Karl Frederick Baron von Munchausen (John Neville), is an eccentric Baron who tells the tall tales of his unbelievable past. Escaping by balloon with young Sally Salt (Sarah Polley) the duo try to find the Baron's talented henchmen to help prevent Turkish invaders from decimating their town. Throughout the movie, they travel to the moon, through Aphrodite's boudoir (Uma Thurman) and into the belly of a sea monster. Fellow Python Eric Idle costars as the Baron's loyal upstart Berthold.Terry Gilliam creates not one fictional world but many boldly envisioning every detail of each new adventure succumbed by Sally and the Baron. At the beginning of the film, scenes for the stage are filled with various gadgets and do-dads making the set-pieces come to life. They are subsequently outdone by the colorful world of a sultan's palace, a city on the moon and a pirate ship among others. One could spend hours trying to describe these ambitious locales. Out of the countless directors in the industry Gilliam is one of the few that deserves his own adjective...Gilliamesque.Though director Terry Gilliam is known for his visual flair, his stories have always been somewhat convoluted. Baron Munchausen is certainly no exception to that convention. The story isn't as tight as modern audiences would likely enjoy and it can get confusing. Many characters float across the screen many of which, their names are either never heard or forgotten in minutes. Those who aren't forgotten like Oliver Reed, Valentina Cortese and an incredibly irksome Robin Williams chew the scenery in every scene they're in. Eric Idle does a commendable job but the rest of the Baron's mates are underwhelming. Even the Baron himself isn't as euphorically whimsical as the set pieces.There are a few standouts however. Though not as memorable as Craig Warnock's Kevin in Time Bandits, Sarah Polley displays gumption and depth as the child protagonist. Jonathan Pryce also displays that rare mix of poise and menace as The Right and Ordinary Horatio Jackson, putting a face and name to heartless empiricism.This movie is a must see for Terry Gilliam fans, budding cinematographers, set designers and those willing to step out of the usual fare and try something new. The Adventures of Baron Munchausen is fun, smart, imaginative and a personal favorite for those nights when I have nothing to do. That being said however, I cannot recommend this to the casual movie renter. A confusing narrative, weird art direction and a few scenes that just don't work reserves this gem to those on its wavelength.http//theyservepopcorninhell.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Bold and often sumptuous ride (a hot air balloon ride, in actual fact) through territory that is rarely anything less than great fun in what is a solid romp.","Date":"22 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" The setting is the 18th Century, and we begin on the front line of a rather brutal war between defending Turks and an invading force mostly made up of soldiers whom are of an ambiguous Western European descent &#x96; they appear British, French and Irish in their names and accents. The campaign is headed by Jonathan Pryce's snarling and deliciously amoral General, the The Right Ordinary Horatio Jackson whose duty is to sit comfortably in his tent giving orders whilst his men continue to be slaughtered. On occasion, he will order the execution of the odd trooper that shows great courage in trying to win the battle out the fact it might cause the dozens of other soldiers to question their own ability and thus, feel demoralised. The film is not interested in the war nor in terms of who's fighting who; the Turk appear to be defending their land from a force hazy in their identity made up of brash Europeans forces whom the director, a certain Terry Gilliam, essentially represents as a broad metaphor for brutish Western imperialism.Amidst the strife; chaos and murder of the battle lies John Neville's eponymous Baron von Munchausen and the sheer outlandish escapism he is able to bring through a travelling show; a sentiment encapsulated by the lone poster that advertises his performance amidst the pained announcements of war. At least, we assume it to be him upon first observing he of the title and the extravagant travelling show he puts on &#x96; alas, it is indeed a man posing as the Baron and the gentleman is swiftly put in his place by the true incarnation whom later arrives. The film doesn't cover a particularly pleasant lead, but the film's desire to paint ugly and somewhat alienating characteristics in regards to the titular Baron serve only to make it more interesting when the nature of the skirmishes he will later find himself in come about. Von Munchausen has on him a bit of a mouth, and there are particular degrees of arrogance about him one might find unlikable in another lead in another film so inclined to romp through the sorts of content on show here. We are inclined to get behind The Baron, not because he is an especially likable character, but more-so because he is a lone beacon of identification around which some fairly off the cusp content unfolds.After an establishment that he is unafraid to stand up to Pryce's tyrant, there is a retelling of a very specific story about one time wherein he displayed great bravery in the face of adversity during which he made a dangerous bet with a rich Sultan. This episode involves four other very particular allies, allies of whom are quite the motley bunch of oddballs acting as an indelible mixture of characters specialising in speed; agility; sight and marksmanship. Along with the Baron, they once made up an indomitable five-some stumbling from locale to locale; a group whom, many years ago, spent their time getting into adventures and foiling what was often a beastly, unpleasant force. It it to this extent the idea is hit upon that this crew, of whom are now occupying their own respective sociological pits of despair and failure where they've tried to make it by themselves, may be able to aid in the defending of a small settlement on this front-line and could go a long way in helping to defeat the Turkish forces if they were each present.We observe von Muchausen take off in his faithful hot-air balloon along with an infant Sarah Polley, playing a girl named Sally, to recover said allies of days of old so they may help in the campaign; Gilliam's movie settling into a neat groove of surreal episodes complete with a number of wacky creatures and often eerie supporting acts peppering an overlying message of teamwork and defeating one's self-doubt being really good things. The director has a large body of work which always seems to be able to combine wanton ideas and a real sense of adventure with varying degrees of substance. In 1981, he successfully to some extent pulled off the periodic adventures of a young boy in Time Bandits; here, applying a similar approach to a film more creative and better unfolded whilst feeding off a premise that bares more than a striking resemblance to Sturges' The Magnificent Seven.The Advenutres of Baron Muchausen is an inventive and really rather ingenious little adventure picture built on wild episodes one cannot help but get caught up in and enjoy. On this level, I thought it was a better film than Time Bandits; a film about the hopping from fantastical set piece to set piece but doing so with a better sense of transition between such things. We additionally sense there is more at stake and the character content to do with the lead starting out as he is before learning the things he does through the innocent presence of a child is more rewarding. Those with closed minds do not need Terry Gilliam's The Adventures of Baron Munchhausen; those with open minds, open to wonder and dizzying spectacle and brash creativity where no episode is too offbeat and yet somehow feels reigned in, will take to it and, like me, hopefully really rather enjoy it. "},{"Title":"too much of a good thing?","Date":"1 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Director Terry Gilliam found an obvious kindred spirit in Karl Friedrich Hieronymous, Freiherr von Munchausen, who in an early scene here is told by a voice of reason (while preparing another elaborate exit, this time in a homemade dirigible) You won't get far on hot air and fantasy! Both the ex-Monty Python animator and the fabulous late 18th century raconteur inhabit a world where reason and logic are handicaps, and where tall tales can transport you anywhere, from Asia Minor to the far side of the Moon. The Baron's adventures don't amount to much more than an ongoing effort to reassemble his scattered band of merry men (each with his own superlative talent the fastest, the most accurate eyesight, and so forth) to help rescue a nameless city besieged by Turkish soldiers. But Gilliam is one filmmaker able to work wonders with hot air, fantasy, and of course a 46-million dollar budget - small change by today's blockbuster standards but at the time making it one of the more expensive movies ever made. It might almost be too much of a good thing the frantic pace all but challenges audiences to absorb so many macabre and outlandish details, but repeated viewings would only underline the lack of substance behind the visionary style. "},{"Title":"A triumph","Date":"13 September 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" This film has all the makings of a family classic while still being typically Gilliamesque and deserves to be better known. The story is a swashbuckling adventure tale led by the enigmatic Baron Munchausen, although the sympathy for the viewer comes in the shape of a little girl called Sally. She could almost be described as the voice of the Baron's conscious; keeping him on his mission despite the various distractions they encounter. One particular distraction comes in the form of Uma Thurman as Venus and Oliver Reed as her husband in a wonderfully crafted sequence embracing both romance and comedy.Being a typically over the top production from the director, there is plenty of hammy acting on show here but coupled with a wonderful sense of fun. John Neville deserves many congratulations for managing to tread the line between eccentricity and charm as the Baron (how a character with that big a nose can be charming I have no idea but it works - really). Every member of the cast, however, does great work, making the time you spend with the characters a real joy.The great thing about Terry Gilliam's films is their level of detail in plot, set, costumes and special effect. This film is no exception; everything is perfect in this department.Another notable point is the soundtrack. I don't know who composed the music but it really is wonderful. The only negative point is its very liberal use, especially towards the end. It almost sounds like there is a struggle going on in the final climatic sequences between the action and the soundtrack, which is intent on hammering out a symphony at the same time. The music is just too good to stay in the background! For a sentimentalist like me the most disappointing thing about Gilliam's other films has been their lack of an ending - ambiguity rules. Baron Munchausen, however, bucks the trend and is beautifully triumphant. Unlike Brazil, which represents the triumph of a society over the individual, this film is the exact reverse; a celebration of eccentricity over conformity.I would heartily recommend it to anyone, as light-hearted family fodder but also as a film with enough depth to withstand being watched over and over again. "}{"Title":"Seeing Is Believing","Date":"26 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Director Terry Gilliam's ever-present penchant for surrealism has perhaps its finest display here, his take on the legendary adventures of a tale-telling German nobleman. Typically messy plot-wise, it at least affords some humor and heart to tie together often-incredible visuals.The Age Of Reason. Wednesday. A grim European city is under Turkish siege. During a play celebrating the legend of Baron Munchausen, who should appear but the Baron himself (John Neville), who tells how he sparked the war in the first place and then, with the help of a little girl, Sally (Sarah Polley), flies off in a balloon made of women's knickers to reunite his former companions and affect the city's rescue.Like every one of Gilliam's films I've seen, Munchausen has both breadth and depth in terms of visual power. Looking off to the corners of a frame in an opening shot of the city, you may see a boy dancing on the shoulders of a hanging man, or a handbill warning that cannibalism is illegal. Cannons made up like dragon mouths shoot flame through their nostrils, and a Turkish sultan wears a waxed mustache with golden pellets balanced at the tips.Standing on the tip of the Moon, preparing to lower himself down to Earth with a strand of a goddess's hair, the Baron huffs a line that is probably the point of the whole movie This is precisely the sort of thing that no one ever believes! Seeing is believing where Gilliam is concerned, up to a point. He's aided remarkably both behind the camera (Dante Ferretti, the set designer, achieves consistent brilliance) and in front of it, with Neville and Polley anchoring the story as well as it can be. Polley, remarkably natural for an eight-year-old, presents the coolest and most mature presence in the film, while Neville has fun as her aging, rascally guide.Munchausen is in fact such a delight it's hard to see at this remove in time why it flopped so spectacularly. The film is difficult to follow at times, with characters popping in and out, but much of this goes with the territory when playing in the realm of dreams. I'm not a big fan of a sequence where Munchausen goes to Mt. Etna and meets the god Vulcan, but as he also meets a naked Venus played by 17-year-old Uma Thurman, I can't see how this hurt its box office. Many reviews here criticize Munchausen's visit to the Moon and his encounter with its king (an uncredited, over-the-top Robin Williams). But that's got some of the funniest material in the whole film. I was entertained by Williams playing a detached cosmically-conscious head fleeing his own body (I don't have time for flatulence and orgasms).I think the problem may have been with the ending, a typically shambolic Gilliam ending that, like Time Bandits and Brazil, keeps trying to play with audience expectations while teasing out a deeper message that doesn't quite connect with what came before. Something about how imagination triumphs against reason when given the chance. Alas, Gilliam's own struggle against a reasonable budget and unreasonable egos was apparently too much.What works for me, most of the time, was the rest of the film, particularly when the Baron and his gang are functioning at full steam and Gilliam's energy for visual splendor gets ample room. Munchausen is a solid kid picture for the kid in all of us, as long as you don't make the adult mistake of trying to take it too seriously. "},{"Title":"Visually arresting, and often enjoyable, but still frustrating.","Date":"22 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Never saw this film when I was a kid, so I don't have that perspective. Got hold of the Blu-ray recently though, as I wanted to judge the movie for myself after hearing so much about its production (and after watching Lost in La Mancha, a documentary about a different Gilliam project)...As probably goes without saying, it's a rather ambitious film, and that is normally a good thing. Personally though, it annoys me when a film kinda rambles from a narrative standpoint. Not saying Munchausen is complicated or especially overlong (2hrs isn't THAT long for a fantasy film, especially not when you consider things like LOTR) but it certainly seems meandering and long. Think I just found it mildly confusing at times, and got bored by things being dragged out.Lots of things to praise about it though. It looks great for a film that's roughly 20 years old, and there are quite a few memorable scenes/moments. Huge amount of imagination on show in general, but just doesn't engage me fully from a storyline POV. Too many drawn-out sequences which don't achieve much plot-wise, and too much of a reliance on 'themes' and full-on fantasy for my tastes.Obviously, themes and fantasy elements are expected in a film like this, but I just feel like there isn't much else. You can't really break the story down in a way that makes sense, without employing themes and huge suspensions of disbelief/logic etc. Some people may like that about it, and I've seen people argue that the nonsensical fact/fiction issues are the whole point. Either way, those shortcomings(as I see them) make the film less satisfying for me.Still worth watching though, if nothing else, it's a rather 'interesting' film. And a valiant effort. I recommend getting hold of the Blu-ray, as then you can watch the long documentary about the making of the movie, and also listen to Gilliam's commentary. "},{"Title":"Sheer Nonsense","Date":"12 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I love Terry Gilliam, because even before I gave two shits about directors, I loved his movies, Time Bandits and The Adventures Of Baron Munchaussen.This film is an epic children's fantasy about getting old and dying, and the role of the imagination there in. As always illusions and dreams go hand in hand with manipulation and lies, and the story that can give you a balloon ride to the moon, can just as simply keep you enslaved in your community huddled together in fear of invading and ever present barbarians.What I like about this film, is the fantastic set designs, and the creative zeal that oozes out of every frame. Not as funny as Brazil or Fear And Loathing, but not as childish as Time Bandits, either.It's just one of those great 80's fantasy films that has a texture CGI can't touch, as well as a genuine sense of humor, history, and a director who cares (maybe too much) about the images he is putting on screen. A classic fantasy story told by one of fantasy and cinema's great directors and visionaries. "},{"Title":"One Of The Best Terry Gilliam Films","Date":"7 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" When this film was released in the theaters it went under the radar for the general public simply because Columbia Pictures didn't have faith in it. They spent a good amount of money for production but decided not to spend it in marketing (they also didn't know how to market it) and it was eventually released in a very limited run. That's unfortunate because I can't think of too many films that are as imaginative and inspiring as this film. Terry Gilliam made a name for himself as a director with Time Bandits (I love Brazil but to this day it is still considered a true cult film) and The Adventures of Baron Munchausen follows in those footsteps. Although it's disguised as a period piece it's really more of an urban fantasy utilizing Greco-Roman mythology (for ex.Mars/Vulcan and Venus) and European folk tales. But ultimately it has Terry Gilliam's stamp as an auteur elaborate production design, different types of animation, Pythonesque humor, very animated acting, but most importantly a disdain towards power and government and bureaucracy. On the surface we know that faith in the imagination makes the Baron youthful and logic, fact, science is what ages him (for ex.death disguised as a doctor) but beneath the surface is a commentary against the powerful and corrupt who busy themselves with paperwork (check out Brazil for a better example) and lie to the public to keep themselves in power. Hence the fact that Mr. Jackson (Jonathan Pryce) keeps a watchful eye on the public within the theater as they are kept busy with bad plays instead of focusing on what the government is really doing outside of the city's gate. But really this is besides the point, the point is this film is fun, it's pure eye candy, it's inspired lunacy and yet the lunacy makes sense, it's funny and poignant. This is why Terry Gilliam is one of my favorite directors. It's a treasure that the public needs to discover and the blu-ray edition is the best it has ever looked so it's a great place to start. "},{"Title":"magnificence","Date":"12 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" The name Terry Gilliam would have vanished from the Earth, if not for this film, and if generations to come do not rediscover this film it will be a great shame. With 45 million dollars and just as many dreams in his pocket, Terry Gilliam made this film and destroyed his career. His penance now is too slander the magnificent Bruders-Grimm from Kassel, Germany, the fathers of every fairy tale in the Western world.but well worth it ! I am in agreeance with Mark Severin, and Boris the Russian. I'd say this is the best film since 'Blade Runner' in scope and realization. If only Terry Gilliam had Ridley Scott's sense of craft, or Scott had Gilliam's imagination and daring. This movie aligns itself with any Sindbad film and far out-distances other Harryhausen films; which presses me now to see the earlier versions. Terry was introduced to the stories by George Harrison, and it encapsulates European culture in a nutshell with a big bow on top. However perfect Gilliam's presentation of the Baroque i had wished he had included some religious elements in the film, which all of Hollywood is opposed to outside of Mel Gibson, and which all imagination is based off of. The quality of this film comes around once a lifetime, so buy it! "},{"Title":"Fanastic Fantasy Film","Date":"27 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I loved it. It's like a fairy tell that your grandfather'd tell you to get you to go to sleep or something like that. You know, storybook heroes accomplishing great feats to overcome an overzealous enemy and defectors. In this case, Baron Munchausen and his super-hero like sidekicks are trying to stop the Sultan from invading and overtaking their land. It starts out as a play about the infamous Munchausen, until he shows up and tells the real story and, as he is telling the story of the past, is also transplanted in the story to pick up where he left off.The scenery was-- as Gillam's films often are-- terrific, and the story, more than anything else, was delightfully funny. I highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"hit and miss ending to Gilliam's trilogy","Date":"14 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Baron Munchausen started off with the possibilities of being really good; it had a decent cast, special effects, and a good back story. Somehow it doesn't gel. It feels like a set of sketches which don't belong together, as the Baron ventures to the moon (where Robin Williams' head and body struggle with their split personalities), to the home of Vulcan and Venus (where Oliver Reed has a bizarre Northern accent and Uma Thurman does very little except dance with the Baron several feet in the air - a good scene from the effects point of view), inside a whale with several strange companions (one can run very very fast, one has supersonic hearing, that kind of thing) ... and always accompanied by a little girl (played well by Sarah Polley). John Neville does what he can with the Baron, but Jonathan Pryce is wasted in a little role and Eric Idle manages to be more annoying than in any other film I've seen him in. Slightly disappointing as a whole. "},{"Title":"A visual triumph","Date":"31 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Terry Gilliam does not let one down when he makes a film.  There is always something eye popping about his movies, and The Adventures of Baron Munchausen is probably as outlandish Gilliam can get without the aid of todays computer imagery.  The matte paintings, the forced perspective shots, the miniature work is remarkable.  This only adds to the films fantasy charm, which is filled with over the top characters, such as The King of the Moon.  Watch this film with an open mind and the Baron will take you to the moon, through the center of the earth, into the belly of a monster and into a battle with the Turks.  You will not be disappointed.  "},{"Title":"The Vision of Terry Gilliam","Date":"13 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This is a movie that only Gilliam could create  the third in his unofficial trilogy of Time Bandits (imagination and the role of children), Brazil (imagination in an average, responsible man), and finally Munchausen - the imagination of an old man trying to capture his glory days by telling preposterous stories.  Or...is he?  That's the whole point as you wonder what is real and what isn't, which Gilliam adroitly juggles.  The F/X scenes of various superheroics are impressive, and the kind of thing that the makers of the Superman movies should watch and learn from. "},{"Title":"Spellbinding. Mesmerizing. And True.","Date":"24 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie, directed by the indomitable Terry Gilliam, is a feast for the eyes, ears, and mind. The stories of Baron Von Munchausen are not very well known to us on this side of the pond, but they have been told countless times in Europe. The story starts out in a European town where a small but determined bunch of actors, the Henry Salt and Son Theatre Company are performing a rag-tag version of The Adventures of Baron Munchausen, a fictional piece of work. Or so they would think. During this command performance for the minister of war and his cabinet, played with outrageous zest by Jonathan Pryce, the door busts open loudly by a grizzled, ancient, booming figure that claims to be the very Baron that they are portraying. He tells them that the story they are telling is fraudulent, that is not the way it happened at all, and begins to tell them the TRUE tale as apposed to the fabrication they have been watching. Before long, the lines between fact and fiction, true-life and story-life are completely and utterly blurred. Up is down, in is out, nonsense makes as much sense as sense. Superb direction, fantastic scenery, costumes, special effects, acting, and storytelling above all else make for a wonderfully visual treat for the whole family. None, or at least very little, dirty language ever shows up. The only bit of Nudity is Uma Thurman portraying Botticelli's Birth of Venus. Perhaps it's a bit much for the younger tykes, for those between the ages of 6 and 12, no problem whatsoever. This is a movie not to be missed by any one of any age. Be on the lookout for an uncredited performance by Robin Williams as the King of the Moon. Inspired casting, I must say. The Credit for the performance was billed as Ray D. Tutto  which is an inside joke. Rey Di Tutto means King of Everything in Italian. "}{"Title":"A poofy, spoofy satirical parody of itself, and otherwise just standard and below","Date":"30 March 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Ouch. This is difficult, because I'm going a bit against the grain that every other followed when reviewing this film. NonethelessAn account of Baron Munchausen's supposed travels and fantastical experiences with his band of misfits. That is IMDb's summary, and it is true and short. It is a fantasy/semi-epic movie, with little helpings of satire mixed in. However, it just doesn't work. It feels like a film parodying itself, with the 'adventurous' scenes appearing to be purposefully made as kitch and cheesy as possible, but then stepping back just a bit so that it won't be classified as a satire. The visual effects are great, but still somehow wrong at times. Certain moments are truly epic, and then it just disappears and it feels like a bad home- made movie again. Music is just a notch above standard for the 'genre', and still weird like the rest. John Neville plays a fabulous and stately Baron, and I loved him for it. Sarah Polley played probably the most natural and convincing 9-year old girl in any film I can think of at the moment. A small amount of suggestive filth is of course led by Robin Williams, who is funny, but the character is stupid.Blablabla, allinall a movie with nice moments, mostly during the first half-hour. Then also really irritating escapades that bore. Wouldn't recommend wasting your time. 5.3/10 "},{"Title":"A children's fantasy adventure that knows kids are smarter than they're given credit for.","Date":"8 August 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" A very imaginative adventure told with Terry Gilliam's uniquely bizarre visual style. A young girl (Sarah Polley) accompanies an aging adventurer on a series of fantastical exploits in a bid to save her town from invaders. Set in the Age of Reason where logical thinking and science have taken over, BARON MUNCHAUSEN tries to show the fun of imagination and fantasy.I would have to call this a kids' film, but the movie is not as innocent and dumbed-down as, say, Disney's children's fare. It's a film that assumes kids can handle some danger. Some parents might be wary of some of the more PG-rated content, but there's really nothing that's going to corrupt children. If they can sit through it, it's a fun ride. It's the kind of trippy kids' movie the likes of which are seldom made anymore. An '80s children's adventure along the lines of THE NEVERENDING STORY or LABYRINTH. "},{"Title":"Your reality, sir, is lies and balderdash and I'm delighted to say that I have no grasp of it whatsoever","Date":"16 February 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Terry Gilliam rounded off his unofficial imagination trilogy with this, perhaps his most fantastical and certainly his most spectacular film up to that point. It was a flop upon release for various reasons, and not without its flaws, but the Adventures of Baron Munchausen certainly stands up amongst the best of Gilliam's work and is a fitting final bow of his career in Britain.Gilliam may well be the finest fantasy director since George Melies. No-one else really explored the idea of fantasy and used cinema as a fantasy medium in the way Gilliam has done. In Munchausen, the boundary between dreams and reality is as blurred as ever, and the set-up is in a way even more elaborate than in Brazil, the masterpiece of the trilogy. In a brilliant move the stage set of the opening scenes expands into a three-dimensional set of the Sultan's palace. The action is literally moved from the theatrical into the cinematic, as we switch from reality to fiction to fantasy. As in Brazil, Gilliam eventually stops giving us these indicators that we are shifting from the real world to an imagined one so that, like the characters, we can no longer distinguish between truth and the products of imagination.In style this is a typical early Gilliam production, filled with outlandish set design and oddball humour. Structurally it is similar to Time Bandits in that it is a series of adventures in wildly contrasting settings. Unfortunately it's because of these things that the flaws arise. This was the biggest budget Gilliam had been allowed to play with so far, and sometimes the story gets a bit lost amongst all the lavishness and detail. Also, the episodic structure with its walk-on, walk-off characters makes the whole thing lack cohesion. In short, the individual elements and basic idea may be excellent, but there is not enough strength in the actual plot.But all that is really a minor worry when there is so much quality there on the screen. With flying ships, giant cities on the moon and animatronic cupids this is perhaps the closest thing in style to the pure flights of fancy that were the animated segments Gilliam did for Monty Python. In Munchausen we can see the last vestiges of Python-esquire wackiness. After this, Gilliam would work back in the United States, where his pictures became fairly conventional in comparison.The cast is great too. As in Time Bandits Gilliam gets a fine performance out of a child actor, in this case Sarah Polley who is still acting and also directing today. John Neville carries the lead role well, giving theatrical delivery but also bringing out the humanity of the Baron. Eric Idle and Robin Williams simply do what they do best, there's another welcome appearance by Time Bandits star Jack Purvis and a small but memorable role for Brazil star Jonathon Pryce. Oliver Reed reinvents the Roman god Vulcan as a Yorkshire businessman, and a young Uma Thurman shows promise. And you get to see Sting sentenced to death, surely a bonus for any film.The Adventures of Baron Munchausen was buried by Columbia bosses upon release, and it remains a somewhat forgotten Terry Gilliam picture. A pity, because but for the shaky storyline it's one of his best. While not as perfectly constructed it's a real burst of joy and warmth after the negativity of Brazil, and a last gasp of unbridled surreal fantasy before the (slightly) more reality-grounded The Fisher King. "},{"Title":"Your heart has been waiting for this...","Date":"23 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I saw this movie for the first time when I was around 10 years old. I guess I never fully understood the context, anymore than an absolutely stunning visual masterpiece could be a by a 10 year old. I do, however remember this movie, and it stayed with me for years. Maybe it was the adorable characters, whom have individual talents that children dream about, maybe it is the grandfatherly Baron himself, who warms your heart as the patriarch of good sense and the abolisher of disillusionment. Just maybe it is the soundtrack, (the end theme is one of THE BEST orchestrated numbers ever written for screen.) And that is really what i hold to. The sounds and visual effect make this somewhat foolish story of whimsy so profound, it is hard to pull away. It has been 15 years since I last saw this movie (till today, when it was on MOJO HD theater) , and i did not realize how much talent was packed into the cast. I could go on with description of story and character role, but nothing i can say will prepare your soul for the type of warmth you receive from being part of one of the greatest adventure movies of all time. This is the type of movie that makes your hair stand at end and warms you to your core as a child drinking hot cocoa on a cold winters day. As the orchestra kicks in with the Baron dancing with the enticing Goddess Venus (played by the beautiful Uma Thurman) I nearly wept for joy, realizing my mind was as young and free as it had been nearly 20 years ago. Please do yourself a favor and watch this movie, not as a film critic, but as a free spirit. Let your mind go to the surreal place you once lived as a child. You will not be disappointed "},{"Title":"Visually spectacular, but...","Date":"22 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" When this movie popped up on MojoHD I went into it with an open mind since I've always been a huge fan of Time Bandits, which also happens to be one of the first movies I threw a fit about as a kid when someone accidentally taped over it. Needless to say I've had that film burned into my brain ever since, bought it on DVD as soon as I could, and have professed my love of it repeatedly to friends who watched with me and either didn't get it or thought the end was weird and depressing.Those same friends would probably appreciate Baron Munchausen more since it does have an unambiguous feel-good ending, but at over two hours long I felt the movie had a tendency to drag on. In a day and age where every video at Ye Locale Box Store is UNRELEASED DIRECTOR'S CUT WITH ADDITIONAL FOOTAGE I simply can't imagine this movie being any longer. There are plenty of times when you wish they'd cut to the point, as even a dunce can figure out what's going to happen when Baron and the Sultan make a bet with a treasury payoff of as much as the strongest man can carry. Given the chance I also would have sacked the entire segment with the Baron and Venus. I was positively bored to tears by the whole thing and Uma Thurman was much more attractive in Pulp Fiction.The movie is visually stunning, especially given the quality of special effects at the time it was filmed, and Robin Williams was an unexpected and pleasant surprise as the King of the Moon. Regardless I repeatedly found myself wondering if Terry Gilliam was in command of all his faculties directing this film, as the kind of zany he espouses is best done in shotgun Monty Python fashion. They say no one expects the Spanish Inquisition, but expect to settle in with more than one box of popcorn and several (caffeinated) beverages for Baron Munchausen - a movie I'd have happily rated one to two notches higher if they had kept all of the same actors and special effects but trimmed out more of that fat. "},{"Title":"A Wonderful Fantasy","Date":"3 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" The Adventures of Baron Munchausen is an excellent and random adventure filled with great characters played by talented actors and actresses. The sets are quite simply amazing and the visual effects aren't bad for 1988. I first saw this movie on DVD not knowing what it was. Seeing that it was directed by Terry Gilliam and starred Eric Idle, I assumed it would be an outrageous comedy similar to the Monty Python films. However, this was not the case. There are a few laugh-out-loud moments, some witty one-liners, and some great slapstick, but for the most part this movie is more of a fantasy and less of a comedy. This movie is so fantastical that applying rational thinking and reason (like some characters in the movie) defeats the purpose of the film. So just relax your brain for two hours and enjoy the ride. "},{"Title":"Gilliam is Good","Date":"12 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Terry Gilliam is a master of blending reality and fantasy. Taking something as awful as war and blending it with a fantastic description of semi-truth and flat out exaggerations that yield a wonderful story about growing up, how we perceive ourselves, and the benefit of not being 100% boring. While the extreme lengths of exaggeration are a bit over the top, it does lend itself to the sweeping themes of the movie. That truth, without fiction, is not life worth living. Both extremes are portrayed in this movie. The Baron, who is dashing and bold and almost entirely unbelievable against the cold and calculating Horatio Jackson, representing what it is like to be unable to tell even a little white lie. TAOBM is Gilliam's finest example of blending fact and fiction. (If he had been able to reproduce this quality of work, the Brother'sGrimm would have definitely ranked above of 5 1/2). If you liked this movie, you undoubtedly will enjoy Big Fish. Another wonderful example of why real life is made more enjoyable when it is confused with fiction. "},{"Title":"Delightful fantasy and comedy","Date":"18 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" The Adventures of Baron Munchausen is a wonderful fantasy and adventure film. The imagery and costumes are excellent. The film is full of brilliant British character actors with charm and humor. John Neville, a relative unknown outside of Britain, is superb as the adventuresome, but perhaps senile Baron Munchausen. The film heavily satires the 18th century age of reason by having the elected representative of Munchausen's city fight a civilized war with the Turkish sultan. For example, the Germans can't retaliate against the Turks on Wednesdays. Munchausen is the only one brave enough (or crazy enough) to go against reason and find a way to save the town. Comedic greats like Robin Williams, Eric Idle, and Peter Jeffrey round round out a wonderful, star-studded supporting cast. Oliver Reed is hilarious as the Greek god Vulcan. Uma Thurman appears in one of her first screen roles in the nude as the goddess Venus emerging from a clam. For this reason, the film is probably inappropriate for children (despite the PG rating). I still highly recommend this movie to anyone who wants to escape the dull and ordinary of everyday life and experience a fantastical experience from one of the most visionary directors of the 20th century. The movie also includes the insane humor of Monty Pythons Terry Gilliam and Eric Idle. The plot is a little hard to follow at the end, but this is intentional. It's supposed to be a fantasy and not easy to explain. The production values are amazing for this famously-over-budget film, and the sights will dazzle the eye and the wonderful baroque-style score by Michael Kamen will please the ear. This obscure, but charming film a must see for all fantasy fans. "},{"Title":"Gilliam's only time where style really triumphed over substance...sort of","Date":"18 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Baron Munchausen (John Neville, in a constantly interesting performance) is old when he comes up to the stage, interrupting a haphazard production of his old story of being eaten by a great big fish, and also perhaps off his rocker to boot. But at the same time a battle is going on with the Turks. He meets a little girl named Sally who is maybe the only one who still truly believes in his power and stories. So they set off to the moon, literally (err, not literally, this IS a Terry Gilliam film after all), and go off on adventures to bring back the 'old gang' of Munchausens. Along the way, leading up to a massive, ridiculous battle climax, the Baron, Sally, and his servant Bertolt (Eric Idle), nothing is to seem as expected except in relation to the fantasy stories of old.On the surface, 'Baron Munchausen' looks magnificent. Dante Ferretti, Oscar winning production designer for Fellini and Scorsese, works to Gilliam's visions like a pro (one can see some things as being more ambitious for the two, others still sticking to the goofy bits from the Monty Python days). And Giussepe Rotuno, also a Fellini regular, does some inventive cinematography and atmosphere, like in the volcano sequence or with the bits on the 'moon'. The acting is either great or just satisfactory; Uma Thurman has one of her first roles, and not too bad either, as Venus the Goddess, and Oliver Reed is terrifically one-sided as a volcano tyrant with a mean streak. Jonathan Pryce, as with his later turn in Brothers Grimm, is good at playing the snidely villain, though he doesn't get enough screen-time, or at least enough to do with what's given. Indeed, the one thing that is off at times is that Gilliam seems to be so involved with the look of the film, the great big splashes of color and texture and the editing, some of the actors don't get enough with what's written. Though there are times when there is some brilliance all around.I won't go into anything in my review about the various mishaps and plague that went over the actual production and reception of The Adventures of Baron Munchausen, which has been covered in a few very good books. The film itself is total Terry Gilliam at his most spaced out, his wackiest, bringing his visions and cartoonish ways to the stories of Baron Munchausen in the late 18th Century. The initial problem that could come in seeing this film, which was only a bother once or twice, is that the stories of Baron Munchausen are not very well known in today's youth like with the Brothers Grimm stories (coincidentally, also a Gilliam fantasy film). But the themes themselves are accessible for the most part amid the usual Gilliam inventiveness and comic flights of fancy. As I watched it, however, I wondered again like with Time Bandits how I would've responded to it as a child, as I did really like these kinds of stories and films as a kid. In some ways it is as if not more meant for kids than Time Bandits and Brothers Grimm, because the humor a lot of time is in that wacky vein for them (and Sara Polley as Sally is the key performance in the film aside from Neville as Munchausen himself). It may not be then as accessible to the adults who usually like Gilliam's films, on the other hand, at least at first.At its very best, The Adventures of Baron Munchausen is what Gilliam set out to achieve, a live-action version of all those over-the-top, visually spellbinding Disney animated films from the classic days. At its weakest, the script isn't as strong or funny as it could be (sadly, some of the funnier bits like the explanation of Wednesday were left on the cutting room floor), some of the performances (i.e. Robin Williams) are going in ten different directions at once, which is amusing but frustrating, and the whole scope of the technical aspects- the camera-work, design, art direction, special effects, visual effects, battles- overwhelm some of the more charming aspects in the actors and some scenes. This all said, it's a wonder, and even more wondrous revisiting it, like a book loaded with the kind of imagination and daring one doesn't see usually, and there's a soul somewhere too. In short, I liked it a lot. "},{"Title":"great movie","Date":"11 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" this is a great story and an awesome movie. the kind of people that wouldn't like this movie are the kid of people that stand around after having seen a si-fi movie telling people how this and that wasn't possible. if your interested in a good story told well i would recommend this film, however if your an art major or in Britain an art cigarette then you will not be able to get past some elements of anti-reality and cinema photography.to the best of my knowledge i don't remember any vulgarities in this film and the plot is not to advance the watcher through the present so much as it is to propel the watcher threw the adventures of the baron. some people may be confused and think that the main plot is what is happening at the beginning of the movie, it is part of it but not the main theme itself. i hope you enjoy ) "}{"Title":"What a trip!","Date":"5 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Wow, what a cool movie!  I wasn't previously familiar with the story of the Baron, so I couldn't tell you how accurate it is--and to be perfectly honest, I'm not sure I care.  This movie was a lot of fun, the characters were great and the story was even better.  Gilliam's direction is, as always, top-notch.  This movie sort of felt like the 17th and 18th century stories of Balzac, Cyrano de Berserac, Jules Verne and others.  It had a great fantasy feel to it, which--being unique to live-action cinema--definitely gave this movie some bonus points.  Gilliam also makes use of his siguature Monty Python animation.I'd recommend this to anyone who apreciates magic in cinema, fans of Peter Pan and so on; and of course Gilliam fans.  This isn't Brazil (his best work) or 12 Monkeys by any means, but a great movie nonetheless.  Also if you liked this movie, I'd suggest Miyazaki's Castle in the Sky, which is set in a similar time period and has a similar feel and fantastical story...but is animated. "},{"Title":"Under rated, magnificent sets, great cast....Gilliam Genius","Date":"12 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This film is so under appreciated when it really is a work of genius. Alot of classics do badly at the box office; check out Scorsese, Kubrick, Cimino, Welles etc etc.  Hate to say it but they don't make films like this any more.  You could take the Lord of the Rings Trilogy way and fill it with special effects or have the sets built and use miniatures etc, the Gilliam Way! (Same art director/set designer as on Gangs of New York) The latest mainstream crap at the box office (excluding Gangs, including LOTR)does not have such imagination.  Lets pilfer another novel! When you cast your vote for this film, you should watch it again and take into account this filmmaker is an auteur genius and is now suffering for his expressions because the studio won't fund him, doesn't get it or care because their minds are on the dollar of the punters. Bums in seats!  "},{"Title":"An ambiguous predecessor","Date":"10 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  No one has mentioned that this is a re-make of a German film. In fact, as described by Cinematheque Ontario, the original was the only big-budget non-propaganda film made in Germany during the Second World War. Presumably the Nazi regime thought it would promote visions of Nordic superiority. Cinematheque showed the original, which I recall as a lavish production without a clear political message.Terry Gilliam's version is also marvellous; I especially liked it as a children's film that appeals to the imagination rather than to technology or brute strength. However, the dark undertones of its predecessor may not be entirely absent. The presentation of Turks leaves me unsettled -- could its stereotypes have been avoided? "},{"Title":"Extremely Ambitious, Imaginitive, Flawed, Frustrating","Date":"21 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  and a thousand other adjectives apply to this film, mainly because of how many fingers were in the pie.  This movie's bacground is far mroe fascinating than the movie itself.   I read Losing the Light, the story chronicling this movies production before I saw the movie.  Surely this was Terry Gilliam's most nightmarish turn as a director.  The film is based on  the adventures of Baron Munchausen, a fictional hero who was based on an actual person by the same name, known as the greatest liar in the world.  In this film we find that all of his claims are true, that he really does get caught up in strange adventures such as visiting the moon, flying on a cannonball (two actually), capturing the hearts of the worlds (and heaven's) most beautiful women, all accomplished with the greatest ease.  The story centers on the relationship between the aging Munchausen and a 10 year-old girl who believes all of his stories;  the girl is the best thing in the film, but John Neville, a famous stage actor, simply does not pull off a convincing character as the Baron (his first appearance in film), possibly because what would work on the stage simply doesn't work on film.  His warbly voice as the 80 year old Baron is too stagy, and I didn't feel a real connection between him and the little girl, which is essential to caring about his character.  Otherwise he just comes across as a cold, self-centered character, which I'm sure was not Gilliam's attempt.  Neville looks great as the Baron, but he simply looked liked a theatrical character as the Baron, not a real man caught up in his own dramatics and myths.Eric Idle as the world's fastest man (and one of the Baron's amazing friends) is simply wasted in the film, and none of his sequences are really funny; his character is simply not given enough funny things to do, and some of his antics are actually painful to watch.  Visually, the film is stunning, but strangely choppy in places.  After reading the book about its production and the constant interference Gilliam had to contend with, it becomes understandable.  In a desperate attempt to control over-runs, the studio kept demanding more and more cuts to the film.   Well worth watching, however, as some of the shots are unbelievable and must have been stunning on the big screen.  Read the book also, however; you will gain a greater appreciation for what a nightmare this movie really was to make, including bizarre stories concerning drugged tigers escaping the set, bets concerning who was going to the first to sleep with the then 17 year-old virgin Uma Thurman, deranged producers not concerned with trivialities like paying actors and crew, Italian scam artists ripping off the production right and left, explosives experts using far too much gunpowder (almost blowing up a horse), etc., that make Baron Munchausen seem tame by comparison.  Life is stranger than fiction, at least in relation to this film.Seven stars for me.  I'm just glad Terry Gilliam survived it.   "},{"Title":"Almost too much of a good thing.","Date":"28 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is like an overstuffed Thanksgiving turkey; delicious but almost too much to digest.  Director Terry Gilliam and his collaborators have produced a marvelously intricate tall tale which overflows with lush design elements, superb model effects and droll cameos by the likes of Oliver Reed, Uma Thurman and Robin Williams.  The production went hugely over budget but in its defense, every penny spent shows.  Looking back, it's hard to believe Gilliam was able to find backing for such an old-fashioned and problematic subject, but his fans, and fantasy film aficionados in general, were well rewarded.  Meant to be enjoyed on a big screen or letterboxed on DVD.  "},{"Title":"A sumptuous feast","Date":"2 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This is one of the more upbeat of Gilliam's films, avoiding the random nastiness of _Time Bandits_ or the misanthropism of _Brazil_.  It's a story of the importance of fantasy -- but, even beyond that, the importance of responsibility as well.  While the Baron is the supposed hero, in reality that role falls to Sally, who treads the line between dull pragmatism of her father and the sometimes neglectful selfishness of the Baron.  The ending always chokes me up a bit.  Thank heavens they've put it out on DVD -- now if only they'd re-issue the soundtrack. "},{"Title":"Simply Fantastic","Date":"31 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" The final installment of Terry Gilliam's dreams trilogy further proves that he is a god of film-making. It's simply fantastic. From meeting the king and queen of the moon in a Trip to the Moon style adventure, to an encounter with Greek gods inside of a volcano, and even into the stomach of a giant sea creature, Gilliam never fails to delight as he whisks us to Baron's next adventure. The film displays the power of imagination and fantasy, blending it with reality until the line between the two disappears. Every member of the cast does a marvelous job transforming into the film's dynamic characters. And, of course, with the likes of Terry Gilliam, Charles McKeown, and Eric Idle involved, it is also hilarious. I was rolling with laughter at Oliver Reed playing an incarnation of the Greek god Vulcan, trying to control his fit of rage while showing off his ballroom. NICE. ISN'T IT. Even Robin Williams shows up in an uncredited role, and his style of humor fits well into Gilliam's surreal visuals. Beautiful.4 stars (out of 4) "},{"Title":"This is a GREAT MOVIE!","Date":"22 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" This movie is wonderful. The reviewer before me sounds like a disenchanted man/child with a hate for IKEA (WTF)and subsequently shouldn't be reviewing films. He had me for awhile until he said that Uma Thurman hadn't been in anything thats a hit since the movies (lay of IKEA and rent Pulp Fiction). Anyways, I'm not a film student, nor director, just a film lover; and I love this film.Certain movies rejuvinate me as a jaded movie watcher. This one hit the mark dead on. Terry Gilliam is a genius and every one of his movies I now in the market to see. This movie main purpose is the battle that rages on today, the battle against the people who try stifle creativity. This movie is a surrealist allegory of the creative world we live in that is threatened. Great film. "},{"Title":"One of my favorite films","Date":"5 February 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  While I can agree that it's not one of Gilliam's best, I still love it and own it. It seems that this is a love/hate film.I'm amazed at how many reviewers hated the King of the Moon scene. I thought that the trip to the moon was one of the most important fantasy sequences of the film, and that especially includes heads that detatch! (And when they arrive and the sand ripples start showing up--brilliant!)I could go on, but it looks like it's mostly been all said. I just wanted to add my vote for weight. "},{"Title":"What happened? I'll tell you.","Date":"13 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Some people might be confused as to what actually happened in The Adventures of Baron Munchausen. Let me explainSPOILER!The city was being heavily rationed by The Right Ordinary Horatio Jackson, hoarding supplies for himself while convincing the city folk that they were still under attack by the Turks. Baron Munchausen enters the city, knowing full well that there is no attack. He proceeds to tell them a fantastic, fanciful tale to entrance them, using them as characters in the story (ie. Rose as Venus, Jackson as the villian as himself, etc.). The story is successfully able to liven their spirits, andis then able to lead a revolt, to open the gates and reveal there was no enemy - they had been lied to.END OF SPOILER.Of course, Terry Gilliam would get on my case for using Reason, and not accepting the events at face value.As for the film itself, it's a wonderful trestise on being old. Munchausen ages and gets younger as befits his mood. He romanticizes not only figuratively, but literally. To him, fantasies are reality - and you know what? He's right - perception is reality in many cases. When you're older, you CAN only look back, for the most part - and why not enjoy the past as well as your fantasies? "}{"Title":"Superb childrens' story for adults","Date":"15 August 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Terry Gilliam created three big-budget films in the 1980's that were quirky, funny, and totally out there. He began his trilogy with TIME BANDITS, a whimsical fantasy about a young boy who travels through time with a band of midgets; this was followed by BRAZIL, which defies description; and this was the third installment, a take on the onset of age.John Neville is Baron Munchausen, an old man who has gone through adventure after adventure in his lifetime. A British town is being attacked by Turkish forces and the decrepit Munchausen appears and reveals why the onslaught is taking place Munchausen won the Turkish Sultan's wealth in a bet and the Sultan will stop at nothing until he gets his money back. Nobody believes the old man until he builds a weather balloon out of womens' underpants and takes off to find his sidekicks to fight the Sultan for the townspeople. Along for the ride is the only person who believes in him, a little girl named Sally (Sarah Polley, TV's Ramona and recently in GO). Munchausen's team includes Berthold, the fastest man in the world (Eric Idle), the man with the best hearing in the world, the strongest man, the man with the best sight, and Adolphus, whose breath is like a strong wind (the late Jack Purvis from TIME BANDITS).Like in Gilliams' other films, cameos abound left and right. An uncredited Robin Williams is the King of the Moon, Jonathan Pryce (BRAZIL) is the town mayor, Uma Thurman is Aphrodite, Oliver Reed is Vulcan, and Sting is a soldier. BARON MUNCHAUSEN is breath-taking to watch, with beautiful scenery, gorgeous colors, and some outstanding setpieces (Aphrodite rising from the ocean in a clam, the interior of a whale, the huge the wacky city on the moon, etc.). This was a childhood favorite of mine and it stands up very well after 13 years for new audiences to enjoy. "},{"Title":"The Age of Unreason","Date":"10 April 2004","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  `The Adventures of Baron Munchausen' is based upon the story of an eighteenth-century German nobleman who won himself a reputation as the world's greatest liar, constantly inventing tall tales of his exploits, each more incredible than the last. The film is set against the background of a mythical war between the Sultan of Turkey and a republican Mediterranean city-state, a sort of English-speaking Dubrovnik, and relates Munchausen's fantastic adventures while trying to lift the siege of the city.The film was, of course, directed by Terry Gilliam of `Monty Python' fame, and the influence of that series is obvious. Like two of the Python films, `Monty Python and the Holy Grail' and `Life of Brian', it consists of a number of sketches strung together to form a loosely-connected narrative, set against a historical background. An even closer comparison, however, might be with Gilliam's Python animations, as the film relies less on verbal wit than either `Holy Grail' or `Brian' and more on surrealism and visual inventiveness. The plot is very loose and episodic, with each sketch depicting one of the many adventures of Munchausen and his four trusty servants, each of whom has a miraculous power, such as the ability to run from Constantinople to Vienna in an hour or the ability to shoot an apple from a tree several hundred miles away. In the course of their adventures the five friends, accompanied by Sally, a young girl who has befriended the Baron, fly to the moon and meet its king and queen, descend into a volcano and are swallowed by a huge fish.Although the exact geographical location of the city is unclear, its location in time is made clear from the beginning- `The 18th century. The Age of Reason. Wednesday'.  This points us to what is to be the film's major theme- the contrast between reason on the one hand and the imagination on the other. Although the Turks are the enemy, the real villain of the film is not is the Sultan but rather the Right Ordinary Horatio Jackson, a high official in the government of the city who represents the unimaginative, overly rational attitude to life and who has no time for Munchausen, who represents the power of dreams and the imagination.Tim Burton's recent film `Big Fish', which can be seen as a modern slant on the Munchausen story, also deals with this theme- the importance of the imagination, personified by a teller of tall tales, in a rationalistic, literal-minded world. Gilliam's film and Burton's are both highly visually imaginative, but in my view Burton's is the better of the two. The reason is that `Munchausen' is uneven in quality; parts of it are brilliant, but others tend to drag. The `King of the Moon' scenes are perhaps the best example of this. Robin Williams is often described as a great comic actor, but I normally find him at his best when his comic talents are used in the context of a predominantly serious film, such as `Good Morning Vietnam', `Dead Poet's Society' or `Patch Adams'. (The excellent `Mrs Doubtfire' may be considered an exception, but even here the film, amidst the laughter, had some serious points to make). When he acts in a pure comedy, such as `Club Paradise' or `The Birdcage' he can be more self-indulgent and less disciplined, and his rather tedious performance in `Munchausen' was a good example of this.This unevenness is one of the risks of making a film with an episodic structure; such films can often be hit-and-miss affairs. Nevertheless, although Munchausen has its misses, it also has its hits. Jonathan Pryce makes a highly effective villain as the soulless bureaucrat Jackson. John Neville as Munchausen is an equally effective hero. Neville had had few major film roles before this one, made when he was in his sixties. (Munchausen and his servants are all presented as elderly and worried that their powers might be in decline).  Particularly touching is his close friendship with young Sally, recalling a grandfather-granddaughter relationship. Imagination in this film is the faculty of the old and the very young- rationalism is the credo of the middle-aged Jackson- exemplifying the dictum that every generation rebels against its parents and makes common cause with its grandparents.The original Baron Munchausen appears to have been a real character, whose supposed adventures were fictionalised (and no doubt exaggerated even further) by a writer named Rudolf Erich Raspe. (The eighteenth century was clearly not an age purely given over to reason, and surrealism evidently existed long before Andre Breton and Salvador Dali). Enough of the surreal lunacy of those tales (balloons made of women's underwear, a man travelling on a cannonball) has survived into the film to make it watchable, despite its weaknesses. 6/10.  "},{"Title":"A good old-fashioned fantasy, typically Gilliam, but the visuals overwhelm the plot at times.","Date":"20 August 2005","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" If you've seen any other Terry Gilliam movie, you'll instantly realize The Adventures of Baron Manchausen represents his artistic vision at its most prominent - over-the-top sets, wacky larger-than-life characters, an absurd fantasy plot line rooted in children's tales (like the upcoming Gilliam film The Brothers Grimm), and so on and so forth.I had heard some bad things about this film. For starters, it was so poorly received on initial release that Gilliam took a hiatus from film-making and was depressed enough that he didn't want to make another movie until 12 Monkeys came along (this is chronicled in the excellent documentary, The Hamster Factor, included on the Monkeys DVD). It went way over budget (I believe somewhere around $50 million altogether, a huge amount at the time) and flopped in theaters. It wasn't received well by critics or audiences.Seen now, it fits nicely into Gilliam's vision as a director. It has ties to Time Bandits, Monty Python (Eric Idle's in this as well), Brazil and even Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas. The plot is often overwhelmed by the visuals, but that happens with many fairytale stories - the story isn't as important as the world the characters are living in. Gilliam brings the world to life and it's a real shame a film as unique and daring as this took him out of film-making for seven years. (Granted, The Fisher King was made before 12 Monkeys, but it's the least Gilliam-ish of all his films - and ironically it remains his biggest hit at the box office.) "},{"Title":"A Monumentally Expensive, and Disappointing, Muddle","Date":"7 January 2008","Score":"10 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" When I read the reviews by the critics of this film, I wondered if we had seen the same movie. There seems to be a fear when a great artist presents something that doesn't work, that critics are afraid to criticize it because they may reveal their ignorance. Picasso is probably the greatest example of this effect. The same thing seems to have happened with Baron Munchausen. It is big, the cinematography is first-rate, the production values and the actors are all first rate, but the film itself is impossible to follow. I have always been a big Terry Gilliam fan, and this was one of my biggest disappointments in a film I was sure would be brilliant. There were several very basic and fixable things wrong with this film. The first is that not everyone is familiar with the Baron Munchausen story. The script should have introduced us to the character and made us familiar with why he is a pathological liar who believes his own tall tales. Secondly, Neville, the actor who played the title role, never had acted in a movie before, and here he acts exactly as if he is on stage, complete with warbling old-age stage voice. Third, Gilliam lost track of what should have been the core interest of the film; the relationship between the hopelessly muddled old man and the little girl who cares about him despite his fabrications. Instead, that gets lost, and we lose the only thread of the story we care about. Possible Spoilers The point where we leave reality and enter his tall tales is not made clear, and the fact that the little girl inhabits his tall tales as he tells them, makes it even more confusing and muddled to the viewer. We don't know where we are, and if that is what the director intended, it is a mistake. After a while the audience gets disconnected from the film and we stop caring, because we get tired of being confused. The characters of the dwarf with sharp hearing, the world's strongest man, Eric Idle as the world's fastest man, and the guy who can see around the world are all superfluous. We don't know who they are other than their powers, what their relationship is with the pathological Munchausen, and why we should care about them. There is an absolutely tedious scene where Eric Idle does a silly dance to confuse Hephaestus (the god of fire) so Munchausen can escape, that goes on and on. The scene has absolutely no purpose and isn't funny, even tho Idle puts everything into it. It's painful to watch, and feels insulting to the audience to believe an Olympic god is going to be tricked this way. This movie reminds me very much of Yellowbeard, in the amount of great talent that is wasted. Gilliam told some pretty tall tales himself to get the movie made, misleading the studios into how much it would cost, then kvetched at length about having to cut down the script. What he should have done was bitten the bullet, swallowed his pride, and had a coherent rewrite done of the script. In this case, less expense, less visuals, and tighter writing would have been much more. The ending makes no sense and will leave the viewer with the full sense of confusion the rest of the movie induced. It will also leave the viewer with the correct sense that they have just wasted well over two hours of their time, waiting for a satisfying conclusion that makes sense of the preceding two hours. As expensive as this movie was to make, and as much as I admire Gilliam, I can't recommend this movie; it is tedious and headache-inducing, and repeated viewings don't help clear up gaps in the story. You also will not care about a single character in it. Buy the book Losing the Light about the debacle of the making of this film. It is much more gripping, enthralling and fun to read than this movie is to see. In it, Gilliam comes through, unfortunately, as a man done in by his own perceived cleverness and hubris (and deliberate deception, which almost destroyed one company, the completion bond company, after costing it millions), and you will understand why this movie is not more successful than it is. The definitive Munchausen story, for those that care about this character, is still waiting to be made; however, after this $50,000,000 movie, it is doubtful another one about Munchausen will be! "},{"Title":"Still Amazing","Date":"27 April 2004","Score":"11 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  In 1988 after a showing of The Adventures of Baron Munchausen, a child complained That was the worst movie I ever saw.   My eight year old daughter's reaction was What the hell happened to that child's childhood?  She has no sense of awe or imagination!  I agreed. I saw the film again yesterday.  I agree more than ever.Gilliam's film is a hymn to the power of imagination and its power to triumph.   Contrary to what the Right Ordinary Horatio Jackson (not to be confused with America's Munchausen like hero, Horatio N. Jackson), we can go to the moon; we can challenge death.   Without imagination, we would have accomplished none of those things.   With all the rubbish that is passed off as truth by the popular press, politicians and their spin doctors,  this film is a necessary reminder that we do not have to give such lies a moments thought. The Turks were turned back when they came to Vienna.   Only hope could accomplish that.  Whatever the Jacksons of this world may do to us to force us to follow their mediocre lead, our minds are free.Most Rev. Maelruain K. Dowling "},{"Title":"Gulliver's Travels meets Monty Python.","Date":"7 March 2000","Score":"11 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This Terry Gilliam directed movie is a visual masterpiece. With stunning cinematography, costumes and make-up, together with great casting for cameos, such as Robin Williams as The King of the Moon, and Uma Thurman as The Goddess Venus, this is a visually pleasing and well acted movie.The only place where this movie really falls down is in the script, it attempts to be a comedy, but there are few laugh out loud moments, it attempts to be an adventure, but there are few truly exciting incidents.Nevertheless, the acting, special effects, and costumes easily manage to keep this movie from drowning.A pleasure for the eyes, if not for the pulse. "},{"Title":"Glorious visuals and sets, but corny dialogue and cheesy gags.","Date":"13 December 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" A movie that shows in no uncertain terms why Gilliam always did the visually interesting animations at Python, but stayed out of the writing process.Hats off to Gilliam for managing to create a visually stunning movie in the LATE 80s &#x96; a period notorious not only for awful movies (there are almost no gems from 1987-1989, from Hollywood at least), but also very ugly-looking films. It's as though every cinematographer and director from that period had been so continually high on cocaine and crack that they decided that ugliness was the new prettiness. Take a look at almost any movie from that period and then tell me it isn't far uglier than the visual standards from before it or after it.BM looks so good that a true visual fetishist such as I can enjoy the movie despite its mostly appalling and embarrassing attempts at humour. Gilliam comes from the Italian-French school of comedy in which a banana peel lying in wait for a foot still represents the height of genius and innovation. In other words, the Comedic School of Cheesy Buffoonery. Idle, the poor sap, got most of the worst lines; he must have suffered greatly having to learn and then deliver such trifles in front of a 100+ strong crew, not to mention the millions who watched him do it later on the screen. I very much doubt that spontaneous on-set laughter was a problem for Gilliam during the film's shooting; perhaps embarrassing silence might have been more accurate.Still, there are a few very funny moments &#x96; a handful only, admittedly &#x96; that spring out of nowhere, and by nowhere I mean the dry laugh-less desert that Gilliam's weak dialogue provides, which is why every good gag comes almost as a shock. For example, Pryce's suggestion to the Turkish sultan that they should surrender because we surrendered the last time, so it's your turn. Also, Pryce's comment that France is out of virgins &#x96; after the sultan asks for some.Which brings me to the mystery of who Gilliam intended this movie for kids or adults? On the one hand there are just so many dumb and vapid visual gags and pathetic one-liners that only truly un-gifted kids can enjoy; on the other hand we have Robin Williams talking about orgasms and Pryce mentioning virgins. Perhaps the humour was intended for dumb adults?All of Gilliam's comedies (except Time Bandits) have a serious humour problem, because of his penchant for corny sight gags and incredibly childish quips. But the performances suffer too; Oliver Reed was never cut out for comedy, yet what chance did he have while under the guidance of Gilliam's clumsy direction (I'm talking about directing actors, not creating amazing action sequences and the like, in which Gilliam excels sometimes).The movie is up-and-down. The theater sequences look amazing but are dull content-wise. The Moon segment is fun, the volcano segment dull, and so on.TAOBM is from the part of Gilliam's career when he was still trying to come to terms with basic film-making concepts such as staying on budget and curbing the zealous perfectionism in order to appease the producers and financiers. This was a good thing for the viewer, because this time-consuming and money-wasting approach results in visually striking movies, but bad for Gilliam who easily could have had his career cut short with behind-the-scenes disasters that followed Brazil and TAOBM every step of the way, during and after shooting. Not that it would have mattered had his career been over after this film; it was all downhill from here. Fisher King is an overly sentimental overrated oddity, 12 Monkeys is visually modest and has logic holes as big as Robert Redford's empty pumpkin-head, Fear & Loathing is an abominable embarrassment and one of the dullest movies ever made, The Brothers Grimm has Matt Damon in it hence ruined, and Tideland is even more boring than Depp and del Toro horsing around in Vegas, not to mention utterly stupid. Only Imaginarium succeeded in repeating some of that visual quality he became renowned for, plus a half-decent story.I'd always wondered how such an average actress (and average-looking one as well) as Sarah Polley made it in movies. Now I know why; Gilliam hired HER (of all the thousands of possible girls) for this role. Did he think those teeth are funny? I wasn't laughing &#x96; and was laughing even less (i.e. laughing less than not laughing at all, which I know might not make sense) when watching Sarah with her even worse adult teeth in later movies. I don't like fake, glittering, white-as-a-wall Hollywood dentures, but couldn't she have gone to the dentist once?I do have to also wonder about that very strange line that the Baron throws at Sarah &#x85; otherwise I will knock you up! Knock her up? Is this a clandestine message of pro-pedophilic support that Gilliam is sending to all the child-molesting perverts out there? Sarah is only 8 or 9 in this movie, and I am convinced Gilliam knew what he was doing when choosing the phrase to knock up instead of a plethora of other &#x96; non-sexual-innuendo &#x96; phrases that he could have chosen instead. Perhaps my suspicion would not have been aroused had Gilliam not been such a STAUNCH defender of Roman Polanski's rights a few years back when the matter of his extradition to the States was all over the media. But that's Gilly for ya; a flaming amoral Marxist, and proud of it. "},{"Title":"What did you say your name was?","Date":"23 December 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Thsi is an excellent film. Set in medieval fantasy, this colorful fantasy will skip your doubts for the positive energies hiding in the past Normandie (France), Rome (Italy), Amsterdam (The Netherlands), Prague (Checkoslovakia), New York (United States), Tokyo (Japan), Casablanca (Maroc), Malmo (Sweeden) are all explicit in this movie for the adventures of a Baron, Munchaussen, a historical figure of middle chivalry. The base text, Tirant Lo Blanc, a Catalan account of the chivalrously love (excluduntur) takes this take into new heights a mixed rock opera and detailed cinematography. The film is fun, enjoyable, sane, safe, spadeful, artful it has many references to High Renaissance art (Boticelli et al). The end is made as a Chinese box seven samurais get together in the forest of Renaissance imagery and try to imagine an end, to close a roll-over situation the end is at the opening of the doors a closure for the mind of the film and an opening for the spectator of the drama. White sand as in Bora Bora is pictured as if it were Moon-sand, or Moon-powder. The internal scenes of the galleon, the ocean ship, reads like Job inside the belly of the whale a recurrent imaginary for scribes who assume the power of the seas. "},{"Title":"Loved it!","Date":"22 August 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Batty, good humoured and nonconformist. Thank you to everyone who made it! I saw this film many many years ago and it still ranks as a favourite. It brings alive the wonder of fairy tales that you feel as a child and the elation - do you remember that? Also that crazy sense of scale! And questions of what is really possible.If you enjoy this, then you might like Kung Fu Hustle which is on a similar plane of comedy, heroism, action and imagination. There is some violence in Kung Fu Hustle though and some may not think it's suitable for children, but there was a family in the audience when I saw it and I was surprised to hear the younger children enjoying it.Also if you're ever touring New South Wales in Australia, check out the Killer Whale Museum at Eden. It might change your mind about some of the stories you've heard about being swallowed by whales! "},{"Title":"A marvelous experience, paralleled only by -- let's see, what else has Gilliam done . . . ?","Date":"17 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  From And Now for Something Completely Different through Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas and all points in between, Gilliam seems to triumph through it all.  This one, with the talented John Neville as the incomparable Baron von Münchhausen, is visually stimulating, artistically presented, and graphically ironic, while, at the same time, funny -- and just plain fun to watch.  There is never a dull moment, with the incredible Berthold, the fasted human alive (Eric Idle); Gustavus, who can hear anything, anywhere, over any distance (Jack Purvis);  the mighty Albrecht; the strongest man who ever lived (Winston Dennis); and sharpshooter Adolphus, who can even see beyond the horizon -- with clarity (Charles McKeown)!  With people like this on your side, what could you possibly do??How about if the five of you went and stopped a war -- cold?!  What about getting a little crossed in your directions and sailing to the moon?!  Sail away with the baron.  Don't worry.  It may be a bit frightening -- at first -- but he'll not allow any harm to befall you.  And if you should happen to die -- ah, me -- well fear not.  The goodly baron will see fit to battle Death himself for your soul's return -- well, barring incidents, of course .. .Anyway, I was just watching this fabulously refreshing adventure (for about the twentieth time) with my youngest son and we had just seen him escape the clutches of Charin (Death), still at the beginning of the film, when I was paged and had to go in to the office (11 PM no less) and I thought, as long as I'm here, why not drop a line about the film.A marvelous achievement, doubtless one which will be enjoyed by millions over and over again, and destined to become a classic (one that I think should be made mandatory viewing for any and all motion picture courses). "}{"Title":"A Pythonesque fantasy treat, and a nice companion-piece to Jabberwocky and Time Bandits.","Date":"25 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Terry Gilliam's very unique and wacky view of things is well suited to this version of Rudolph Erich Raspe's Baron Munchausen stories. The Adventures of Baron Munchausen is a good, unpredictable and agreeably zany film, reminiscent of other Gilliam offerings like Jabberwocky and Time Bandits. The set design is absolutely remarkable, and in the main the performances are very good.Dashing, yarn-spinning elderly gentleman Baron Munchausen (John Neville) is responsible for the besieging of a city by the Turkish army in the 18th century. Munchausen explains how he and his companions won an entire fortune from the sultan in a slightly-less-than fair bet, and in a fit of rage and retribution the sultan took out his frustrations on the innocent citizens by laying siege to their city. Munchausen agrees to regather his companions in an effort to save the city, and he sets off aboard an underwear-knitted hot air balloon, with young Sally Salt (Sarah Polley) as his helper. His quest is to find his former colleagues- an ace sharpshooter, a hurricane-blowing dwarf, a ludicrously fast sprinter and an unfeasibly strong African, and his journey to locate each of them takes him from one outlandish misadventure to the next in a variety of fantastic faraway realms.In a cast full of comic talent, serious actor Neville does brilliantly in judging how to give the Baron the right level of under-played wit and charm. Robin Williams rather overdoes his short part as the king of the moon (he's obviously trying to steal the picture, but in actuality is somewhat irritating). Young Polley demonstrates impressive maturity for one so young in a challenging role, and Oliver Reed gets his best part for years as an aggressive and fearsome ogre. Not many directors could have pulled this film off - it really is the kind of thing that could only be born of a twisted and child-like imagination - but Gilliam has made a good job of it. Certain sequences work better than others, and some of the sequences barely work at all (the whole moon escapade, in my opinion, is excessively brash and tedious), but on the whole this remains a highly worthwhile film. It has bags of invention, zest and imagination, and in the post-1970s era of film-making that's something that rather too many films lack. "},{"Title":"A wonderful fantasy","Date":"8 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" This film is a wonderful fantasy, dealing with the concept of wonder vs. reason, and how it affects both our view of the world and the world itself. Others here have already summarized this film, so I am going to move straight to the comments... First, this is not a film for everyone. If you are one of those who insists on reality in your entertainment, you will be disappointed here. If you are not imaginative enough to understand what is going on, you won't enjoy a minute of this film. However, if you like a good tale woven through with interesting ideas and clever dialogue, this one is for you. The Baron himself is an interesting character, as his very being alters depending on which is dominant, reason or wonder. When all is going his way, and everyone believes in him, he is younger, with the flashing (literally) smile, but when the drab, violent world of reason takes over, he becomes old and worn. There are a number of wonderful performances, and a few great cameos (look for Sting as the heroic officer who is sentenced to death for his heroism, because it makes everyone else look bad, and that is terrible for morale...). Also look for Robin Williams as the King of the Moon, now fancying himself King of Everything, Ray di Tutto (and Robin is credited as Ray D. Tutto as a wonderful gag, since nobody could mistake him for anyone else), a young Uma Thurman in a dual role that includes Venus (the goddess), Oliver Reed having a grand time as Vulcan, and Eric Idle in a dual role that includes Berthold, the fastest man alive. There are some great visual touches too, such as the moving constellations during the space sequence, or the point where Vulcan reaches down into the pit they have fallen into, appearing to tower over them, only to be revealed as the same height as the mortals after he reaches in and pulls them out. In summary, this film has wonderful writing, is very witty and imaginative, has some great actors in some very enjoyable roles, and is a visual feast. Highly recommended. If you've seen this film, and you didn't understand it, don't worry, there are a lot of movies out there for you, with straight-forward, unimaginative plots that don't explore any new territory. For the rest of us, there's this wonderful gem. "},{"Title":"My All-Time Favorie Movie","Date":"27 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" This film is the third re-make of The Adventures of Baron Munchausen. It is a raving masterful production by Terry Gilliam !!! A truly classic epic fantasy movie for all time! At first watching it is a confusing script, and begs to be watched again. You can watch this movie over and over again and still catch a new bit of hidden humor here and there each time. It has a great all-star cast, it has great script, and has great care and detail in its production !!! Perhaps one of the best scenes is first, in the parlor of Vulcan and Venus. The ballroom is successfully a truly breathtaking place. Then the film rounds out with the spectacularly great battle against the Grand Turk and is done amusingly well. The act on the moon with Robin Williams as King of the Moon/everything, is significantly different from the rest of the movie to make it shine on it own. "},{"Title":"The Twilight Before Gilliam's Best Work","Date":"7 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" The Adventures of Baron Munchausen is a fun fantasy that walks like a family adventure and talks like a twisted satire of society's segregation of logic, practicality, and imagination and its narrow embellishments of logic, as it is set during the Age of Reason when proletariat leaders dictate and police the people. During a war that is tearing a town apart, Jonathan Pryce, who plays the Right Ordinary Horatio Jackson, a stout and arrogant pride monger who tolerates nothing that is less than overwhelmed with several steps of logic, lets the town remain confused and ignorant of the reasons behind the violence, and when Baron Von Munchausen arrives and explains a fantastical, completely ridiculous story that explains in full detail how the war started, the people are insulted. Instead of remaining in this war-torn city, the film takes us on hilarious, very clever trips into many fantasy worlds with the Baron and a brazen little girl who follows him ardently.The film gets more abstract and cleverly ridiculous as it progresses deeper into silly worlds that necessitate vignettes before the story comes around full circle. The most interesting and sharply creative is perhaps the trip to the moon, where there is a community about as big as a constructed model of a town for an old Godzilla movie. It's governed by a king and queen, both of whom have detachable heads with personalities completely different than those of their bodies, and constantly seek escape from the trappings of staying connected to them. Perhaps this is latently symbolic of escapism and living in the whimsical world of one's head. I like what Gilliam does here. It's not just masturbation of the imagination. It's true thinking and inventiveness given the PG-rated family adventure as its vehicle. "},{"Title":"Little Girl's Adventure with the Baron","Date":"15 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I grew up as a young girl in the 50s and 60s, a huge fan of fantasy, science fiction, and adventure stories. The best part of this movie for me is the Baron's young co-adventurer being a little girl! Stories like this, with a boy as the adventurer, were all there were when I was a child. In my young imagination I would always replace the boy with myself in my re-imaginings. What a refreshing difference! That said, this is a beautiful movie. The scene with the boat sailing on a sea of sand is exquisite. Robin Williams is hysterical as the King of the Moon. I can't believe it didn't have a wider release. This is one of my all time favorite movies, along with The Princess Bride. "},{"Title":"Underappreciated fantasy story with hi-class production values.","Date":"1 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie has a very bad rap in Hollywood for being one of the most underachieving films of all time.  And it's a story that really doesn't deserve the flak.  This is well-delivered, great fun, imaginative, and highly creative.  Not to mention the production design, which is totally stunning.Ok, the pace may drag a little in spots, and perhaps the storyline was a bit ahead of its time.  I suppose the 80s wasn't really ready for surreal fantasy on this scale.  But if you look on this movie on its own terms; as a brilliantly visual adaptation of a classic European Tall Tale, it really works surprizingly well. "},{"Title":"Uneven but imaginative","Date":"16 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Sometimes frustrating, sometimes exhilarating adventure with a very loose, often confusing framework.  It helped that I watched this film with someone who had already seen it and appreciated it, since he was able to point out to me the various things that were supposed to be happening.  Otherwise, it would really be one of those films that you should see twice but probably won't have the energy to sit through again.  As typical of Gilliam at his best, the film has a satirical sense of humor, mixing some high-brow social commentary within a fantasy.  It does suffer from overlength though, and some sequences (like the portion with Robin Williams as the King of the Moon) could have been trimmed down significantly. "},{"Title":"The Late 18th Century....The Age of Reason....Wednesday.","Date":"22 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  It's hard to get all these qualities into one film, but if anyone can do it, Terry Gilliam can. As far as comedy/fantasy/epics go, The Princess Bride and The Adventures of Baron Munchausen have not been topped yet. This movie has some of the most gorgeous sets I've seen in a movie; probably because a lot of them were painted! Terry Gilliam knew what he was doing when he wanted to create a fantastic storybook movie. The transitions from live to surreal is breathtaking, and Gilliam tops it all off with hilarious Monty Pythonesque dialogue from a cast of great actors. Every actor in this movie gives a memorable performance, and I highly recommend it for Python fans, or anyone who likes funny fantasies. Truly a gorgeous classic. (Heck, watch it for a semi-nude Uma Thurman and a priceless, and uncredited!, Robin Williams performance.) You won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Fantastick!","Date":"15 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This film has been put down a lot (I suspect by people who have grown jaded and lost their imagination), but it is amazing. The sets and costumes alone are worth watching the movie. Terry Gilliam's mind is a wonderful place to live. It holds every fantasy as a child you put in secret little boxes and hid from adults. You can do anything in this movie. Forget Universal laws. They don't exist here. "},{"Title":"The Suspension of Disbelief","Date":"23 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I've read through various users comments about this film and I think they completely and totally missed the mark. While some have said that it's a collection of stories without a common thread or that it's a low-budget spectacular, I have to say that they're wrong in their analysis of the film. It's about the suspension of disbelief more than anything.The entire premise of a play that turns to reality begs this suspension, and those who won't allow this compromise will never understand this film.It has its flaws, but it fills a gap that modern society often forgets. Imagination and fantasy. In a world besieged by Reign of Fire and the overly gratuitous explanations supplied by the Matrix movies, we need a little true fantasy and imagination. "}{"Title":"wonderful","Date":"6 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" This has got to be one of my favorite movies of all time.  I love Eric Idle's character, Berthold, especially at the end when he recovers his ability to run fast.  Uma Thurman was exquisitely beautiful and wonderful as she always is.  Robin Williams was perfect choice to play an obnoxious and other-worldly king; his style of comedy added spicy flavor to the movie. I also loved how Terry Gilliam blurs the line between reality and fantasy, as to say if you can dream it, you can do it.10 out of 10! This film is right up there with _Apocalypse Now_ and _2001_. One might call that an overstatement, but I defend it by saying that this film accomplishes everything it meant to. "},{"Title":"A hymn to the fantasy","Date":"15 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Great movie about the importance of fantasy, without which we cannot live happily. It's for all kind of people children, adults who has lost the will of dreaming, people that blindly only believe in reason and pragmatism...The plot is different from the book but the story is adapted in an excellent way. The actors are great and the director and the make-up artists made a very good job.8/10 for this simple and honest fantasy film. "},{"Title":"Triumph of the Dreamer","Date":"6 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  The Adventures of Baron Munchausen is a film most people aren't going to like, because it's not an easy film to watch. It is perhaps one of the most beautifully realised fantasy films made, and undoubtedly the best of all the crop of fantasy movies that sprang up over the eighties. If any one has read Andrew Yule's book Loosing the Light, they will no doubt be familiar with the difficult filming conditions that director Terry Gilliam and crew where subjected to (harsh sand storms, food poisoning, producer Thomas Schühly sabotaging the set for insurance money where just some of the set backs). Yet still Gilliam managed to produce a visually stunning (are Gilliam's films anything else) and at times exciting film, full of wonder and adventure. So why doesn't the film work that well? Well, for a start it takes far to long to get going, and once where away it alternates between sequences that go on forever (Robin William's King of the Moon scene) and others that seem so rushed they're over in no time (inside the whale). There is no plot (not necessarily a bad thing), just a random collection of fantasy episodes. The Adventures of Baron Munchausen is a film that I would mainly recommend to Gilliam fans, if you are familiar with the director's other works (Time Bandits, Brazil and 12 Monkeys) you should get a lot out of this film. But to the casual viewer Munchausen might come off as a boring, meandering old man, who rambles on for too long, completely out staying his welcome. As a Gilliam fan myself, I can point out these flaws and still enjoy the beautiful images, over the top performances and episodic narrative with out those flaws getting in the way. Baron Munchausen is a good film, made under harsh conditions, and is a great testament to Gilliam's triumph as a dreamer. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Set Pieces are Brilliant","Date":"5 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Terry Gilliam might have wanted to do something light and humor natured following the depressing and hopeless landscape of his previous film, Brazil(1985).  Part of an unofficial trilogy I will call the Fantasy trilogy which includes Time Bandits(1981), Brazil(1985), and The Adventures of Baron Munchausen(1988).  Out of the three films this the most optimistic and sunny feature by Terry Gilliam.  Closer in tone to Time Bandits(1981) without that film's grim ending.  In all three films the main character lives in his dreams and fantasies to escape the harsh realities of life.  Has an assortment of actors ranging from the well known to pre stars to legendary actors and actresses.  Robin Williams is well used in the picture because he isn't annoying as he is in most of his comedies.The Baron of Munchausen(1988) feels more like an Italian film than a British picture.  Although the direction here is not as inspired as in Time Bandits(1981) or Brazil(1985) it still works in some scenes.  Gilliam worked with his Brazil(1985) co-writer in making and writing this film.  John Neville gives an inspired performance in the role of Baron Munchausen.  Uma Thurman puts some memorable moments of her career as Venus for The Adventures of Baron Munchausen(1988).  Dario Argento protege Michele Soavi worked on The Adventures of Baron Munchausen(1988) as a Second Unit Director.  His experiences in working with Gilliam on this pic would influence his concept and the visual looks of Dellamorte Dellamore(1996) which is more Gilliam than Argento. "},{"Title":"The List","Date":"9 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  (MINOR SPOILERS AHEAD.  BE YE WARNED.)I double dog dare you to find another movie as imaginative or fantastic as this one.  Let me read off some of the improbable visuals contained in Gilliam's fantasy epicA hot-air balloon made entirely of women's knickers.  The King of the Moon racing around trying to catch his runaway, cantankerous head.  A man riding a cannonball while outracing Death himself.  A three-headed mechanical bird named Sybil.  A perilous climb to the very tip of the crescent moon while celestial constellations fly, gallop, and swim around the night sky.  An appearance by a semi-nude Venus Herself...on the half-shell, no less.I have a difficult time talking about this movie because I don't want to dog it, but I can't really recommend it to anyone except fans of Gilliam's work.  It is SO bizarre, its humor SO dry and, at times, absurd, that even I don't like it.  But it takes so many chances and is so DIFFERENT from everything else that it deserves a chance to be seen.  Fans of fantasy -- not dragons and swords, but real fantasy -- should give this film at least a look-see. "},{"Title":"The greatest children's movie ever made.","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Before you go and see this film you must first ask yourself a question. Are you an adult? As an adult, have you forgotten the child-like wonder that went along with fairy tales? The majesty that accompanied Alice in Wonderland the first time you had it read to you? Do you like the upstanding morals that our current society hides behind? Are you proud of your sensibilities? If you answered yes to any of these questions, this film is not for you.However, if you re-read classic children's tales, have fantasies about other worlds, love mythologies and enjoy a good yarn, rent this and watch it with your child. I have always (and probably always will be) a big fan of Disney movies. But nothing ever captured on film has ever filled me with such child-like wonder. With Baron Munchausen Terry Gilliam succeeds in bringing to life the wounderous fantasy that exists only in the mind of a child. It isn't an A to B to C film, however. It is a handful of seperate stories brought to life. Each chapter works on its own, each in a different outrageous setting, each with its own outrageous characters.  The film is full of flights of fancy, and they are all given a good amount of time for the audience to absorb and be enthralled by.While science has done a great deal in helping us advance, we must always remember that none of it could have been done without someone using their imagination. No matter what anyone says, anything can be done. Anything can exist. And no one can say differently.And you CAN get everywhere with fancy and hot air. "},{"Title":"A Pure Flight of Fancy","Date":"28 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  (Warning - Spoilers) To me, The Adventures of Baron Munchausen is the film in which director Terry Gilliam unleashes his wild and wicked imagination to the best effect. Although the story is merely a thin platform to support the lavish production design and hilariously fascinating characters, Munchausen is otherwise a delicious feast of eye candy and fanciful diversion.Based on an archaic piece of literature, Munchausen is a tale about a dottering, seemingly senile old man who recalls past adventures so astounding as to be beyond belief. He claims to be the cause behind the siege of a small town, and as the enemy is breaking down the gates, the Baron sets off to find his talented servants (who are each endowed with a super-power like speed, strength, eyesight, hearing, etc...) and save the day. The film then concentrates on Munchausen and his young stow-away Sally, going everywhere from the surface of the moon to the depths of hell in search of the Baron's comrades.The characters and worlds encountered in the Baron and Sally's travels are at once startling, disturbing, and delightful. The sets and costumes are rich and engaging, and they are further enhanced by the mesmerizing cinematography of Giuseppe Rotunno and hauntingly beautiful score composed by Michael Kamen. Particularly strong performances are given by John Neville as Baron Munchausen, a character who's age spins back and forth about 40 years or so, and Jonathan Pryce who plays the despicable city official, the Right Ordinary Horatio Jackson. Sarah Polley plays the part os Sally skillfully for her age, and never becomes an irritating tag-along child - she is, in fact, the Jiminy Cricket to the boyishly foolish Baron. Eric Idle is his usual amusing self as Berthold, the fastest man in the world.All the players are very talented, but there are a few in particular that are great fun Oliver Reed as Vulcan, Uma Thurman as Venus, Peter Jeffrey as The Sultan, and Robin Williams as The King of the Moon. Also included is a very funny cameo featuring former Police frontman Sting.Apart from a thin story (the Baron looking for his friends), Munchausen is a wonderful treat for the eyes, ears, and imagination. The film carries a few messages about the importance of imagination and the horrors of war, but it is presented in a charming, comfortable manner. The dialogue sparkles with wit and cynicism, and just before any  message becomes too heavy, comic relief (usually in the form of Idle) keeps the film light and moving along. It's not great storytelling, but The Adventures of Baron Munchausen is delicious fantasy filmmaking and enjoyable diversion.  "},{"Title":"Brilliant if overlong","Date":"11 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Wonderful, one of the few that truly marries special effects with content. Always interesting is that Gilliam's heroes are reluctant ones, basically Everyman, with a social conscience that jabs them every once in a while. The climactic battle for the city is a bit overlong, otherwise 3 thumbs up (I grew an extra thumb for the movie). Detractors of the film must not have any sense of imagination, sense of humor, or sense.    "},{"Title":"Too Good To Be True?","Date":"4 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This is one of Terry Gilliam's best works.  The legend of the famous Baron is a natural to be filmed by this director.  It's visually stimulating, and also a thrill for the imagination.  be sure to read the original story of Baron Munchausen if you can! "},{"Title":"Super fun fairy tale'ish movie","Date":"15 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This was just a plain old fun movie to sit around and watch. Nothing in it is believable but it's entertaining from the start to finish. All the acting is great as well as having a list of well known actors. My kids even like it. "}{"Title":"An extremely underrated film","Date":"27 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I first saw this film as a child and enjoyed it thoroughly, because it was very exciting and, perhaps more importantly, stretched the boundaries of the imagination as any cinematic masterpiece should do.  Any child will tell you that, perhaps not in those exact words, of course. However, I am slightly older than I was when I was only old enough to stare and marvel.  Now I can appreciate that this film has more to offer than its face value, as the adventures of a forgotten, mythical hero. Firstly, simplisticly, Gilliam was clearly well read and very aware of several literary influences which played an important role in his film. For example, in the series of scenes surrounding Vulcan and Venus, I believe Gilliam draws a great deal from Virgil's 'Aenied VIII', in which the mythical figures Venus seduces Vulcan to create a special shield for Aeneas, an event which illustrates Vulcan's weakness with his wife's strong sexuality. But, more importantly, Gilliam addresses the theme of imagination, in a Romantic/Keatsian way, which contrasts the ideas of imagination versus reality, the conflict of which results in the victory of Munchausen, who respresents the strength of the imagination, and his death confirms that all things, including the imagination, are subject to mortality.All is tied up with Python-esque humour, and with the wonderful appearances of Eric Idle, Robin Williams, and several other marvellous actors, this film is truly an underrated and delightful cinematic thrill. I feel that I have only scratched the surface, and ultimately, you must make your own opinions. See and enjoy this film. "},{"Title":"I could watch this movie three times a day, forever","Date":"25 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  There's not much to say that hasn't already been said, so I'll keep it short.  Perhaps the best film ever made.  I lament that so few people have seen it.  It's also too bad that movies like this aren't made for children. Not to categorize Baron Munchausen as a kids' movie, but it's certainly suitable for all but the youngest.  And it would do far more to cultivate their minds.Watch this with your kids (and maybe send them to get more snacks when Uma Thurman emerges as Venus on the Halfshell.) "},{"Title":"a feast for the eyes.","Date":"7 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  the adventures of baron munchausen has to have set some kind of a record in terms of the amount and magnitude of the costumes and props. every single scene has so much to offer visually that it sometimes seems to cease being a movie and more like a storybook come to life.it's basically a series of short stories that is wrapped together by the one character telling another character stories device. each of the stories is unique both visually and thematically and keeps the story moving along at a brisk pace.every single performance in this movie is fantastic and director Terry Gillian uses a neat trick having his actors play multiple roles throughout the film. it adds an extra element trying to pick out all the actors in each scene.possibly the most stunning scene visually is when a young Uma Thurman as Venus (she was 17 1/2 when she made this movie) rises nude on a giant half shell, with her hair and arms stragically placed. i was 14 when i saw this movie in 1989 and this scene made quite an impression on me.since this was surprisingly filmed in only a 1.661 ratio so it doesn't suffer that much being panned/scanned to fit the 1.331 ratio of a normal tv. the DVD release is widescreen though and defintely the preferable choice.as far as the fantasy genre, goes this film ranks near the top.rating9 "},{"Title":"YEAH! that ones great!","Date":"16 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I'm pretty amazed and pleased to see that this incredibly well made movie finally receives the respect it deserves.  Go and see it or go and see it again...That's the word about the 2 hours period Terry Gilliam took to prove the world that imagination will always stand tall. "},{"Title":"A magical film","Date":"26 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  A delicious flight of fantasy, where imagination triumphs over reason and logic.  A tremendous job by director Gilliam to hold all the spectacle together.  Frankly, a movie I'm surprised could still be made in our time. This had to be a financial disaster it must have had a big budget, and I don't think anyone saw it.  Special kudos to Neville who plays the timeless swashbuckler--with panache one moment, a wink and a smile the next.  Uma Thurman couldn't be better cast.  An excellent score, excellent set design. A magical film. "},{"Title":"The Last True Fantasy Movie","Date":"12 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  The Adventures of Baron Munchausen has what alot of films today are lacking. A directon or sense of imagination or originalilty. Most films of today are just plain awful with dumbest idiots in the world behind the camera. This film is a modern day classic. I don`t think there will ever be another film like this in awhile, because of the movie fans of today. The production values are beyond life itself. The acting was great, could not have been better. "},{"Title":"It's Wonderful and Full of Wonders","Date":"26 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I rented this movie a dozen times in high school, and, because of it, I went to college to earn a B.S. degree in film.  How's that for a movie changing the course of a life?  My adoration for this movie shouldn't be put into words.(P.S. No regrets!  (About film school, that is.)) "},{"Title":"Ridiculously underrated !!!","Date":"5 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Terry Gilliam is a true cinematic genius.. I am so sorry for him that not more people have seen this film...it is a true undiscovered pearl..from the visuals to the acting to the script one is swept along on a rollercoaster of breathtaking exuberance. Very highly recommended indeed. Go see. "},{"Title":"There's Something About Berthold...","Date":"20 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" i just finished watching the adventures of baron munchausen and i wanted to know if anyone else noticed Berthold's (Eric Idle) huge erection in this movie? you can see it the most in the beginning of the movie when he is ordered to go get the bottle for the sultan. please someone comment on this because either i'm going crazy or he really does have a giant boner in his pants. overall the movie was really funny and different. robin williams was hilarious as the moon god and the whole movie was an experience. all i really want to know is if anyone else notices Berthold's erection. please e-mail me or respond to my comment because i'd really like to hear from other people. "},{"Title":"Misunderstood Narrative Fractal","Date":"28 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" This movie is largely misunderstood. Indeed, if you want to watch a compelling story, this movie is not for you. Rather, this film is a masterful clinic on shifting point of view narrative. As much as anything, the message of the film comes not from the plot but from an understanding of how vision of reality stems so often from a mythic element in how we understand the narrative truth of what is going on. Thus, the point of the movie comes from how it is filmed more than from the storyline, which is why the film is 1) so visually elaborate, to allow great range an flexibility in presentation of any given scene or of scenes in juxtaposition, and; 2) the plot is so commonplace, as it employs the most standard of mythic stories to allow for range in its elaboration at different points in the movie, from the commonplace to the grand and back again.As a friend described this movie, it is basically a fractal. If you're into crazy pomo philosophical mumbo jumbo such as the journey of understanding being as important as the storyline, then this movie is one of the finest examples out there. But if you want to watch a movie where the story IS the movie, then this will just be an exercise in intellectual masturbation. Can I say that in here? "}{"Title":"A Gilliam Masterpiece!","Date":"7 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" This is a thoroughly wonderful movie and is probably my favourite Terry Gilliam film. That's not to say I don't like his others; Brazil, for example is another masterpiece. I just found this one to be the most fun and enjoyable, by far the funniest, and the one that is best to watch over and over without becoming tired of it or (in the case of Brazil) emotionally drained.The fact that this film was based on another work does not detract from its brilliance at all (after all, Brazil itself includes a development of themes previously explored). Gilliam, the actors, and others involved so convincingly bring this story to life in such a wonderfully zany, yet compelling way, with utterly fantastic characters and events that the viewer is utterly absorbed in this crazy, incredible story. Despite its obvious wackiness, it is compelling and keeps one engrossed throughout.At the same time, the film has the some of the sinister foreboding, social commentary, and all the surrealism that one would expect in a Gilliam film.In sum, this is a rich, deeply entertaining, and hilarious film that is one of the most fun and entertaining I've ever seen. "},{"Title":"Simply amazing movie","Date":"23 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Anyone who does not enjoy this movie needs to lighten up. Its originality and genius is amazing and its delightful superiority still stands up today. The movie is like most Gilliam works of art. This one being a masterpiece. It is a stellar mix of stunning visuals, wonderful music, and excellent acting. The visuals may seem outdated in 2005, but they were excellent for 1988, and I feel still mesh well with the movie adding to its staying power. John Neville's performance is unmatched. The writing is phenomenal. The movie is so very unique and takes you to a place long missed in modern day cinema. Fantasy and fun. I highly suggest you purchase/rent/view this amazing picture when it is released on DVD in March 2005. It is a must have family film. "},{"Title":"Praise for a fanciful and hilarious adventure","Date":"7 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is absolutely wonderful. Gilliam strikes gold again in his vein of quirk. This film spoke to me about living a full life and always having a spirit of adventure, all the way up to death, for death is just another part of the story (one that can be recovered from apparently)Gilliam's story telling style and well timed humor is spot on to make this a wonderfully enjoyable film. The quirky characters remind me of a rag tag group of super heroes, led by a lovable and charming man who is just seeking adventure. The young girl, Sally reminds me of childhood fascination with fanciful tales from grandparents. But best of all, the stories are real. "},{"Title":"ha-haa a good adventure keeps one young!","Date":"10 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  jolene blalock said; 'i like men who are so brilliant they are almost insane'. well i couldn't agree more. in a completely heterosexual way. -)terry gilliam is the best movie director i know. i dare to say this because the fact is he takes on projects no other director even daydreams about taking. munchausen is another impossible movie made possible. now who could have made it other than terry? who would have wanted to make it? i can't name anyone, can you? gilliam has guts, and he is quite insane, i don't even want to begin to think what he would be doing if he wasn't making films. his films are with no exception flawed, the uk films suffered from lousy settings and poor screenplay, and the 90's films are...well, hollywood, even if they are true gilliam films. i have yet to give a perfect ten to a gilliam movie, but i still think he's the greatest director ever lived. he has something the others don't. that's good old fashioned imagination.munchausen strikes back exactly when the star trek-boom is at it's highest. everybody's talking about the new possibilities in science, and religions all over the world are losing good fat-pocketed customers. a perfect time for this sort of movie. the adventures of baron munchausen remind us all that life is an adventure, nothing that is written is some book is the absolute truth, you make your own truth, and life can be a wonderful experience. i have always had a thing for adventure movies, and films like this always give me a good mood.john neville does a splendid job as the baron, i almost applaused at his magnificent performance during the movie. too bad most of the cast does a poor job. or, even more likely, the screenplay sucks. munchausen looks and feels like a b-movie, so little money was apparently at use, but gilliam's vision and neville's acting is what drives it on. the good twist in the end doesn't hurt either. it's still a mediocre movie technically, but it's just so amazing you have to see it if you love a good adventure.IF again you want a mind-numbing thriller where ben affleck and morgan freeman chase the bad guys and you know exactly what's going to happen even before sitting down for the screen, IF your primary interest in movies is to get to eat a lot of popcorns and/or make out with your girlfriend, then don't rent this movie!!! you wouldn't understand any of it.6/10 (and thumbs up to neville) "},{"Title":"Good Adult Fantasy Adventure Romp","Date":"26 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is indeed a visual feast. It is also very pro-fantasy and flights and fancy which should appeal to all the adult dreamers out there who never really grew up. The movie is a fantasy adventure romp but it's not one for the kids as many of the tales included in this film are very adult-oriented even though a child is a leading character. The film is a little bit too long and there's a little bit of confusion in connecting all the tales at work here together. Still this is quite good and certainly should please fans of Terry Gilliam. "},{"Title":"Third in Gilliam's imaginative series","Date":"2 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Pros Special Effects, Costumes, cinematography.Cons Man in the moon sequence, Gilliam doesn't know when to quit, Pacing.Baron Munchausen is the 1988 film which went overbudjet and flopped at the boxoffice. These are recipes for a bad film but it is surprisingly good. The adventures of Baron Munchausen are fairytales which are told in european courts and here Gilliam attepts to adapt it to a live version film. The problem is that though it is filled with Gilliam's trademark flair, it lacks something hard to describe. It didn't catch my attention as Brazil did and it just left me frustrated. It started off wonderfully but as soon as it reaches Robin Williams, it goes downhill. Also Gilliam is trying to pack too many ideas into this 2hr film so it feels longer than it should. Gilliam should have cut the ridiculous man in the moon sequences and part of the venus sequence. Not as good as Gilliam's other film but still a worthwhile one to catch on a friday night.Premise Baron Munchausen and his group of friends have bloody adventures.Baron Munchausen was nominated for four Academy awards, all on the technical side.Grade 7/10 (Not Gilliam's best but not his worst). "},{"Title":"Like all Gilliam movies...","Date":"2 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I don't really need to do a plot synopsis. Suffice it to say that I enjoyed this movie, and Eric Idle's bald head is truly frightening to behold. But, like all Gilliam movies, I felt like I missed something. I understood how things happened, and why they were where they were at any given point in the movie, but I left feeling like I slept through it. Or something. Like all Gilliam movies, I had to see it twice to reassure myself that no, I missed nothing, and it felt disjointed because it was disjointed. "},{"Title":"Entertaining movie","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I can see this movie is super for the special effects in the 80's. Although some scene i can clearly see the wire hanging through the actor's back, it is still a worth entertaining fantasy movie.As i go through this movie on DVD, i noticed some part are similar to on Terry's movie called The 12 Monkeys which explosion and the set environment seems the same. The atmospheare are not a very bright or suitable scene but it still provide a very nice sequence. "},{"Title":"too long","Date":"8 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  visually outstanding.this film intrigued me.  but as with cartoons or marx brothers (who also can be intriguing) enough is enough.before the director opens the movie he displays a full screen title (with what i hoped was a spoof of directors) crediting himself with directing the film.) unfortunately it was a massive ego-trip.  a howard hawks film or a federico fellini film merely mentions the director, they don't suggest we're about to see a super spectacular film.   "},{"Title":"It improves with repeated viewing","Date":"28 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" While this film WAS directed by the ex-Monty Pythoner, Terry Gilliam (who was most famous for his cartoons and co-directing their films), you cannot look at it as a Python film--if you do, you'll be very disappointed. Despite Eric Idle playing Munchausen't fleet-footed friend, the film is less a comedy and more a piece of bizarre escapist fantasy. If you judge it as fantasy ALONE, it is amazing and fun to watch--and extremely captivating as well as far less surreal and dark as his other famous escapist film, BRAZIL (which is definitely NOT to everyone's taste). I must admit that when I first saw it, I only thought it was an average film--probably because of my false expectations. But, when I saw it again recently, I realized that it was a dandy tale with dandy acting. Well, with the acting there was the exception of Robin Williams as the Man in the Moon--as usual, he tended to dominate the scenes too much with his mugging and silliness. I really felt that Munchausen, as the hero, SHOULD have remained the focus but the few scenes with Williams were so talky and weird that Munchausen seemed a bit lost. However, this is only a minor problem and certainly NOT one that should interfere with enjoying the movie.I also just watched the German version of the life of Munchausen (Munchausen, 1943). While for 1943 this was a fine film and I loved how they linked Munchausen to the present, the film really suffered because special effects of the day cannot keep up with the weirdness and over-the-top aspects of the film. As a result, you really come to appreciate Terry Gilliam's version even more--as the bizarreness looked so real and contributed to making it a wonderful escapist film. Apparently, this 1988 version cost a fortune to make, but in hindsight there probably was no other way to make this film and make it right.I strongly recommend you see both films, but if you must see only one, then the Gilliam version seems to be the definitive one and can't be beat for entertainment and fun. "}{"Title":"Severed Knows","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Spoilers herein.You already know about the lushness, the imagination and the troubles with budget and studio. You either admire Gilliam's energy or worry over a system that distorts such energy.I find this film a slightly interesting disaster. Only with `Fear and Loathing' has Gilliam found a successful way to present his hallucinatory world, because there it is explicitly hallucinagenic.I make a study of self-referential films, especially those that tell a story about telling a story and where the two stories merge. This is a special and important art form. I celebrate when it is done successfully and grieve when it is not. What's missing here is a coherent notion of how this alternative world works. It doesn't have to be logical or comfortable of course, but it has to readable enough that we have the skills to observe.Gilliam is sophisticated enough to have laid the groundwork for immense nesting of the dreams it is a play, a fiction by the authorities, an imagining by the man in the moon when he is not rutting, an arranged tactic by Venus to arouse the world for just such rutting, an opera by the Sultan, or -- the best -- the fantasy of young Sally who even here shows promise as an apprentice actor both in character and `reality.' Along the way, he juggles the forms is it Tarkovsky? Grimm? Kafka? Swift? Disney? But he does not one of these well enough.Go watch `Fear and Loathing,' and imagine this as inserted in that.Ted's Evaluation -- 2 of 4 Has some interesting elements.  "},{"Title":"I Don't Understand Robin ...","Date":"30 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" What really annoys me about this movie (apart from all those people who don't like it - they should be hanged) is the fact that Robin Williams' name doesn't appear in the credits. You'd think a man that's happy to have his name plastered all over tripe like 'Jack' or 'Patch Adams' would be only too delighted to take credit for the part he played in this ... but no. I'd rather spend two weeks locked in a conservatory with an angry hive of hornets attached to my balls before I'd allow myself to be associated with monstrosities like 'Hook' or 'What Dreams May Come', but not Robin, oh no.What's the guy's problem? The movie features a giant sea monster disguised as an island and a horse that jumps off a really high wall. What more does he want? Weirdo. "},{"Title":"Becalmed torrent","Date":"17 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I really love Gilliam. I love that he does things like this, where he is willing to go as far or as deep into fantasy as needed. This movie is a visual bonanza that, like most successful fantasy movies, makes one wonder why more fantasy movies aren't made often.Still, this movie in particular plays like a toned-down Python, toned-down Gilliam surrealism that is just a bit too loud. While a lot of it is funny, not very much of it is laugh-out-loud, and while a lot of it is adventurous, little of it is very exciting. It has some amazing visuals that are surprisingly well done (and refreshing now that we're getting to the point where we can't make a drama movie without some form of CGI), but it lacks a lot of control that makes a film so interesting to watch.One major aspect of it is that it's rather unpredictable. For those desperate for an original story, this one could be very enticing. On the other had, it's unpredictability makes it difficult to follow, not in that it doesn't make sense but that at some point it becomes rather unclear as to what the true conflict of the story is, or even whether Gilliam will choose to resolve it at all.The strongest part of the story is the whole emphasis of this being placed in The Age of Reason. Gilliam's tongue-in-cheek rejection of rationality is one of his better aspects, and something that makes most of his films really worth watching out for. This time it didn't go overboard so much as decided against getting becalmed at sea. It's a fun ride, but it doesn't strike me as anything I'd really go out of my way to see again.--PolarisDiB "},{"Title":"This film tries so hard it just falls in on itself","Date":"15 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I'm sitting at home.. watching this DVD.  Wondering why I enjoyed watching this film 8 years or so ago when it was first released.  There are alot of good things about this film.  They are little things, of course. BUT...there are also the bad, both of which I shall discribe here.The Good.. well there's lots of little things I LOVE about this movie. The scenery for one, is truly director Terry Gilliams vision.  Also character design, creature design, the whole lot.  It's Gilliam through and through. Everything from the wierd flying thing that the uncredited Robin Williams tools around in to the hot-air balloon made from women's undergarments soaring through puffy clouds is absolutely, totaly, and among all other things Terry Gilliams insanely warped brain at work.    These are like 3 dimentional, finely realized visions of animated Monty Python lore.  The recently released DVD presents these aspects of the film in all its 1851, 16x9 enhanced glory.  It's truly stunning to watch.  Shining and beautiful colors, rich blacks, and brilliant contrast create an almost reference quality disc.  Were it not for its week 2.0 audio track and poor extra features I would rate it right up there on my top 10 discs of all time. It DOES however, display composer Michael Kamen's work quite nicely... blasting out his trumpets and calming down all the surreal moments right to perfection.  This is definately one of Kamen's best scores.. and is presented here just as it should be.Here's where the film falls in on itself.  It's almost way too much info visually.. due to the fact that all these visuals are presented as mere eye candy and have almost no story to carry it on.  The baron must find his former companions, bring them back as re-inforcements, and save the town from almost pure distruction.  The horrible thing about all this is.. where it took Gilliam almost 2 hours to complete this tale.. Pixar & Disney (albiet almost a decade later) did almost the exact same thing in less than 15 minutes with A Bugs Life.  The premise of this film is followed by characters we don't care about, and dialogue that we more than equaly don't care about.  I just find myself wanting him to find everybody and just get back home to save the day.Acting is superb though.  The film features an ensamble cast.  Including an early performance by Uma Thurman as Venus dancing with The Baron to a magnificant Kamen waltz, and  Johnathan Pryce as the war commander-person-like-guy who just play a pumpus Brit.  These are actors that all desserve such better scripts than this.One side note.. is it me or is this movie like one giant reference to Alice in Wonderland?  The little girl is annoying..and the film tries too hard to consistantly express her emotions about everybody and everything around her. She comes off as a brat.  A little toothless brat.  Like if Disney's Alice was cross-bread with that auful austrailian kid from Walkabout... this is the end result.  Just an utterly uncool character.Well.. I can go on and on about this film.  It's really good if all you want is cool special effects, great music, and all-together wonderful eye candy coupled with great early performances by actors who are now household names. It's VERY good if you JUST watch the scene from where the balloon lifts off.. then track skip to the last battle.. WOW.  WHAT A BATTLE!OK.. Byeeee "},{"Title":"Kinda like an episode of Monty Python without the laughs","Date":"20 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Monty Python troupe veterans Eric Idle and Terry Gilliam team up again for an epic comedy adventure, one of many screen versions, about the eccentric Baron Munchausen. This 1989 Columbia Pictures version presents a fine cast (including an amusing cameo by Robin Williams) but little else in the way of being a fully enjoyable film.   "},{"Title":"A rewarding waste of studio cash...","Date":"6 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Amiably loopy Gilliam extravaganza which ran way over budget and unfortunatly ended up one of the greatest cinematic flops of all time. Financially speaking that is, since repeat viewings on television and video have done much to help garner a cult status; the film itself, though flawed and over ambitious, cannot help but be tremendous fun. Talented players, an amusing script that pastiches the nature of myth and celebrity and typically luscious visuals all manage to coexist peacefully for most of the time, and the result is almost always eye catching and grin worthy.3 1/2 out of 5 "},{"Title":"A gaudily wrapped empty box.","Date":"25 June 2006","Score":"8 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Apparently the producers spent $50,000,000 on this, and there is little justification for it. An extraordinary waste of money, Gilliam's film is not so much confusing as confused. It suffers from an identity crisis, treading a tightrope between children's fantasy, action and comedy, and falls off it repeatedly. As a comedy it's rarely funny, as an action film it's not suspenseful enough, and as a children's fantasy it fails to transport the viewer into its world (and is not really appropriate for children). The film's only redeeming quality is its set design; there is some merit in the baroque visuals. However, the combination of a poor script (improvised?), tedious plot and ham acting have joined forces to drown this misadventure. "},{"Title":"Great cast, average movie","Date":"25 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" This is a child's tale, seen through a child's eyes. We see the adventures of a great hero, doing unbelievable things (and making a fool of the rational man that doesn't think this could happen), we laugh a little, we find some moral stories and advice, but in the end, it's just a flashy tale with no real outcome.I mean, for a fairy tale is a good movie, but as movie scripts go and as movie feelings go, this is average or below.The cast is great, though, this being one of those movies with a famous theme (no matter how ridiculous) and with a bunch of famous actors, so people come see it. John Neville is playing the baron, but you can see Oliver Reed, Eric Idle, Valentina Cortese (who, at this time, has starred in 99 movies), Jonathan Price, Uma Thurman, Robin Williams, Sting (in an incredibly little role). Original Music is also by Eric Idle (and not by Sting, lol).My conclusion is that Brazil and 12 Monkeys were way better and that this kind of movies (although trying to be revived these days) are better left for the puppet animatronics of the 80's and that time. "},{"Title":"Munchausen Is Bizarre","Date":"28 December 2006","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I've just re-watched this movie after seeing it as a kid. And quite frankly its more bizarre than ever before. A typical Terry Gilliam movie; trying to cram too many good ideas into a 110-minute movie and ending up with a lot of missed opportunities. There are some great fantasy sequences and some excellent acting on offer, but there seems to be the underlying impression that everyone is bored, and as result are trying that little bit too hard. The effects may seem hokey in our CGI/digital age but for the time are quite remarkable, the sets looks sumptuous and credit has to go to the production team, but even so it reminds me of an expensive pantomime pretending to be the next Midsumer Nights Dream. 4 out of 10. 3 of those because you get to see Uma Thurman naked! "},{"Title":"Immature Twaddle","Date":"26 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  The person that described this movie as a mess was right on. But besides the fact that Gilliam's directing was nightmarish, the story drones on and on and wastes a lot of good talent along the way. The movie is likely interesting to Python fans who never grew up, or maybe to someone who has recently discovered that they like the effects of peyote but can't seem to find any. It is one of those films that you will keep watching because you know there are some big stars, but you soon realize that you have wasted a couple hours of your life on sophomoric humor and an inane plot. Watch this movie if you are still annoying the crap out of people with your constant repetition of lines from The Holy Grail, but otherwise save yourself some pain. "}{"Title":"Peter Jackson is a Thief","Date":"8 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" The film was awesome! The visual effects were spectacular. So, why did I see the same thing in Lord of the Rings? Huh? Check out the battle scenes. Does the battle of Helms Deep and the battle for Gondor on the third movie seem just a bit too much like the battle scenes in the Adventures? Watch it. The city is stormed and the Turks use ladders to climb up over the walls, they have large wheeling soldier carriers, and they even have a battering ram at the gate. The bad guys on the ground even look like LOR.There is also another part of the movie where the Baron whistles for his horse. Looks like Gandalf whistling for Shadowfax. So, the guy with the eye power sounds like Gollum. He even says Leave and never come back and he has that crazy raspy voice. I used to have respect for Peter Jackson....I love the Lord of the Rings, but now...The Lord of the Rings is just a lie to me now. "},{"Title":"One of the worst movies i've ever seen!","Date":"20 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This film was absolutely terrible. Me & 4 of my mates went to see it when it first came out & we were sitting at the cinema & about 20-30 minutes into the film we all looked at each other & nodded & then we all proceeded to walk out. This has been my only ever time I've walked out of a film! "},{"Title":"Oh here's a plot...oh wait what about that, oh and....","Date":"31 March 2004","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  They wanted me to talk.  Yes, that's right talk.  I said, forget it! What I tell you!  then...oh dear god, then, this film...NO!!!...I awaken, shaking...It was just a dream; dear god thank god.  It did end, somewhere, in that dingy movie theatre lobby; My face buried in a tub of nasty plastic popcorn, staring at the ticket girl's shoes or the rain outside, apound upon the pavement black...resurrection from the mielous pit of icy dark deathmaw, reborn from this sorrowful, meandering horrorshow spectre, burst forth accostive to stand consessive -- abrowse in candy and popcorn and sodas of all kinds. Herethere stood I, the disquieting tangentalist nightmare in roaring doom past.  Reaching slowly, in redemptive hunger, for that bright and cheery yellow tub of sunshine goodness, hope and happiness and love that only cheap stale popcorn can bring. "},{"Title":"Incomprehensible.","Date":"18 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  An incomprensible mess of a movie. The acting sucks, the plot sucks and the story sucks. Just plain unbelievably bad. No wonder Robin Williams wanted to be cast as uncredited. About the only good scene in the whole movie was at the beginning when the fake sultan was told to go on stage and it turned into the real story. Good peice of editing, after that it all went down hill. What was Robin Williams smoking!!! "},{"Title":"One of my biggest disappointments","Date":"4 August 2004","Score":"4 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  When I started watching this film, I was very excited. It was directed by Terry Gilliam and it was a fantasy film, and this combination should work perfectly. When the movie ended however, I found it to be a failure in most of its aspects.The acting was not over the top (except for Robin Williams as The Moon King) but it worked. Directing is disciplined and imaginative. Absolute Terry Gilliam style and I like it. The visuals were good, though the SFX showed their age a little bit. So what was missing? I would have to say atmosphere. Scenario is so burdened with fantasy elements that even the final scene, where reality meets fiction, loses its purpose.Also, the portrayal of the Turks were completely inaccurate, aside from being ordinary stereotypical prejudiced western point of view. If you were to get that fictional, why not create an imaginary name for the enemy(as that was the only true thing about Turks in that film)? I didn't like this film. Maybe because I expected too much of it. I'm giving it 5/10, only on behalf of the effort spent to create it.By the way, elephants in the Turkish army? Arabian architecture in Istanbul? Don't make me laugh. I'm surprised Turks spoke Turkish in the movie.  "}]