[{"Title":"You got to love the idea","Date":"20 February 2002","Score":"19 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, History","Review":"  Young Einstein is not a great movie. It's not really a good movie either. But it's an original, low-budget and very likeable movie.Of course, it's all complete nonsense. The plot involves Yahoo Serious splitting beer atoms, inventing the electric violin and the surfing board, running into the cute Marie Curie and having a very bad hair day, and is of course full of anachronisms and other factual errors.But does that really matter? No, of course not. This movie takes a very light and novel approach to making a movie about science. Not all the jokes are good. In fact, most are pretty bad. But at least most of them are original. And the parts were Young Einstein explains some concepts of relativity are great ! The only explanation I can give for the low rating this movie currently has is that most people simply don't understand the jokes. If you don't know what splitting an atom is, and if you don't know that beer-atoms are none-existent, then you probably hate this movie. Otherwise, it's worth a look.**1/2 out of **** stars   "},{"Title":"Some creative genius here","Date":"6 March 1999","Score":"19 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, History","Review":"  Hats off to Yahoo Serious and his gang.  This zany movie is well scripted and well acted. Scenery and costumes and special effects also done to a very high standard.The humour seems to emanate naturally, and it has its own originality and spontaneity. Science history clashing with  Australian heritage is preposterous but this adds to the excitement and energy oozing from the movie.Legendary movie.    "},{"Title":"One of the most underrated films in this database","Date":"25 August 2001","Score":"14 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, History","Review":"  'Young Einstein', as well as 'Reckless Kelly' certainly don't belong on any 'worst films' list. These movies are better, by any artistic criteria, than half of the films on the IMDB 'best 250' list. Yahoo Serious is a refreshingly original and creative artist with a highly developed sense of political and social consciousness. Enjoy his work with both eyes and mind wide open. "},{"Title":"The movie that changed history..........Almost.","Date":"18 January 1999","Score":"14 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, History","Review":"  Not everyone will be interested in YOUNG EINSTEIN because it's too goofy and offbeat for their liking. It's a smart, reasonable production from an Aussie with an imaginative sense of humor. Who believed history would have changed with the invention of rock-and-roll music in 1906? We all know in real life that Albert Einstein didn't create a math formula for electric guitar noises, but this is a satiric approach to a world-famous individual who came up with E-equals-emcee-squared. Then again, Yahoo Serious might have invented kitty-kat pies! A very unique, and practical talent from the guy. Take it or leave it.  "},{"Title":"It's a Great Invention","Date":"24 June 2002","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, History","Review":"   I have to say that this movie is as comedic as they come. I mean every time I watch this movie I always have a smile on my face. And every scene is just funny as hell. I love this movie. But there are some people that will disagree with me. But I still recommend this movie.     This movie was conceived by Yahoo Serious (who plays Albert Einstein and also directed and wrote the movie). This is his best invention of all. He could come up with a million good ideas, but he could never surpass this hilarious movie.    So, see this movie (if you can find it).  "},{"Title":"Who cares about historical facts?","Date":"6 November 2005","Score":"22 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, History","Review":" I'm big Einstein fan, so why not love the movie which tells his story. I have read lot's of Albert, so I don't even want to watch again some historical document(film) of him. I seriously think that this movie tells me about Einsteins character more than 10 books, because I see his attitude to world has been very similarly with this movie character.The movie have all elements to be loved in a good movie, romance, science, comedy and crazy inventions made by lovely and clever personality from our close history. Even Marie Curie can't resist his authentic power to be that little rock on the seashore, in big Universum.And peoples who hate this one, please, go back to watch The fast and the furious. I know from past that they-kind are more interested about motors than brain acceleration... "},{"Title":"90 minutes of Silliness","Date":"19 August 2003","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, History","Review":"  Others have condemned this film as codswallop. If you're one for historical fact, you shouldn't watch it. That doesn't make it a bad film, however. It's one of those films that just to be silly. Albert Einstein is a Tasmanian apple farmer who surfs, E=mc2 is pronounced Emck and is used to put the bubbles in beer, and the chef at the mental assylum puts live kittens in a pie (Don't worry, Albert saves them). It's a good movie for watching during a pajama party. The director may be Yahoo Serious, but this movie is anything but.  "},{"Title":"Corny but funny","Date":"14 April 2004","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, History","Review":"  I just saw the movie on Starz. Although it was corny and I can see why many didn't like it, I just couldn't stop laughing. Whether the jokes were good or bad, I laughed and that is good enough for me to say it was good. I was also surprised by how well done it was. I mean the quality was excellent. I guess if I was in a bad mood the movie wouldn't be half as good, but I thought it to be very enjoyable and would recommend for a movie for the parents and kids to enjoy. Of course everything in it is historically incorrect but that's the fun part. I give Yahoo Serious a lot of credit for making this a good flick. But I wouldn't go as far to say it was the best movie of all time and a beautiful piece of art but a movie doesn't have to be beautiful to be good. I at least got a rise out of it and would rather watch this 20 times than to see Justin and Kelly. I hope whoever is interested or already saw it will/did too.  "},{"Title":"I Think He Owns A Saucepan","Date":"7 December 2000","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, History","Review":"  As a writer, director, and lead role in this movie, Yahoo Serious not only made a lot of money, he made a great movie. Young Einstein entertains children, and is off beat enough for adults to enjoy too. The slightly sarcastic direction, and good soundtrack should be enough for everyone to give it a chance. "},{"Title":"See this film on it's Soundtrack Merit only","Date":"26 August 2003","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, History","Review":"  I saw this film when I was a teen living in Great Britain and for some really odd unexplainable reason, the soundtrack has still stuck with me. The song played during the credits, Ice-House - Great Southern Land is by far one of my all time favorite songs.  I found the soundtrack on Amazon a few years back and i play it regulary. The film itself isn't the greatest but I do enjoy watching the Journey to the Mainland, not just for the song but for the amazing camera work and scenery. Yahoo Serious' career never really took off and he's kinda like Carrot Top. You either love him or you hate him.  "}{"Title":"Sometimes a movie depends on your mood and the group you are with","Date":"6 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, History","Review":" I saw this the first time at the theatre on a cheap Tuesday showing - it had received attention from national media for being a romp. I knew what I was getting with this, as did the rest of the audience, and we got good enjoyment from all of the jokes. Honestly, about half the time I go to the Yahoo! website, after nearly 20 years of seeing this movie, I think of it because of the name of the instigator. And I still think positively of it.I left the theatre and went to my local pub before heading home, and the bartender poured me my usual. I looked at the glass and just broke out laughing, watching the beer atoms splitting in the glass.I rented the movie a few years later and watched it at home. It wasn't as good, but that was probably because I was alone. Pity. I want to share it with my fianceé, however, as she is from the Czech Republic, where Einstein taught for a while and a land that takes its beer very seriously. "},{"Title":"All-timer, beautiful, imaginative story that's also funny.","Date":"16 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, History","Review":"  There is no scene in this movie that isn't beautiful art.  If it was a relatively low-budget film, you couldn't tell it. It was made up for by traveling to gorgeous scenes. It has the look of an expensive film.  Odile Le Clezio, a French actress, is a darling as Young Einstein's romantic interest.  All of the actors and actresses were superb, top drawer, flawless.  The talent of Yahoo Serious, who starred in and created this movie, is awesome.  The scenes and acting are so good that this movie continually evokes the most wonderful memories between repeated viewings. I've seen it maybe 30 times, mainly because it's a must-see video I share with new friends. Although funny, this movie isn't goofy. This is a witty script of wonderful, down-to-earth themes.  The music's great.  The gags are first-rate, not only in being unexpected and very interesting, but in being wonderfully acted and beautifully photographed.  I don't tire of seeing these gags time after time.  Everyone I've shown this movie to loves it. It's an all-timer, one of a kind, a classy, colorful, imaginative gem. Yahoo Serious is awesomely gifted and, thankfully for us, independent in his creations.  This is NOT a movie hacked out by bored corporate committee members filling in quotas of stupid juvenile formulas.  This isn't a spoof, either. It's a unique work of art produced by a young genius who uses for a story line the idea what if Einstein was born on an Australian farm. The real Albert Einstein would have given this imaginative work of art an enthusiastic standing ovation. "},{"Title":"Great fun, take it for what it is","Date":"3 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, History","Review":" This movie was never intended to set the acting world alight. Face it, how many 80's comedy movies were? But it is great fun and showcases a bit of creativity on Serious' part. For some reviewers to go as far as labelling it the worse movie ever, however, is nothing but an overreaction.Sure, the premise is far-fetched - as in, completely historically inaccurate - but the same can be said for most adaptations of true stories these days. Young Einstein just doesn't hide the fact like others do.If you want an inoffensive, fun and entertaining movie which intertwines the showcasing of the Australian landscape with an unlikely scenario - as in, splitting a beer atom with a hammer and chisel - then by all means, give Young Einstein a try! "},{"Title":"Great soundtrack, great fun","Date":"22 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, History","Review":"  Take this movie as it was meant - Australians having a good laugh at themselves. Ok not the greatest movie about - but the soundtrack alone makes up for it - not to mention the great shots of Australian landscapes (and this from a Kiwi). "},{"Title":"An underrated gem!","Date":"29 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, History","Review":"  I have quite literally grew up on this film since I was 11 years old, and no matter how many times I watch it on video, it still stands up to the test of time!keep your eyes open throughout for small satire moments, some of which are subtle enough for adults to enjoy, while still delivering the slapstick that Yahoo is quite talented in--remember at the time of release in the US, he was 35! )  "},{"Title":"Whew . . .  This movie . . .","Date":"3 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, History","Review":"  Young Einstein bounces back and forth between the heights of imagination and creativity and the absolute depths of ludicrous vulgarity like no other film I have ever seen.  The plot, in which the eponymous character- transplanted from Germany to Australia- Discovers the theory of relativity in the process of making beer, and invents rock and roll (despite the fact that it's only 1906).  Im sure there was some sort of satire intended when this was written, but it was definitely lost in the transition from script to celluloid.  What remains is a series of scenes that almost amount to a narrative, some of them funny, some definitely not.  The only thing that is consisten is the scope of the production- the sets, costumes, and cinematography are all devastatingly beautiful.  How so much effort (and, from the looks of things, money) came to be lavished on a story this ridiculous, I will never know.  Despite this, I have to applaud the sheer imagination evident in the script, which includes Charles Darwin and Marie Curie as major characters; nonetheless, the elegance and creativity do not compliment the more ridiculous aspects of the film.  It certainly is a weird combination, however. "},{"Title":"Fun and exciting!","Date":"1 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, History","Review":"  Combining quirky Australian humor with excellent music, this movie is my favorite. The actors are top-notch and the story is zany and fun. It didn't do too well over here, though. Why? This is one of those movies you have to watch a few times to catch everything in it. There's lots of little slapstick shots that you don't catch at first. I think it's excellent, and I hope it's released on a widescreen DVD someday. "},{"Title":"Wacky and hilarious, if you like that kind of thing","Date":"9 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, History","Review":"   Though I love this film dearly and have for many years crusaded fervently on its behalf, I have to admit that every single person I've persuaded to watch it has sat there for about half an hour with their mouths open, turned to me and said This is appalling (or words to that effect) and then paid no further attention, leaving me to giggle through the rest of it by myself. Imagine how glad I am the to find people here who have as much respect and admiration for Mr Serious as I do. There are more moments of original, inspired, unique, hilarious comedy in this film than in just about any other I've seen. The story is both a framework on which a massive heap of great sight gags and comic dialogue are built, and also one huge gag in itself. Serious' character performance is superbly charming and funny, and the rest of the film is filled with great acting, but it's the visuals that impress most, it's really quite astounding that such great production values could go into such a non-mainstream film, and be used so effectively.  This is a marvelous film that anyone thinking of taking up film-making should be forced to check out - it would certainly improve the general standard of movies today. If you've not seen it yet, do; if you have, see it again; if you can, check out Reckless Kelly too - though not as great as Einstein it's up there, and looks just beautiful. Can't wait for the next one. Having said all that, unless you're a very special person indeed, you may very well hate it. "},{"Title":"An excellent, fun, and amazing film I truly enjoy","Date":"21 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, History","Review":"  Young Einstein is one of the most unusual and creative films I've ever seen. It is definitely one of my all time favorite Australian films.  Constantly in action and hilarious the film does many clever things which often get overlooked.  For instance the invention of Rock 'n Roll serves to feed a great theme in movie.  Albert Einstein is a genius far ahead of his time and his attempts to introduce Rock 'n Roll and electric instruments serve to illustrate that genius is often not only misunderstood but completely unappreciated.  This is in fact one of the major themes of the film - his parents don't understand him, the scientist with Marie Currie, and her teacher simply don't understand him or his theories. This film's wonderful scenery, marvellous sets, and fantastic camera work often give the impression of an extremely expensive film.  However this film was anything but!   Yahoo Serious pulled together this hilarious and thought provoking film on a very small budget. I have seen this film dozens of times now, on cable and in little art house theatres, and it always makes me laugh and gets my spirits a little bit up.  It is definitely a film ahead of it's time, and therefore perhaps just as misunderstood and unappreciated as it's title character.     "},{"Title":"One of my fave 80s movies","Date":"17 April 2003","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, History","Review":"  Yahoo Serious has probably become quite a bit of a joke, which is a shame because his debut effort is more entertaining than a lot of what Hollywood puts out these days.  Serious plays Albert Einstein as though he were an Australian from deep in the outback.  He makes his way to America to try and patent his invention and meets and falls in love with Marie Currie on the way.  The movie is very offbeat but in a good way and very entertaining if you let it be.  I have always loved this movie and the soundtrack is excellent for any 80s music fan.  Serious went downhill with Reckless Kelly (which isn't a bad movie in and of itself) but got really bad with Mr. Accident.  If you want to see a good, funny, and just entertaining film, you can't go wrong with Young Einstein unless you have completely lost the child inside you. "}{"Title":"It's Okay, Mary.., They're Only Electrons!","Date":"10 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, History","Review":" This is one of the most enjoyable romps I have ever seen. An excellent and difficult production, bolstered by a great performance by Yahoo Serious. I have watched this move many times and never tire of it. It is always fresh, alive and funny. What is most heart-warming about the film is that Mr. Einstein never really puts his goal ahead of the present moment, which he always lives to the maximum. Serious's unassuming naivety in matters of deception or mundane issues makes his character all the more likable, and at the end, when he grounds and defuses a nuclear reactor by means of a home-made electric guitar, there-by saving the world, we are all cheering for him. One of the best and most eccentric comedies ever. It will appeal to the otherworldly people, the world-over. "},{"Title":"Awesome","Date":"8 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, History","Review":"  I loved the movie.  It may have been out of date, and the sound quality may not have been to good, but overall the movie is great, who would ever think of creating a movie like this?  It is definitely one of a kind, and I am proud to own it!! "},{"Title":"It's a hoot! and the science is good too!","Date":"14 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, History","Review":"  Yahoo can't be serious in this wonderful film about splitting beer atoms. Nevertheless, it has the best explanation of relativity I've ever seen, and as an amateur I can't find fault with the rest of the (incidental) science in the movie either, so I recommend it to physics teachers as well as to anyone else with a sense of humor.If you're looking for a movie in which scientists are the good guys and the fact that they are all in an insane asylum says more about society than about them, this is it.Of course, science gets all mixed up with rock & roll, beer & Australia, but that's as it should be. "},{"Title":"This is an awesome movie with a wicked soundtrack.","Date":"10 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, History","Review":"  Young Einstein is a movie that all Australians must see. It has a thoroughly engaging story and is held together by the irepressible slapstick, wit and charm of Yahoo Serious. The scenes set in turn of the century Sydney are ladened with the obligatory location shots but this is in no way cheesey as it portrays a much seemier side to the city than is the norm. The plot's completely wacky unbelievability is not an issue as the viewer is to concerned in seeing whether or not it all comes together for Albert. "},{"Title":"Excellent, a must see for everyone","Date":"21 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, History","Review":"  Wonderful movie, and I should know, I practically grew up on it.  Yahoo Serious uses an excellent amount of satire to portray a genius.  Although not even close to true events (splitting the beer atom to make bubbles in beer, Einstein being Australian), it makes the point that Albert Einstein never took his work as seriously as everyone else did; he just had questions that he wanted answered and he wanted to enjoy life.  A must see for all. "},{"Title":"Pure Genius!","Date":"9 February 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, History","Review":" I almost refuse to believe that there was no connection whatsoever with any of the membership of Monty Python's Flying Circus. Since I purchased the VHS version at a sale, without any previous knowledge of its content, I have remembered how to roll on the floor with uncontrollable laughter, as I had not done for so many years of humor depredation. Splitting the beer atom on an anvil with hammer and chisel causes just such a reaction. The kitty pie scene is another of my favorites that evokes the memory of Monty Python style of humor. And the lizard that roars is enough to make milk come out my nose. Also, there are innumerable background elements that are nearly impossible to notice, let alone appreciate fully, on the first viewing. Multiple viewings are required and highly recommended. Pay close attention to every detail, as there is absolutely nothing in the background that is truly insignificant. This movie is simply drenched with cleverly written and acted subtle comedy that is all-too-often not noticed by the average viewer. The soundtrack is especially highlighted by the music of the Australian Goanna band, with the very appropriate cut Great Southern Land. I had already owned that original album since 1983, and instantly recognized the song when I first saw Young Einstein only recently.I highly recommend this movie to all TRUE Monty Python fans. "},{"Title":"Funny Stuff","Date":"27 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, History","Review":"  This was one of the first movies I ever saw at the cinema and I loved it. Yahoo Serious comes from the same suburb as me here in Newcastle, and this is one of his best roles. Plenty of slapstick and one-liners, it is a light and amusing film that suits any age.There's plenty of appearances from aussie personalities, ranging from musicians to comedians, as well as lots of local landmarks around newcastle and sydney. Keep an eye out for the cat pie, a delicacy in the mental asylum in which the main character is placed.Beware the movie is quite 'aussie', Brits and Yanks may have a hard time with some of it ;) "},{"Title":"Fun Fun Fun Film","Date":"21 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, History","Review":"  I've seen this movie countless times.  A great and hilarious romp through what could have really been Albert Einstein's youth (in another realm perhaps!)  Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Born and Raised in Europe","Date":"30 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, History","Review":"  A question was asked to a sophomore history class at a local high school in Massachusetts. The question was simple. Where was Albert Einstein born? Out of a class of 45 students, 45 answered Australia. The reason? All saw the movie Young Einstein and assumed since he was portrayed as a farmer growing up in Tazmania, that the young Albert Einstein was as an Australian. Each student was wrong since Einstein was born and grew up in and around Germany. In fact, I don't think Einstein ever stepped foot on Australian land let alone grew up in the country. Just like this little known (maybe unknown) fact about Einstein, the movie Young Einstein is nothing more than laughable. Factual, not exactly. Funny, absolutely! "},{"Title":"Great movie , but what a name, Yahoo Serious!","Date":"6 April 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, History","Review":" This movie has plenty to go on comedy, action, and music. I know the plot was well made, but the actor who played Einstein? I had a hard time stomaching it. Yahoo Serious? Is THAT a name? It seems to be. Seeems like he's the one who's got more attention in the U.S. than any other Australian actors around. Except, Olivia Newton-John, that is. Yes, Eistein discovered relativity, but rock and roll? All I can say is Genius, pure genius! Being put in a nuthouse was more harm than good when they were worse than the loonies there. Cat pie? Maybe ALF would like that. That place should have been put out of business and the people be put in their places. When the inevitable occurred, it was up to Einstein to fix it with his wacky invention. It nearly killed him, but luck was on his side! I think at the end Einstein should start a rock 'n roll group called The IQs. Rock on Einstein! Rating 2.5 out of 5 stars. "}{"Title":"Brilliant!","Date":"3 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, History","Review":"  A brilliant movie but only for those who enjoy the likes of Monty Python and see the humour in the absurd. This movie has a dry wit, a wonderful imagination, and takes clever pokes at history and how it might have been (or not).Australia has taken the British humour that is its heritage and has blended it with a little of the colonial ruggedness and disrespect for authority that marks the national culture. An original and most often hilarious mix.Fans of formulaic, antiseptic comedy where the punch line is obvious two scenes before it arrives, may not see the humour here. Don't waste your time. "},{"Title":"Cute","Date":"1 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, History","Review":"  Albert Einstein, a Tasmanian who splits the beer atom?Yes, it's a silly film, but it's also fun throughout and worth seeing for many of the inventions and the in jokes.  The mad scientists ward at the lunatic asylum particularly!Fun and games, and worth a look. "},{"Title":"Australian Albert Einstein","Date":"28 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, History","Review":"  Young Einstein is a great Australian flick.It tells about >the life of Albert Einstein when he was young.The movie pretty >much changes the history, like when Albert discovers the beer >making process and invents rock'n roll in the year of 1906.Yahoo Serious takes his role seriously as young Einstein...or not.His >acting is great in the movie but the movie itself isn't too seriously taken.And better that way.Young Einstein is a funny comedy. "},{"Title":"rocks my world","Date":"7 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, History","Review":" I love this movie. Its just wonderful. I base my life on it. *sigh* Rockn' Roll MUSIC!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! Give Me Some More ROCK'N ROLL MUSIC! OH YEAH! ROCKN' ROLL MUSIC!!!!!!! APPLES, HILA MONSTERS, GUTARS, ELECTRICELFIED VIOLINES! Weird HAIR CUTS, KANGAROOS, TASMANIAN TIGERS, AUSTRAILA!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!Good-nest do you think its long enough? all i wanted to say was that it was a great film. They don't like caps, they don't like exclamation points, everything has to be spelled right. I have the right to say what i want and not use proper English, ain't i right? So whats the weather like on planet Pluto? "},{"Title":"I'm actually dumber for having watched this","Date":"15 December 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, History","Review":" Instead of reading my review, you're actually probably best off reading the reviews for those that rated this movie positively, as you'll note that your head will hurt trying to read them. That's what watching this movie does to you, it makes you write like them.Young Einstein is a moronic mix of 80s clichés and the kind of dumb, low brow humor that makes Dumb & Dumber and Billy Madison look like Royal Tenenbaums.I love myself some dumb humor, I can even laugh at some films that most people bash for being extraordinarily stupid like the aforementioned Billy Madison, but this... just no. The jokes are unoriginal, unfunny, and moronic, the characters all behave like complete idiots, and there's really no plot. It's just an excuse for a bunch of terrible puns and poorly done slapstick.Please, avoid this film, a mind is a terrible thing to waste. There's much less harmful things for your brain out there. Even huffing the paint used for the DVD-cover and case is probably better for your brain cells than watching this. "},{"Title":"Worst Movie Ever","Date":"9 September 2010","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, History","Review":" The words stupid, boring, senseless, and unfunny come to mind.I can find something positive to say about most movies, but this is the only movie I've ever walked out of in my 43 years of life.The problem is primarily with the script, but having Yahoo Serious telegraphing every (questionable) punchline doesn't help. Essentially, the entire movie revolves around this nut-bag splitting the beer atom. Assuming you can suspend belief in the periodic table, the entire script doggedly revolves around the impossible premise, which does nothing to enhance the unlikely and inane adventures of the thoroughly unlikable, obviously-deficient (but supposedly genius) slacker, Yahoo Serious, as he attempts to patent the discovery.If your IQ is higher than 50, do NOT see this movie. "},{"Title":"Worst Film ever","Date":"22 January 2004","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, History","Review":"  This film is wacky and zany but just isn't funny. I yawned and cringed my way through it. It truly is the worst film that I have ever seen.I went to see it at the cinema on the strength of the trailer and persuaded my cousin that it looked better than Dead Poets Society which was also showing. That was my crime, it was also my punishment. My cousin still complains about it today. "},{"Title":"Yahoo Serious Embarrassing Australia Through Film","Date":"25 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, History","Review":"  Funnily enough, at the end of term our Science teacher brought this into our class to watch for a treat.  I don't care particularly about the history-boggling, what pained me most was the insipid plot, the excruciatingly acting and Yahoo Serious generally jumping about and frightening small children. He certainly has a scary face.The soundtrack, however, was excellent, and I was pleased to see Flacco and The Sandman (unfortunately their real names escape me) making a welcome appearance, with Sandman's monotonous tones bringing at least a smile to my lips. But that aside, this movie was an abomination, Yahoo Serious is really terrifying, and it's no wonder he isn't making films anymore, considering the critique he received on all three.  "},{"Title":"Quite Simply The worst film i have ever seen","Date":"20 June 1999","Score":"4 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, History","Review":"  I would like to say i have seen Many film's , maybe about 2,000  so you could say i am a bit of an expert in my own household ! So if you only take one peice of advice from let it be this...Don't waste 90 minutes of your life and watch this film, it is the worst piece of codswallop i have ever had the misfortune to see , it makes the police academy films look like masterpieces of our time.  Just DONT BOTHER,. "},{"Title":"Lame","Date":"8 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, History","Review":"  This movie will only appeal to five year old's. It is so lame, and completely dated by now, that it can only be seen as a historical document. The sound effects are so over used, you will scream 'shut up!' at it. Serious needs to go to comedy school for a couple of years, for he needs to learn that a lizard that makes a dinosaur noise isn't funny, and that being literally kicked out of somewhere and accompanied by a voice saying and stay out! isn't funny. There have been a lot of great Australian films, and this isn't one of them. I kind of feel a bit sorry for Yahoo Serious, I mean, anyone will a name like that has to have issues in the 'being funny' department. 3/10. "}]