[{"Title":"The Best Two Coreys Film","Date":"18 November 2002","Score":"14 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  While the latter 1980s were absolutely gagged with lame body-switching comedies like the listless Vice Versa and Like Father, Like Son, I found something entirely different and actually inspiring in Dream a Little Dream. Buoyed by strong performances, Dream is not at all what you'd expect it would be. Much to my surprise, it is actually a smart, witty, intelligent and touching look at old age and adolecence by way of new age philosophy.   Corey Feldman gives one of his best performances, and no, that's not a joke, and Haim is never better anywhere than he is in his small role as the oddball best friend Dinger. Obviously it didn't hurt to have a three time Oscar nominee like the late, great Jason Robards on board.   This movie really does have something for everyone, and I'm being a hundred percent serious. So many oh so serious types like to bash movies like this, but I'm a writer, and I love good, interesting movies, and I truly see this as one of them.   What a terrific, quirky little gem produced by the Two Coreys before midnight, January 1st, 1990 when their careers suddenly spiralled down the toilet.   Funny, touching, and utterly enjoyable. "},{"Title":"A must see 80's film!","Date":"14 July 2003","Score":"14 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Even if you're not an 80's movie fan you'll love Dream A Little Dream. I saw this movie for the first time when I was 10 years old and I still can't get enough of it. Dream A Little Dream is a drama, romance and a little bit of comedy rolled into one. The writers brought so much to this movie where the young are joined to the old by tragedy. In Dream A Little Dream the power of dreams come to a reality where the young and the old are taught the lessons of life and love once they walk in the shoes of the opposite. They couldn't have picked better actors for this movie. What would be better than having one of the corey's in an 80's movie? The answer is having both Corey Haim and Corey Feldman. For a change, Corey Feldman plays a more serious role while Corey Haim is still funny as usual.The Corey's aren't the only actors in Dream A Little Dream that are familiar to the big screen. Movie veterans Harry Dean Stanton and Jason Robards bring back their old movie charm while Saturday Night Live alumni Victoria Jackson was just starting out her film career. "},{"Title":"The Best Two Coreys Film","Date":"18 November 2002","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  While the latter 1980s were absolutely gagged with lame body-switching comedies like the listless Vice Versa and Like Father, Like Son, I found something entirely different and actually inspiring in Dream a Little Dream. Buoyed by strong performances, Dream is not at all what you'd expect it would be. Much to my surprise, it is actually a smart, witty, intelligent and touching look at old age and adolecence by way of new age philosophy.   Corey Feldman gives one of his best performances, and no, that's not a joke, and Haim is never better anywhere than he is in his small role as the oddball best friend Dinger. Obviously it didn't hurt to have a three time Oscar nominee like the late, great Jason Robards on board.   This movie really does have something for everyone, and I'm being a hundred percent serious. So many oh so serious types like to bash movies like this, but I'm a writer, and I love good, interesting movies, and I truly see this as one of them.   What a terrific, quirky little gem produced by the Two Coreys before midnight, January 1st, 1990 when their careers suddenly spiralled down the toilet.   Funny, touching, and utterly enjoyable. "},{"Title":"A dream to remember!","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Before I begin commenting, I would like to point out that this film was a very hard find.  It took the video store my brother works at a week to get it, and it was well worth the wait!Now, with that out of the way, here's my review.Bizarre dream sequences are only a small part of this fabulous fantasy comedy starring Corey Feldman, Corey Haim, Jason Robards, Piper Laurie, and Meredith Salenger.Bobby Keller (Corey Feldman) lives his life day to day, as he puts it.  He is failing all his classes, his parents don't talk to him, and he is head over heels in love with Lainie (Meredith Salenger), although he dates Shelly.  But, an accident involving Bobby and Lainie and Coleman and Geena (Jason Robards and Piper Laurie) causes Coleman to take over Bobby's mind and body, and part of Geena's mind takes over Lainie.  Now, Coleman has to find a way to switch back and get his wife back. But, Bobby isn't so willing to, unless Coleman can correct his screwed-up existance, while helping him to get Lainie.Fave scenesThe opening scene intercut with the opening credits involving Bobby and Dinger (Corey Haim) talking about Bobby's infatuation with Lainie, as well as singing the blues and why Dinger's leg was broken (reason his mom ran him over with her Volvo), the accident scene, the dream sequences, the scene where Bobby discovers that he's Coleman, and when they were having a hard time going to sleep, the scene in the gym when they were dancing to the rock version of Dream a Little Dream of Me, and the closing credits with Bobby and Coleman dancing to the same song.  I guess you can say that I enjoyed EVERYTHING!!This was a wonderfully romantic movie with an original plot. It was adorable, and Corey Feldman was kinda cute,despite the Michael Jackson look, something he was into for a few years.  The Dream sequences wre really interesting, filmed in a strange blue tint. The movie also had an interesting plot, and great music (especially Frank Sinatra's Young at Heart and both versions on Dream a Little Dream of Me.).  I highly recommend it to anyone who likes the two Coreys, good acting, creativity, or body switching movies. I'm a little disappointed that some people did not care for it too much, because it was wonderful and mysterious, and very cute (I can't stress that enough.)This is one dream you'll truly want to remember!) "},{"Title":"A strange, but funny family film.","Date":"28 August 2003","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The third film to feature both Corey Feldman and Corey Haim, this time Feldman is the lead, and Haim gets to play the second fiddle character. Feldman plays Bobby, who likes to take a short cut through an old man's yard. One day, he gets into a bike accident in the middle of the night in his yard with his future love interest (Meredith Salenger). When Bobby awakes he realizes that he is in the old man's body. Haim of course dosen't believe it and frequently says his usual sarcastic lines while William McNamara plays a high school jock who is kind of the on-and-off bully/friend to Bobby. Of course we can't forget the list of veteran actors in the film, we have Academy Award winners Jason Robards and Piper Laurie playing the elderly couple, character actor Harry Dean Stanton plays the weird neighbor and TV veteran actress Susan Blakely also has a small cameo role. I liked the film and the hard rock in roll music in the film is a blast! It can be a little hard to follow and confussing at times, but it's a fine family film.  "},{"Title":"One of my favorites","Date":"11 July 2000","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" A terrific original plot, great acting.  Meredith Salenger does an excellent job as Lainie, and Corey Feldman does one of his best performances (several scenes are outside of his normal routine, and he does them very well).  A very good combination of romance, seriousness, a little comedy, and a touch of weirdness.  "},{"Title":"Something a little bit different","Date":"13 January 2011","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" 80's teenage comedies come a dime a dozen, but while watching 'Dream A Little Dream' you'll realise it really stands out compared to many of the others.Written, directed and produced by Marc Rocco, who also wrote psychological thriller 'The Jacket', Dream A Little Dream takes the teen comedy genre and adds a fantasy body-swapping twist to it. But despite the fantasy theme of the film it still comes across sincere and slightly nostalgic.Once again the two Coreys team up together, this time with Corey Feldman taking the lead role as hopeless in love Bobby, but its Corey Haim who steals the show with a fantastic performance as hapless best friend Dinger.There are great supporting roles from legends Piper Laurie and Jason Robards and once again a tremendous performance from the always wonderful Harry Dean Stanton.One weak point in the cast comes from the lead love interest played by pretty faced Meredith Salanger who doesn't seem to fit the mood of the film.There is a strange atmosphere during the film which is helped along by the soundtrack, Van Morrisons classic Into The Mystic seems especially fitting to the movie.So give Dream A Little Dream a watch, and like it or not I'm sure you'll agree that it's got something a little bit different. "},{"Title":"Imaginative and a Little Strange!","Date":"17 November 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"   Corey Haim and Corey Feldman star in this odd little movie involving mind-transfer, dream control, surrealism, teen violence, peer pressure, metaphysics, and Tai-Chi. Contrary to Leonard Maltin's review, this is  NOT a mind-switch movie. No two characters switch bodies or minds. Also contrary to Mr. Maltin, this is a good movie, maybe very good. At the very least, it's different from the majority of teen-oriented films released that year (or any year).  This - not The Lost Boys - is the best Corey movie. Jason Robards and Harry Dean Stanton co-star, adding acting chops and a bit of elder-statesman class to the cast. Mark Rocco directs some truly memorable scenes, such as when the audience suddenly materializes during the old man's pantomime in the opening sequence. Van Morrison contributes a perfect song to a climactic scene involving star-crossed bicyclists. Hmm...just read my last sentence. See the movie to find out what I'm talking about - it's really hard to describe using mere words! Followed by truly AWFUL sequel, in which only the Coreys returned. Stay away from that bomb. Dream a Little Dream earns a solid 8 in my book. But why hasn't it been released on DVD?!?  "},{"Title":"A nightmare.......","Date":"30 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Bobby Kellar has a crush on Lainie Diamond, girlfriend of school jerk Joel. Coleman is working on an experiment which will help him move into a place where Dreams are reality. When an accident occurs Coleman finds himself in Bobby's body and can only contact Bobby in his dreams. Part of his wife's mind has also ended up in Lainie. To bring his and his wife's body back to reality, Coleman must agree to fix Bobby's messed up life.....Out of all the body swap movies of the late eighties, this has to be the one that killed that little sub-genre, because it's boring beyond belief.Yes, it has the two Corey's in it, but Haim is hardly there, and Feldman spends his role acting like a posh Michael Jackson for the majority of the film.But the main problem is that the film tries too hard to be something different from the rest of the body swap films, and in doing that turns a neat concept into something more mundane, even macabre in some scenes.Films like Big, and Vice Versa were fun movies, predictable, but fun nevertheless. Here we get Jason Robards maundering around a dreamworld with awful foley work, and Feldman popping up every now and again acting as smug as smug can be.And it's just gets too complicated and boring to understand, and to care about what is going on and what happens to the characters.Stick with The Lost Boys and License To Drive.... "},{"Title":"Two Coreys and an overdone plot","Date":"15 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Dream a Little Dream's trailer is the most false advertised trailer I've ever seen. It states the film is about a teenager named Bobby who is a slacker in high school, and must win the girl of his dreams in three days. Okay, don't really understand it too much, but I'll let it fly. The back of the DVD doesn't do too much justice either. It has the character Dinger (Haim) state some things about Bobby and explain his personality in a bias way, and he says he will be sticking around to see what happens. I will be too.Unlike the advertising on the box and the trailer, DALD is about another body and mind swap type of films that Hollywood did away with in the eighties. Vice Versa and Like Father, Like Son would be dubbed as cult classics in the 2000 decade. The film probably scrapped trying to explain it in the title because they knew the consumers had enough with being alienated with these movies that were already confusing enough. Dream a Little Dream doesn't help in being a confusion lacking film.The plot Bobby is a teenager who's grades are awful, and his best friend Dinger tries to get Bobby on the right track but it doesn't seem to help much. Bobby, Dinger, and a group of friends always use a shortcut found in a Coleman (Robards), a grumpy old man's, well kept yard. Obviously, like any other grumpy old man, this one does not approve of the teen's careless disrespect for his property. One night, Bobby is racing through the yard of the old man to try and get home when he collides with Lanie (Salenger), his friend's girlfriend, in their yard while Coleman and his wife Gena are meditating.In the blink of an eye Coleman is in Bobby's body, and Laurie is unknowingly Gena. What a paradox! The Laurie is Gena part is pretty much left for the audience to assume. The film doesn't even give you a hint. It's a disorganized mess that almost forgets to explain what's going on. The cast might know what's happening, but I, myself, as an audience member is expecting to have this somewhat explained to me.The two things that rescue this movie before it hits the bottom of the barrel are; it's rocking soundtrack and the fact it's a buddy movie with Haim/Feldman. The movie blasts R.E.M. and the song Dream a Little Dream of Me at random, but satisfying times. Sometimes the music gets a little abrupt and annoying, but there's a volume meter that can be controlled. There are not a lot of good H/F movies out there. They did around seven, The Lost Boys is pretty good (not great), License to Drive is great, Busted sucked, Last Resort was forgettable and a little immature, Blown Away wasn't that great of a film, but it was entertaining as hell, and Dream a Little Dream goes down as a so-so, could've been better film like Last Resort. I have yet to watch the sequel to this film as well.Dream a Little Dream is far from fantastic, but it's acceptable. It isn't as bad as some make it out to be. The first half hour I was completely lost. I thought this film would be absolutely horrible, but as the film went on I felt more connected to these characters and was rooting for Feldman by the end of the movie. It's not the worst H/F movie out there, but it doesn't compare to the classic that is License to Drive.I've been searching high and low, trying to find a Comedy CH/CF film that compared in quality to License to Drive. I've dug through pretty much the whole pile and the only one that I haven't watch yet is the sequel to this. Could this be the one film that surpasses LtD in humor, quality, and amusement. Judging from the IMDb rating of 3.2, and the people I talk to telling me it's awful, I doubt it.Starring Jason Robards, Corey Feldman, Piper Laurie, Meredith Salenger, Harry Dean Stanton, and Corey Haim. Directed by Marc Rocco. "}{"Title":"A nostalgic favorite!","Date":"31 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Great coming of age vehicle for Corey Feldman, who once again shows the potential he  did in Stand By Me earlier in his career. Bobby Keller (Feldman) is a teenager with  unusual problems. When an older man who lives down the street (Robards) tries a  transcendental experiment in order to extend the lives of him and his skeptical but  humoring wife (Laurie), they quite literally become trapped in the bodies of Keller and  his dream girl, Lainie (Salenger).Bobby must figure out how to switch back to his own body by a certain deadline or be  trapped. Worse is the fact that Lainie doesn't know what's happened to her, so Bobby  has little time to win her and convince her of their predicament before she will be lost  forever. Although Haim is annoying (as usual) as Feldman's buddy Dinger (puh-leez), the movie  has some funny moments (like when Robards' character is trying to teach Feldman's how  to be suave and Feldman is trying to teach Robards how to be inconspicuous) and some  sweet ones, (like when Bobby is trying to win Lainie's heart).Although some of it may be too precocious for the younger kids (and too dorky for the  more sophsticated older teens), I found it to be fun and nostalgic. Great movie for a  rainy day. "},{"Title":"Terrific Movie","Date":"13 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I've loved this movie since the first time I saw it. This movie bridges the gap between old and young, truly pulls you into the romantic ride, and gives you a lot of laughs along the way. One of the best films made by the Coreys. It shows the teenage spirit filled with love, rebellion, and invincibility. Plus...it was filmed right here in North Carolina!! "},{"Title":"Learn something","Date":"6 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Every time I see this film I learn something new!  The second you turn it on you are back in the 80's, however the film is relevent to today's world as well.  A timeless piece that is one of my favorite films I've seen to date. Proof that Feldman can indeed act!  Leaves you pondering at the end, a ponder that could take years to recover from.This film had been discontinued and I am glad to see it is being printed again... Now lets just wait for the DVD release!  I hope it happens!!!  "},{"Title":"Great Example of 80's teen film","Date":"1 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is very very good.  The plot is great and the acting is what you'd expect from Corey Haim.  The cinematography of this film is excellent during the dream sequences and the overall movie comes off with a warm feeling reminiscent of other 80's teenage cinema (i.e. Ferris Beuler's Day Off and Breakfast Club (although those films are in a league of their own.)) "},{"Title":"LOVED IT!!!!","Date":"7 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I really enjoyed this movie. Its a great teenage movie that has a wonderful plot and message!! "},{"Title":"A strange movie, but cool none the less.","Date":"5 November 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie could be a bit confusing, but if you watch it more than once, there are a lot of funny stuff you missed the first time.  It's really a pretty cool movie.  At least try to watch it once if you have nothing better to do. "},{"Title":"Atmospheric and thoughtful","Date":"9 October 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was pleasantly surprised by this movie. Just another teenage flick was turned into a decent movie by the direction and production team. I normally don't care for slow motion sequences like the ones in this movie, but they work because of the eerie tone. The soundtrack of familiar 60/70s music also works for the same reason.My favorite scene is where the Robards character is pretending to be the Feldman character by trying to speak teenage slang. I can picture Robards speaking the lines and it just breaks me up. A nice supporting cast rounds out the story, which essentially doesn't amount to much more than two people finding respect for each other. In this case, it's all that it needed. "},{"Title":"Random and Eclectic; Incoherent...","Date":"8 August 2008","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Still...it is an interesting film. Like a hodge-podge of teen-movie clutter that is highly stylized to look classy and meaningful. Yet, it is not...this movie doesn't necessarily succeed, though it makes for solid head-scratching material. Even so, I liked it on some level.Pros The Corey's try something different (slightly); very atmospheric, if nothing else; a nice, if a bit loud, soundtrack.Cons Everything else. That includes who ever edited this thing. Also includes Feldman's botched efforts to play dual rolls convincingly.Check it out if you want to see the Corey's while they were still in C+ condition.I have seen plenty worse, trust me. "},{"Title":"Comedy and heavy drama mixed into one","Date":"14 April 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  well corey feldman and corey  haim, have proved themselves as being  fun loving teen idols through the mid-late 80's,  this time, it was time for some changes in pace of  their own acting.  Both of the  corey's star as best friends,  who do their own things, and have  their own suave styles. while an old man played by Jason Robards,  whom both corey's stumble onto his property  for short cuts, on thieir way to school every morning, start to  be annoyed of eachother.  until, one night feldman is  accidently bumped into his love interest (meredith Salenger) there  both  knocked out cold that  night, until the next morning, he awakens, and discovers, that Robards is inside of him, and Feldman is inside of robards. they both start having this  conversations together, giving  eachother directions, on what to do with themselves. so, for over a few days, feldman must go around to get himself back inside of him, while robards is in search of his wife. this wrote written for haim,is very rude and  was a little unfun to see him that way. i loved corey feldman's dress styles, and his dance inpressions of Michael Jackson.  this was a nice teen comedy. and  was very intense at the same time. i enjoyed it very much.  "},{"Title":"I'd rather be an insomniac . . .","Date":"10 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" As far as I know, 'Dream a Little Dream' was the last gasp to try and breath life into the ' body switch comedies', you know, those movies where a kid and an adult switch minds and one gets to be the other and suffer their inane problems. Sometimes it works, I liked that old Disney comedy 'Freaky Friday' with Jodie Foster and Barbara Harris and I liked Judge Reinhold and Fred Savage in 'Vice Versa'. On the other end of the spectrum is this insufferable mess which I feel at a loss to explain but here goes Jason Robards plays a nice old man whose only gripe is that kids keep trespassing through his yard. He and his wife (Piper Laurie) have a theory that one can transfer his or her mind into someone else and live in their body. On his lawn while trying out his experiment he is hit by a bicycle driven by Bobby Keller (Corey Feldman) and the obvious happens. Feldman spends the rest of the movie as Robards and vice versa.The problem is that not for one second can you believe that Robards is occupying his body. He walks like Corey Feldman, talks like Corey Feldman so the effect is lost on us. I had a hard time trying to notice because I couldn't stop looking at Feldman's outfit which look as if he's late for band practice or Michael Jackson dress up day.As for Robards wife, the movie wastes a lot of time and half-baked theology on how her mind has drifted off and is in danger of falling into the Q collective or some such. The movie halfway explains that idea only to pull the rug out from under it and explains that it was all a joke so that the screenwriter won't have to think of a way to get her back.'Dream a Little Dream' drums up a lot of impossibly complicated ideas but is too lazy a movie to work them out. When the screenplay gets too complicated, the soundtrack starts booming some irritating rock song to pad the rest of the scene. And just to show you how desperate the Direct-to-Video market is There's a sequel. "}{"Title":"Charming Film","Date":"24 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This a charming film, greatly helped by the mere presence of Jason Robards. An interesting story that makes the other body switch films look even more awful than they actually are. I think the fact that it's a Corey Film unfortunately has hurt its reputation, coupled with this being Feldman's creepy Michael Jackson phase. I believe that this film would probably be revered today where it two no-names in the lead male roles instead of the Coreys. But then again, would you get the same excellent performances? This is a great movie with stellar performances all around, and yes it's an odd story, but my God at least it's a story! There are very few stories told any longer. Mindless action, slapstick comedies, or star vehicles dominate the film business today. Give me a fascinating, thought-provoking story like this any day. "},{"Title":"A really decent 80's teen movie","Date":"18 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I just finished watching this movie on my account with Hulu. At first, it was very confusing with the constant switching over to the old couple to the kid. But, finally clicked when we got to the scene with the house covered in toilet paper. Just to warn you it had some weird surreal imagery and some violence involving a gun. I thought the part where they were dealing with serious scenes like when they got to the fight scene with the abusive the key love interest's previous was a little after- school special. But, overall it was one of the best 80's teen movie. I really enjoy in-school dance done with the main character and love-interest. The music was classic and fun. I love the whole thing. I would watch it again if I did not have to go to bed in an hour. So,do yourself a favor and see this movie. You will not be disappointed. "},{"Title":"A Touching Film","Date":"9 July 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" It's difficult to me to review this film, for the simple reason that I was 15 when I saw this movie. It was made for me. It was made for teenagers trying to figure out life, love, getting into college, and dealing with adults. I loved it.It was the best by far of the body-switching genre that seemed to dominate the 1987-1990 period, but rarely was a teen drama tackled with more earnestness and via such a bizarre but interesting plot. Whatever the reason, it works and instead of being just another body switch comedy or teen fluff, it truly becomes a beautiful film that deserves its cult status. "},{"Title":"One of the best teen dramas of the 1980's! SPOILERS","Date":"27 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I found this in the comedy section at the video store, but the truth is that DREAM A LITTLE DREAM is a lot more like a teen drama. A really good teen drama. Infact, DREAM A LITTLE DREAM is one of the best teen drama of the 1980's. It has some funny moments, but really is a nice teen drama about a teenager Corey Feldman and an old man Jason Robards who switch bodies after an accident. It's not the best movie ever, but it's worth seeing at least once. "},{"Title":"Excellent Movie!","Date":"31 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I ordered this movie after waiting along time to see it and it is pure magic the acting is great especially from Feldman and Haim i think his best performance and film.The film is simple friends walk to school together have a drag well Bobby does but Dinger is comedy with his phrases such as real mature guys or when he gets tackled in the football game swinging the cane all over super.The clothing is great for the 80s and you get a real feeling your there with the lengthy time of the film plus Bobby and Dinger's hairs are cool as you can get.First cahance you get rent,buy just see this film to get the magic. !!!SUPER!!! 10 OUT OF 10. "},{"Title":"A great comming of age film","Date":"11 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  When I was in elementary school, I idolized Cory Felman because he was in some of the best movies I've ever seen like Goonies, The Lost Boys, License To Drive, Gremlins,Stand By Me, and films. I wanted to be just like him when I grew up. Dream A Little Dream definitely showed Cory in a different matter. It showed him as a young man getting ready to grow up and leave his childhood behind. I've never seen him play more of a dramatic role like he did in this movie. Plus Cory Haims does a great job playing his comedic best friend Dinger and the storyline is perfect for its time. I believe that teen and horror films are nothing now like they were in the 80's. I recommend this to any fan of movies. "},{"Title":"fantastic","Date":"17 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  One of the great teen flicks of the eighties right next to the breakfast club. The performances form Corey feldman and Jason Robards ass he tries to find his wife and corey trying to come to terms with his miserable life is really moving. without doubt the  best (only good) film corey feldman ever made. "},{"Title":"special treat - young and old","Date":"8 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is does not use big time stars, action or explosions to cover a basically lousey or done to death plot.  It is simple and fairly quiet comparison of different places occupied by different ages.  The soundtrack is a wonderful mix of the 40 and the 80's and is very fresh.  The acting is good and the plot is better.  Well done.  This movie was recommended to me by my son back in 1989 who was 13 years of age at the time - who loved the film and knew that I would too.  He was right, I wish that it was available but right now it is on neither DVD or VHS.  At least not that I am aware. "},{"Title":"Greatest Film of the late 1980's","Date":"29 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie touched base on the rebellious side of 1980's youth, and along with the on screen presence of one of the most acclaimed actors of our time, Jason Robards, it became in whole a timeless love story, depicting the innocence of youth, in this case during the ripped jeans era of 1989, and at the same time defining the meaning of true love and its survival through time and dimension.  (Plus the music was classic.) "},{"Title":"A Deep Yet Funny Movie","Date":"11 June 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This film was expertly done. I read a review somewhere that the time line of the movie jumped all over the place and all I have to say to that person is If you couldn't follow the time line of the movie, you must have forgotten to pause the movie when you took a bathroom break.At a glance, one might be confused as to how the scenes of the movie line up, unless you pay attention from the beginning (and learn to love your pause button). The whole premise of the movie is that the old man (Coleman) is trying to discover a way (through meditation) to enter the dream world CONSIOUSLY and thus live forever in this state with the woman that he loves.He experiments with meditation and because of an accident that happened in his yard during the experiment, his soul jumped into a young mans body and the soul of his wife, who is not as into the experiment as him, only partially jumps into the body of that young mans love interest. (His best friend's girl) It is a heart wrenching, yet simultaneously heart warming story about soul mates and the unbreakable bond that will always lead them back to each others arms, and hearts.Many of Corey Feldman's dance moves mimicked Michael Jackson. This was intentional due to the popularity of Michael Jackson in the late 80's. True to the era, Bobby was a young teenager who emulated a very popular icon of the times. Never-The-Less, as an adult, I still find his in this movie charming, witty, and full of depth.Anyone who would say that this man made his success on his looks alone has obviously not seen this movie. It is rare to find a good looking actor who also has a full arsenal of talent and is not afraid to use it. If more performers would fore-go work that is trendy and opt for jobs that require real skills; movies, TV shows, and music would be so much the better for it. "}{"Title":"Excellent Teen movie","Date":"27 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I thought this was an excellent movie when I saw it when I was 19 and I still do today, good plot, good drama, and great message about values like honor, integrity, courage, honesty, and respect. The problems the teenagers faced in this movie are the same pressures they face today drinking, drugs, peer pressure, violence, pressure for sex, (even from her mom, who I hate in this movie). The thing I like the most is the way they learn to deal with the situations without folding to the desires of their peers.Hooray for real values and respecting other people as well as yourself. I recommend this movie for anyone young or old that likes to see good morals and value win out against worldly pleasures and pressures. "},{"Title":"A great movie","Date":"12 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I thought this movie was great! It may be a little confusing at parts but if you are a true haim Feldman fan you push through and see the beauty of the film. Bobby and dinger( Feldman and haim) always take this shortcut to school. the shortcut runs through Coleman(Jason robards)lawn. One night bobby(Feldman) is running through the shortcut as the same time his friends girlfriend Lainey(Meredith salenger) is biking through the shortcut. They collide.As they collide Coleman(Jason robard) and wife Gina( piper Laurie) are doing some kind of dream transcendental meditation in there yard which get to the switching body thing.Colman ends up in Bobby's body and Gina is in Lainey's body. Colman knows he is in Bobby's body but the affect doesn't work on Lainey and she is still herself while Gina is in her body. Now Colman in Bobby's body has to win over Lainey and find a way to switch back in time otherwise he will lose Gina. By the way in this film dinger( Corey haim ) plays the funny injured best friend.I thought this movie was sad funny and very cute. A truly great film. "},{"Title":"Dream state.","Date":"5 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a hard movie to take in since the Corey's grew up and became annoying teenagers, particularly Corey Feldman in his appearances after 'the Burbs'. And with him trying to emulate Michael Jackson from head to toe, it makes it all the more harder to enjoy.But, search hard, particularly if you're an 80s fan, and I think you'll find something to appreciate. I definitely didn't like this movie the first few times I saw it. It just wasn't funny. But, I rescued a copy of it from the previously viewed rack at the video store, and gave it a few more viewings and I changed my opinion. In fact, I probably like it most because Matt Adler is in it, even if he does play a total creep.Dream a Little Dream has a lot of your 80s teen angst drama going on. Bobby (Feldman) and Dinger (Haim) contest about who's parents neglect them more. By the way, Alex Rocco and Victoria Jackson are perfect as Bobby Keller's clueless parents. Lanie Salinger's mother's general approach to daughter is anything but affectionate. Bobby's got other problems of his own when he swithches bodies with Coleman Ettinger, an older neighbor who was in the middle of an experiment with his wife (Piper Laurie) that had something to do about connecting as one soul or some new age thing like that when Bobby Keller accidentally intervenes. Now Coleman Ettinger as Bobby Keller has to get a whole lot of things straight. For one, something happened during the body switch where Gene (Laurie) is going to disappear forever unless Coleman can get back to her. He has to realize that Gene exists as Lanie, and he'll have to show her that that's who she is. Of course, he'll run into even more trouble, because this requires extra time with a very suspcious, very violent boyfriend, Bobby's friend Joel (William MacNamara). It seems kind of complicated, but that's why you gotta watch the movie. It's really not that bad. If you're skeptical at first, probably if you're not die-hard fans of the Corey's, try watching it a couple of times. It's pretty funny, and the story is fun concept (except for the stupid ending).  "},{"Title":"luv the movie","Date":"10 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I abousolutly luved this movie!! it is another one of those great 80s films. the acting was pretty good.. i always luv seeing the 2 coreys doing movies together they seem to work good together. I love the dancing the bobby does!! this movie is a classic!) "},{"Title":"Corey Feldman's pretty cool!!!","Date":"12 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I think it's a great movie! Corey Feldman did a great job in acting, so did everyone else, I like to look at how well they can express themselves in movies, as if they were actually the characters, and in this one they did a great job!! And the story is pretty good too!!! ;) "},{"Title":"A quality eighties movie","Date":"29 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Not as outwardly poignant as John Hughes, or as wacky as Savage Steve Holland, but very clever and entertaining in it's own right. The story is fairly unique in terms of subject matter, and carries itself quite nicely. It is at times surreal, and at times introspective. I think anyone who can't find something to take with them from this movie just isn't looking thoroughly. "},{"Title":"Watch the movie","Date":"21 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I checked that this may be a spoiler just in case i say something that happens in the movie....It seems that most of the people who have seen this movie just don't get it....there is a magic in the movie that most people seem to overlook, this movie has not as much to do with the Corey's, as it has to do with the story, and if you just watch the story unfold and listen to the strategically placed soundtrack you would see the magic in the movie, it's all about the relationships, c'mon watch the 2 couples having similar conversations and the way Gina asks Coleman why he loves her and he says cause I saw the other half of me. If you just watch the movie and let your mind go and enjoy the story you WILL fall in love with the movie, and the music in the movie. If you're looking for a hot female, you have her in this movie, she is a nice addition to a wonderful story, I just love this movie, and I always will. "},{"Title":"One of the best teen comedies from the 80's !","Date":"30 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" COREY FELDMAN plays BOBBY KELLER, a high school student who one evening collides head on with the girl of his dreams named Lanie. Unfortunately they happened to clash in the same yard where an elderly man named COLEMAN (who is fascinated with dreams) & his wife are performing some type of dream ritual & the old man's mind & spirit winds up in Bobbie's body, this causes a series of humorous events, as Coleman is forced to try & find his loving wife who's mind has wound up in the body of Bobbie's crush, but since she wasn't as in to the experiment he was performing, she hasn't a clue who she really is & Lanie has a jealous boyfriend who may just be standing in the way of Coleman's plans to win Lanie (Or should I say his wife back) in between however, we view several humorous scenes of Coleman's indifference to modern day teenagers, as he's picked on for wearing a suit & tie one day to school, eating cold tofu & tries to fit in by learning they're language, however according to Bobby who's now trapped in Coleman's night time dreams & acts now as a sort of guide to Coleman, if Coleman can't convince Lanie that she's really his loving wife & repeat the experiment that will put all the parties in their original bodies, he could wind up trapped in Bobbies body & risk losing her forever (She'll cease to exist.) Despite the really silly & at times confusing story line, DREAM A LITTLE DREAM stands among the very best of the teen comedies released in the 80's, there's plenty of laughs, drama, romance & a great soundtrack. The characters all performed well in their roles & were likable & the direction though uneven at times, was pretty decent. Highly recommended to both COREY HAIM & FELDMAN fans & those who love & or miss the 80's style teen comedies. The film only falters in the last 20 minutes when the jealous boyfriend pulls a gun on one of the guys who constantly hassles him at school threatening to kill him, while Bobby & the gang try to talk him out of pulling the trigger & the explanation Bobby gives to Coleman about how he lied to him about repeating the experiment to get them back, or else his wife would cease to exist (It turned out that the switch was only temporary) felt more like a cheat, it was like the writers couldn't figure out a way to end the movie & solve the problem the characters found themselves in so they just tagged on a really lazy & very disappointing ending. A tad confusing, but hang in there, you should enjoy it. A direct to video sequel followed in 1994 called naturally, DREAM A LITTLE DREAM 2 ***1/2 stars "},{"Title":"Surreal and Fun","Date":"18 September 2000","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I consider this film to be one of the staples of growing up in this society. The script has fun with the trials and nuances of growing up, without being preachy.  On the plot side, this film can be a little difficult to follow on the first time watching, as the story is very imaginative and surreal. Viewers are flitted back and forth between reality and a very well-done dream sequence that features great performances by the talented Jason Robards and Corey Feldman. "},{"Title":"The best Feldman and Haim movie ever!!!!!","Date":"28 April 2006","Score":"10 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I love this movie! Its one of my favorites movies a lot of people think is odd because its a 80s movie and I'm 14. I love 80s moves mostly the ones with Corey Feldman and,or Corey Haim! The best part is the being of the movie. When Bobby(Feldman) goes laughs. Dinger(Haim) said What was that sound Bobby? Bobby said  Thats the way a laugh u know.  Dinger said What the hell is that why cant you laugh like a man? And the part where Bobby said Im in love. and Dinger said That could be a problem. Then Bobby said  I don't think you understand. Then Dinger said No no i do understand I really do.Which hand is it this week pal! LOL!!! This movie is so funny!!! I all so like the part where Corey Feldman dances its so cool!!!!!! This is the best Haim & Feldman movie there is!!!!!!!!!!! "}{"Title":"Another one of my favorite movies of all time","Date":"6 February 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I really really like this movie. The plot is a really simple story that anyone can learn from. It basically is don't take what you have for granted as you may lose it all and could be unable to get it back. All the way through out the movie you are wondering if the old man and his wife's life is ever going to get back to normal. This movie has drama, romance and comedy in the former of my favorite character Dinger. I also really like the two Corey's but Corey Haim is the better of the two in my opinion but Corey Feildman did a really good job at acting in this movie. This movie is really good and has a plot that anyone can relate to. If you haven't seen this movie please please check it out because if you haven't you are missing out. "},{"Title":"Dream a little dream? Why not.","Date":"10 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I saw this movie like twelve years ago. Back then, I was in middle school, and I actually liked it a lot. When I saw it in a video store at a reasonable price, I scooped it up. When I saw this flick after so long, I got sorta nostalgic. Let's start off with the positives the soundtrack was top notch, even after twelve years! I would've bought this movie for the music alone, it's that good. Also, the supporting characters, especially screen legend, Jason Robards and Piper Laurie place this flick on their shoulders and carry it. Their performances and chemistry are very believable. You actually find yourself caring for their characters. Also, Alex Rocco and Victoria Jackson as the parents were equally enjoyable. Corey Haim does a good job as his friend, Dinger. He gives his character a sense of charm, and he has the funnier lines. And then there's Meredith Salenger, Lanine Diamond. The Lanine character could've easily been played as a typical one-dimensional, hot chick that's the object of everyone's desire. But, Meredith gives the character... well, character. It's her performance, and her incredible beauty, that draws you in when the other fore-mentionable characters aren't on screen. She's a very good actress, which is all the more depressing when you realize this movie took place twelve years ago, and in that time you can't remember her in a solid movie ever since (well, if you count Lake Placid, but she played a throw-away character). Meredith kinda reminds me of how Jennifer Connelly started out. She was trapped in tween movies early on, then fell into some really good ones when she got older. I really wish Meredith Salenger falls into a really good one soon, she deserves it! There's also a young William McNamara who gives a inspired turn as woman abuser, occasional drunk, Joel.Now, onto the negatives Corey Feldman. Don't get me wrong, he isn't a bad actor (he isn't a great one either), but he is listed as the star, but he kinda phone's in his performance. The lead of the story had to play two different people (Bobby, a self-conscious, ne'er-do-well, and Coleman, a down-to-earth older man trapped in a young man's body) To be fair, he was convincing as the Coleman character, but his performance was marred by his Michael Jackson routine. He does it in one scene to woo Meredith Salenger's character. Let me make this clear, I love MJ's music like the next, but Corey takes it too far -- he dresses, moves, and acts like the self-proclaim King of Pop. Maybe at the time it might've sounded like a hot idea, but seeing it after twelve years was just creepy. (For the record the whole Michael Jackson thing was creepy twelve years ago and it's even creepier today). What's even creepier is I really can't see anyone else playing this role other than Feldman.The story was far-fetched and kinda complex and the film's means to reach the conclusion is also very lame. It had something to do with Jason Robards' character, Coleman, wanting to find a means to live forever by entering the dream state of another. He convinces his wife to join him in a meditation exercise in their backyard, when Corey Feldman's character, Bobby, and Meredith Salenger's character, Lanine, get into an accident while taking a short cut through. The old couple's body gets transferred into the young couple's, hilarity ensues.Bobby, as Coleman, must try to convince Lanine (who's actually Coleman's wife) who she really is. By doing that, he gets her to fall for him. Come to think of it, the story was actually rather interesting, albeit far-fetched, which would place it in both positive and negative.In closing Dream a little Dream could've been just another passable teen flick if it didn't have the maturity of Jason Robards, Piper Laurie and Meredith Salenger. And a top-notch soundtrack. Music aside, it's the those fore-mentioned actors that allow me to give the movie the score I did. If you like 80's movies with a great soundtrack and a gifted supporting cast of characters, then this is a movie for you. "},{"Title":"Art Film?","Date":"26 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" When i first watched this movie, i found it to be completely bizarre. Some people may say it is bad, but it seems to resemble an art film to me. If you had to pick something that ended the eighties, i think it was this film. REM's the end of the world as we know it clashes with the eighties fashion of the movie. It's like a time warp, as that song reminds me of the nineties. It demonstrates a transition between two decades which is almost haunting. The story in itself is bizarre, though but i think that's what is appealing about it. It shows Feldman's acting talent that didn't quite get to be shown in other movies. Some scenes are downright crazy, like Feldman's Michael Jackson impression, and the dream sequences, but the overall feel of the film and the artistic direction, i think seals the end of the eighties. "},{"Title":" The best film ever.","Date":"2 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I saw this movie for the first time in 1992. It became my favourite movie back then! The message it gave to us is very helpful for all ages. Nothing ever since has mastered this film. But! i'm still looking.If you saw this film recently for the first time. My advice is to watch it 2 more times and you'll love it. "},{"Title":"Dream a Little Dream","Date":"23 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Interesting concept led perfectly by old pros Robards and Laurie and trashed by punkers Feldman and Haim. When the real actors are off the screen, the film falls flat on its face.  "},{"Title":"My God what did I just watch?!","Date":"17 December 2009","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" So I went into this movie totally expecting it to have the things i wanted. One being its from the 80s, two being it has the Coreys. Unfortunately this movie was so strange and disturbing that I just couldn't quite get into it even though I wanted to. It has a lot of strange themes. For instance the old man becomes Corey Feldman's character (who for the whole movie dresses dances and just looks like Michael Jackson) and then continues to kiss and date the Rick Nelson look alike's girlfriend. Even though he's looking for his wife (who is the mom from Carrie....talk about creepy). So it has this weird pedophile Michael Jackson feel to it. Not to mention it seems like the music tends to over power the movie at some points. And its not even good 80s music or popular things. And with Corey Feldman dancing in the background like Michael Jackson it really just ruins it. But then again some people may like that...Corey Haim has a smaller role in this too, even though I think he may have been able to save the movie had he had a larger role. All in all it was mostly strange but I got a few laughs out of it. It ends on a strange note as well, a picture of the mother from Carrie smiling still frame...I laughed but was a little disturbed. I'd say skip this one. Stick to License to Drive or The Lost Boys. "},{"Title":"A movie for the hugely underrepresented teen/geriatric target audience","Date":"27 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" What is Dream A Little Dream? No one knows, but somebody in the late 80's seemed to have had the following idea let's make another movie with the two Coreys about something that kids love to see at the moment. Yeah, let's make a body swapping movie or something. We could put in some rad clothes and hip music. To top it all off we'll have Jason Robards in a side role, how about that?Well, the result is a mess as you can image. The story is practically non-existent. Corey Feldman - whose acting is horrid in this movie, by the way - has to fret for something because of something that we are not exactly sure about. As we're trying to figure out why we're too stupid to figure out what's going on, we are constantly bombarded with a soundtrack of old and then current songs about Dreams.It's kinda fun and intriguing to watch such a train wreck. The characters are less than believable, the fashion is the worst you've ever seen in a movie. You've never seen a movie like this at all. It's a rare member of the romance/sci-fi/mind swapping/coming of age/drama/comedy-genre. Or something.Lovers of the obscure, this is your movie! "},{"Title":"Dreaming Of Merideth","Date":"9 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" OK, cats out of the bag, I have had a crush,...or more of a crunch on Merideth Salanger since i was....when did this movie come out?? Otherwize this move was great, soundtrack and all. The Corey Brothers were outstanding as usual, Merideth was HOT, even the weirdo parents of Feldmans character played,...what ever parts those were perfectly....a bit odd, but perfect.The old man was great too, as was his beautiful wife.All in all, the story line was great, and even at my young age at the time, was simple enough to follow. I just loved this movie, it is number one of my top ten. "},{"Title":"True to life,,, must see","Date":"18 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  What happened to Corey Haim, and Feldman? Is it that they both suck as actors, so we don't see them any more? Or maybe they grew up and lost the ability to act? NO, Hell No, Both Corey's fell into a drug addiction, that just about killed them, and did kill there acting career!! If you read down on other comments you will see people like Guy Ennui that will say such things as the Corey's couldn't pull of being real teens.. This is the funniest thing I ever herd, because when this movie was filmed, Feldman didn't want Haim in it, and Haim almost didn't get in it because of his drug addiction, if anything, these actors were failing in life more than in the movie, and the only acting they had to do, was when the camera was turned off.. In life we all deserve chances, we all make mistakes, and we all learn from them.. Corey Haim, and Corey Feldman are both Clean and Sober and have been that way for years now, and no one will give either a chance.. Imagine how much that has to suck for them both... But you see the two actors that have been doing that, (acting) all there lives!! This movie had it all Soul, a story that could touch anyone who is willing to let it.. and even a little comedy.. It shows that every generation struggles, and as much as the kids of today are un like the kids of yesterday (the parents and adults) we really aren't that much different at all.. When parents say when I was your are they forget everything about when they actually were that age.. And forget that as the years go by, things really do get harder for the young generation... This is one of the best Feldman, and Haim movies.. If you like either, you'll love this.. "},{"Title":"This is one of the worst movies I've ever seen...","Date":"22 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The Corey's should become poster boys for bad movies, they're two of the worst actors out there but I felt bad for Jason Robards and Meredith Salenger for having to be seen in this piece of trash.The plot made no sense, the scene in the gym was just absurd, was he doing an imitation of Michael Jackson or what? And why would you film a scene like that with a actor who obviously cannot dance and has absolutely no rhythm? Watching this movie is like having a root canal done without the benefit of Novocaine, avoid it like the plague. For that matter, avoid any movie that either of the Corey's appear in with the possible exceptions of Silver Bullit and Stand by Me. "}{"Title":"Is Daniel Jay Franklin an Alien?","Date":"9 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This guy writes one entirely twisted movie and then disappears. Lately I wonder if this guy even exists.....pseudonym anyone? Daniel Jay = DJ My .02 take it or leave it.I'll rewatch but just wondering what kinda screenwriter writes one movie (about dreams and switching identies no less) and then jumps the scene all together....As for the movie itself Meridith Selanger is the one saving grace. She is a beautiful actress with the ability to really pull you in. Unfortunately the story itself was obviously written on Acid or something....-JayBTV "},{"Title":"There was a spark of potential...","Date":"3 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Somewhere, buried perhaps a mile and a half beneath this music video / slapstick comedy of a movie, is a sweet little love story just trying to get out.  Too bad no one involved cared too much about that.  The Coreys (Feldman and Haim) were abysmally beneath the task, though Meredith Salenger had it in her, but there was no one around to give a damn, much less capitalize upon it.Overall, this movie makes one yearn for the depth and sincerity of someone like Anthony Michael Hall to really bring out what might have been, and that's really quite sad.  No wonder movies like 16 Candles and The Breakfast Club enjoy such popularity amongst fans of '80s teen comedy / drama, while this little flick is almost totally forgotten. "},{"Title":"Very odd movie","Date":"19 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Another one of the Corey movies, this one has Jason Robards and Piper Laurie somehow getting their minds trapped in Corey Feldman and Meredith Salenger. The main point of the plot is that Piper Laurie's mind has somehow gotten lost so Meredith doesn't realize what is going on, and Corey has to save her before it's too late.  This movie has one thing going for it, a great soundtrack...however as a movie, this one is just too confusing and the ending is just the result of a lazy writer.  Oh and apparently it looks as though Michael Jackson picked out Corey Feldman's wardrobe for this one as well, even for 1989 he looks ridiculous... "},{"Title":"It's a nightmare!","Date":"18 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I just can't stand Corey Feldman since he grew up, okay?  As the little kid in Gremilns and The Goonies he was fine.  But after he hit puberty, the charm went south.That has nothing to do with Dream a Little Dream, which I can't stand for reasons all its own, but I just wanted to get that off my chest first.I feel much better now, let's go on.I have yet to understand a single solitary thing about this movie, only that Robards is supposed to be Feldman and Feldman is supposed to be Robards.  And...that's about it.And Meredith Salenger is in this, too.  She's cute but she outclasses the material greatly.  So do Robards and Laurie but that goes without saying.But as for the Coreys (Feldman and Haim), they had good chemistry in The Lost Boys.  Period.  Since then, they have become self-absorbed little twerps who just take acting jobs to keep some excitement in their boring, listless little lives.  They used to be able to act but now cannot.  Will not.  Do not.  Even with a gun pointed to their heads (which, when you think about it, might just be worth seeing in itself). Even if this movie made sense, it would still subject us to the end credit scene where Robards and Feldman sing a rock (yes, ROCK) version of Dream a Little Dream (of Me).  And Corey, what in the H - E - double hockey sticks do you call that?  DANCING?  Been spending a little too much time around Michael Jackson, you think?It's sad, much too sad to think about any longer.No stars.  Corey, don't Dream - it's over. "},{"Title":"Corey Feldman A rotten tooth in a bloody mouth.","Date":"30 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The art of cinema is blessed by true artists, not only directors with vision but great performers who embody the best of the art of the actor. Corey Feldman is not one of these performers. In this horrendous film, Feldman is THE aberration of cool. He is like a rotten tooth who's only possible legacy is the relief it's removal brings. Feldman's bizarre Michael Jackson persona is simply no compensation for the lack of personal charisma and acting talent. Even when I saw this film as a teenager, I knew that scenes like the dancing down the gym bleachers sequence was the abasement of teenage popular culture. Now that I am older, I realize that watching Feldman in this film is like what the great comedian Bill Hicks said about watching the TV show COPSIt's like a sore tooth. It hurts, but you just can't stop playing with it. Personally, for me, this terrible film is not worth the pain. "},{"Title":"Poo","Date":"30 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" If you're watching this movie with the expectations of Pretty in Pink or License to Drive, don't. It's nothing like those films, or any other quirky 80's films. Feldman was pretty pathetic in the starring role, and I can't even imagine why Jason Robards would waste his time with this film. The concept isn't hard to understand- This isn't Donnie Darko. It's pretty simple, actually. This film was just another excuse to get the Corey's back together & to use as many bad songs as possible. The music was poorly chosen & very distracting. It just didn't fit. This film is simply crap.Don't even bother. "},{"Title":"The bottom starts here....","Date":"5 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Every scale has a bottom.  In physics, -273.15 degrees centigrade represents the lowest possible temperature, the point at which molecules can no longer contract.  It is referred to as absolute zero.  For movies, my absolute zero begins with DREAM A LITTLE DREAM.  I can also express my feelings this way  suck starts here.  It is the only movie I have ever walked out on.  (Actually, I walked out on FATHER'S DAY with Billy Crystal and Robin Williams about 5 minutes before it ended.  However, that was caused by painful diarrhea.  Even though that movie was pretty bad, diahrrea and all, that was a pleasant movie-going experience compared to DREAM A LITTLE DREAM.)  Lest you think I am unqualified to review this movie because I left in the middle, let me assure you that I gave it another try on television several months later.  Time and a full viewing only convinced me then that DREAM A LITTLE DREAM is a sad, black mark on the careers of Jason Robards and Piper Laurie, and would someday be a justification in and of itself of the black hole into which the careers Corey Haim and Corey Feldman would fall.Why, you may ask, is this movie so bad?  First, it's an affectedly wierd retreatment of a common movie theme that has been handled in both funnier (the original VICE VERSA) and more touching (18 AGAIN with George Burns) ways.  Second, the actors, especially the young Coreys, are so precious that they eliminate any ability to like or empathize with their stereotypical characters.  The various actors' takes on teenagers are noticeably hollow.  (This movie can at least serve as an example to young actors who have been exploited from childhood on how their Hollywood upbringing wrecks their ability to play teenagers who resemble reality in any way.)  And, finally, the production values (and obviously high salaries) are of such a level that you can't even like it for its camp appeal.  It is a movie where real money was invested to yield such execrable results.  (A perfect example of bad movie making is the director's insistence on fading to white between scenes.  Do you know how annoyingly shocking a blindingly white screen is after a dark scene in a dark theater?)If you've read this far, and I hope someone does, I will conclude by saying that some good did come from this movie.  If nothing else, it gave me an objective low point at which all other movies can be judged.  Small consolation, really. "}]