[{"Title":"Unfairly underrated","Date":"15 August 2002","Score":"30 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  I really liked this film.  Far be it from being one of the greatest films of all time, this is one that is in the category of underrated like Loser and The Bone Collector.  I really liked the way the plot and the characters developed.  To me, I thought the cast were all a little out there but isn't all of humanity like that in form or another.  Kevin Kline did very well as an unfairly disgraced homocide cop who had a beatnik mentality.  He turned what many might consider a very below standard screenplay and turned it into a watchable film.  His performance is the best of the movie.  The performances of Alan Rickman, Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio, and Danny Aiello are also noteworthy.  There are a few flaws in this film but it was a great work overall.  It isn't as bad as the IMDB rating suggests.  It is very adult and somewhat intellectual and it is almost believable.  The ending surprised me and I don't think it was chinsy or overdone.  I think it was supposed to try and imitate real life a little bit and it succeeded.  It may not fit a particular genre but that doesn't mean it stinks.  This is a film that doesn't conform to certain Hollywood standards and that is the main reason I liked it.  This is one of Kevin Kline's best films and I suggest the detractors should take another look at it.  The January Man is one of the most underrated films of all time and it will probably always be that way.9 out of 10.  It's amazing what 10 bucks and the bargain DVD rack at Wal-Mart can get you.   "},{"Title":"A misunderstood film...","Date":"29 May 2006","Score":"23 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" January man is kind of a neat movie that is clearly a romantic comedy masquerading as a psychological thriller. It has a wonderful cast, an acclaimed screenwriter and even a Marvin Hamlisch score. The film was billed as almost an older version of 'The Bone Collector'. But it seems more like a serial killer version of 'Moonstruck'. I can see why many people were disappointed in the film. They saw the movie from a totally different angle. The serial killer (the January man) is almost ancillary to the actual plot of the movie. It is a Kevin Kline driven vehicle with a old and new love interest(Sarandon & Mastrantonio). It has the re-reinstatement of a hero cop who takes a fall from grace for his brother (Harvey Keitel)and is banished from the police department and is relegated to fighting fires rather than criminals. It has the cro-magnon police captain (Aiello) and the even older Mayor(Steiger). All these pieces of the puzzle come together to provide decent little film which I think is clearly misunderstood. "},{"Title":"One of those overlooked and underrated gems","Date":"21 July 2006","Score":"25 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" The one scene with Rod Steiger berating Danny Aiello is worth the price of renting this movie. In fact it has several memorable scenes that set it apart from the usual paint by number serial murderer mysteries. The hero is a quirky character played to perfection by Kevin Klein. The movie has an interesting, intertwined romantic plot with a twist to it that is satisfying if not unexpected. I have watched this movie many times and will undoubtedly pull it out again to watch all over. You can do that with certain movies, others gather dust. A movie is a collection of scenes, some of them memorable, some not. This movie has its share of memorable ones and maybe thats why I keep coming back. "},{"Title":"People are taking this movie to seriously","Date":"1 February 2003","Score":"26 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  I'm watching the thrilling climax as I type this.Listen, folks, this film wasn't meant to be taken seriously, it's meant more as a parody or farce. Just listen to the soundtrack during the dramatic moments, it's not even trying to be serious. I'm guessing the cast was struggling to keep from bursting out in laughter during the filming because it really is stuffed full of every imagineable cliche.Though there are some original lines. I want to make you haggis. I mean, come on, how can anyone even begin to imagine this was meant seriously. It's like a police drama version of Showgirls. Well, without as much skin. ;-)  "},{"Title":"A quirky movie with a cast of talent to beat the band...","Date":"21 April 2003","Score":"16 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  This is a great movie!  Unfortunately, some people refuse to see past the one-line video box description.  Ostensibly about a serial killer, it is more of a quirky character study, except it is actually a multi-character study, with these characters being brought to life by the likes of Kevin Kline, Susan Sarandon, Harvey Keitel, and Rod Steiger, just to name a few (a very few).  I whole-heartedly recommend this movie to people who's tastes haven't been worn down to the level of some viewers who need everything wrapped up with a bow and handed to them like a christmas present.  You will enjoy yourself greatly. "},{"Title":"A very funny film","Date":"22 September 1999","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  This was one of my favourite films when I was little, but Channel 5 have just put it on after the watershed and that made it even better.  I always thought there was a problem with the continuity when she hands him the thing at the end but I was wrong it was terrible censoring.Back to the film.  All the actors are good in the film although Alan Rickman steals the show completely.  Even if you don't like mystery films tape the fight scene at the end of this, it is one of the funniest you will ever see.Just one more thing would somebody get Nick Starkey a cappuccino. "},{"Title":"Excellent film!  Terrific fun!","Date":"16 January 2006","Score":"10 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Good movie, even if it is a bit campy now. A great cast turn great performances with subtle comedy. Worth it just to see Alan Rickman as the brooding artist living next door. A comedy in the same spirit of Rushmore. Ahead of its time and fantastic when you are in the right mood. Kevin Klein walks a great line in this type of movie between a serious characterization and moments of comic hilarity. Susan Sarandon and Kevin Klein have wonderful on screen chemistry, and the rest of the supporting cast all are given opportunities to show off their skills through a well crafted script. It's well worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Terrible, unfunny, unromantic film","Date":"4 May 2000","Score":"24 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Terrible &#150; Good actors with bad material.  How do you go wrong with Kevin Kline, Susan Sarandon, Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio (I haven't liked her in anything else, but she was actually good here), Harvey Keitel, Rod Steiger, and Danny Aiello ?  Put them in a movie with a terrible screenplay and nothing to do.  Kline plays a former cop, now fireman, and brother of the New York City police commissioner (Keitel &#150; do these two look like brothers at all &#150; NO!), who is called back on the force to stop a serial killer.  Sarandon is Keitel's wife and was Kline's lover, and Mastrantonio is falling for our Kevin.  The worst (over)acting job goes to Steiger, who seethes like a rabid dog throughout the whole movie.  Anyway, to catch this creep, Kline uses methods so unbelievable (not in a good way) that you'll be shaking your head.  To think this garbage was written by the same guy who wrote Moonstruck.Vote 3  "},{"Title":"A bit of an odd crime-comedy-thriller","Date":"4 September 2011","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" First things first, this film has a few problems with trying to work out what it wants to be. Some of the scenes are a bit ridiculous and unrealistic, and sometimes it gets a bit slow. But that could be said about some hugely successful blockbuster films as well.Underneath this is a good little crime thriller with some likable characters who are trying to work out the clues to catch a killer with a taste for strangling women in their city apartments.Kevin Kline is enjoyable, Susan Sarandon and Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio are classy, Harvey Keitel doesn't really do much and Alan Rickman kind of floats around to help loosen up the mood of the film. Some of the dialog sounds like it was lifted from an adapted play or is better for an older, more mature generation.But, the stand out star of this film is Danny Aiello, who plays Captain Vincent Alcoa. He has a filthy mouth, loves yelling and putting people down all the time and has to deal with a Kline as a difficult police detective who returns to the job.The film alone is worth seeing for his performance. "},{"Title":"Come on, it's funny","Date":"6 January 2004","Score":"13 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Yep, I watched it on tv even when one of Holland's leading news papers was dishing it but they are very often wrong. I've seen Alan Rickman on stage and in many movies but here he really steals the show. Yeah, the film doesn't really chooses to be either comedy or thriller or just a who dun it but it's great fun to watch.Kevin Kline (who I never really cared for not even in A Fish Called Wanda) is playing one of his better roles as the reinstated cop although I do admit the whole sideline of the two cop brothers doesn't really add anything and could have been dropped all together which means dumping Susan Sarandon, so what.But give it a try keep an open mind and it is nice flick. Nope, I didn't give it a 10 (considered it for improving the average) but it is nice to watch. "}{"Title":"Criminally Negligent Filmicide","Date":"27 July 2010","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Abominably dumb. So dumb it doesn't even deserve the b in dumb. Just plain d-u-m. The scriptwriter obviously doesn't know how computers work (what else is new), how criminal minds work, how police work works, or how girls work. It's not funny enough to be black comedy (maybe ecru or taupe comedy, at best), not gripping enough to be drama, and not tantalizing or charming enough to be romance. It's not even active enough to be a precursor of the silly-but-spectacular action genre. There certainly is a high concentration of respectable acting talent involved, but they must have been wondering why they were called in to begin with. A few day laborers could have handled the job just as well. The only character that really rings true is Ed, the artist. But there is absolutely no logical justification for his involvement. Maybe that's the clue to the real crime in this movie it's a secret autobiography of a frustrated artist who wishes he could play with cops, computers, and girls. "},{"Title":"Bad movie","Date":"6 October 1999","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  A tremendous cast, but this must be the worst movie every one of them ever made.  The script is absolutely absurd and unbelievable.  Acting is great, as you would expect from this cast, but they have NOTHING to work with. "},{"Title":"typical Hollywood","Date":"1 February 2005","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" standard Hollywood cop film. a Mysterious Serial Killer performs some Brutal Killings leaving Incredibly Complex Clues and Only One Cop Can Catch Him (a long-haired sneaker-wearing Rogue Cop), and that's the Kevin Kline character, temporarily a fireman, who enters the film bursting through a fence in the process of, what else, Saving a Child. He's recalled to duty at the Mayor's orders and, with the help of some Free Spirits (artiste/computer whiz Alan Rickman, adorable Mary Liz Mastrontonio) our guy deciphers the clues and etc etc. the movie is riddled with clichés, including a Former Lover (Susan Sarandon) and a Jealous Rival (Danny Aiello). its full of New Yawk actors shouting f-bombs, and Kline is not very convincing as a street-smart detective (somebody more blue-collar like Bruce Willis might have pulled it off). a lot of this is awful playful considering the subject matter. Rickman as the artiste and Harvey Keitel as a somber administrator come off best of the performers. honestly, this is nothing you haven't seen before. "},{"Title":"A Greatly Underrated Film","Date":"8 May 2006","Score":"10 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" I do not understand why critics gave this fine film such a panning when it was first released. Even today when it is repeated on TV the critics still give it a hard time. I suspect the TV critics have never seen this movie and just repeat the comments of the original reviews. I have watched this movie many times and each time I enjoy every moment. The cast is magnificent, especially Kevin Kline and Alan (I wish I had his voice) Rickman. The plot is great, the settings are overwhelming and it is well paced. The supports are worthy of a mention (if you can call Rod Steiger a support), they enhance an already great cast. Actually after writing this I think I will go and watch it again! "},{"Title":"Interesting characters, totally useless plot.","Date":"17 June 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" The only superlative about this movie is Rod Steiger's role. This is by far, the worst role he ever played, totally overdone every time he is on the screen with a hairdo modeled on Harpo Marx and the expository style of Hitler. Danny Aielo gets short shrift from the screen writer and Harvey Keitel gets used and thrown away. Kevin Kline has a bizarre accent, strange affect and a great ability to suppress the laughs he must be feeling at the dialog he was asked to say. Alan Rickman was cute and extraneous, Susan Sarandon was there and Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio has large and attractive boobs for a small woman - she didn't have much of anything else to do in this film.Plot - stupid, ridiculous, complex and extraneous. "},{"Title":"A former detective, now a fireman, searches for a serial-killer.","Date":"2 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" One of the most insane mainstream movies I've seen. An absurd mix of thriller, comedy, romance, and other things; the manic behaviour, strange dialogues, and weird/inconsistent mood-changes make this a very silly movie but also an enjoyable one. As flawed as it might be, I dare anyone to say that it's dull. Star-studded, as film-critics love to say, but in a good sense. Kline is entertaining as the detective-turned-fireman-turned-detective, Steiger - sporting silly blond hair - overacts like a lunatic in the role of the city's emotional mayor, Aiello plays the classic ever-angry cliché police boss, Keitel stands around looking rather bored, Mastrantonio shows that she's got terrific breasts, the model for the painting shows she's got even better breasts, and it's always good to have Susan Sarandon in a movie - though quite ironically of all actresses she doesn't show her terrific chest! The serial-killer in the story must be the most absurd serial-killer either on film or in reality the method that he uses to select his victims, and the time and the place, has to be seen to be believed. The film has most of the elements to make it a camp classic. "},{"Title":"Horrid.","Date":"6 July 2005","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" This movie was the lamest thing I have seen in years. My friends and I are holding an Alan Rickman Summer Film Extravaganza, and we've thus far watched seventeen of his movies. This was the absolute worst. I still thought AR was cute with his rumply hair, 'eccentric' outfits and Apple II-GS Computer Skills, but he was so wasted within this movie. I wonder if it was better received in the eighties, when it came out, or if people realized how useless it was even then? Anyhow. Even if you're having an Alan Rickman Film Fest, watch ANYTHING you can before bothering with this drivel. I recommend fast-forwarding. AR only has three real scenes and one good line. Everything else is completely worthless. "},{"Title":"Utterly dreadful","Date":"10 April 2004","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  When someone loaned me this on DVD, I couldn't believe I'd never heard of it - Kline, Sarandon, Keitel, Mastrantonio, Steiger, Rickman, Aiello - what a cast! And then I watched it. This script couldn't decide what it wanted to be. It's a thriller with no suspense, a comedy with no laughs, a story with an utterly ridiculous plot. Did no one READ this script before they decided to waste some film? And the actors all look like they know this is going to be a huge waste of time - Rod Steiger, in particular, gives what has to have been the worst performance of his career. It's all one level - loud. Don't waste your time with this movie - this isn't one that's so bad it's good. It's just plain bad. Rent something like Plan 9 From Outer Space instead, and have a hilariously good time. "},{"Title":"wacky silly serial killer movie","Date":"4 April 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" It's New Year's Eve in NYC. Manhattan socialite Alison Hawkins is killed by a serial killer in her apartment as his 11th victim. Her best friend Bernadette Flynn (Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio) just dropped her off and just happens to be the mayor's daughter. Police commissioner Frank Starkey (Harvey Keitel) is under heavy pressure and Mayor Flynn (Rod Steiger) forces him to get his brother Nick Starkey (Kevin Kline). Nick was expelled from the force in disgraced two years ago and is now a hero firefighter. Frank's wife Christine (Susan Sarandon) is Nick's ex-girlfriend. Capt. Vincent Alcoa (Danny Aiello) hates the idea. Ed (Alan Rickman) is Nick's wacky artistic neighbor.The tone is all over the place. I wonder if the movie realizes that it's trying to make funny jokes in the middle of a serial killer movie. The problem is that the jokes are so wildly uncontrolled that it wouldn't be funny anyways. Everybody seems to be in their own separate movies. Aiello and Steiger are screaming. Kline and Rickman are wacky. Kline and Sarandon are doing a weird melodrama. Keitel is simply trying to survive the mess. Mastrantonio is in a different movie aka the serious serial killer movie and she's no 23. The switches in tone gave me whiplash. The final chase is way too wacky. The killer is doing blackface with white shinny gloves. They turn it into a farce and any chance the movie had goes away. "},{"Title":"A really odd movie","Date":"15 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" The January Man bombed both with critics and the box office when it was released to theaters. It doesn't take long watching it to figure out why. The script, for starters, is a real mess. It takes deadly serious elements and mixes them with broadly comedic elements. It might have been possible to balance them properly when it came to filming them, but the cast doesn't seem capable of doing so. Except maybe for Alan Rickman, the cast gives really awful performances (especially Rod Steiger), not helped by a number of instances of some really terrible dialogue. You can sense director Pat O'Connor's lack of assurance with this project, not just that he couldn't steer the cast properly, but with a screenplay that has a number of elements that feel half baked or unfinished. (Actually, there are signs that the original cut of the movie was more coherent, but got edited down to a shorter running time before being released.)However, I have to admit that the movie remains weirdly watchable. It's so odd in its changing tone, next to incoherent at times with its story, and packed with really bad performances by a normally talented cast, that you can't help but keep watching in order to see what next miscalculation will be displayed on the screen. It certainly doesn't make the big mistake of being boring. If you have an interest in major studio movies that go wrong in just about every way you can think of, this does deliver. "}{"Title":"Does not quite hit the point","Date":"20 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" A film that misses the point. It starts as thriller, but essentially wants to be a comedy .... but lastly misses the point.As thriller it is plainly lame. As a comedy it brings to few and to shallow comedy elements.At least it is a little entertaining, but the whole thing left me disappointed.For fans of Kline it might be worthwhile though.I also wanted to see Keitel, but his share in this film is to low that he could bring in anything.Also as a romantic film, it just does not hit the bullet. I really thought after the film, that it just did not know where to go. "},{"Title":"A great little movie, quite unique in its own way.","Date":"2 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" I just saw this on TV by chance. I thought it was a great little movie despite the critics and mixed reviews. I really enjoyed it because I didn't take it too seriously as either a murder mystery or as a comedy. I just let it happen while I was working on a hobby project, and I liked it. The movie contains a surprising all-star cast, none of whom took their roles too seriously; I felt that they simply enjoyed doing the movie. So I think it's a greatly under-rated little gem of a flick. So if it shows up on your TV screen, give it a chance. It was engaging and very entertaining. Cast Kevin Kline Nick Starkey Susan Sarando Christine Starkey Mary Elizabeth Mastranton Bernadette Flynn Harvey Keitel Frank Starkey Danny Aiello Capt. Vincent Alcoa Rod Steiger Mayor Eamon Flynn Alan Rickman Ed And Errol Slue Chief Sunday - Errol was a friend of mine from college and came to my wedding back in 1969. I knew he had been in some movies and had seen a couple, but didn't know he was in this one, so that was a nice surprise. "},{"Title":"Why so serious?!?","Date":"6 March 2009","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" If you're looking for extreme suspense and top-notch thriller, go watch Seven. But if you're looking for a nice little movie with stellar cast, very good acting and silly story that'll amuse you for some 90 minutes, then try The January man. It is silly - an absurd mix of thriller, comedy, romance, drama, good cop - bad cop, the story is full of flaws, but the movie itself is really well done. Too many people around wonder where's logic in it and give it low rating because of that, but The dark knight (with sillier story and average acting) is somehow best film of a decade?!? This is a movie that doesn't take itself too seriously and neither should you. "},{"Title":"One of Kline's best.","Date":"30 April 2000","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  One of Kevin Kline's better films. An interesting thriller of a flic with a very good supporting cast. So good in fact that Danny Aiello as the highly agitated police administrator & Alan Rickman as Ed nearly steal the show. The movie has an interesting plot and some reasonably good humor to go along with the suspense of the story line. If you're looking for a good suspense movie, a few laughs or if you're just a Kevin Kline fan who wants to catch up on his back catalog give January Man a play. You definitely won't regret it. "},{"Title":"Definitely, one of the best movies I've seen.","Date":"2 October 1998","Score":"12 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  I have always had The January Man on tape, but I never really sat down and watched it.  One day I decided to give it a try, and I must say that it was unbelievable.  Definitely one of Kline's best roles.  Don't get me wrong, he was great in A Fish Called Wanda, but he was in perfect form as Nick Starkey.  And Rod Steiger was hilarious.  And Alan Rickman was perfect as Ed.  Great casting there.  An amazing script, well directed, and great acting all around.  I give it four out of four stars. "},{"Title":"This movie doesn't know what genre it wants to be!","Date":"3 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Have just watched this movie for the first ( and probably the last) time with my husband. We were drawn to the fabulous cast, Kevin Kline, Susan Sarandon, Rod Steiger, Harvey Keitel, Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio, Alan Rickman & Danny Aiello. For most of the movie we enjoyed the intrigue and quirky story. It is billed as action, crime, mystery and there was plenty of that. Now here is the spoiler why, oh why did they decide to change it into a comedy at the end! I know in the movies logic is not a big thing, but I was asking my husband why she didn't just leave the key in the door, or at least hand them to him. The murderer wasn't going to notice if she had them or not. It just became a total farce from then on. The movie did not need that. We were both very disappointed in the slap-stick element in the last 10 minutes. "},{"Title":"A lighter touch overall might have made it more fun...","Date":"30 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" John Patrick Shanley, the Oscar-winning screenwriter of 1987's Moonstruck, most likely wrote The January Man earlier in his career; it shows the strain of a novice author finding his footing, discovering what tone works for him and what quirky attributes can do for a character-filled scenario. When New York City is gripped by a serial killer who preys upon single women, the mayor demands the police commissioner rehire his brother, a former police detective-turned-firefighter, as a special investigator on the case (seems the brother once had a thing for the commissioner's wife, which led to a falling out). Kevin Kline shuffles about trying to locate his character; his New York accent doesn't work (and is frequently abandoned altogether), though his rumpled attire, thick crop of hair and dapper mustache have him looking more like Mandy Patinkin than ever. Kline doesn't convince as a relative to Harvey Keitel, but there are some good things in Shanley's script, and Kline picks up on them. The movie takes at least 45 minutes to get cracking; until then, there are far too many hotheaded characters on-screen, all shouting angrily at each other. In these instances Shanley seems to be relying on clichés picked up from old movies, although his second act improves tremendously. Kline is aided deftly by Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio (never better) and Alan Rickman (as a fey artist who paints nude women!). The January Man isn't an important picture, nor is it exceptional, but the final results are a little bit daft and often engaging. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Kevin Kline Saves The Day!","Date":"29 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" 'The January Man' is an uneven comedy, that only appeals in parts. But its Oscar-Winning-Actor Kevin Kline, who's credible performance ranks amongst the film's only prominent merit. 'The January Man' is a comedy/psychological thriller, but The Screenplay is inconsistent & ends abruptly. Seriously, was a hurried climax even needed? Given the stellar cast it offers, 'The January Man' could've been so much more, even in terms of performances, by all. Its Kline, who literally is the life of the show. He's in his element & rises above the given material.On the whole, 'The January Man' is strictly okay! "},{"Title":"Kevin Kline shakes off Susan Sarandon while romancing Mary Mastrantonio and trapping a serial killer","Date":"1 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" The January Man is a romantic comedy placed in the context of an ace detective-cop who is tasked with finding a serial killer.The movie is not meant to be a serious thriller whatsoever. The scenes in which Kline fights with the killer will dispel any notion that this movie is serious. As a farce, it's not hugely funny. It is more of a pleasant watch than anything.Kevin Kline, who reminds me of Errol Flynn, does a fine job carrying the movie along, and so do Sarandon and Mastrantonio. Alan Rickman does a nice light turn, with little real script support, as an artist friend and assistant of Kline. Rod Steiger overacts outrageously under direction, and that's a show of its own. Harvey Keitel is adrift without much script support, as is Danny Aiello. They contribute, well, they contribute themselves. The serial killer is hardly even seen, even when captured, as befits the real focus of the story which is Kline overcoming his attachment to Sarandon, who dumped him for his brother Keitel. "},{"Title":"You're a real shamus.","Date":"19 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" The January Man is a fairly offbeat, if thoughtful crime thriller set in Manhattan, where its main focus is on the characters leaving the serial killer elements to be secondary. So much so, you forget there's a vicious serial killer about until the underwhelming revelation. After figuring out the pattern behind the crimes all we get is; He's a nobody. Still being the case, it's the quirky lead performance of Kevin Kline's beatnik character that drives this one home and along with director Pat O'Connor's able handling. Personal dramas and friction lead the way, which are actually a lot more interesting than the slowly pitched out investigative angle of John Patrick Shanley's jarringly unsure screenplay where Kline's disgraced ex-cop character is hesitantly asked (by his police commissioner brother played with stern mentality by Harvey Kietel) to rejoin the police fore to help track down a serial killer that for every month has been killing a women for 11 months. The concept had some promise even if the nature of it can be routine, but whenever it tackles Kline's character looking into the pattern of this serial killer, trying his best to work him out and beat the clock before the next murder. It suddenly takes a sidestep into uncharted area, involving his brother and his wife (who was his ex-girlfriend which Susan Sarandon gives a icy turn), the reason why he was originally sacked from the police force is shady and why would they get rid of someone who they think is smart and believe can get the job done. The script only seems to open up more questions then what it started off with and some occurrences are somewhat convenient to the story's progression, but it remains engrossingly witty with a certain edge about it. Then there's the romance with witness / mayor's daughter by the delightful Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio. However there are some memorable moments, especially consisting of Rod Steiger's scolding performance as the Mayor and Danny Aiello's hot- headed police Captain. Also showing their faces are Faye Grant, Kenneth Walsh, Bill Cobbs and an amusingly dry Alan Rickman as Kline's neighbour / artist friend. The assortment of this cast really builds up a perfect chemistry to watch. Hate this job. "}{"Title":"My little calendar girl....","Date":"28 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Nick and Frank Starkey were both policemen. A scandal forced Nick to leave the force, now a serial killer has driven the police to take him back. A web that includes Frank's wife, bribery, and corruption all are in the background as Nick tries to uncover the secret of where the killer will strike next, and finally must lay a trap without the police....I'm still unsure of this movie, I've given it a seven because the last 30 minutes of the film really come into their own, and make up for the bizarreness of the preceding hour.The first hour though really doesn't know what it wants to be. A murder, family drama, random eroticism, serial killer movie, comedy, thriller. It's all here and all flawed.Aiello has never been so typecast in a film, whenever he's on screen, he's just angry. Keitel just seem bemused by the whole thing and spends the majority of it staring at Sarandon, who I turn spends the majority of the film staring at Kline and stalking him.The rest of the cast are thankfully brilliant. Kline is as good as always, and is ably supported by Mastrantonnio, and another brilliant turn by Rickman.The film comes into its own when the Red Herring gets thrown in. The comedy and thriller aspect of the film meld into one and work, and it turns into a half decent movie.Bizarre to say the very least, but interesting. "},{"Title":"Amazingly bad","Date":"1 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" With an impressive cast, I expected much more. I was a bit of a fan of Kevin Cline and I was amazed at how bad his acting was in this. I sometimes wonder if this movie was supposed to be a tongue-in-cheek parody because none of the characters are believable. Cline was so unbelievable in his character that the movie becomes un- watchable at times. The character he was portraying was also too much of a stretch. The character was maybe too complex in that he was trying to be too many things at once and none of it meshed.I can't tell if this was supposed to be a serious role for Cline. His New York accent is so bad. "},{"Title":"Razzie-worthy","Date":"11 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Two years ago, a scandal forced Nick Starkey (Kevin Kline) off the NYPD, but now the mayor wants him back to find a serial killer.This is a terrible movie with a ridiculous script. It's a serious drama until the last ten minutes when it becomes low comedy complete with pratfalls and jokes. Kline phones in his performance; he's never convincing as the returning cop who's expected to solve a case that the entire police force couldn't crack in a year. Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio plays his supposed love interest but she's annoying and there's absolutely no chemistry between them. (On the plus side, she did marry the director.) Susan Sarandon bombs as a seductress and Alan Rickman looks like Maynard G. Krebs while Rod Steiger and Danny Aiello ham it up so much it's embarrassing. Harvey Keitel just wanders around looking lost the whole time. What a colossal waste of talent.There is no suspense or romantic tension and certainly no hint of real police work, just a lot of good actors looking foolish in a bad movie. What a disappointment. "},{"Title":"Great cast!","Date":"31 January 2010","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" So how could it have turned out so awful? How can you have Kline and Keitel, Steiger and Sarandon, Aiello, Rickman, Mastrantonio, and yet produce such a stinker? Start with an awful script. 1,000 monkeys couldn't have done worse.From there, proceed to unbelievably bad direction.I kept waiting for it to get funny, since it was never going to get serious. It was never going to make sense. But the comedic talents of many of the cast were wasted as well.I thought the actors might revolt, mid filming. I mean, after all, why have your name associated with this kind of a stinker? I kept thinking of The Producers. The producers of this lemon must have sold 1,000% of the movie, right? They needed to have it go straight down the toilet so they could pocket the investors' money without having to account for it. There would be no Springtime with Hitler to save the day.But Norman Jewison produced this. He's made a dozen great movies! This doesn't belong in the vault at MGM. It belongs in a crypt at Forest Lawn. With a stake through its heart. "},{"Title":"I really enjoyed this movie","Date":"16 January 2004","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  It definately has a lot of slapstick in it, but it turns very dark when it needs to.If you liked the tone of Stakeout with Richard Dreyfuss in it you will enjoy this.7/10 "},{"Title":"A must see movie, so unbelievable bad!!","Date":"26 March 2006","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" This piece is so bad, that it doesn't even deserve a rating, but I was fascinated how bad a movie actually can be. The story is about an ex police officer, who is something like the MOZART of crime investigation. Because of a serial killer the NYPD takes him back into service. The cast is like a who is who of Hollywood. With Kline,Sarandon,Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio,Harvey Keitel, Danny Aiello,Rod Steiger,Alan Rickman.Problem is that everybody gets minimum of 5 minutes for showing himself, on account he or she is a movie star. With the exception of Kevin Kline, who has 20 minutes. This makes 50 out of 97 minutes. If you want to have a nice time, than don't ever try to watch this movie! Only watch it out of curiosity to see a comedy without jokes, a movie without logic,too much stars etc.! Two examples What is doing a police chief all the time in movies? Yes, yelling! So Aiello is yelling and yelling.... Or the computer geek in movies...what the computer in this movie achieves is astounding. Even modern ones would have problems... The January Man is by far one of the worst movies ever made, the ANTIMOVIE. And this achievement makes it a must see one on my list.... "},{"Title":"Trash, to be sure, but fun trash","Date":"26 June 2001","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  The January Man is one of the most ludicrously-conceived, miscast, and blatantly manhandled films ever.  Why is it, then, that I always find myself watching it late-at-night (usually in the venue of USA or TNN networks)?  Maybe I'm a glutton for punishment.  During my recent viewing, however, I noticed something.  Within each actor struggling on-screen to make yet another terrible line work, a emotion best characterized by the phrase, Oh, what the hell...  I do not doubt that Kline, Steiger, Rickman, and Keitel--talented as they might be--knew they got cast in a good idea gone bad.  When they finally admitted it to themselves, they decided to have fun with what was left.  The result is a very bad movie starring good actors acting badly, reveling in their own badness an accomplishment in postmodernism if anything ever was.So how does one rate such a situation (probably best not use the word film here)?  Two options 1) You ignore the context of what has been brought to and upon these actors and go for the jugular.  In the IMDB realm of rating, that would result in a 2 or 3 (1/2 star or * for those liking a four-star system).  2) You sit back, leave your logic at home, grab a buddy or spouse who revels in bad movies, and have a lot of fun.  A so bad it's good night would be in order rating of 6 or 7.I'll take the low road.  Final rating 6, with a wink.Recommendations for viewing Romance is out of the question; think neighbor or football buddy.  Go with some junk food and the cheapest beer you can find.  Watch as part of a triple feature, including Plan 9 From Outer Space and Ishtar. "},{"Title":"Lost....in the dialog...or lack thereof","Date":"30 May 2005","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" All these excellent actors...without words! They simply had nothing of any value to say....even when shouting. This writer should be remembered for Joe vs. the Volcano and not Moonstruck! I could write better dialog than this....we watched the film with sound off and found we could improve it 100% with our own words. Only Alan Rickman survived and even he ended with the decision to go back to painting....I can certainly see why! Notice his sly smile.... The director's pacing was slow and seemed to be waiting for the actors to put in words of their own to improve the scene....too bad they didn't! Afraid I couldn't give more than 2 rating. "},{"Title":"Comedy Noir Slightly Ahead of Its Time","Date":"14 September 2004","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  The best mainstream serial killer comedy ever. Oh, wait ... it's the only mainstream serial killer comedy.In 'January Man', A-list actors took a stab at subject matter that had always been in the realm of B-movies, and suffered an undeserved critical drubbing as a result.'January Man' is a black comedy in which the murder mystery takes a backseat to a character study of the detective who solves it. Nick Starkey is an eccentric, uncompromising detective of the Sherlock Holmes mold, well-played by Kevin Kline. Alan Rickman is low-key perfect as Kline's fellow Bohemian, Ed, who serves as his computer-adept Dr. Watson.Critics were appalled that director O'Connor and writer Shanley would make so light with the subject of the callous murder of innocent women. Remember, this was two years before Anthony Hopkins made a modern icon out of Hannibal Lecter, and five years before Quentin Tarantino melded comedy and crime noir in 'Pulp Fiction'.These days, 'The January Man' seems, if anything, too tame. If the titular murderer had been a diabolical killing machine, a modern-day Dracula worthy of tracking by a brilliant detective, then the movie might survive as a classic today. Instead, the killer remained bloodless and motiveless -- a TV crime series killer-of-the-week, compared to the Dahmers and Ted Bundys we encounter in our real-world newspapers and evening newscasts.The movie still remains great fun, with a stellar cast. The story is an Us and Them comedy, with Kline, Rickman and Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio as the extremely likable Us, and Susan Sarandon, Harvey Keitel, Rod Steiger, and Danny Aiello acting up a storm to be unlikeable as Them.'The January Man' is a non-conformist favorite I have to slap into the player at least once a year. 8 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"First movie I ever walked out on","Date":"31 May 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" This has got to be one of the worst movies ever made, due solely to indifferent directing and a really, really bad script. As stated in other reviews, it's filled with standard Hollywood movie clichés. It's like what Ed Wood would have made if he'd been given a major movie studio budget and gotten 'A'-list actors. Therein lies the charm of Wood's movies and why 'they're so bad, they're good'. Movies like Wood's have such low production values and such miserable acting, they become unintentionally hilarious. In 'The January Man', there's no such charm. The acting isn't bad, it's just mediocre, which ends up making for a stunningly boring movie.I remember when this movie came out and watching Kevin Kline plugging it on Letterman. Letterman asked him if the movie was any good and Kline said, No. This got a laugh from the audience but, as it turns out, Kline was telling the truth. "}{"Title":"No redeeming qualities whatsoever","Date":"2 August 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" I agree with Stephen Rose (Criminally Negligent Filmicide.) In his word it's dum! I'd use another 3 letter word sad, just sad! Kline's hokey and stereotypical New Yorky street accent is what bothered me the most. I wouldn't have watched it past the first 10 minutes except for the fact that I finally got it recorded after 3 attempts due to technical problems and had to get it out of my system. This film would be great for a 10 or 12 year old if it weren't for the violence and adult themes. And those with no critical sense at that. I find it unbelievable that the strong cast would agree to be a part of it. Must have been a bad year for work. "},{"Title":"All Star Cast Tries to Save Dud","Date":"19 May 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" The January Man is a complete dud, but it features some talented actors led by Kevin Kline - good enough to pull it away from complete turkey-dom. Director Pat O Connor has really blown it with trying to mix genres here. Is it drama; is it thriller; is it comedy? Well really it does none of these genres well at all. It's schizophrenic is what it is. At it's worst you have awful 80s Gong show-bad thriller synthesizer music blasting in like lasers announcing tense atmosphere - total cheese. Kevin Kline is a great actor full of charisma, and Steiger and Aiello are full fledge in support. Well underplayed and along for the ride is Alan Rickman in a more-or-less bit part for fun. Unfortunately the romances are fairly standard although Mastrantonio does OK, but Surandon mails it in pretty much - or maybe it's poor direction. By the end of the movie, you'll be glad the mess is over and the killer is an afterthought. Pointless and unfortunately run-of-mill. "},{"Title":"never punish good actors for weird or  bad script writers","Date":"3 January 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" I could not understand why people gave it a low average as I am usually at odds with 98% of the world anyway,but I do agree this movie has issues mostly the somewhat comedic ending in a other wise not funny movie. I think maybe they had a hard time ending this one .I always try to rate movies more so on the actors performances because their the ones that bear the brunt of a bad movie if they can get me to watch a movie and enjoy it like this movie even though I have some problems with it it says more about how good they are and not how bad the script is and this script isn't bad it's just hard to believe sometimes especially the ending .I always find kevin kline fun to watch harvey delivered too they all did and loved seeing the actor from the exorcist again I apologize for my spelling I'm to tired to correct the errors. "},{"Title":"Like a bad TV Show - only with a bigger budget.","Date":"8 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Basically this film couldn't get out of its own way. The screenplay wasn't anywhere near as tight as the genre requires. It has a very TV feel to it. I couldn't help feeling certain scenes needed to be cut and the information contained in them shown a different way. I liked Rod Steiger screaming and threatening his way through the movie. It provided contrast to the placid and implausible faux-cop dialogue they cobbled together. Whoever wrote this script _does not_ know cops. I guess they figured having a gunless, New York maverick detective who does things the feng shui way was somehow hip. Investigation work is plodding and requires a lot of phone calls, evidence, and leads. You deal with a lot of liars and people who hate cops. That's why cops are like brothers because you have to be down for each other to stay sane, if not safe. Most gum-shoe stories convey this sentiment to some degree. Nick just sits back and gets a ha! moments and figures out the whole thing with these improbable crime scene and victim photographs (That, BTW, the art department really let the director down on creating - But they did a great job on the snaps found in the book at Nick's apartment). I didn't buy into the romance angles they tried to play, mainly because nothing led up to them other than some lonely writer's fantasy of how he wishes women were. An ex-girlfriend coming back to her ex's place for a home-cooked meal for no apparent reason? And then some 23 year old (really? she looks 30!) gets into bed with Kevin Kline merely on his say so? Well... okay maybe that's not so improbable. And he's got this phony angst like he's too old for her? PUH-LEEZE! Since when has Hollywood (or any man) not been fine with 23 year olds in bed with 40 year olds? The whole thing is a study in how actors can only do so much. C'mon Danny Aiello (Oscar nom./Gold Globe nom.), Kevin Kline (Oscar winner, Gold Globe Nom.); freakin' Alan Rickman (Golden Globe win, BAFTA win)and Harvey Keitel (Oscar Win, Globe nom.)is in it, how'd they screw the pooch so bad? Watch it on TV if it shows up some night. MST3K fodder, especially in the 3rd act's fight scene. Craptacular! "},{"Title":"Who Is The January Man?","Date":"10 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Although there are many subplots within this star-studded film, one must watch each character, carefully, for any defining criminal, suspect-like behavior. There is no clear indication who the title refers to, and each person does exhibit certain clues. There is, also, (in my opinion), an under text of bi-sexuality, for both Kevin Kline/Alan Rickman, and Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio/girlfriend victim. The story, by noted Broadway playwright/screenwriter, John Patrick Shanley, (Moonstruck), is a vehicle to highlight Kevin Kline's beatnik cop, brought back to the undercover police division and Rod Steiger's over-the-top Mayor. Susan Sarandon, unfortunately, is given little to use as Kline's one-time lover and current wife of his brother, Keitel. However, Harvey Keitel is quite good as the corrupt police commissioner, and Danny Aiello is effectively bombastic as Kline's police captain. Mary Elizabeath Mastrantonio shines as Kline's reluctant love interest/Mayor's daughter. The film settings are attractive, and each character's unique apparel very appropriate. The conclusion was a complete letdown, and not justified by anything that went before. It is a quirky film, not worth the powerhouse talent employed. "},{"Title":"How low can you go!","Date":"23 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Five minutes into the movie both my wife and I predicted a scene was going to happen (Kline was going to come out of a burning building with a child), then predicted several pieces of dialog. Usually it's thumbs down at this point but this looked like it was going to be one of those movies that is so bad you have to watch it just to see how many clichés they'll wrack up. It starts out as a movie that might have a serious theme, and might be treated with some dignity. That all ended when Rod Steiger goes so far over the top, that you wonder if Jim Carrey was watching and went Ka Ching!Then there is the scene where Kline tells Steiger's daughter (Mastroiano), that rather than ask her questions about her murdered friend that he wants to sleep with her, and so they do. Give me strength! Poor old Alan Rickman, fresh from his delicious role in Die Hard, gets dragged in to add to the scenery but is given so little to do, that you know it's a paycheck for him.Finally when the bad guy is close to repeating his 12th murder - upon Mastroiano, of course (it is de rigueur in crappy movies to have the heroine face mortal danger in the end so the hero can rescue her) - the movie descends into a Charlie Chaplin skit. I've never seen this movie before, which can only mean that it stunk so bad it either never ran, or got pulled early, and ended up on wee morning TV. "},{"Title":"Happy 60th, Susan!","Date":"5 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Since today is (well yesterday was) Susan Sarandon's 60th birthday, I saw fit to review one of her lesser known movies (actually, it's Kevin Kline's movie). January Man is not a movie that I really know how to describe. Kevin Kline plays Nick Starkey, an ex-cop who gets drug back into the force to help find a serial killer. It's certainly a common plot. This one toes the line between thriller and love story; I guess that neither is supposed to dominate.I would say that the movie's main strength lies in the various kinds of characters portrayed. Aside from Kline's ex-cop and Sarandon as his wife, there's the new love interest (Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio), Nick's brother (Harvey Keitel), the tough captain (Danny Aiello), and the old-order mayor (Rod Steiger); Alan Rickman also stars.So, did I think that this was a good movie? I don't know what it really was. An interesting group of people with an anticlimactic ending, more than anything. I suppose that the movie's worth seeing, if only once. "},{"Title":"Too serious a subject for a comedy","Date":"6 May 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Let's see ... there's a serial killer on the loose, the police commissioner's brother is a genius profiler but is working instead as a fireman because of some not-clearly-explained scandal from two years ago involving bribery, and the brothers don't get along because the profiler had an affair with the commissioner's wife and their mother liked the profiler better.The mayor is catching heat from the press over the murders so he demands that the profiler brother be reinstated on the force to catch the killer ... but not until after the ELEVENTH victim is killed! Red tape and pensions be damned, poof! the firefighter is now a policeman again, and for some reason insists that his artist friend who, in an unlikely blending of talents, is also a computer geek becomes a policeman too and he brings his parrot to the precinct, but does the profiler jump right on the case? Does he tell his brother that he's been following the case all these months and has some interesting theories about it? Noooo, he spends precious time trying to get his brother's wife, for whom he has been carrying a torch all this time, back into bed by cooking her a dinner consisting of weird foods because if she eats the food that means she still loves him. But she doesn't like the dinner so the profiler takes the mayor's daughter to bed instead, after he meets her at an ice skating rink about 20 minutes after her best friend's (who was the latest victim of the serial killer) funeral. Why she is at an ice skating rink is a mystery, but I suppose different people handle grief in different ways.Are all the other cops working overtime trying to find the killer? Nooo, the only other cops we see in the precinct are two young kids and they're in no hurry to do much of anything, and when the killer is finally found and they're asked to send backup to the scene they don't move much faster. And when we finally get a brief glimpse of the killer he's in blackface and wearing a fright wig, looking like a minstrel Harpo Marx; now there's a surefire way not to bring attention to yourself when you're skulking through an apartment building. Or maybe the killer was just trying to look like the mayor, who also had a funky hairdo.The profiler takes about a day to figure out the serial killer's M.O., so if he had been called in after, say, the SECOND murder instead of a year later, a lot more lives might have been saved. The police commissioner might have been the dirty cop after all, I'm not quite sure, and in the end the profiler, who has been lusting after his brother's wife for all this time, suddenly decides he doesn't care about her at all.This is all happening in Hazzard County, and the characters are named Bo and Luke, right? Nope, it's New York City and this is supposedly serious business.If, as some other reviewers have mentioned, this movie was more about the quirkiness of the profiler character, or about his relationships with the two women, my thought is that the writers would have been better off to have used a non-violent jewel thief as the focus of the police investigation because strangling women is just too serious a topic to take this lightly.Kevin Kline, as the profiler, alternates between being serious about his job and playing it for laughs he rescues a child from a burning building, gives her mouth-to-mouth resuscitation, then asks nobody in particular if they can bring him a coffee, preferably an espresso. Harvey Keitel, as the police commissioner, spends the entire film looking embarrassed, and Rod Steiger, the mayor, tries too hard to work cusswords into his every conversation.Susan Sarandon, the adulterous wife/spurned lover, goes from being a woman who still has soft feelings for Kline to being a bitchy gossip-monger who delights in telling the mayor that his daughter is sleeping with Kline. Alan Rickman's throwaway artist/computer geek character is apparently included only to supply an excuse for having a nude model, and Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio is the 23-year-old mayor's daughter who still lives with her father and seems not to have a job because she's always at Kline's apartment.As for the title, January Man, it doesn't make sense. The killer has had a victim in every month, so why not call him the June Man or the November Man? He uses a blue ribbon to strangle all his victims, so why hasn't he already been nicknamed the Blue Ribbon Killer? And why bother to name the film after the killer anyway, since that whole part of the storyline is more of an afterthought than a driving force? This might have been a fun film when it came out in 1989 but in light of all that has happened since then and how much we now know about serial killers it is embarrassing to watch today. If you're a Kevin Kline fan you might enjoy it for his performance, as silly as it is, but Harvey Keitel fans should rent Smoke instead. "},{"Title":"What a waste...","Date":"24 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" ...of great acting talent on such a preposterous script! The film does have quite a few great moments of dialog (especially when Kline's or Rickman's character is involved), but the plot itself is contrived to the point of unbelievability. (Possible spoilers ahead) We are asked to suspend our disbelief to the point of accepting that a sociopath (who is a master with lock picks) is also accomplished at mathematics and astronomy and (at what we'd call today) geotagging--and that that sociopath (whose character is undeveloped, whose identity is undefined, whose motives are unexplained, whose dialog is nonexistent) has developed a complex pattern of activity that is guessed by the detective at the first attempt. I haven't seen a more unbelievable case of conclusion-jumping since The Giant Claw (http//imdb.com/title/tt0050432/)And I guess that I've gotten started on computers in cop/thriller/detective movies; this one certainly was over the top. I've been in the software business since the late 60's, and ever since 'The Andromeda Strain' I've been seeing computers in the movies that are not real. They're fantastical and they can do magical things that their real-life counterparts won't be able to do for many years. The one in this movie is an egregious example of that breed the capabilities it displayed could not have been available on general purpose computers for at least a decade after the film was made.Oh, well. There are only about 100,000 of us computer geeks in the US, I'm told. That makes us a tiny minority, of course. But I'm willing to bet that such impossible capabilities attributed to computers in the movies taints the plot every time one of us geeks sees a movie like this. Sometimes if I just tell myself that I'm no longer watching a thriller, but instead a bad sci-fi movie, I can get past the cybernetic fantasy part. "},{"Title":"One of the Worst murder mysteries I've ever seen","Date":"10 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Okay, okay, I didn't come to IMDb first to read that this was considered a comedy/mystery. I wish I would have, but I don't think it would have mattered. It's hard to imagine a comedy made about a serial killer. It sure doesn't seem like a comedy, not until the fight scene at the end. Then it just seemed stupid, almost horrifying, to me. Most of the time, it seemed like a serious movie, that's why it was such a surprise. It starts out with the murder of the eleventh woman, the friend of the mayor's daughter. It's shocking and very sad. It moves on the the mayor yelling, the police chief yelling, everyone yelling, and a big fire with our 'hero' making his appearance. There really wasn't any comedy through 90% of the movie. I did enjoy seeing so many great stars in a movie together, and that's why I gave this movie as high as a 3!! "}{"Title":"this is compulsively awful","Date":"26 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  I watched this film in absolute disbelief ... the feeble script is like something an enthusiastic sixth-former might write, before throwing it in the bin in embarrassment. The only thing that kept me watching was the amazing star power of the cast - Kline, Sarandon, Keitel, Rickman, Steiger, Aiello, Mastrantonio, all of whom gamely try to pretend they are in a much better film. But there is nothing they can do when faced with this astounding series of cliches. There's no need for me to put a spoiler warning on this review, or even include spoilers, because believe me you will figure out every single thing that happens in this movie way ahead of time. Before the movie even starts you should write down a list of Ten Most Likely Cop Movie Cliches, and lo and behold every one of them will come true before your eyes in the lamest way imaginable. (On the other hand, though, Mastrantonio does show her excellent breasts halfway through the movie so its not a complete dead loss.)  "},{"Title":"Mixed up film with silly story","Date":"12 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"   Looking at the cast, packed with talented names, you would be forgiven for thinking that this must surely be a great film - why else would so many top people agree to be in it? However, by the end of the film my main feelings were of confusion and disappointment. While each actor does have flashes of greatness, they all seem to be coasting, doing the bare minimum they need to get through their parts - Rickman does little else but his patented moody scowl, Steiger and Aiello shout and rant, Keitel frowns with inner tension and anger. Kline and Mastrantonio are reasonable but never electric as the central couple in what I saw billed as a romantic serial killer thriller comedy - and perhaps this is the film's major problem - it doesn't really know what it's trying to be. The scattering of wacky characters - Kline leading as the hilariously oddball sleuth with a penchant for odd food and weirder decor, with his slow-talking computer-whizz artist buddy (?) Rickman in tow - sets up a comedy agenda reminiscent of real crime comedies such as Foul Play (except without the laughs), and some scenes fit this genre, the climactic fight scene in particular. However, the other characters seem to think they are in an entirely different film, Steiger, Keitel and Aiello all playing straight as if they were in a Copland-style hard-talking psychological actioner and Sarandon flailing about in her bit-of-nothing part not really knowing what she's there for. The first half of the film is taken up establishing the relationships between these central characters - the scary strangler featured in the opening scene is forgotten for about forty minutes while an emotional drama is played out displaying the complex web of past and present ties linking them all. Then we slip quickly into a little light rom-com stuff between Kline and Mastrantonio, before moving on to the solving the crime section, with lots of wrinkled brows, weird ideas, running up and down corridors, false endings and improbable computer simulations. Kline's ingenious solution of the pattern used by the killer is spoiled by one thing - it's completely unbelievable, and no point or reason is given for the criminal following such an absurd and unlikely course through his killing spree. At this point the film is still firmly on serious ground - had it been played a little more for laughs the set-up might have been more acceptable. Bizarrely, up to the moment of this solution, the laughs are more on the gentle side as the mood is firmly placed on the tension between the protagonists, and their efforts to track down the killer. No sense of fear, of a city under the sway of a vicious killer is achieved, and indeed no sense that the killer is in fact a serious issue. It's all about our lead characters, the killer just a backdrop for their arguments. Then, when the serial killer returns to this serial killer thriller, the second he's in the room with his last potential victim, everything goes out the window and we're back in Foul Play slapstick territory with people bouncing down staircases and tripping over things like there's no tomorrow. Then it's over and everybody's happy. What?There are some good ideas and some nice moments here but what it lacks is any sense of unity. There are too many twists of plot and changes of mood to keep you gripped either emotionally or mentally, and the gang of stars involved just don't sparkle enough to make it worth while. Shame really. "},{"Title":"Godawful writing","Date":"12 October 2009","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" IF YOU ARE THINKING OF WATCHING THIS FOR THE FIRS TIME, SAVE YOURSELF THE TIME AND GO TRIM YOUR TOENAILS...This movie is a perfect example of 1970s shlock movies. It was a transition period for Hollywood, so it was a period they had to go through, as they came out of the 1950s-1960s with the terrible acting styles of the Doris Day era. We, the viewing audience had to endure it all, but holy jumpin' jehosephat, some of them sucked.The words they put into these actors' mouths - I am shocked they didn't rebel against the writers and directors with, WTF? Are you seriously expecting me to speak THOSE words? Who wrote this, the kid in Pink Floyd's The Wall video who makes himself out to be a poet? It is just PAINFUL to listen to the dialog. The term gratuitous nudity probably began with this movie. Rickman as a bad Maynard G Krebs slash Vincent van Gogh is bad enough, but the nude bimbo model in this one is just plain embarrassing for American cinema. And Rod Steiger somehow forgot how to act some time before he signed to play the mayor. Or was he that bad all the time and we just didn't notice? Actually, I have to put the low level of this on the director's shoulders - he has authority to overrule bad writing and bad acting and turn it into something palatable. Danny Aiello, Harvey Keitel, Sarandon are just abysmal in this one.I award this 1 star, which is about 2 stars more than it deserves. I give it -10 stars on both writing and directing. May God have mercy on their souls... "},{"Title":"Watch it for the over-the-top performances!!!","Date":"13 June 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" I bought THE January MAN on DVD awhile back and it just sat in with all my other DVD's. I let a friend borrow it and, while in his possession, he was sentenced to a year in a House of Corrections (I won't get into it). I guess I was lucky that his girlfriend was nice enough to give me the DVD back. Anyway, when I did get it back I decided to watch it. I'm glad I did. The plot that involves THE January MAN himself is nothing spectacular. KEVIN KLINE plays Nick Starkey, an ex-cop who was outed from the force. His brother, Frank Starkey (HARVEY KEITEL), is the police commissioner. When a series of serial murders happens, Frank knows that if they want to catch the culprit, they need to bring in in best man for the job of catching this guy and the best man is Nick. Not everyone agrees, including Captain Vincent Alcoa (DANNY AIELLO-this is one of the over-the-top performances), though when Nick needs help, the Captain, though reluctant, always comes through. Another one of the fore-mentioned over-the-top performances comes from ROD STEIGER as the Mayor. And I was laughing my ass off at the part where Christine Starkey (SUSAN SARANDON), Nick's old love interest and now Frank's wife, slaps Nick upside the face and then continues to do so. This is a movie that doesn't take itself to seriously and neither should you. "},{"Title":"The world is either great or wretched, isn't it? So many people are just... finished.","Date":"25 January 2005","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Comedy? Thriller? Suspense? I guess that these are all words or genres that you could use to describe this film. I would use these words if I wanted to gloss over the true feeling of this film. I would use these words if I had to sell this wallow-some film to a distributor who didn't know any better. I would use these words lightly, because if I ever believed them the battle would be forever lost. This was not a comedy. It was not a thriller. It definitely was not a suspense. So, what was it? After viewing this film I came to the conclusion that The January Man reminded me of a puzzle put together by a two-year-old. While all the pieces were in the box to put together, sadly the infant size brain of the child chose to smash the pieces together instead of place them in corresponding orders. Thus, you have a jumbled mess with wedged pieces of what could have been an overall beautiful picture. With poor acting, a confusing plot that literally went nowhere and an ending that felt forced and premature, one can see that this puzzle is unfixable by even the best puzzler in the world. If I were those involved with the creation, I would definitely be ashamed.To begin, what was wrong with the actors? Nobody seemed like they were giving 10% much less 50% of their effort for this film. Even the great ones like Keitel, Kline, and Sarandon felt like they were walking through the motions with equally confused eyes and hearts. Kline's New York accent faded in and out throughout the film giving us no glimpse of his actual character. His role was never fully defined, so the other half of the time that we watch him on screen we just don't care about him at all. This was one of the worst leading characters of all time. Thankfully, a completely miscast team that seemed more interested in the money than actually acting backs him up. Keitel was horrible in this film. I am a huge fan of his body of work, but in this one he walked, talked, and gave those emotionless eyes a rest. He provided nothing of value to this production. The same can be said about Sarandon, whose character seemed unfocused and undervalued, and Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio, who never really got her feet wet in Hollywood until Maid Marion arrived at her doorstep. Alan Rickman was wasted, as well as the one-leveled voices of Danny Aiello and Rod Steiger whose only direction from Pat O'Conner was to yell. In other words, if you are interested in seeing this film for the acting, you will be greatly disappointed.Second, perhaps the acting can be overlooked by a strong story line? WRONG! This was the most convoluted script that I have ever seen Hollywood produce. We spend the first forty minutes learning about an event that happened two years ago that is never fully explained anyway. It reminded of those times that the teacher would say in class that we should all listen up because this wasn't going to be on the test. Then why bother. This set the spiraling downfall for the rest of the film. This unavailable information also lead to some pretty choppy chemistry between the actors. I never say Kline and Keitel as brothers. I never saw the relationship with Sarandon possible. In fact, now that I think about it, I didn't see any of the actors meshing well together because they were working with a script that was focused on all the wrong parts. Eventually, The January Man gets so caught up on this secondary story that we find ourselves rushed into an ending and a solution that seems laughable instead of plausible. We even have a villain that is so confusing that I don't even think he knew what he was doing in the film. The final thirty minutes of this film were the worst parts of this movie, second to all the parts before that. Whoever wrote this script must have just forgotten the basic rules of storytelling because nothing meshed well at all.Finally, I would have to comment that the marketing for this film could feel like a cheated ticket to some film goers. After reading some reviews for this film, I was expecting to find myself chuckling out loud at the antics of Kevin Kline and his spin on the world of investigation. I was wrong. There was no humor in this film at all. Even when O'Conner tried to bring some in, it seemed forced and unhealthy. I must repeat, this is not a comedy. It even isn't really that suspenseful, nor is the thrilling aspect actually that thrilling. I must admit that whomever sold this film to a company under the guise that it was a comedy should be awarded the Best Salesman of the Decade award. Somebody believed this film was funny and even pasted a preview to it with the word comedy written all over it. Someone sold the company a broken product &#133; hook, line, and sinker. I just ask you to beware.Overall, this film was horrible. From the poor acting, the cryptic story that needed some form of decoder ring to understand, the passionless actors, to the harshly branded word comedy, January Man proves that not all films should be made and that an advanced screen process should be used regularly. I genuinely encourage you to skip this film. No good will come of you watching this mess. I promise.Grade * out of ***** "},{"Title":"Utter Tripe","Date":"25 August 2002","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  I have seen over 8000 movies in my lifetime and without doubt the story in this one is the most idiotic I have ever come across - It is utter piffle, absolute nonsense. Why on earth good actors like Kline, Sarandon and Co. agreed to appear in this rubbish is a mystery (Maybe the money??). I could dream up a better story than this one - my 12 year old granddaughter could also !! "},{"Title":"A delight to watch the characters; unfortunately plot is pretty flawed","Date":"15 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" I'm not sure this contains a spoiler, but I certainly to de-construct some of the plot that I considered bad, so please don't read if you intent to see the film.loved watching Kevin Kline and Alan Rickman (excellent!) -- but the movie could have been so much more if they had spent a little time on the story. With a first-rate cast there is absolutely no reason why this movie shouldn't have been a fantastic thriller/character study with classy dialog and humor. But thriller it is not, although it contains elements of one. If they had only put some dramatic elements in it instead of having a lot of stupid yelling scenes. Oy. What a waste of talent.Problem one Where is the police department's special task force on these murders??? How can they possibly expect us to believe that they bring in one man to solve a crime, in a precinct with dust in every corner and no one doing anything but standing around?Problem two The relationship between Kline and Keitel could have been so much more than it was--some deep conversations about unresolved brother issues; but no, all very surface dialog and anger in place of exploring feelings. Problem three What is the genesis of Kline's cooking scenes? Why the odd delicacies? It doesn't make any sense and seems not to be connected to anything--and actually not funny and not even interesting. I guess it is supposed to add to the quirkiness of Kline--but he can do that much better with a good script. Problem four Solving the crime took about as much time as shopping for dinner at the local store. All the questions and mysteries that no one else thought of just mysteriously occur to Kline. Too easy; too pat. So I'm now wondering why I rated this an 8. I think honestly it is because of the character Alan Rickman crafted--and his relationship to Kline. A joy to watch, however brief. So I will condition my rating by saying the 8 is for Rickman, and Kline; the rest of the movie gets a 5 minus. "},{"Title":"The cast deserves better.","Date":"11 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  A serial killer terrorizes a city and only one cop can solve the puzzle, which unbelievably involves prime numbers, star signs and musical tunes! This is either a huge coincidence or a route to a killers identity that only a screenwriter could think up.Kevin Kline as the brilliant but disgraced cop is on auto-pilot, in a role he could do in his sleep. Alan Rickman is merely window dressing on the edges and is completely wasted as is Susan Sarandon. Harvey Keitel and Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio put in passable performances but really the whole cast simply deserves a better movie.The big problem is that the film tries to pack in too many ideas, the murder, government corruption, family relationships, and a bit of comedy and consequently skims the lot and doesn't do one of them really well.A passable movie but there are many better detective, action movies around to choose instead. "},{"Title":"This should have been good","Date":"4 May 2004","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  A film with Kevin Kline, Susan Sarandon, Alan Rickman, Harvey Keitel and Rod Steiger should have been good, but this film was so bad I had to close my eyes.What is suppose to be funny about someone who kills women. Ok, Rod Steiger got away with it in 'No way to treat a Lady', but that had one thing this did not... a good script.Hay don't get me wrong, I like a good black comedy, as long it has comedy in it.I think the cast where working hard, and Kevin Kline, one of the best actors in the USA, was trying to do his best with the crap he was given.This film was written by John Patrick Shanley, who also wrote the very bad 'Joe Versus the Volcano' and won an Oscar for 'Moonstruck' (They must have had some left over that year), can the academy ask for the Oscar back?The good thing about this film was, my friend paid for the rental and not me. "},{"Title":"It's a disappointment. Not funny, no thrill, no suspense, no drama.","Date":"18 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  The script is not worth the cast. This film tries to be thrilling, but it's not. It tries to be funny and it is only occasionally. The characters are flat and remain like that all the way throug. OK, its nice to see Kevin Kline, Susan Sarandon, Danny Aiello and Alan Rickman together. But that is all. I don't see the point of this film. "}{"Title":"A screenplay from hell","Date":"3 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  (Warning -- contains spoilers) Do you like stupid plots? Then you are in for a real treat. I've never seen a movie  with such a mind-boggingly dumb story. It involves a serial killer who only kills on  days whose date is a prime number, and chooses his victims so that the locations  of his crimes, when viewed in a computer model of the city, form the musical notes  of a well-known song. (I'm not making this up!) This clever felon is hunted by our  hero, the outsider cop who is innocently accused of corruption.  Guess how it ends ... The movie is not unwatchable, however. It has a peculiar charm that comes from  seeing good actors (Kevin Kline, Susan Sarandon, Harvey Keitel, Alan Rickman)  struggling with an screenplay from hell.  "},{"Title":"what were they thinking ?","Date":"24 February 2001","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  I am sorry but this is probably the worst movie I ever saw. While I saw plenty of B-movies which were technically worse, I have a special hatred for this one because with all the talent on board (Keitel, Sarandon, Shanley, Aiello, and the same guy who directed the wonderful Circle of Friends) , one would expect this movie to be at least watchable. Instead, what we get is one dimensional, annoying, and dull characters (with especially Kline and Mastrantonio especially acting  wooden) trapped in a plot which is so ludicrous that it simply leaves the viewer turning his or her head. A real life serial killer could have any type of methodology but , come on, a real life detective would not be able to guess it as easily as Kline did - if he was not a telepath. Sorry that I can´t go into more detail but it was a long time since I saw it and fogot a lot but one thing which I do remember was constantly checking my watch to see when this turkey would finally stop gobbling. "},{"Title":"Stupid","Date":"4 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is really stupid. It is supposed to be about a serial killer but it plays more like a cornball comedy. The dialog in this movie is horrendous. The mayor is actually painful to watch, his lines are so bad and his acting sucks. Everyone in this movie seems ridiculous. This is a stinker of a movie. "},{"Title":"As bad as they said it was","Date":"20 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  I bought this movie for $5.00 because I forgot how truly awful it was. I don't understand what the writer or director were doing. There was not one thing believable about this movie. First, if one is fired for corruption, then one does not get transferred to the Fire Department. 2, one also does not go back to the police department as a lieutenant. Further, one does not have shoulder length hair in either the Fire of Police Department. The most annoying character in the movie was Alan Rickman, who is supposed to be a computer wiz (it must be NEC). He never removes the faggy neck wrap. And it must have Lotus Agenda (which was never used). When Kevin Kline comes into the mystery, there have been 11 homicides. One would think the NYPD would have a task force on it, but there is no sign of that. Also, a mere Captain does not barge into the office of the Mayor and make threats. ( I enjoyed the Rod Steiger over the top performance, the only decent one in the movie.) See this at your peril. "},{"Title":"A horrible waste of a great cast","Date":"7 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  What were they thinking? This is a textbook example of a moviemaker who had absolutely no idea of what he was trying to accomplish. How can you make a bad movie when you have Rod Steiger, Kevin Kline, Harvey Keitel, Susan Sarandon, Danny Aiello and Allen Rickman in the cast? Simple....you leave out any semblance of an intelligible plot. I can't believe people actually get paid to do this sort of thing. The screenwriter and director should be shot(but in keeping with the total incompetence of this effort, the shooter would miss). End of story. "},{"Title":"Pick up Your Cues!","Date":"13 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  This is a perfect example of what happens when you assemble a cast of strong actors,then hamper them with a director who can't direct.The main problem with this film is the pacing is terrible.Rod Steiger and the rest of the cast are all great actors,but all actors need a director who can guide them along their journey.Otherwise,what you end up with is a bunch of great actors who are all working against each other instead of working with each other.An admirable try,that fails miserably. "}]