[{"Title":"Great movie, strong plot ~ very entertaining!","Date":"8 September 2002","Score":"31 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I often find myself disagreeing with the critics, but in this case I am in agreement with the other reviewers on this page... This is a terrific movie, pure entertainment. I am frankly tired of so many modern movies that are nothing but violence, nudity and special effects. Well, this movie is not one of them -- it actually has a good plot. Oh, what a rare treat!The best acting is not Stallone's (no surprise there) but that of Donald Sutherland's portrayal of the sadistic and bloodthirsty prison warden. And the scene with the Mustang nearly made me cry. If you haven't yet seen this film... What are you waiting for? You're missing what is probably Stallone's best films! Run, don't walk, to your nearest video store! -) "},{"Title":"Emotional with great performances","Date":"10 October 1999","Score":"37 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"   Sly Stallone hit gold with this seriously under rated film. This is surely Stallone's best films with Cliffhanger and Demolitian Man following. There are superb performances from the main man and his supporting characters like Donald Sutherland(the assignment), Tom Sizemore(enemy of the state), John Amos, Sonny Landham(predator) and Danny Trejo(desperado). The story is gritty and involving, and the best scene is Sizemore's last bid for Stallone's friendship. Watch it and you'll know what I mean. This a great film. Do not miss it. Rating=4/5  "},{"Title":"Very under rated Stallone movie, whose storyline accurately fits his acting credentials.","Date":"21 May 1999","Score":"29 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Lock Up I feel is one of Stallone's better movie's. The storyline seems to fit the acting character of Stallone very well. Sutherland's depiction as the Warden Drumgroole also was excellent. As always, Stallone seems to epitomize struggle in movies very well. In the movie Stallone is a convict just trying to ride his time out, but the warden makes it very hard on him. John Amos also depicts the caring but hard as nails Prison guard Micon very well. In my opinion Lock Up is a Top Level Stallone film, and didn't get nearly the credit it deserved. I certainly would recommend this film. One word that can describe this film would be EMOTIONAL If you like a tough, gritty prison movie, then you will certainly like Lockup.  "},{"Title":"Great movie,Stallone is back after Rambo's success","Date":"28 July 2002","Score":"24 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I really enjoy watching this movie.Although the movie isn't much famous as Rambo or Rocky series it's a real masterpiece.Stallone gives an excellent performance as Frank Leone- a convict that is pushed too much and not fairily  from the prison warden (D.Sutherland) who has a personal vendetta with him.Frank finally achieves in an astonishing way to prove that the warden has set him up in order to escape.There is where his personal drama ends.It's a drama-action-romance movie that it's worth to see it not only for the good performances(S.Stallone,T.Sizemore,L.Romano,F.McRay) but for the suspense especially in the end.For me it's just a Stallone's classic one, so take a seat and enjoy this really entertaining movie "},{"Title":"All you want from a Sly Stallone movie is right here.","Date":"4 March 2008","Score":"17 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Have to say right off that I can't believe the low rating for this one here, because it delivers everything that a Stallone fan would want, if one is loading this into the player then surely they know what to expect?Frank Leone (Sylvester Stallone) only has a few weeks to go before being released from prison, he is no hard core offender, he is a loving man and is ready for a new life with his gorgeous girlfriend Melissa (Darlanne Fluegel). During the night he is whisked away to a maximum security prison on the orders of a sadistic warden out for revenge because Leone was the only man to have ever escaped from his prison, thus setting in motion the wheels of revenge.We then follow Leone as he is pushed to the limits by crazy warden Drumgoole (Donald Sutherland) and all the sadistic guards under his command. He also enlists the help of resident inmate beefcake Chink Weber (Sonny Landham), and they all in turn try to break Leone at all costs to ensure that he never leaves prison again. There certainly is nothing here that hasn't been done before in the prison film genre, and only an idiot would expect anything other than the ending we get, but this is a Stallone movie and it's full of guts, testo macho action, and it should be noted that Sly here puts some depth to the character of Leone. He garners our sympathy quite quickly, and considering the bloke is built like the proverbial brick outhouse, it's quite an achievement.The supporting players are a mixed bunch, this is Tom Sizemore's first motion picture and he does really well with the character of Dallas, Sonny Landham is his usual scary menacing self, whilst Frank McRae as Eclipse does just enough right to make his mark. So it's something of a surprise to me that the best actor on show is actually the film's weak link. Donald Sutherland does overplay it to the point that he goes beyond pantomime villain, it's a real teeth itching performance that he would only outdo with the dreadful Jamie Lee Curtis starrer, Virus, 10 years later, but in a film with such primal fun/action intentions, it doesn't ruin the film and leaves it all told as a fine genre piece.No awards here for sure, but when I watch a film about a man played by Sly Stallone in prison then I think I know what to expect, and it delivers all that I hoped for, so hooray for the beefcake I say. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Possibly the best Stallone movie?!","Date":"11 February 2000","Score":"17 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is a definite must for anyone following Stallone's movies! It is great in its storyline, its atmosphere, its characters and its ending! If you let it, it'll really grip you and hold you in tight suspense till the very end of the drama. I'd say this is one of the most underrated movies ever. If someone knows why, please write me a note.  "},{"Title":"Vastly Underrated","Date":"29 October 2010","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is probably Sylvester Stallone's best performance that wasn't in Copland or a Rocky / Rambo film.While the muscle dudes of the 80s did a lot of character-free action, this one is an action film with some character and drama.I was surprised that the average rating was only 5.8. I would rank it among the best action films of Stallone's resume and also among the best action films of the 80s.The supporting performances are quite good all around. Donald Sutherland is solid as always, and you get easily the best performance of Sonny Landham's career and Tom Sizemore showing why he became a bigger star about 5 years down the road.This is the only big movie where Larry Romano got more than a few lines and he does a good job as First Base. I was a little surprised he didn't go much further and generally only appeared in the future when the casting director needed someone to look and sound Italian. I recommend this one even if you aren't a big Stallone fan. If any lesser known film will change your mind about him, it's probably either Copland or this one. "},{"Title":"Shallow, Flawed but Entertaining","Date":"8 February 2015","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The mechanic Frank Leone (Sylvester Stallone) is a model inmate in a low security prison and has only six months to serve. He intends to spend the rest of his life working in his garage and with his beloved girlfriend Melissa (Darlanne Fluegel). Out of the blue, Leone is brutally transferred during the night to the maximum security Gateway Prison without any explanation. Soon he learns that Warden Drumgoole (Donald Sutherland) is the responsible for his transference. Leone had been sentenced to Treadmore Prison after beating the punks that hit his mentor and friend that taught him his profession of auto mechanic. When his mentor was dying, he asked permission to Drumgoole to go to visit his friend but the request was denied. Leone fled from Treadmore and his lawyer went to the press to expose Drumgoole's behavior. The result was Leone in a minimum security prison and Drumgoole sent to Gateway. Now the warden is seeking revenge and will do anything to keep Leone behind bars.Lock up is an entertaining prison drama full of action with Sylvester Stallone after the successful Rambo trilogy. The story is flawed and shallow, and the viewer shall not think how a prisoner is transferred the way Frank Leone is and his lawyer simply does not exist in the story. The characters are not well developed and there is no explanation for the sadistic behavior of the prison guards. However this type of movie is not to think and entertains. My vote is six.Title (Brazil) Condenação Brutal (Brutal Conviction) "},{"Title":"Nothing is dead around here until its buried.","Date":"28 June 2011","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Great&#x85; just look at the cast who director John Flynn gets us locked up with. Sylvester Stallone plays the ideal prisoner - a rock, Tom Sizemore an edgy inmate, Larry Romano the naïve kid, Frank McRae the friendly man mountain, Sonny Landham dominates with a snake-like turn, John Amos a hardened prison officer captain and finally Donald Sutherland looking down on them as the menacing prison warden using his inmates like chess pieces That's no game man. It's a lesson. You'll love to hate him, as Sutherland is picture-perfect in his delivery. The cast are outstanding, as the performances of all simply engage. Also making the cut is Darlanne Fluegal, William Allen Young, Jordan Lund and Danny Trejo makes a brief appearance here or there. The story follows that of Frank Leone having only 6 months of his sentence to serve, but then one night he's whisked away and he finds himself in a high security penitentiary with a warden Drumgoole (who he shares a past with) that tends to break his spirit within that time by using brutality, intimidation and humiliation. However despite Drumgoole's grudge to see Leone's spirit smothered, he'll find out it won't come too easy. Habitual structure, but quite a tense, grim and barbaric prison-yard story with director Flynn's durably taut handling rising above the predictability. It does seem to move from one sadistic act to another (as the warden tries about anything to break his man), but the plot installs some genuine companionship's between the characters and provides a mind-set of how these inmates truly get through the days so to keep from sinking in to insanity. Unpleasant, but also affecting. Bill Conti strings together an effective music score.You won't break me. "},{"Title":"I didn't think it was too bad actually.","Date":"8 September 2007","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Lock Up starts as model prisoner Frank Leone (Sylvester Stallone) is transfered from the nice minimum security prison Norwood to the maximum security hell-hole that is Gateway run by sadistic bent warden Drumgoole (Donald Sutherland) who has a personal axe to grind against Leone. Several years prior Drumgoole refused to let Leone out to visit his dying friend so Leone escaped & went to the press about his treatment at the hands of Drumgoole, he was left to rot in charge of Gateway while Leone was put in the cushy Norwood which Drumgoole still feels a certain amount of bitterness about. Having Leone transfered with a mere six months of his sentence remaining Drumgoole has to provoke him into another escape or some misdemeanour so he can increase his sentence & using his unsympathetic guards torture him & make the rest of his life a living hell...Directed by John Flynn I didn't think Lock Up was brilliant but at the same time I didn't think it was too bad either. The script by Richard Smith, Jeb Stewart & Henry Rosenbaum takes itself pretty seriously & some of the sloppy sentiment can make sitting through his a chore especially the prolonged scene when Stallone & his convict friends repair an old car. This isn't a typical Stallone action vehicle & while it does have a few action sequences in it their thin on the ground & consist of fights rather than huge budget set-pieces. I quite liked the story no matter how improbable it was, I liked the character's although they do seem to come & go a little to easily & it kept me quiet for a couple of hours. The mix between action & sentimental male bonding isn't quite right & focuses a little too much on the later but as I said I still liked it although if pushed I'd find it hard to unreservedly recommend, I think maybe Lock Up is an acquired taste.Director Flynn does OK, I wouldn't call it particularly stylish & he gets the pacing slightly wrong but it looks nice enough if not spectacular. The action scenes are fairly violent but there's no car chases or explosions which Stallone action flicks are perhaps better known for, action fans may be a little disappointed.Technically the film is good if a little bland & forgettable, apparently Stallone got paid a tasty $15,000,000 for this which seems a lot... The acting is alright, Sutherland makes for a suitably sadistic bad guy & John Amos makes for a good hard as nails prison guard with a heart.Lock Up is a decent film which I actually quite liked although thinking about it now it's difficult for me to explain why, it's just one of those films that you like but deep down know that you shouldn't & you don't know why. "}{"Title":"One of the most thrilling prison movies ever. Stallone rules !!","Date":"25 November 2001","Score":"13 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The movie starts off pretty slow. But the pace picks up. I enjoyed every minute of it. It shows the tortures and wars that go on in prison. Sutherland (drumcoole) plays the bad warden. Stallone (leone) plays the role of an an escaped convict who is in a good low-security prison having just 6 weeks to finish his term. Drumcoole gets him transferred to one of the worst prisons ever for taking his past vengeance.Drumcoole wants to take him in for life. And Leone has got to resist this and has to submit to his torture. But when it starts getting personal,Leone can't take it any more and wants to break out.But he breaks his golden rule  D.T.A (Don't trust anyone). Stallone is in great shape and there are excellent realistic fight sequences in the movie. The last 15 minutes are the movie's best. A must-see for all Stallone fans as well as for the ppl who like thrillers or prison movies. Its a bomb-ass movie !!! "},{"Title":"Good Stallone film!","Date":"15 April 2003","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This film is a good entertaining Stallone film.Donald Sutherland,Sonny Landham,and Tom Sizemore were all good.It is entertaining and its a good jail fighting film.I wouldn't say it is Stallone's best film but if like Stallone, the above mentioned actors,and action its worth a watch! "},{"Title":"Rocky in prison","Date":"14 April 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Frank Leone (Sylvester Stallone) is in minimum security lock up with 6 months left and even allowed out into the world with Melissa (Darlanne Fluegel). He gets transferred to maximum security Gateway by vindictive warden Drumgoole (Donald Sutherland). He had escaped Drumgoole's prison before and made him a laughing stock. Captain Meissner (John Amos) is his hardnosed guard. Guard Braden is more by the book. Dallas (Tom Sizemore) is an overly helpful prisoner. Eclipse manages the motorpool. Prison strongman Chink Weber is gunning for Frank.The setup is questionable. I don't get how a guy who escaped once could possibly be slated for release. The only way is to do a deal with the D.A. probably as a whistleblower against Drumgoole. The short exchange in the movie seems to suggest that and then the question becomes how does Drumgoole still have a job? The explanation for Frank's situation is so short that it feels like the movie would rather ignore it.The movie is trying to be gritty but parts of it seems wrong. At times, this feels more like a Rocky movie. There's even a musical montage of them fixing up a hot rod. It's completely out of place. There are other moments like teaching First Base how to drive. Again it's trying to be heart warming which is ill-fitting for the premise. Some of it works better but there are too many situations that don't match the expected tense grittiness. The dialog is also wrong. First Base actually uses the word 'jive'. The movie has a few too many clunky things going on. "},{"Title":"Cool little Stallone flick&#x85;","Date":"4 May 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Lock Up is a pretty good movie for Stallone fans, although it could easily have been much better had he not been basically a saint behind bars. Stallone plays Frank Leone, who faces multiple prison terms total, beginning with an 18-month sentence he was given for avenging the vicious beating of an old man who took him off the streets when he was a teenager. So back then he wasn't allowed to leave the prison to see his dying father (when we meet him, he is on a weekend leave from a minimum security prison, a weekend that he spends playing ball with his kids while his charming wife looks on approvingly), so he breaks out to go to the funeral. So his minor prison sentence turns into a big one, although one that he spends at a comfortable minimum security joint with all kinds of perks, including weekends and conjugals and even friendships with the guards. His release is approaching when suddenly he is awakened in the middle of the night and taken to a brutal, maximum-security prison where he is to spend the rest of his sentence. It's called a routine transfer, although he has done nothing to deserve such an upgrade in security status and even his wife is not informed of what happened to him.Ultimately he learns that he is being transferred to the prison of Warden Drumgoole (Donald Sutherland at his creepy best), who was in charge of the prison that Leone escaped from, which in turn made it into the papers and ruined Drumgoole's career. Now he has his chance for revenge, and he plans to arrange for Leone to spend the rest of his life in this prison.The movie carelessly glosses over the ease with which Drumgoole plucks Leone out of his own prison with no explanation to those in charge there, and the conflict immediately switches to Leone trying to survive in this violent prison and stay out of trouble so he doesn't screw up his chances of getting released on time so he can go back to his family. Drumgoole pulls out all the stops in violating the law that his institution is designed to uphold so that he can keep this one guy down, and Leone faces all manner of challenges ranging from shank-laden inmates to one of his inmate buddies who steals the Mustang they've all restored together and tears all over the prison yard doing doughnuts.The movie is definitely entertaining although there are times when the cheese factor is through the roof, such as the spray paint fight and the downright school-girlish friendship that Leone forms with a small group of other inmates. On the other hand, it also has a much wider target audience than your average prison movie, and it manages to generally avoid most of the gaping pitfalls that prison movies are in danger of falling into when they shoot for a wide audience. There's nothing realistic about it, but for good Stallone entertainment, this is not a bad way to follow up the massive success of the Rambo and Rocky films. Also keep your eye out for a young Tom Sizemore, but be advised that the movie features violence, unnecessary cheesiness and may leave you with an overwhelming desire to go out and get some doughnuts&#x85; "},{"Title":"Another great Stallone movie...","Date":"23 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I really enjoy this movie. I think even thirty years later, this movie still holds up. It's another great Stallone movie and it's very entertaining and enjoyable to watch.In this movie, Frank Leone is nearing the end of his prison sentence for a relatively minor crime. But just before he is paroled, Frank gets transferred from his minimum security prison to a maximum security prison, Warden Drumgoole takes charge. The Warden was assigned to control this hell-hole prison because of Frank's and thinks that now he should pay. He is determined to make Frank's life miserable for as long as possible. Overall, I give this movie a 7 out of 10, which in my ratings book is Great. "},{"Title":"Great movie with awesome ending","Date":"16 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Lock up is the type of action that will make you go Wow, this is very different, and I love it.the movie is about Frank Leone who is not only a good mechanic, but also has to finish some time. When transferred, he meets a corrupt warden who puts Frank through hell and now he must get his revenge on the warden before he ends up dead. There's so much to say about this movie and sucks this movie is in another movie in the underrated Stallone list, and it just shows once again that critics really don't know what they are talking about and should just leave it to people who are not a bunch of rich snobs who have no life like Leonard Maltin and the razzies. God I HATE the razzies, just wished they blew up, you know. "},{"Title":"Rape this!","Date":"12 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Sylvester Stallone plays a mechanic serving time in a minimum-security prison. He's been a model prisoner, liked by everybody, and even allowed to leave the prison on furlough. One night he's awakened in his bed by armed guards and forcibly taken to a maximum security prison, headed by a sadistic warden (Donald Sutherland) with an ax to grind with Sly. He's told he will have to serve out the remainder of his sentence there and Sutherland makes it clear life will be hell for him.Sly's terrific. He's always been an underrated actor. Sutherland, as he often does, overacts and uses at least three different accents before settling on one. Since Sutherland is hardly a physical threat to Stallone, they added Sonny Landham as the tough-ass prisoner who torments our hero. Tom Sizemore is a snitch. John Amos plays a guard who seems bad but turns out to be okay. My favorite character was probably Frank McRae as a huge prisoner who comes to Sly's aid (F train, son. F train.).What would an '80s Stallone movie be without a montage? There's a fun one here as Sly bonds with his fellow cons restoring an old car. Despite being a prison flick, it's not really like the exploitation prison movies of the '70s and early '80s. Implausible to the extreme but also entertaining. "},{"Title":"Not bad","Date":"10 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Lock Up never appeared on my radar until hearing David Morrell praise Stallone's performance on the First Blood commentary. And he does do a pretty kick-ass job.Stallone stars as a terminally upbeat con serving out the last of his sentence in a country club penitentiary. But his cakewalks is cut short when the vicious warden (Donald Sutherland) of a nearby hellhole has him transferred to serve out the remainder under his thumb. Sutherland's still nursing a years-old grudge, and has made it his life's ambition to break Stallone's indomitable spirit.Lock Up is your standard prison movie, albeit charged by John Flynn's macho direction (sentimentalized by Conti's score). But the tropes are all here and accounted for. What gives this particular prison movie a new spin is the psychological thriller aspect between Stallone and Sutherland. And it remains a hard-edged drama right up until the last fifteen minutes when things turn full-on action movie. Still, as Stallone movies go, it's one of his better performances. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Shawshank it ain't...","Date":"18 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Blimey &#x96; three Sly Stallone movies in the space of two weeks and I'm slowly losing the will to live. He's a good guy in this one, even though he's doing time. At some point in the movie the reasons for his incarceration are explained &#x96; it wasn't his fault, apparently, but I wasn't paying sufficient attention for the reasons to sink in. Strange really, I was sitting on the sofa staring at the TV screen and yet the information failed to penetrate&#x85; Not that it really matters. Anyway, Sly's got six months of his sentence to go, gets weekends off to visit his sweet patootie, and the neighbourhood kids all like him, so things aren't too bad.But then, in the middle of the night, he's forcibly taken from his cell and transported to a prison one step up from hell which is overseen by the evil Donald Sutherland who, it has to be said, isn't exactly the scariest villain you've ever met. Donald's got it in for Sly because, erm&#x85; well because. It was he who engineered Sly's transfer &#x96; although how exactly he managed it is never explained. Or perhaps it is explained and I missed that bit as well&#x85; Anyway, Warden Don's out to make our hero's life hell &#x96; although he takes his own sweet time about it. For the first forty-five minutes or so, Sly has a pretty good time of it he makes a few mates, susses out the ones to stay away from, and gets a job in the prison garage where he and his new mates set about restoring an old motor. It's only when one of Sly's mates decides to go for a joy ride around the prison grounds that Don suddenly remembers why he invited Sly to stay, and a prolonged spell in solitary marks the start of a campaign of persecution designed to push Sly into committing another faux pas that will see his soon-to-be-completed sentence extended by another ten years.This is pretty dire stuff, but it's not as bad as Driven and it has some entertainment value, even managing to notch up a level of suspense in the final couple of reels. It would have worked better if Sly had been slightly damaged to start with so that he had some internal demons to deal with as well as the one's outside his cell. As it is, he's the world's nicest prisoner, which means he's completely one-dimensional. The story itself tosses logic aside with arrogant disdain. In the end, Sly takes Don hostage and ties him into the electric chair the warden has so lovingly restored (see what they did there? Car = symbol of freedom, electric chair = symbol of death. Clever stuff, eh?). What nobody knows is that Sly has taken the fuses out of the switch so that when he pulls it nothing happens. Somehow, this is enough to convince Kunta Kinte that Sly's telling the truth and all ends happily with everyone forgetting that he's just submitted another human being to an ordeal that would warrant a prison term regardless of whatever unrelated crimes his victim had committed. "},{"Title":"A brief respite in a growing tide of inanity...","Date":"19 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Stallone had completed four years of bad movies before this, and would - odd fun ones like Demolition Man aside - complete seven years of bad movies after it. That's an impressive hit rate of inanity by anyone's standards.It's not that Lock Up is even particularly any good, though the borderline realistic (for a Stallone movie) brutality gives it a verve others around it perhaps lack. Added to this is a psychological edge, as Stallone's Frank Leone is manipulated and tortured throughout under the watchful eye of Donald Sutherland's sadistic warden. It's kind of like a version of the 60s TV show The Prisoner, only with No.6 a gurning muscleman and No.2 a man who wants to see eight guards beat him half to death with batons. Continually. For ninety minutes.Rooting for the wronged Leone is what propels the film, into its (even more) ludicrous climax and descent into incongruous action movie lines (rape this!, said in earnest, is the oddest exchange). Other oddities include the overt inverse racism whereby the only two guards to show mercy are the two black guards, and also Sutherland's performance. As the very first Donald Sutherland film I saw, I spent several years avoiding him, believing him to be a truly terrible actor. It's only in retrospect, when his talent is abundantly clear, that you can appreciate that this is Sutherland filling the bad Brit role so beloved of Stallone's slice of Hollywood and sending it up to the max.I've made this film sound a guilty pleasure, and it kind of IS, yet there's also a compelling story at its heart, one man against the improbable odds. And his even more improbable victory. "}{"Title":"Shawshank For Dummies","Date":"16 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Somewhere within all the corny, bombastic fare lies a cool little prison flick starring Sylvester Stallone as a furloughed convict with six months to go &#x96; suddenly thrust from a nice location to a really nasty one thanks to villainous warden Donald Sutherland, seeming out of an overboard science-fiction film. Sutherland's cartoonish tyrant aside (with a personal vendetta against our hero); it's Sly, with a Bill Conti score backing him, turning in his usual tough dude with a good soul character.And with the aid of fellow prisoners Tom Sizemore as a talkative exposition machine, and friendly Frank McCrae as the head of the jailhouse auto garage, he has some fun &#x96; befriending a naive and predictably doomed young convict while battling the big Indian from PREDATOR and 48 HRS Sonny Landham as the joint's formidable ruffian. But all sinks to Sutherland's hammy performance &#x96; though perhaps the writer's partially to blame for comic-book dialog like This is Hell &#x96; and I'm going to give you the guided tour. Yet even the banal stuff&#x85; as Stallone goes through endless mental and physical torture to eventually confront his enemy&#x85; is brutally fun to watch.And More Interviews http//cultfilmfreakreviews.blogspot.com "},{"Title":"Gets a little silly near the end, but for the most part, I really dig Lock Up.","Date":"20 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Lockup is a childhood favorite of mine. I look up to Sly Stallone in a lot of ways, and this movie was always one of my favorites. Well after not viewing it for quite a few years, did it still hold up?. I was very happy to find out that I still found much to enjoy about Lock Up. For starters it's one of the most realistic prison films I've seen, period. The Prison is incredibly depressing looking. It helps that it was filmed in an actual prison, to add to the realism factor. John Flynn|The Director| did a great job of letting the viewer feel The tension between Leone and The Warden, throughout the film. Lockup did get a little silly near the end, I thought it was a little bit over the top to be honest. Even a Warden who had that much hatred for an inmate, I highly doubt he would go to the lengths that he did, to keep Leone in prison, it just felt highly unrealistic, thought it did make for some good action sequences. Lockup also does a smart job with the characters. We are able to care for Leone and the friends he has, because we can sympathize with them all, even Dallas.I also enjoyed how quickly Lockup gave us a quick jolt. When we see Leone 1st being transfered and haled off into another prison, it really set the tone and the mood for the movie. Donald Sutherland's 1st appearance, especially his speech was quite chilling. Sylvester Stallone is not the world's greatest actor, but he's always had a pure heart, and loads of determination to get him where he is today. His charisma is undeniable, and as far as his performance here is concerned, he did just fine.Performances. Sly Stallone is the central character, so he has to carry a lot of the weight. He is up to the task. We care about Leone, he's a good all around human being, brimming with likability and positivity. This movie, and his performance were both panned by critics, but I thought he did terrific. Donald Sutherland is chilling as The Warden. He's sick, he's perverted, and he'll do anything to exact revenge, and that's what made a lot of the movie. John Amos plays the strict, yet Captain with heart very well. Sonny Landham has a great physical presence, and made for a terrific psycho. Tom Sizemore has never been a favorite of mine, but he is pretty good as Dallas. He's a bit of a weasel, but one with a heart, therefore I could relate to him. Frank McRae plays it low key, unlike Last Action hero, and the film was better for it. Darlanne Fluegel is very pretty, and does well as the love interest of Leone's. Larry Romano is a likable individual as First Base, he did well with what he had to do. Jordan Lund plays one of the fattest, despicable characters I've seen in some time, I hated him.Bottom line. Lockup is not the perfect movie, but it's definitely a very entertaining one, and one of the better prison films out there. Ignore the bad reviews, and the arrogant critics, Lockup is a good movie. Recommended.7 1/2 10 "},{"Title":"Lock-box...","Date":"27 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Sylvester Stallone stars as model prisoner who is given the grand tour of hell from Donald Sutherland. Seems Sutherland is ticked off at Sly Stallone for escaping from his prison and ruining his career, after unsuccessfully goading him into bad behavior that would make him stay longer in prison, a war is waged between prisoner and the warden. Lock-Up actually manages to be a fairly engaging effort from Sly Stallone. Sure the movie has its excessive melodrama but typically the movie works for what it sets out to be and in the end the prison mood is adequately drawn and the supporting characters are well drawn by the excellent supporting cast. (Tom Sizemore, Frank McRae,Sonny Landham and the effortlessly likable John Amos) In other words this is a decent movie and well worth watching for fans of Sylvester Stallone. It certainly is more watchable than Tango and Cash.* *1/2 out of 4-(Pretty good) "},{"Title":"Entertaining bad prison drama","Date":"10 October 2015","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Interesting thing &#x96; This could have been a Rambo movie. It would had taken place after First Blood.Lock up is an ambitious movie that tries hard to tell something , but ends as a cheesy , clichéd and pointless movie. It's Shawshank Redemption for dummies. It has some good elements in it , but it's still a bombastic , over the top fare that it's hard to take seriously.The whole conflict in Lock up is ridiculous . It's basically a story of Devil (prison warden) trying to break down Jesus (the prisoner) . Everything is black and white here , there's no moral ambiguity . Furthermore , I fail to see what's the point of this movie is. That the justice system is flawed ? That the prison wardens and guards are sociopaths who enjoy torturing innocent prisoners ? That the prisoners are mostly good people who deserve respect ? Honestly , I don't know what the movie is trying to say here .The other serious problem of the movie is the acting of Sylvester Stallone and Donald Sutherland. Not only their characters are terribly one dimensional ( one is 100 % good , the other is 100 % bad) , but both of them give hammy performances. Stallone lacks expression , while Sutherland tries too hard to show how evil he is.The final nail to the coffin is the predictable , cheesy and cliché screenplay. It does seem to move from one sadistic act to another. The villains are never subtle. The dialogues are often laughable (Rape my fist) . The friendship that Leone forms with a small group of other inmates is downright school-girlish (the spray fight !). There's nothing realistic about the whole story and that's why it's hard to be emotionally involved with what is happening on the screen.There are good elements. Lock up is nicely directed by John Flynn (Rolling thunder , Bestseller) .The score by Bill Conti (&#x84;Rocky) is good. The movie looks great - the prison used here was the East Jersey State Prison in Rahway, New Jersey. The cast includes real inmates of Rahway State Prison. Chuck Wepner, the real-life inspiration for Rocky Balboa, was an inmate at the prison where the film was shot.The supporting cast is pretty strong with Tom Sizemore (Passenger 57) , Frank McRae (48 ours) , Sonny Landham (Predator) , Darlanne Fluegal (To live and die in LA) and Danny Trejo (Desperado).Lock up is a bad movie , but somewhat entertaining , especially if you don't take it seriously. It won't be until the 1997 when Stallone will make a good drama with the good and underrated Copland . I give Lock up 3/10. "},{"Title":"Only a 3 for me","Date":"17 July 2015","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Lock Up will not be the most memorable film, but Stallone did a much better job than he usually does, and the film had a good depiction of the jail as a real hell.It could have been a very good movie, but it was just way too predictable. If Leone is getting beat up in a rugby game and they show a guy concerned in the back, will the guy help him? Of course he does. If Leone tells a guy only to start a car and drive it, will the guy drive it? Of course he does. And does Leone get punished instead of the guy? of course he does... I mean, you predicted it way before it actually happened. I wanted to be surprised, but you never will be in this movie. I actually fell asleep watching it, too slow at the start.Corrupt prison movie. Good action in the end. If you like Stallone and Donald Sutherland, they'll do justice to the movie. "},{"Title":"The other 1989 movie where Stallone is locked-up.","Date":"3 June 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" In the same year he escaped from prison with Kurt Russell in Tango & Cash, Stallone was locked-up again in this gritty, grim thriller. Frank Leone is an ordinary man forced into avenging thugs who beat-up his kindly old mentor. He's put in prison for the crime but escapes just before his sentence is up so he can be with the old man at his deathbed. His escape and subsequent publicity shames Warden Drumgoole (a very evil Donald Sutherland), who is blacklisted with in the Penal system. Leone serves out his remaining six months in a cozy, minimum security facility and dreams of returning home to his girlfriend. In the middle of the night he is dragged from his bed and taken to Drumgoole's new domain; Gateway, the worst prison in America. Drumgoole intends to make Leone serve very, very hard time, pushing him to his limits in hope that he might lash out and thus extend his sentence.It goes through a lot of prison movie clichés, and I guess it doesn't really stand out against the better or more exciting movies in the genre. It entertains and is occasionally engaging, but is by no means a classic. The animosity between Leone and Drumgoole is interesting, and the casting of crazy Sonny Landham as the yard boss is quite scary, but again, these are all clichés. Stallone brought back Bill Conti (his old pal from the Rocky movies) to score the movie, but he effort is totally inappropriate and the light touch to the music spoils the intensity of many scenes. A different composer might have resulted in a more memorable movie. You'll never really feel the need to revisit Lock Up after a single viewing. "},{"Title":"Lock up has the key...","Date":"27 May 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Brutal Dudes Behind Bars Stallone actioner fairs pretty well considering the familiar ground it treads on. The plot is pretty much stolen from all those 70s hot-chicks-battle-sadistic-warden flicks, but given a male reversal in a pretty watchable way.The first thing required of the viewer is just to go with the implausible set-up, wherein Stallone is SOMEHOW given clearance to transfer to another prison despite nearing his release date. This is all so his wronged former warden Sutherland can put him through a hellish endurance test before he becomes a free man (how it wouldn't be obvious to the system that evil Donald is out for retribution is the first thing to relinquish in your mind). You get your stock recruit of jail types, such as the motormouthed buddy, the foolish kid, the teddy bear black guy, etc. Though a real surprise is that racism is never spouted for a moment by any character, especially Landham's snarling yard thug. He restricts his comments to the homosexual variety.It's all an odd mix of light-hearted pathos (Stallone has never been more likable) which will segway into unrestrained violence (electricutions, stabbings, beatings), and even time for an 80s musical number centered around a cherry '65 Mustang. It must be said, however, that that scene runs far too long into a beyond-cheesy and awkward male-bonding level. In Stallone's corner are a pair of fed-up guards (John Amos, as always, is a force) who do what they can to restrict Sutherland's sadistic orders. And though a well-treaded storyline, writers Smith, Stuart, and Rosenbaum pay-off their set-ups in perfect fashion, never leaving any unexplored.Some interesting casting choices, as Sutherland's understated tormentor is played to an effective level, a young Tom Sizemore grates at first but ultimately settles in, and some unsung notice to Jordan Lund as a truly scumbaggy prison guard. He captures your usual balding, pudgy henchman with a little extra relish to make you despise him even more. Though Sutherland is a howl during the final confrontation while being subjected to a certain prison device staple.Lock Up was the other good-guy-against-the-odds-while-incarcerated film of 1989 along with Tom Selleck's An Innocent Man, but in terms of what you'd expect of a Stallone popcorn muncher, it should deliver for you. "},{"Title":"A great film in my opinion","Date":"19 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Great movie, it really had my attention when I first watched it back in the day...I have seen it many times since. If you are a Mustang fan the Mustang restoration part of the movie probably really tugs at your heart every time as it does mine. The movie also really makes one realize what it would be like to be behind bars for real & how it would feel to try to maintain a relationship with a loved one on the outside. Donald Sutherland also plays a great mean warden. So good in fact that you just feel like punching him yourself for Stallone all thru the movie, you might even catch yourself clenching your fist unknowingly. The end of the movie is obviously touching when Stallone finally finishes his time & walks out as the hard nosed guard that you hated during the movie all the sudden seems to like Stallone. All in all it's a great film in my opinion & I recommend it, I think it is one of those movies that you should add to your collection. "},{"Title":"Stallone likes to play the guy in prison this is one of the better ones","Date":"25 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Sylvester Stallone always gets a bad rap for his films, not sure why? I've been checking out some of his older stuff recently and this is one of the good ones. Its from 89, so you immediately have to excuse some of the cheese that comes from movies out of that era but the plot is strong (if unoriginal) and the acting more than decent especially from Donald Sutherland as the sadistic and bloodthirsty prison warden and a(very thin) Tom Sizemore in an early role. Frank McRae & Sonny Landham also impress and there is a brief sighting from Danny Trejo as gang member. Its classic Stallone though, he always manages to put a spin on his tough guy characters so that you feel sympathy and genuinely care about them. The story is entertaining and pretty much delivers what you'd expect from a prison film including here football games in the mud, and a montage while the guys work on a muscle car in the garage -strangely reminding me of 'Grease'.I liked Stallone's character in this, he plays Frank Leone; a minimum security nice guy just trying to finish his time and go home to his girlfriend. He has just weeks left before being released when he's suddenly moved to a maximum security hellhole. This prison is run by warden Drumgoole who wants revenge because Frank was the only man to ever escape which resulted in his demotion (Frank needed to attend a funeral).Drumgoole proceeds to make Frank's last few weeks a living hell, This is hell, and I'm going to give you the guided tour pushing him to the limits and having his sadistic guards torture him. When Frank won't break (despite time in the hole, getting shanked and encounters with fellow prisoner Chink Weber) Drumgoole arranges for him to learn that his girlfriend is about to be raped on the outside, causing Frank to plot his escape once more.Stallone seems to have a penchant for doing movies where his character goes to prison. Not sure what that's all about but look at this list; Tango and Cash, Escape to Victory, First Blood, First Blood part2, Judge Dredd, Demolition Man, Escape. "},{"Title":"Another Sly Movie With A Brilliant Bill Conti Score With Sizemore Almost Stealing The Movie","Date":"21 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Continuing my plan to watch every Sly Stallone movie in order, I come to 1989's Lock Up. Plot In A Paragraph With only 6 months left of his prison sentence inmate Frank Leone (Stallone) is transferred from minimum security to maximum security by a vindictive warden (Donald Sutherland) who has a score to settle.Not dramatic or brutal enough to be considered a serious drama, without enough action to call it an action flick, it's somewhere inbetween the two, but if you can ignore the implausibility of the plot, 'Lock Up' is very enjoyable. I rate this as one of the better non franchise movies in Sly's career. A rare occasion where Stallone appears not to have meddled with the script, and the movie seems to be the better for it. Sly is back in underdog territory, the role that suits him best. Donald Sutherland looks to be having a great time as a pantomime villain, and John Amos (an actor I always enjoy seeing on screen) is as reliable and solid as ever. Tom Sizemore (in his breakout role) steals every scene he is in as Dallas, and if his role had been a bit better written, and more fleshed out, he would have walked away with the full movie. Frank McRae again pops up (This is the last time) with Sly after 'FIST', 'Paradise Alley' and 'Rocky 2' The score by Bill Conti (who else) is again another winner. Especially during the football match. "}{"Title":"What an underrated Stallone flick!","Date":"14 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The movie surrounds the character Frank Leone (Sylvester Stallone) who is forced into another prison against his will and then bizarre and crazy things starts to happen and he need to help his friends and himself from trouble. The so called warden (Donald Sutherland) makes the prison life a living hell for Frank and it gets harder and harder to survive in prison. Now I have heard so many times people complaining about Stallone's acting abilities but I think he is such an underrated actor and I do not think he deserves all the crap he's gotten through the years and this movie sure proves that he can make the audience get emotions and care for his character (great acting!). When you get emotions towards the good guys and when you feel hatred towards the bad guys you know you've made a great movie. The movie takes the viewer on a wild journey and you're on your edge of your seat almost throughout the whole movie. The movie caught my interest immediately when I saw that Stallone and director John Flynn (who directed one of my favorite horror flicks Brainscan)was involved. There's just something about prison movies in general, they almost never disappoint you. This is by far one of Stallone's best performances ever if you ask me. This movie gets an excellent rating of 10/10 stars from me. "},{"Title":"Lock Up is Stallone's very underrated action prison drama film","Date":"7 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Lock Up (1989) is underrated Stallone Action prison Drama film. I would say this film is Rocky and Rambo two person's in one. When prison guards are Pushing Frank Leone in a Gateway maximum security prison, his team spirit is unbroken. When he was fighting Chink with the hat on it he definitely reminds me on Rocky. When warden Drumgoole was pushing him to far, he remind me on Sheriff Teasle from First Blood (1982) I love this film and is definitely my third best Stallone favorite film from the 8o's. After this movie action stars copied this film and make a prison action Drama film. Like Death Warrant (1990), Bloodfist III Forced To Fight (1992) and Hard Justice (1995) they copied this film, just Death Warrant is different prison film with my all time favorite action star Jean-Claude Van Damme. I love Lock Up to death and I love Cobra and Tango & Cash (1989). Watching it last night this movie become my favorite best action movies. I would put it right between Rocky and Rambo movies. Stallone is in prison and he keeps fighting for his life by a corrupt warden. Warden tried to break Stallone but he couldn't. Lock Up is a very underrated action prison drama that has a heart and I love it to death. He was just pushed to hard over the edge and he fought to stand alone in this prison action movie. Lock Up is similar to Victory another underrated films from the 80's Stallone also played alongside Michael Caine. Lock Up is fight for survival in this movie and I simply loved it I don't care what anyone else is saying about this underrated prison drama style film. Lock Up is my 3d best movie and I replaced it with Assassins instead. Also this movie become a copycat and rip off from Death Warrant that Van Damme played and Bloodfist III Forced to Fight with Don The Dragon Wilson another action movie. Just those are all different movies with different story's just Bloodfist III does copy a little Lock Up only the main character does not come out from prison and uses his martial arts and fists to defend him self pretty good action prison movie.RAPE THIS!!!!!!! My favorite Frank Leone quote. Lock Up is a 1989 American prison action film directed by John Flynn. The film stars Sylvester Stallone and Donald Sutherland. The film was released in the United States on August 4, 1989.With only 6 months left of his prison sentence inmate Frank Leone is transferred from minimum security to maximum security by a vindictive warden.Sylvester Stallone as inmate Frank Leone did a wonderful job, he acted like he was Rambo and Rocky two in one. Donald Sutherland as Warden Drumgoole did a wonderful job as sadistic evil villain was really FANTASTIC. Darlanne Fluegel as Melissa Frank's girlfriend did a wonderful job. Frank McRae as Eclipse did awesome job as Frank's friend. Tom Sizemore as Dallas also did an Excellent job. John Amos as Captain Meissner captain of the prison guards was excellent his character was well written. Director John Flynn was also awesome and amazing he directed this prison flick and he directed actioner film with Steven Seagal two years later Out for Justice (1991). I love the main theme form Bill Conti he also wrote theme for Rocky and The Karate Kid (1984) which I love those films. I also love the football game in this film and Eclipse was helping to defeat Chink and his gang.Lock Up did poorly at the American box office, making $22,099,847 on a budget of $24 million10/10 Grade A Studio Carolco Pictures Starring Sylvester Stallone, Sylvester Stallone,Donald Sutherland,John Amos, Darlanne Fluegel, Frank McRae and Sonny Landham Director John Flynn Producers Charles Gordon,Lawrence Gordon Writers Richard Smith,Jeb Stuart and Henry Rosenbaum Rated R Running Time 1 Hr. 49 Mins. Released August 4, 1989. Budget $24.000.000 Box Office $22.099.847 "},{"Title":"different","Date":"9 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" an action film. one who can be a surprise for many viewers. and a Stallone performance who can change many old verdicts about him. short - a place. an its rules. a fight with many arms.a splendid character by Donald Sutherland and an interesting mixture of emotion, action scenes, lesson about life purpose. far to be sentimental, with maybe one memorable scene, maybe not remarkable - it is not Rambo or a classic - but different by a lot of films from same genre. and that is its basic, fundamental virtue - the desire to create a simple story , heroic and touching, who gives chance to discover few not bad characters . a decent film. far to classic recipes of genre. "},{"Title":"A movie of contrasts and appearances","Date":"9 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The theme of this movie is the distinction between good and evil and that of appearances and reality. In this movie the criminal is the good guy and the cops are the bad guys. Okay, they aren't exactly cops, but the warden of the prison, traditionally a good guy, has become the master villain. This movie is very pro-criminal and shows us that not all of them are evil, and in fact some of them are simply there at the wrong place and the wrong time and destroy their lives because of a simple mistake. The law tells us not to make those mistakes, but sometimes this is not always possible, especially for the easily lead.Leone (Sylvester Stallone) is finishing off a gaol term after he was locked up for an assault, and then later for escaping from lawful custody. He was six months to go in a nice prison, when during the night he is transferred to Gateway, the state's maximum security prison. We quickly find out that he has been brought to Gateway by the warden who is angry that when Leone escaped, he was treated as the criminal and Leone was the good guy. He resented this and he is determined that Frank Leone will pay for the humiliation that he caused him.The thing that catches me the most about this movie is the soundtrack. It is able to create an illusion of happiness in the midst of a time of trial and struggle. During the placid moments we are completely oblivious to the danger of the place in which Leone is in, and that the warden is actively against him trying to provoke him to commit a crime and find himself in prison for the rest of his life. The warden goes from simply torturing him to having his friend killed to provoke him to attack and kill his enemy.The warden is the major character which I shall look at. He is not an evil man, but rather he is a control freak who sees the world in aspects of good and evil. Everybody who is in gaol is inherently evil and they should not be let outside because they are responsible for the way the world is running. He is an uncompassionate man who considers the prisoners to be lower than humans because they have given up their rights because of the crimes that they have committed.Donald Sutherland does a brilliant job as the warden. He is so cruel and nasty, yet he is able to hide that side of him to the outside. It is also notable that not all of the guards are on the warden's side. The guards either do their job, love their job and carry it out to the extreme, or treat the prisoners as humans and question the actions of their colleagues. Through this movie we are confronted with the fact that people are not what they seem to be the prisoners are good people, the warden is a very bad and sadistic person, and the guards at first seem to be very brutal only to be revealed that the brutal guards are a minority among those who do their job. Moreso, it is the Negro guards that are the good ones, while the white guards are generally bullies.I like this movie and I also like Stallone as an actor. He is an emotional actor who plays his characters well. I liked him in Tango and Cash and the other movies that I have seen of his have been just as good. "},{"Title":"Sylvester's best?","Date":"20 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Like Shawshank, but less touching and more muscles and darker.It hits the right notes, but the warden seems a bit too sadistic. How could such a tyrant ever get to be in a position of authority in cahoots with a whole bunch of guards and prisoners without ever being found out? This makes the whole thing seem a bit far fetched, which it is, but hey, that's entertainment.Otherwise a good ride. The ending could have been better - he should have broken back into his cell instead and gone Huh? What's all the fuss about?. That would have been more awesome than the over the top scene at the end which would have landed him with a few more years jail time in reality!Probably Sly's best. But that ain't saying much. "},{"Title":"Great performed Stallone film","Date":"24 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Great prison drama with an friendship theme if you want to know it is about a man who gets put into prison when a bully gives him crap that involves a great ending , dialouge is good but the acting gets cheesy in places but it is a fun film that you can enjoy like i say great sound and visceral, this is a better Stallone film. 7.0 out of 10.0 good / excellent entertainment , lacks with brilliance and is dull in moments. Stallone has done way better but this you can like i was surprised to see a great drama Stallone rules.Don't expect brilliant expect character depth and friendship elements.Any way buy this its very well made and is very good to watch as it is great. "},{"Title":"Just another prison movie? No, with a difference","Date":"14 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" It is definitely one of the strongest action movies with Sylvester Stallone's participation the plot has twists and unexpected outcomes, the cast is evenly strong and there are interesting characters both good and bad. Apart from Stallone, the other stars are Tom Sizemore, Donald Sutherland and John Amos - all memorable and active still today. The director John Flynn was famous for good action movies without obtuse bursts or chases.As almost all prison movies, it must be uninteresting to women, the female character is less than 10 minutes on the screen. Bill Conti's music provides an additional value to the scenes.If you like Stallone, you should see this movie (again)! "},{"Title":"Good, Underrated Stallone Flick!","Date":"28 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Sylvester Stallone, Donald Sutherland, Darlanne Fluegel and John Amos star in this 1989 drama. Stallone (Rocky) plays Frank Leone, a mild-mannered guy who just wants to finish serving his short prison sentence for assault and then get out to spend the rest of his life with his girlfriend, Melissa (Fluegel). That is until a sadistic warden from his past, Drumgoole (Sutherland) intends to make his remaining time hell. Frank endures Drumgoole's punishment with bully inmates & guards, but doesn't let it break him by thinking about Melissa. Amos (Coming to America) plays Meissner, the captain of the guards. This is good film and I think it's one of Stallone's best that's underrated. Bill Conti's score is also great as usual and I recommend this. "},{"Title":"I actually rather liked that body shop montage.","Date":"20 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Lock Up is basically a good, solid vehicle for Sylvester Stallone, a prison picture with a decent enough, if predictable, story and enough gritty atmosphere, brutal violence, melodrama, and excellent supporting performances to keep it moving along nicely. Sly plays Frank Leone, a man who's been locked up for a while due to aggravated assault (although, once one hears the details later, they'll realize he got a raw deal). He's due to be released in a few months, but an old nemesis, Warden Drumgoole (Donald Sutherland), is still mighty peeved that Frank was actually able to escape his clutches once, so he has Frank transferred to his own hellhole of a prison. And he does everything humanly possible to make Frank's stay a rough, ROUGH one. Lock Up certainly does have its good ingredients a score by Bill Conti who'd composed that iconic Rocky music, an incredible look to it - the prison used was the East Jersey State Prison in Rahway, New Jersey (and actual inmates are used as extras), and the director was the accomplished John Flynn, a man who'd specialized in action fare and whose resume also included Out for Justice, Best Seller, Defiance, and Rolling Thunder. Importantly, Sly's Frank is a guy you do want to root for, and the villains, while never exactly subtle, do serve their purpose by all being quite vile, especially the creep who's been hired to rape Frank's loyal girlfriend Melissa (Darlanne Fluegel). The actors are fun to watch, especially Sutherland as the domineering, crazed warden (Drumgoole is such an amusing name). It's also cool to see the young Tom Sizemore already strutting his stuff quite effectively in a very early role as Dallas. John Amos is great as the prison guard who may be a tough guy but unlike Sutherland is not exactly unreasonable. Fluegel is lovely (of course), but she really has little to do. Also appearing are the engaging Frank McRae, William Allen Young, an utterly spooky Sonny Landham, Jordan Lund, David Anthony Marshall, Tony Munafo, and Frank Pesce. You'll also notice a bit by Danny Trejo in one of HIS earlier screen appearances. Some viewers may experience a lack of true satisfaction with the ending, but for the most part Lock Up is good entertainment that does its job well. Never mind the bottom of the world dismissal in the annual paperback guide to movies by Leonard Maltin and company; if this viewer can say one thing, it is most assuredly NOT as bad as all that. Seven out of 10. "},{"Title":"Slow pace trips up this seeming action film but still a Stallone classic","Date":"29 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" You would think by reading and looking at the cover for Lock Up that this would be another 80's Stallone Action flick and in some ways that is the case. However, Lock Up is almost as much drama/suspense as it is action. Perhaps that is why when you watch the film that you might feel the pace a little slow like I did because you're expecting typical Stallone non stop action. That doesn't make it a bad film, in fact its very entertaining, it just might not blow you away the way you expect. You keep waiting for the climax and it finally comes but feels too late in the film.Stallone carries the film like he always does, perfectly if you're a fan. His emotional anti-hero role as Frank Leone is well done and perhaps one of his most understated roles. Donald Sutherland is nothing short of brilliant as the cold calculated and cruel Warden Drumgoole who wants to break Leone any way possible. The two of them opposite each other are simply excellent. The supporting cast do decently though they truly are only there to support Stallone and Sutherland. Tom Sizemore is typical as the hyper and talkative Dallas, Larry Romano as the young naive prisoner that Stallone takes under his wing, and Sonny Landham round out the stronger supporting cast.Director John Flynn seemed to know his way around an action/suspense film but I think he also seemed to really always want to tell a good story and that is both the pro and the con to Lock Up. Most people will go into Lock Up expecting adrenaline fuel action and might be a little surprised at the dramatic pace but if you're feeling nostalgic for some truly great but under-rated Stallone film goodness then this is the one to check out. Its worth seeing and part of my permanent collection. 8/10 "}{"Title":"Fairly good Stallone film","Date":"7 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I had wanted to see Lock Up for quite some time but I could not find the DVD version of the film anywhere.I eventually did find it and watched it.While it is not Stallone's best movie, it's still fairly good and better than a lot of his other movies.It also features Donald Sutherland as an evil prison warden.Sutherland can play evil characters very well, watch the movie 1900 and you'll know what I am talking about.Apparently he is a very nice person in real life though.Anyway the film is about a man who gets transfered to a maximum security prison run by a warden who he wronged a while back.The warden tries to make his life a living hell but Stallone keeps it in until eventually.This is a fairly good Stallone film and is recommended for fans. "},{"Title":"Awful!","Date":"6 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is a dreadful film. The plot line is laughable and ridiculously predictable. The 18 certificate is equally baffling - unless most people in the 80's were more sensitive than they are today. Overall I felt this was a waste of 104 minutes of my life. Though the standard of acting is OK, the actors are let down by the storyline. There is also a lot of filling during the film which implies there wasn't even enough of a story to fill a film. It would have worked better as an hour long TV drama (with the adverts included). And some of the story doesn't even make sense - for instance some of the relationships between characters are not explained, and this could have been developed rather than wasting parts of the film with nonsense that has nothing to do with the story. I would have had more fun watching paint dry! It really is truly shocking. "},{"Title":"Revenge of the 80's Sylvester Stallone Superstar","Date":"5 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Lock Up (1989) is an awesome movie about one man's struggle to do his time in prison,. Sylvester Stallone stars as Leone, a prisoner who only has a short time left to serve before he can go home and live a happy life as a free man with his old lady. But as always things do not go exactly as planned. A late night transfer has Leone shipped to a maximum prison run by a warden (Donald Sutherland) who has an ax to grind with the star. Can Leone survive the rest of his time in prison without losing his cool? Why does the warden have a grudge against him? Will I enjoy this movie? Find out by watching Lock Up!The 80's were huge for Sylvester Stallone. He was making a lot of money and making his studio happy. But the next decade wasn't so kind to the man, but he has over some box office busts to revive his career in the 21st Century. I recommend Lock Up because it's a very entertaining movie that I'm sure action fans will enjoy. "},{"Title":"Beware of the power you locked in the cage.","Date":"16 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A Stallone movie that is better than you think. Stallone is a short timer in the pen and is transfered to a more secure prison. There he is harassed and tortured by the revenge seeking warden(Donald Sutherland). The part was of course molded for Mr. Stallone, but on the other hand the accomplished Mr. Sutherland is more bland and boring than fearsome.Plenty of action as expected. And your attention is grabbed for the duration. Stand outs in the supporting cast are John Amos, Tom Sizemore, Joe Pentangelo and Sonny Landham. "},{"Title":"Not that bad","Date":"1 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  «Lock Up» is one of the good movie featuring Sylvester Stallone. It's no Oscar winner but it's still enjoyable to watch. With only six months to go before getting out of jail, Sly is transfer to a maximum security prison under the management of old nemesis Donald Sutherland. Will Sylvester keep his cool until he finally come out? It's for you to see!6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Stallone behind bars, possibly for making the movie Rhinestone.","Date":"5 October 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This movie was supposed to be inspiring or something I guess, but it just seems to unbelievable that it sort of ruins the movie. Stallone is locked up in a rather cozy prison as he was in a fiercer prison, but managed to expose a corrupt warden played by Sutherland. Well this warden is now in charge of a really bad place and manages to get Stallone's character transferred in by what would amount to a kidnapping. At this point one would ask how Sutherland's character can get away with this and there is seemingly nothing anyone can do is beyond me. The guy has already proved to be a bad warden so how is he wielding this much power? Well the rest of the movie is your typical prison movie fare as Stallone makes friends and enemies in his new home, while trying to figure out how once again to expose the warden who has already been proved to be corrupt that he is even worse than first realized. You also have a football game and a dude that really likes roaches. This movie also features that one Indian dude from Predator, you know the one that thought he was a real tough guy who threw away his gun and met the Predator head on and promptly got killed. The movie has some good points, and is watchable, but it follows the same formula of any prison movie with an absurd premise. "},{"Title":"Awful fun...","Date":"5 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This film is great fun. Hammy, clichéd, over the top nonsense.Sutherland is absolutely terrible and looks like he is on the verge of laughing in every scene - he hams it up Dr.Evil style. His evil warden character goes out of his way to destroy and break Stallone's Leone character yet there seems to be no valid reason why he would risk his whole career to do this. The warden's 'I must destroy Stallone at all cost' schemes result in several prisoners dying along the way, and these deaths fuel the Leone character to seek vengeance and justice to expose the corrupt warden and his cronies.The supplementary characters are hilarious. The young 20 year old, Chink, who never had the opportunity to drive a Ford Mustang, and tearfully begs Stallone to give him 'just ten seconds' to rev up a beat up old car in the prison garage, as he may 'never have the opportunity again'. The prison guards are great too - especially the gap-toothed guard who convinces Stallone his wife is going to be murdered outside by a hit-man. Hilarious stuff! All in all, 'Lock Out' is probably the 'Best Worst Movie' ever made. "},{"Title":"Good prison flick","Date":"20 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I am a big fan of prison film's as well as the television series Oz, which is probably the best show on tv, and I have to say that LOCK UP is better than people say.  It's not gripping like Oz and not a classic like THE SHAWSHANK REDEMPTION but it's good no-brainer entertainment.  Stallone fit his role well, and I like John Amos as the chief prison guard.  Donald Sutherland was okay but he's had better roles.  I enjoyed the fight scene's and the football game as well.Overall, a pretty good prison film that is good entertainment. 3.5/5 "},{"Title":"A perfect film for anyone who has suffered injustice...","Date":"10 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I agree with macnjnc, this is quite an under-rated film. If you have experienced undeserved pain, or injustice in your life, you can absolutely relate to Stallone's Frank Leone character.Donald Sutherland's performance as the soul-crushing Warden is superlative. At every point in the film, you want to hate this evil character.In the end, Stallone re-unites with his girlfriend, and he knows it was worth it, hanging on through the torment, and not giving up, as she supported him and would be with him again eventually.At points, the film becomes a little distant and 'empty', but all in all this is an excellent film.It is available on DVD in the UK and Europe at the end of May 2001. "},{"Title":"More than expected","Date":"16 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I am not much on commenting about a movie because of the main fact that who cares about my opinion. S & E at the movies broke it down; I will just say that it was worth my time and I would recommend it to any movie lover.No thumbs up, no thumbs down.... just entertainment, the way a good movie should be.  "}{"Title":"Stallone Deserves an osacar for this","Date":"23 July 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I watched Lock Up last weeek, last time i watched it was probably around 4 years ago, just gotta say that i forgot how amazing this movie was, You feel like going in the movie to help Stallone out, Lock up is probably Stallones most eye catching movie, i mean i like more of his movies e.g all the Rocky set, Rambo, Tango & Cash , Cobra ( i think i shouldnt name all). But anyways Stallone is an awesome actor. "},{"Title":"Awesome!!","Date":"20 May 2001","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of Stallone's best movies. Excellent story about Stallone in a prison. This movie shows what happens in prisons in very good detail. Stallone acted very good in this movie and is easily one of his best. I have to say this is one awesome movie with a solid plot.  Highly Recommended for Stallone fans. I also recommend Death Warrant, another prison movie but with Van Damme in it. "},{"Title":"Stallone is top notch in underrated action/drama","Date":"9 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I first saw this film in a theater in Brooklyn when I was 10 years old and I will never forget the experience.Every Stallone action film that I've seen in a New York theater always got a reaction I have yet to experience in another state or from another actors film.The crowd went crazy at the football scene as if it was a pro game.Besides the excellent action scenes,the dramatic elements in this film are just as great with a stand out monumental performance from Stallone.Greatness in an actor is proved when you forget you are watching the actor and fall into the character.Stallone,a sinfully underrated actor,does just that in his role as a soon to be released convict who gets taken on a tour of hell by a sadistic warden played with a cool sinister by Donald Sutherland.The supporting cast is terrific,especially a hilarious Tom Sizemore.Recommended by me to all. "},{"Title":"Ludicrous Prison Film","Date":"19 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Lock Up is an prison action melodrama that features Sylvester Stallone and Donald Sutherland. It tells the story of Frank Leone,an auto mechanic that was sent to prison.The rest of the cast includes John Amos,Darlanne Fluegel,Frank McRae and Sonny Landham.It was directed by John Flynn.Frank Leone was sent to prison when he was arrested for beating up the punks and the criminals that killed his mentor.He was sentence to six months at a minimum security prison.But Warden Drumgoole had something against Leone and had a score to settle with that is why he was transferred from a minimum security prison into a maximum- security prison.This led Frank to escape his situation by becoming a one-man army ala Rambo.This is definitely one laughable action melodrama without the intention of being one.Everything was alright until Leone decided to become Rambo in the end.Too bad that producers never gave a green light to shoot a Rambo 4 during its theatrical release and came up with Lock Up instead.No wonder it got a lot of Razzies that includes Worst Picture as well as Worst Actor for Stallone and Worst Supporting Actor for Sutherland.In the end,it was one forgettable movie. "},{"Title":"Still waiting for the sequels","Date":"6 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" As far as I'm concerned, Stallone is still locked up fighting warden Drumgoole inside the darkest prison corners.There should be a sequel where Dallas gets resurrected inside the prison by electricity, becomes a frankenstein zombie and hunts down the warden and the guards together with Stallone.I also think that Stallone's girlfriend should be trapped inside the prison and escape with Dallas at the end with the red Mustang. In the third sequel Drumgoole finally dies in the same prison in the electric chair by Chink Weber and Chink becomes the new warden.In the fourth & final chapter the red Mustang gets the Christine powers outside the prison, rebuilds itself and breaks in the prison again and busts out Stallone and First Base and the prison is blown to a million pieces.The next installation is in space. Drumgoole is now married to Chink Weber in the after life and comes back with the Cenobites to hunt down Leone.Again...and again...and again.... "},{"Title":"under rated gem","Date":"1 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is a movie I have seen countless times, and is a favourite I revisit once in a while. OK, it's not The Shawshank Redemption. But it is a solid action/thriller with a good script, and some terrific performances from a ensemble cast. There is solid support from Frank McRae as Eclipse, Tom Sizemore as Dallas, and Sonny Landham as Chink. With Darlene Flugel and Jon Amos throwing in good cameo performances too. The two leads, Stallone and Sutherland, play off well against each other, with Sly holding his own against an acting veteran. There are also some neat little twists along the way, be it surprising character choices or left turns in the plot. I really don't think this film ever got the credit it deserved. I think it was made at a time when all most people wanted Stallone to do was kick ass, not play someone who would generally rather avoid conflict if possible. But for me, these people have missed a treat. Stallone shows that he can play the everyman (albeit with slightly larger muscles than most!), without having to dumb down. He plays it simple and straight, and it works. In some of the scenes were all the guys are together, you sense a real rapport/camadarie between them. There is also a nice song/piano overture that plays at points in the movie and over the credits, that for me is one of the sweetest pieces of music i've heard in the movies. If you haven't seen this film, it is well worth renting and spending an evening with. And hey, even the missus would like this prison movie! "},{"Title":"Realistic Fortress (spoilers)","Date":"2 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Lock Up reminded me of Fortress starring Christopher Lambert...only slightly more believable.I'm not a huge fan of Stallones work. Lock Up is one of his better movies along with the likes of Rambo First Blood (the rest of the Rambo movies were just laughable) Tango & Cash and Demolition Man.Lock Up is really just your average wrongly accused man gets tortured in big bad jail hell hole then gets revenge sort of movie but having said that I still like it...it has it's moments (the ending with the warden in the electric chair is pretty good). One of Stallones better movies. 7/10 "},{"Title":" Being in Prison is HELL!","Date":"7 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"                Silvester Stallone( Frank Leone)First Blood, gave one of his greatest performance as a beaten down innocent man accused and blackmailed by a demon like Warden, Donald Sutherland(Warden Drumgoole)Eye of the Needle, who made you hate him with all your heart and soul because his acting was outstanding and his eyes showed great hatred and evil against Frank Leone right to be bitter end. However, Warden Drumgoole came close to frying in the BIG CHAIR!!  I remember going past the East Jersey State Prison, Rahway, New Jersey and looked at the Dome like structure of the grey looking Prison and thought what a horrible place to have to spend my lifetime in, I finally got to see how it looked inside and I was not surprised at all to see the Hell like conditions of that prison!    "},{"Title":"Cool","Date":"22 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Stallone is transfered from his happy-house penetentiary, and sent to Donald Sutherland's hell-hole. The results are fun and entertaining. Cool action movie with a lot of good twists and turns, and probably one of the best prison flicks out there.*** out of **** "},{"Title":"Not a high-point in Stallone's career","Date":"9 September 2005","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" STAR RATING ***** The Works **** Just Misses the Mark *** That Little Bit In Between ** Lagging Behind * The Pits The 80s was the decade when everything was flying high for Sly Stallone. The success of Rocky in the 70s had made him a national icon and his appearance in the stirring war actioner First Blood had only ascent ed this rise further. But not every actioner he churned out was a high-point, as films such as Cobra and this dreary prison thriller showed.Frank Leone (Stallone) was a successful mechanic. Until he took the law into his own hands and wound up in jail. He's nearing the end of his sentence, until a sadistic warden he'd left behind (Donald Sutherland) has him transfered back to his jail. In retaliation for the humiliation he endured at the hands of Frank before, he's determined to make his final days of prison pure hell. His endurance and sanity pushed to their very limits, Frank comes to realize he must find a way to stop it or die.The prison movie is quite a popular theme for the action genre, so it's only fitting that Stallone would want to try and make his contribution. And he's fairly well cast in the role and he has a fairly sturdy support cast in the shape of Sutherland as the lead bad guy, Michael Ironside as a burly, threatening inmate and, in an early role, Tom Sizemore as a chirpy, cocky fellow inmate. But it all just fails to come together and be much in the way of a coherent, exciting and fun movie. Director John Flynn went on to make Seagal's Out for Justice, and one can only assume he brushed up on his film-making skills by the time that had rolled round. A very below-par film indeed. ** "}{"Title":"Good movie, but NOT Rocky caliber!!","Date":"13 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I liked the movie and I liked the cast and the mixture of real inmates in the film. The film is intense and a good representation of friendship. Even criminals can have their good moments. ROCKY, though, it is not!! It is a typical, predictable and sometimes redundant Stallone film that pretty much ends the way all of his films end....with him being the ass kicker. I know, he is the star, but he has that Rocky typecast now and must always be a fighter. Overall, I liked Donald Sutherland as the demented warden and John Amos as the guard. Both are great actors who show their diversity in acting. It is an entertaining and satisfying film overall. "},{"Title":"Lock This Up in the Do-Not-Watch Bin","Date":"27 September 2005","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Lately I've been watching more Stallone movies than I normally would and more prison movies than I normally would. With that context, I'd like to say that this movie was one of the better ones of both categories. This is not the truth, though. Lock Up is an average prison film with nothing original to offer. Stallone, meanwhile, plays Stallone with very little variance from any other role I've seen him in. Although if you like that, you might like this film.What is most disappointing is the way the supporting cast failed miserably to correct Stallone's shortcomings. The warden was played by Donald Sutherland, a fantastic actor. Yet, he was so cliché in this role and seemed to offer no depth or reason to sympathize with his position. Another inmate was played by Tom Sizemore (actualy, played by half of Tom Sizemore because he was about 100 pounds underweight). Sizemore is known for some of the grittiest roles in Hollywood - from his great cameo in Point Break to his fiendish sidekick role in Strange Days... but in this film he simply acts dopey and I really wonder why he survived so long in this prison. In once scene later on he gets a moment of devilishness, but it's too little, too late. I was enjoying my bathroom breaks more than this film at that point.Danny Trejo also appeared, but if you blink, you'll miss him. (For more Trejo action, see Con Air or Night Stalker).Some people have said some nice things about the Mustang scene where the crew is fixing a classic car and there is great camaraderie and a nice musical number. To me, this scene was out of place, the music was stale, and some of the camera angles gave this more of a homo-erotic feel than I think the writer ever intended.If you want a Stallone film, rent Demolition Man. If you want a prison film, rent Shawshank Redemption or The Last Castle or almost any other prison movie. Don't rent this movie. It is NOT recommended. "},{"Title":"LOCK UP (DIDIER BECU)","Date":"16 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  For realistic movies Stallone is not the place to be, but then again seeing a psychological drama with Stallone isn't the thing I'm waiting for either so here we see our friend back with guns and muscles... We saw Stallone everywhere so why not in jail? The film opens with a very romantic view of Stallone and his girlfriend but it soon is clear that Stallone is only on weekend holiday as he is in jail (well he fought for justice you know....). As you can guess Stallone is the hero of the prison and for the authorities he is an absolute model prisoner. But things change when out of a sudden Stallone must go to another prison, one of the hardest in the US and he soon learns it is the set up from Drumgoole (Donald Sutherland). This director of prison hates Frank (well that's Stallone) so much that he was degraded because of him (he could escape from his former prison and that made Drumgoole a bitter man). Drumgoole is the ultimate sadist and during 40 minutes all you see is Stallone undergoing the baddest treatments and punishments you can imagine and done in a typical Donald Sutherlandway (not moving, just eyes rolling...). Frank also knows that it is Drumgoole's dream to let him commit a crime so he has to stay in prison for another ten years. You see it, this is a movie without any sense of reality... There are so many uprising questions in this movie you better not think about it and in no way this movie can equal the claustrophobic anger in Midnight Express or even Brubaker. It's just a routine thing in where brains must be at zero (unless you believe that you really can escape with a Ford Mustang out of prison...) and Stallone isn't that bad, it's one of his mediocre movies that are enjoyable even if you are sure he just wants to have another Rockything (the musical score from Bill Conti is like a copy from the Rockyscore) but it is just some actionmovie you can watch on a sleepless night. "},{"Title":"The Clichés Are Badly Executed - Snigger","Date":"26 September 2005","Score":"5 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" A man who takes the law into his own hands after someone has committed an unforgivable crime against an innocent victim is a cliché and it's this cliché that Sly Stallone plays in LOCK UP . Does anyone know any different words for  cliché  ? because I'll be using that word an awful lot in this review . No ? Oh dear Sly plays a character called Frank Leone who finds himself being transferred by a maximum security hellhole ( cliché ) run by a sadistic warder ( cliché ) . Despite it being the worst place imaginable in the dialogue the system itself isn't so bad because inmates are allowed to service cars ( cliché and plot point ) and receive contraband and many of the inmates are really good guys ( cliché and plot point ) . In fact there's only a couple of really sadistic inmates ( cliché ) who have it in for Frank and considering Frank's composed of solid muscle you'd think they'd hit on much softer targets but I guess scary big men using weaker inmates as their sex slaves would have been rather clichéd and predictable . Still that hasn't stopped the producers using every other cliché in the book This is very predictable and fairly grim from an entertainment point of view . Stallone never was a great actor and fails to convince as Frank . Worse still not even the great Donald Sutherland seems able to do anything with his role and despite using real life inmates for crowd scenes they come across as just a bunch of extras from a central casting agency which shows you how bad a film LOCK UP really is "},{"Title":"Utterly woeful Stallone entry.","Date":"3 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Lock Up is one of the worst films that Sylvester Stallone had ever made up to 1989 (he has since done even worse with the likes of Driven and D-Tox). It is meant to be a hard-hitting, gritty prison drama but in actual fact it emerges as an unfeasible, frequently boring and totally uninvolving time-waster.Stallone stars as Frank Leone, a convict with just a short time left to serve on a prison sentence who is suddenly and inexplicably moved to a rough, tough high security jail. Here he is subjected to cruelty and degradation by the sinister warden (Donald Sutherland) who has it in for Leone. By the end, Leone decides he must escape from this hellhole before he gets killed - but of course, an unsuccessful escape bid could lead to his sentence being lengthened.I said earlier that the film is unfeasible and I'd like to elaborate that point further with a few examples. Why would a professional prison warden pursue a potentially career-ending vendetta against a minor convict? How could a warden get away with such acts of mistreatment? And at the end, when Sutherland confesses his wrong-doings, is he not under extreme stress (therefore rendering his confession ineligible)? The whole film is riddled with contradictions and unlikelihoods of this nature which spoil it. But the pacing is lifeless too, with whole scenes that go by with precious little dialogue or action that is interesting. The performances vary between two standards Stallone and Fluegel underplay to the point of boredom, while Sutherland, Sizemore, Landham and McRae overplay to the point of embarrassment. Avoid Lock Up it's worse than a six month stretch in the slammer! "},{"Title":"Laughable....","Date":"25 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  You will only enjoy this film if you are one of these people who are able to  disable belief for an hour or two. If you can do this then you wont laugh at Stallone's dismal acting, nor will you laugh at the increasingly ridiculous story line, nor will you laugh at the annoying sentimental parts of the film aimed at winning over all the brain dead girls in the audieance. However if you are not able to suspend common sense for the duration of the film then you will have one of the funniest film experiences of your life. Trouble is, you wont be laughing at anything good in the film, you'll be laughing at how bad it really is. A film for the brain dead. "},{"Title":"So bad it's almost physically painful","Date":"3 October 2002","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I think I liked this movie in 1989, so I recently watched it (thankfully my brother has the copy, so I didn't waste $3.00 on a rental).  OH, it stinks.  It's Rocky Balboa in prison (seriously, that's it -- spoilers aren't even possible with this flick).Sylvester Stallone cannot act.  He's proven himself to be a two bit actor (the two bits Rocky and Rambo).  The fact that Donald Sutherland (a decent actor) would submit to this kind of drivel... he must really have been hard-up for cash around that time, or else Stallone's fame was too hypnotic to resist.The screenplay for this movie is just laughably bad.  Unfortunately the film seems to take itself seriously, and so it isn't a laughing matter.  Avoid like the plague... 1/10 "},{"Title":"he's going to rape my girlfriend!","Date":"11 April 2004","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This film is so bad that I don't know where begin to describe the ways in which it sucks.  So I won't even try.  Just let it be known that every single frame of this stinky thing reeks with a stunted, simplistic, faulty, cliched vision of narrative in film.  An unholy alliance between Stallone, the star, Flynn, the director, and Smith, the screenwriter, combine together flawlessly to create a story that is so overloaded with schmaltzy cliché after cliché that I have lost any of the remaining respect I might have had for any of the supporting cast (Sutherland, Sizemore, Amos).  While the film claims to have an individual writer, director, and producers, somehow I get the feeling that all of the labor is channeled through Stallone's mutant mind, and every scene is determined to build up the myth of Stallone as the greatest hero guy ever splayed onto a screen.  Good gawd.   Am I wrong, or is this guy in control of the entire thing, and is he not a completely overboard egomaniac with a retarded, child-like need to make sides so clearly drawn that even the blind could not miss them?  The movie is so grossly constructed that it should be a child's cartoon.   I think Stallone's body of work also points toward my assertion that he is behind the wheel on this one, and this movie is the culmination of a career bent on destroying any advance in film language that has been made over the past fifty years.  This movie is a red flag, a window into the process of a barely-literate hack who has given nothing to the world of film (it would not take much) and should be viewed as an artifact of just how completely bad a slick Hollywood production can possibly become.  I could go on in detail about the various ways this movie stinks beyond belief, but why bother to critique this steaming heap in depth?  I will only say that one needs only to pull slightly at a stray hair to send this movie into an irreversible critical implosion.   This movie is child's play.   Age 4-7.  Unfortunately, there are sexual references and profanities, so this movie has no legitimate audience.  Stallone is horrifyingly bad. His only gimmick is his heavy breathing.  Avoid people who enjoy this film.  There is something very wrong with them. "},{"Title":"Boring and Unimaginative...","Date":"11 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  But what else have we come to expect from Sly Stallone? Lock Up is just like his other dull films. Boring, unimaginative and dull.The acting is horrible, the sympathetic scenes are laughable, and the story is your average run-of-the-mill Stallone trash.A few good scenes, including -- surprisingly, because I'm not a sports fan -- a jail football sequence. It had the most tension of the film.2/5 stars --John Ulmer "}]