[{"Title":"only your image trembles in my heart.","Date":"15 August 2003","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Possibly one of the most haunting novels I've ever read, the movie while good isn't at all in the same league as the novel. This is the same problem another movie, The other side of Midnight had but that was actually better. Girl on a swing would be an awfully tough book to make into a movie and have it be flawless, the book simply was to atmospheric(mostly accomplished by incredible writing that the movie could not match).The main problem of this movie is that it kind of evolves into a horror. This book was never meant to be a horror, more a combination Romance, thriller, mystery, ghost story all in one. The book is a riveting, heartbreaking piece of work, the movie is merely creepy. Doesn't even begin to capture the essence of Kaithe or Allen, relies more on the fear factor.(I'm not saying it's bad, actually it's good, just not in the same league as the book.)Spoilers don't read on unless you want to know.The book didn't give anything away, I really, when reading it had no idea what would happen page by page. In the movie you kind of know what Kaithe's secret is going to be. Although I was delirious with joy to find the movie version of one of my all time favorite books I wish the compelling dreaminess of the book had been captured and that it had moved me more.I doubt many people would see this movie and call it remarkable. Yet the book was. It told of the incredible love one man had for this woman and the terrible choice she made that doomed both of them as well as others. You might like the movie better if you don't read the book first but in any event I disagree with many that Meg Tilly didn't do a good job, she did all right. So my overall review is-good movie-amazing book. "},{"Title":"I haven't read the book","Date":"16 July 2003","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  The movie wasn't a masterpiece.  But it was worth the time spent watching it.  Whether it was intentional or not, the movie's slightly off-kilter tempo and underdeveloped story line gave it an eerie, life-like feeling. The interactions between Karin and Alan reminded me of having an interesting conversation with someone you just met.  You spend hours laughing, exploring the world's fascinations and revealing intimate details about yourself, but after the conversation ends, you really can't recall anything about the other person; you're left wanting for more.  I suppose because I hadn't read the book I had no expectations about it.  To me, the movie was about a man who simply marries uncertainty.  Alan never really knew Karin completely. Similar to life, we never really know everything about Karin; where she was from or what was going on inside her head.  We had vague glimpses, but nothing concrete.  Do you really know your spouse?  I mean, really?  We are always off-guard; we could never quite grab hold of Karin.  I admit the movie was hard to watch, but I had this desire to finish it out.  After it was over, I wanted more; like the starving man who eats the meager portions on his plate.  He doesn't really care who made his meal or what is in it, but he knows he'll need more of it.  Also, about Meg Tilley's much maligned German accent.  She didn't deliver the stereotypical Marlene Dietrich or Colonel Klink accent; she sounds like the some of the real Germans I know here in the west side of Germany.  "},{"Title":"Meg Tilly was fantastic","Date":"27 November 2012","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Well, I liked this one a lot. To be sure, I was not shocked by the big revelation at the end, but I'm not at all sure I was supposed to be. I knew nothing of the film going in, so had no idea I was in for a bit of a ghost story. Meg Tilly was so beautiful. Easy to see why Alan Dresland (Frazer) would fall for her. I thought she utterly nailed this role. The secretiveness, the blossoming love, the creepy aura of something not quite right coming out, well, she knocked all of these out of the park. A lot has been made of her German accent in this role. It sounded fine to me. Granted, I'm a Texan, and speak no German (or Danish) at all.Yes I missed some of her dialogue, but I always miss a little of what people say in accented English. (OK, in a different accent than mine) She was fantastic, and I'm sorry I haven't seen more of her over the years. "},{"Title":"One of the most amazing performances by an actress in the 1980s","Date":"10 March 2011","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" For some mysterious reason which I shall never understand, the inspired and brilliant actress Meg Tilly has never achieved appropriate recognition for her amazing talent. This is one of her finest films, and yet it has never even been released as a DVD. I had to obtain a rare and expensive old VHS video of it, and even that was a 'screening copy for promotional purposes only', so that I wonder if even that was ever properly released. The film also contains what may well have been the finest performance by Rupert Frazer, who subsequently did most of his work for television, and has also been under-appreciated. Meg Tilly's performance in this film is so outstanding that it really is in a category of its own, far exceeding anything one would ever expect to see on screen. The history of the cinema is full of charmers and sirens, and many of the world's most beautiful women are there to be seen by one and by all. But sometimes on very rare occasions, something so special happens, someone so far excels the norm, that it is like a miracle. This is one of those occasions. As Rémy de Gourmont pointed out, the mediaeval poet Goddeschalk made an essential point when he wrote 'You love in order to make yourself beautiful.' Here this is exquisitely portrayed by Meg Tilly, whose intense and passionate love for Rupert Frazer transforms her and makes her far more beautiful than she would normally be. We can see these physical changes take place in her in front of our very eyes. This is a magical transfiguration, like being witness to an act of sheer witchcraft. The film is excellently and sensitively directed by Gordon Hessler, who is now in his 80s and who retired from directing in 1991. There is excellent support from Nicholas Le Prevost, Lynsey Baxter, Helen Cherry (Trevor Howard's wife, in her last feature film), and others. But this film is essentially a story of love obsession between two people, into which a most devastating tragedy has intruded. The 'girl in a swing' is at the same time both a rare piece of porcelain depicting a girl on a swing, and Meg Tilly herself, whose apotheosis as a kind of incarnation of Aphrodite takes place in the garden when she has been swinging, with nothing on but a hat. There is a supernatural dimension to this film which only becomes clear towards the latter part of the story. Meg Tilly's character has been a girl of mystery from the beginning of the story, and the mystery only deepens and deepens. Rupert Frazer plays a very old-fashioned young Englishman of the sort who does not really exist anymore. He meets her in Copenhagen, she has an obscure or non-existent 'background', but they marry and she moves to England where they live for a while idyllically in his country house. The film is based upon a novel by Richard Adams. Much of it is set in Wiltshire, with several scenes taking place upon the great White Horse which is carved into the hilltop at Westbury, seen several times in magnificent aerial shots, along with lush shots of the sweeping green hills and fields of the West Country. The film has so much atmosphere that it crackles. The film would probably have failed if it were not for the central performance by Meg Tilly, as everything depends upon her being utterly convincing, and not many actresses could have summoned up the magic to become a naiad or dryad right before our bedazzled eyes in the way that she does. This film really is in a category of its own, a classic which has been entirely forgotten, or more probably was never recognised in the first place. How can the bewitching Meg Tilly possibly have been swept to one side as she was in her career, in favour of hordes of inferior actresses? I first saw her when Milos Forman's VALMONT (1989) was released a year after this film, and I thought she was extraordinary then. But this enthralling performance ranks with the greatest portrayals of a mysterious romantic woman in any film, in my opinion. The ultimate mysteries are those of the heart, as this film so magnificently and entrancingly reminds us. "},{"Title":"Girl in a Swing is a sleeper film of the first water- I'd call it perfect,","Date":"23 July 2005","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" but that would imply Ebert, Maltin, et al. are morons. And that's not what I intend to write about. ;-)This film is one of my favorites because it deals with animistic archetypes as living essences of Nature- and they're all around us all the time, even in our stultified modern lives......invisible to all. It's really perfectly pagan with a dash of the ancient gods, nymphs, etc., which is what the Girl really is- like Venus born of the foam of the Sea- and hints at exactly what Powers lie sleeping within...all of us. Our hero, Alan is a typical well-behaved English plodder, utterly predictable and boring, even a boring name- with only one passion- and it isn't love- or so he thinks. It is for his antique business and finding obscure and rare pieces. Like Ali Baba, he does just that, and somehow unleashes a Genie that in turn will unleash the passionate, loving Man lurking, sleeping in him- which will awaken him from his walking sleep.It's been a good 10 years since I've seen this film. I hope it is available in DVD at some point. It really is a superb piece of work. "},{"Title":"Odd little mystery film","Date":"11 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" THE GIRL IN A SWING is an odd little mystery film, directed by horror stalwart Gordon Hessler and based on a book by Richard Adams (of WATERSHIP DOWN fame) of all people. As I understand it, it follows the classic novel adaptation format of removing pretty much of all of the lyrical beauty and atmosphere of the prose, leaving it a very ordinary kind of mystery/romance.The main problem with this movie is that it's so very slow. I find watching romance films a very boring experience, and 90% of this is romance. A handful of weird events and clues are thrown in to keep the viewer interested, but for the most part this is just about characters lounging around and declaring their love for one another. The film DOES benefit hugely from casting the lovely Meg Tilly (PSYCHO II) as the love interest. Tilly has an ethereal beauty that Hessler captures well on film, and it's a shame that she's not matched by Rupert Frazer who plays against her, although to be fair he doesn't have much to do as the insufferably straight leading character.Hessler was making B-movie fun with the likes of THE OBLONG BOX and SCREAM AND SCREAM AGAIN some twenty years before this film so he knows his way around the camera, so it's just a pity that the material is quite dull. A series of erotic and sex scenes flesh out the narrative (quite literally in terms of Tilly's nudity) but the plot really only kicks in in the last twenty minutes and by then it's all over. THE GIRL IN A SWING has potential and a commendable atmosphere on occasion, but I'm afraid there's too little here to whet the appetite of all but the most dedicated cinema fans. "},{"Title":"A disappointment","Date":"4 October 2000","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  It could have been a great movie, all the elements were there an interesting story, intriguing characters, beautiful landscapes. Yet something was missing. Inspiration and talent, maybe? For two hours I was waiting for this movie to surprise me (you can guess what the mystery is rather quickly) and move me, and was disappointed. I wonder if anyone is thinking of remaking it... "},{"Title":"Ghost Story based on Richard Adams book","Date":"5 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Having read Richard Adams' book I was very much looking forward to seeing this movie, and was fortunate enough to find an old VHS rental copy of it. Whilst deviating somewhat from the books plot it still manages to retain much of its original premise. The acting on the whole is good although Meg Tilly's German accent tends to be annoying at times. It certainly kept me in enthralled as the mystery gently unfolds. If your expecting a standard Hollywood Ghost story then this is not it. In stead it relies on subtlety and underlying dread to unveil it's secrets. I would definitely recommend this film. Pity there is no DVD release imminent. "},{"Title":"A poor substitute for the novel.","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Alan Desland is a cultivated English bachelor who has taken over his family's antique porcelain business.  On a business trip to Copenhagen, he meets and immediately falls in love with Karin, a stunning German beauty. After only a couple of weeks they marry, honeymoon, and settle into life in Alan's hometown.  At first their erotically charged relationship seems like paradise, but this, of course, cannot last.  Karin has told Alan virtually nothing of her past, and her dark secret eventually manifests with supernatural trappings and threatens everything.The Girl in a Swing is based on the 1980 novel by Richard Watership Down Adams.  The film has one thing going for it; the script does an admirable job of lining up and hitting a good number of the novel's main plot points and scenes.  Otherwise, this overwrought melodrama has little to recommend it.There is so much to criticize--from the passionless direction to the insipid soundtrack, awful costuming, and poor casting.  Meg Tilly in the role of Karin is particularly troublesome.  While she is a fairly attractive woman, she does not project the sort of unearthly eroticism that the character requires.  Worse, her muddled, affected German accent obscures most of her dialogue.  When Tilly isn't screeching Alan! she is mumbling and slurring her most important lines.  Director Gordon Hessler does little to salvage things, as he opts to film most of the important supernatural and erotic sequences in one of two modes--either flat or melodramatic.While very few films adapted from novels can attain the dense subtext of their source material, such a film might at least evoke the essence of the story by establishing a strong mood consistent with the novelist's vision. This film, however, aspires to nothing so worthy.  It neither succeeds as an adaptation of Adams' complex novel nor as a worthy cinematic effort in its own right.   "},{"Title":"Interesting but plodding.","Date":"30 December 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  The Girl in a Swing is nicely filmed in worldwide locales, but the director plays too much with the limits of the audience's patience. Yes, the transition from conventional romance to psychological-supernatural thriller has to be done methodically, but the pacing of this film is TORTUROUSLY slow. The plot only starts picking up after about 80 minutes. And although the main reason for the heroine's unstable behavior IS finally revealed (in fact, you may have already guessed it by then), other details (for example, the man's hallucinations) remain unresolved. Both leads are well-cast....but oh, that Meg Tilly's obnoxious, overdone German accent!     (**) "}{"Title":"ludicrous supernatural drama","Date":"22 November 2010","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" A repressed Episcopalian antique dealer falls head over heels in love with his beautiful but mysterious German secretary, and is apparently so blinded by emotion that he never thinks to ask her a single question about herself. As played by a miscast Meg Tilly she's meant to be an enigmatic blend of beguiling innocence and animal passion, but what begins as a lumpy Continental romance (highlighted by some of the most banal endearments to be heard since John Gilbert was laughed off the screen) goes from love story to ghost story in one awkward Turn of the Screw. What is femme fatale Karin Forster's dark secret is she a reformed prostitute? A pagan sorceress? A figment of her lover's overwrought imagination? Don't expect any answers from director Gordon Hessler, whose adaptation of the novel by Richard Adams is even more stiff and lifeless than its protagonist. Hessler shows obvious pride in his ability to make a halfway literate film; but it's the other half that makes no sense whatsoever, and the portentous scenario, alongside the lame dialogue, provokes more laughs than shivers. "},{"Title":"Good story poorly told","Date":"10 May 1999","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I remember the buzz about this movie when it came out.  The sexuality, the ethereal, metaphysical theme.  Sounds intriguing, no?  Therefore I was surprised to see Maltin call it unwatchable and a stinker.  That was all before I watched it.  Now that I have, I tend to agree with Leonard. Ebert's review is interesting because he didn't get it either, and seemed to say that the movie had accomplished something by puzzling him.  You're too kind, Roger.  This could have been a great movie.  Each scene was well shot.  Unfortunately, the whole was less than the sum of its parts.  I was going to blame the Director but perhaps the Editor was more to blame.  The faults 1) the mystery, when revealed, didn't ring true. 2) the sex was totally un-erotic. 3) the visions were confusing and hokey. 4) perhaps most annoying of all All of Meg Tilly's lines were delivered in a whisper and with a horrible attempt at a german accent, 50% of her dialog was unintelligible.  "},{"Title":"Meg gets nude","Date":"29 December 1999","Score":"5 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  As the other reviews have stated, this is a somewhat dull film.  The pace and dialogue are a bit much - or little- depending on your point of view. The big question though; does Meg Tilly get naked?  Answer - Yes!!! That's about the most logical reason I can find to rent this one.  Happy viewing... "}]