[{"Title":"AAAAAAGGGGGHHHHHHHHHHHHHHH","Date":"24 March 2002","Score":"47 out of 68 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Looking for award winning acting? Then watch On the Waterfront or something. If you are looking for stylish post apocalyptic martial arts then you have found the Holy Grail. B movie fare for sure, however so was Omega Man. Defiantly worth a DVD rental or purchase if you are into Jean Claude (I am). Best line in the movie? AAAAAAAAAAGGGGHHHHHHHHH of course............ "},{"Title":"Hmmm.. I really liked this movie, the whole package was there!","Date":"24 January 2006","Score":"32 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I usually destroy van damme movies in my reviews, but strangely enough this film by Albert Pyun is a classic and deserves recognition. I thought the costumes which people seem to call them were very well created and lots of thought went into every costume. I didn't see one single flaw in the production. I thought the freehanded and airbrushed visual of a deteriorating city at the opening credits was very creative and interesting.There's something different about this films footage, I cant tell if its the kind of film they used but it seems very contrasty and almost has a grainy kind of look to it but very hard to explain. You'll recognize it as being unique when you see it. The chase scene where van damme fights 2 pirates in a swamp and then gets captured is phenomenal. The camera angles and shots were fantastic, and the crossbow crucifiction only makes it sweeter! haha Van damme hits his acting stride in this movie and really manages to convey the emotion in his revenge. Especially the part where he chops down the cross with his heel to escape his soon coming death.The best asset in this movie is the well designed apocalypse city sets, and the 2 story abandoned building set complete with pillaging pirates. The music and whatever that cape brandishing maniac was saying was outright terrible but if your not a jerk you'll understand why this movie deserves an eight out of ten. "},{"Title":"delicious","Date":"3 April 2006","Score":"37 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" the best post-apocalyptic street fighter movie ever. it's so bleak, so raw, sadistic; rather cheesy, and yet it is not at all campy. how is this possible?? great acting, that's how. i mean great acting--given the context. it's a unique film. the sets and costumes are great. fender is a great villain. i was like 10 or 12 when i first saw this and i still get chills thinking about fender. i've seen it 4 times but not in a while now. i remember the dialogue being sparse, in fact i remember long stretches that were rather silent, and yet i was rapt. maybe the street fighter blade runner?? don't laugh, i'm serious. van damme~ford. fender~roy batty. i can't wait to see it again. "},{"Title":"This movie it's so bad it rocks!!!","Date":"10 February 2002","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  (Spoilers ahead)Well, I can't endure the people who complain for the plot or the acting or the sets. Did you forget it's a JCVD film? Did you expect him to do Shakespeare? Come on, the only reason to see him (and the only thing he can do) is to watch him kick @$$!! And boy he does. And the baddies, I loved them, especially Fender. The guy (especially at the end) looks not crazy, but possessed!! And the eyes (fist movie to show a black character with white blue eyes), not only look cool, they look evil!! Some point out, correctly, that he can't possibly see through his crud covered shades, especially in the dark. Well, here's the thing, I don't think he sees at all!! My theory is he went blind (maybe for wearing those shades in the dark) and hence the white bue eyes. How he knows his surroundings? Well, maybe he uses the Force, ever thought of that?I just know that if I even bump into him (or a look alike) in a dark alley, I would drop dead on the spot from a heart attack, and crap my underwear. "},{"Title":"Incredible trashy comedy!","Date":"5 April 2009","Score":"16 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I like Van Damme, but this movie really stinks! It tries so hard to be a mix of Mad Max and Highlander with a pinch of The Terminator, but throwing in some characters taken from that Michael Jackson's video called Thriller with obvious paintings in the background.The only redeeming feature is the roundhouse kicks in slow motion... Even the fights are pathetic, with stupid overuse of knives while they have big guns hanging in their backs. Oh, and guess what? The movie is called Cyborg but Van Damme is not a cyborg, nor his opponents! The only cyborg here is a second line woman who actually does not behave as a cyborg at all. She is actually a woman with some kind of electronic implant in her head, and she does not have too much screen time anyway. The title for this should be Zombies since most of the characters look and act like that.More about women... The Van Damme's buddy is an ugly whiny woman I hated from the start. I found myself cheering the moments she seemed to be killed. I didn't hate her because she was ugly, but because she was annoying as hell. Not even her gratuitous nudity is enjoyable. And what about that girl who is supposed to be Van Damme's daughter or step-daughter? She is about 12 in the flashbacks but later she is in her 20's and Van Damme looks exactly the same! What the hell? Van Damme doesn't age in the movie or what?You will enjoy this movie only if you take it as a comedy. In any case, it is quite boring and slow. "},{"Title":"This movie always gets me pumped up!","Date":"13 April 2002","Score":"21 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I first saw this movie when i was young and impressionable, but even to this day i still get pumped up after watching it.  Granted the story line is full of holes and the dialogue kinda sucks, but when your watching a Van Damme movie who cares.  I've been a big Van Damme fan for quite some time.  Sure! he's a pitiful actor who should have his lines cut down to almost nothing, but he sure as hell can sell a fight scene.  This movie is no exception. He won't win any academy awards with his performance but he does sell the i'm super p***ed and your gonna die look pretty well.  That being the major reason why i enjoy the film.  So if your looking for some solid fight scenes without a hole lot of plot, i highly recommend the movie.  This movie is definitely under appreciated judging from the rating scale, all i ask is that some of these people relax a little and just enjoy a movie that doesn't have a plot line thats more complicated than a physics equation.  "},{"Title":"Seemingly well liked by many... but not me.","Date":"7 January 2008","Score":"10 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Cyborg starts in plague ridden post apocalyptic 'New York City In The Future' where martial arts expert for hire Gibson Rickenbacker (Jean-Claude Van Damme) rescues & then promptly loses again a cyborg woman named Pearl Prophet (Dayle Haddon) to a marauding gang of bandits lead by Fender Tremolo (Vincent Klyn), Pearl claims she has been sent by a group of doctors to gather vital information about a cure for the plague & it is imperative for humanity that she returns safely with that information. A woman named Nady (Deborah Richter) convinces Gibson to rescue Pearl & potentially help save the human race from extinction...Directed by Albert Pyun Cyborg was his breakthrough film, he has since gone on to make dozens of awful sci-fi horror type films & is probably one of the worst genre director's ever right down there with Jim Wynorski & Jesus 'I have no talent' Franco. One of the first things that stands out about Cyborg is that it stars a young looking JCVD, while this was released the same year as Kickboxer (1989) it was that film which basically made JCVD a star & not Cyborg so I guess that's one less thing to hate it for. The script by Kitty Chalmers is a sort of post apocalyptic action film that takes itself very seriously & is almost totally devoid of any sort of meaningful story. Cyborg is one of the most threadbare excuses of a film I've seen in a while, the story revolves around the whole clichéd post apocalyptic scenario where the world is in ruins, there are few survivors, there are large groups of bandits & scavengers who kill & steal & of course there's the lone hero, the man who does what's right in a world gone to hell & yes you've guessed it he has even suffered from some kind of personal loss! Wow, I'm not being funny here but Cyborg leaves no post apocalyptic clichéd unused, from abandoned buildings, run down towns, dirty futuristic costumes & one mans fight against evil. We've seen it all before & done much, much better. Just watch one of the Mad Max trilogy as they are all far superior to this, the character's are poor with little or no motivation or background, there's barely any dialogue in it & what little story it tries to tell is shown through a collection of badly edited flashbacks littered throughout the film's scant 80 odd minute duration & even at only 80 minutes it felt much longer which is not a good sign.Director Pyun has made a career from making low budget crap & guess what? Cyborg pretty much proves he started out making low budget crap because it's, well, low budget crap (the weapon of choice in the future is a paint-ball gun!). All the sets look really cheap, the locations don't look post apocalyptic either, they look exactly like what they are an abandoned factory, some woods & a rundown building! The action scenes are not that great, the editing is very choppy although I suspect that many of the more violent scenes were cut & according to the IMDb's 'Alternate Versions' section for Cyborg that appears to be very much the case. The special effects aren't too bad, there's some OK matte paintings & some alright cyborg robotics effects as well. Cyborg was the film which finally bankrupt the infamous Cannon Films run by Yoram Globus & Menahem Golan as it was their last theatrically released film. Apparently Cyborg was written with the intent to use the sets & costumes that had been made for the planned Masters of the Universe (1987) sequel & a live-action Spider-Man film which were both canned after Cannon Films suffered financial problems & Cyborg was written & made to utilise the money already spent.With a supposed budget of about $1,800,000 Cyborg looks really cheap on too many occasions, it's competent but pretty bland & lifeless. The acting isn't up to much not that anyone is given much to do because of the very sparse script, JCVD is no better or worse than usual, Vincent Klyn who was apparently recognised as one of the worlds best surfers in the 80's has gone on to appear in eleven other Albert Pyun films which says how much of a career he has had since this.Cyborg is an average post apocalyptic action film, it's watchable on a dumb level & there are one or two good moments but the story is so poor & the set-pieces aren't that great so overall I didn't hate it but I didn't really like it either. Followed by the unconnected Cyborg 2 (1993) & Cyborg 3 The Recycler (1994). "},{"Title":"A Super Cool Action Movie!","Date":"28 September 2010","Score":"11 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Prior to this movie's release back in the day, I can still vividly recall the trailer showing up in the mix of many a television advert, and truth to tell, every time I watched the trailer, I just needed to see this film.As many films of this kind, the theatrical release was severely short lived, that being said, when this movie made it's bow on video, I practically sprinted to my local video store to hire it, now back in 1989 I had just turned eighteen, and I had just developed a fixation for any movie that had anything remotely involving kick boxing or martial arts of any description.As the years have passed, such a fixation has since passed, but my enjoyment for this movie has never waned, it was at that time my first experience of a JCVD movie as well as movie being directed by the much maligned Albert Pyun.Having practically watched everything that Messrs Van Damme & Pyun have made throughout their careers since, for me personally, this movie is the pinnacle of both their collective talents, granted Van Damme was just starting out, the only worthwhile film I seen him in since was the very cool 'Wake Of Death' and as for Albert Pyun, his career has really been more hit than miss, and going by his IMDb web page, littered with just a little too much controversy.That aside, collectively, the whole show on display here rocks, granted the whole premise revolves around redemption and revenge in equal measure, Van Damme's lack of understanding in the English department, Pyun's visual eye more than compensates, plus he really does choreograph a good fight scene.I read somewhere many years ago, that if Pyun had got his way, his vision of Cyborg would have been that of a black and white rock opera, now as he was at that time under the wing of Messrs Golan & Globus at Cannon Pictures, such a thing was never going to happen, especially as they were experiencing money problems, so a huge sigh of relief for all concerned.As the years have rolled by, this movie hasn't aged one little bit, and any time I find it lurking in the television schedules, I always recall that first time I watched the trailer, the excitement, the hope that this was going to be something more than just another action movie....Simply put, back then and to this day, this is a super cool action movie, plus Vince Klyn for all his over the top antics makes one helluva screen villain.10/10 "},{"Title":"Action, mayhem, and drivel","Date":"1 April 2008","Score":"12 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The biggest mistake they made here was not stretching the fight scenes as much as possible.The dialog was horrid and the plot itself was a very abbreviated Road Warrior retread. The attempts at sentimentality (the burning wedding cake, the scared kids) didn't even work. The opening narration only let you know you were seeing an extended chase scene.However, the fight scenes ROCKED. Van Damme proves that he may be better off as a man of few words. The endless bone breaking and face busting kept attentions. The revenge plot was just there for an excuse.Van Damme's best? No way. (That would be Bloodsport.) But worth a look as long as your FF button works. "},{"Title":"Not really good, but overly maligned.","Date":"7 August 2001","Score":"13 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Cyborg is actually passable stuff if you watch it in the right frame of mind (and that thought occurred to me only in the SECOND viewing); if you're expecting a movie made with artistry and professionalism or anything resembling class, you're in for a disappointment. But if you know that this is only supposed to be a low-grade showcase for Van Damme's rather impressive kickboxing skills, then you may like it a little. It IS primitive filmmaking, but a bit more elaborately staged than other Cannon releases (for example, the Bronson vehicles of the 80s).     (**) "}{"Title":"Better than usual for Albert Pyun, but...","Date":"22 October 2004","Score":"19 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Produced in the dying years of Cannon films, directed by Albert Pyun, starring an early Van Damme claiming to be the first hero of the 21st century, claiming to be a post apocalyptic battle and with the title Cyborg, somehow I don't think it will bring many to a state of disbelief when I announce that it's a very poor film. Cheap and tacky in every area, unless you're a huge fan of Van Damme it really should be avoided.For Albert Pyun in the 80's and early 90's, a post apocalyptic movie was just an excuse to avoid any expense for sets and have a bunch of goons in ragged clothes running around large areas of open land or empty buildings. The post apocalyptic world Cyborg takes place in was filmed in North Carolina and looks like&#133;uh&#133;North Carolina. There is action, but it's all rather dull and extremely forgettable and the overly dramatic musical score which accompanies it is extremely irritating. Plus there's no buildup to them, just randomly thrown together which throws away any excitement they may have had. On the plus side, the fights aren't half as bad as those I've seen in later Albert Pyun movies but Van Damme has done a lot better.As far as acting goes, you'll get zero. Not that you'd expect award winning performances in a movie like this, but still, Van Damme has absolutely minimal dialogue and could pass off for somebody who doesn't speak any English simply being told to speak his lines phonetically. He is that poor, but at least it's evidence enough that he has tried in later movies. I do find many of his movies entertaining, this isn't one of them. The villains are the complete opposite, and they overact and make embarrassing howling and screaming when fighting Van Damme without being remotely scary in the least. Although it certainly doesn't say much for the state of humanity if the world was to be under threat for a second from these clowns!The post apocalyptic genre is generally one of the weakest in the field of B-movies with the likes of Steel Frontier being one of the few exceptions and this is just about as poor as it gets. Not good enough to be worth watching or not even bad enough to be funny. At best it's tedious and dull so unless you're a huge fan of Van Damme I recommend you to stay away. On the plus side, it remains the best film by schlock director Albert Pyun I've seen to date but that's probably even more of a reason to avoid it than anything else. "},{"Title":"Cyborg","Date":"17 January 2012","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Cyborg is not the worst film of all time, but it's a pretty strong contender. Cyborg starts with an incredibly gloomy futuristic musical soundtrack, which makes you wonder why on earth the producers and the director Pyun did not fire the composer. Then we hear some ridiculous lines, which made me really depressed, which ask, Restore this world? Why? I like the misery. I like this WORLD. The screenplay writer must have been really proud of himself for thinking up these lines all on his own, because they are not only featured right at the beginning of the film, but are also one of the key lines of the villain. My reaction, however, was that the writer has delusions of grandeur.Now plot-wise, Cyborg could have been an average film. Sure a story about a female Cyborg transporting a formula to Atlanta that may save all humankind from a ravaging plague (since all future worlds will succumb to the plague) is not particularly original. Yet at least the film would have been tolerably pleasing, if Cyborg had interesting characters, average acting, Jean-Claude Van Damme's choreographed martial arts moves, and a focused energy to it. Unfortunately, Cyborg has none of those things. One gets the impression that the director was doing single takes, regardless of how bad the acting was (and often it got to be really awful). The sets, consisting of several really trashy neighbourhoods (that beat even the slums one finds in the heart of Soviet Russia), are really gloomy and depressing to look at. The soundtrack is completely atonal. The actors sound so scripted and socially tone deaf that sympathizing with them, understanding their behaviour or taking any interest at all in them(and believe me I tried) becomes almost impossible.But I must credit the director and producers with one thing. Miraculously they managed to make a 2000% profit with this piece of trash. One possibility for this box office success is that Cyborg stars Jean Claude Van Damme; and JCVD fans were hoping that the JCVD in Cyborg was going to bring back fond memories of his far more entertaining, even bravura performance in Bloodsport. "},{"Title":"Why are people so judgmental?!","Date":"28 December 2011","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I really liked this movie. It has a very special feel with the slow motion and music put together. To some people since Mad Max is set in post apocalyptic world there should not be another movie made after that. What does a bad acting mean? The acting was fair and the characters were much more meaningful than the weak and lifeless characters I see in today's films which are utterly boring and fake. Perhaps somebody was expecting to see The King's Speech and got disappointed there is no too much dialog. What dialog do you expect from someone running for their lives?! I thought the JCVD character of a tired man still fighting on the edge of his strength was really well conveyed. Fender was cool as hell. The women were pretty, memorable and unique. The pirate's act of meaningless but aesthetic movements and screams were very cool and entertaining. Cheesy sells... If you don't know this watch Titanic and look at it's sales. Cyborg made it's money and I knew many people who owned the VHS. The 80s feel of this film cannot be recreated today and is something that will always have sentimental value to many viewers including me. "},{"Title":"Almost okay movie.  Some nudity makes it worth the look","Date":"5 November 2005","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Good fight scenes. Deborah Richter looks pretty good, especially when she's at the beach stark naked. Also later when she briefly shows her boobs. If anybody but Cannon had produced this movie, it would have been better. The best thing that ever happened to the movie industry was Cannon going bankrupt. They ruined everything they touched (Superman IV, Death Wish 4). In this movie they also totally blew away any believability. The stupidest sequence was when Van Damme gets crucified (hanging by ropes with nails in his wrists). He hangs there for at least a day, then gets angry and kicks the cross down he's hanging on. It falls, Richter finds him and frees him. Then, they somehow catch up to the bad guys and he's in better fighting shape than ever. Yeah right. Fiction is defined as the willing suspension of disbelief. I don't think anyone can willingly suspend that much. I have seen worse movies, and I didn't fall asleep watching it. That and Deborah Richter's nudity are why I give it a 3 instead of a zero. "},{"Title":"Van Damme proves a failure in Cyborg","Date":"23 February 2006","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The film, Cyborg was a relatively unimpressive movie. I explored that the realism within was quite lacklustre, with reference to when Van Damme's character escapes from the crucifiction cross - then began a mighty fighting scene, which was highly disappointing to the viewer.The antagonist was also quite disappointing on appearance and acting skills. His fighting technique was quite pitiful, and although so was Van Damme's, the slugfest was rightly won by the 'Muscles from Brussels'.To recommend this film to a friend, would make them believe that i was the enemy. The film showed glimpses of hope, but nothing progressed from it. A very disappointing film. "},{"Title":"Pure trash","Date":"20 January 2001","Score":"10 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Jean Claude Van-Damme has made a few good action movies and more that are not so good.  This is not only one of his worst but one of the most horrifying movies I've ever seen.  Together with Kickboxer this is Van-Damme at his most brainless and the director, Albert Pyun who can never make it right (Adrenalin, Nemesis 1, 2, 3 and so on) made one of the most low grade movies ever. Some movies may be bad and still have good scenes in them and sometimes one of these scenes may acctually make the whole movie better but here thoose scenes are abscent. There is no acting, there is no action, there is no good scenes and I could even question if this is acctually qualifies as a movie. Enough with the critic.  One word Worthless. "},{"Title":"Van Damme's worst","Date":"19 May 2009","Score":"11 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Look, I can enjoy a mindless Van Damme action flick like anybody else. I liked a lot of his movies like Hard Target, Sudden Death, Kickboxer, Bloodsport, Death Warrant, Universal Soldier, In Hell etc but if there was one movie I had to single out as Van Damme's worst it would have to be Cyborg.Story Gibson(Jean Claude Van Damme) is out for revenge after a gang of punks lead by Fender(Vincent Klyn)killed his family. He ends up having to look after a cyborg that holds a cure for a disease that has wiped out half of the world.We could talk about how bad the acting is but that's preaching to the choir. The sets look like crap and the whole film reeks of low budget. The villain Fender(who looks like a rejected Garbage Pail Kid) wins the ham of the year award in 1989 hands down. He is some cornball that beats up on people and is used to spouting silly lines like take you to the murder show and I like the pain, I like the misery, I like this wooooorrrld!. The fights scenes(which are usually the bread and butter of JCVD movies) suck horribly and top it off the movie is boring. Everybody looks like they've been mud wrestling all day and for a hero of the movie, Gibson spends most of the time getting his butt kicked. The final battle between Gibson and Fender is downright cheesy(and not in a fun way I might add). In short Cyborg is JCVD's worst movie and yes, I've seen, The Order, Street Fighter and Universal Soldier The Return. Even JCVD most cheesiest films have an entertainment value to them but not Cyborg. Its a boring mess that is quite possibly the worst post-apocalyptic film of all time. I guess I shouldn't expect a decent film under the same director that gave you Adrenalin Fear The Rush. "},{"Title":"* OUT OF FIVE","Date":"3 July 2003","Score":"11 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Jean-Claude Van Damme stars as Gibson Rickenbacher (!) a soldier seeking revenge for the murder of his loved ones in a post apoclypse setting, where Flesh Pirates rule with an iron fist. Poorly made actionflick, stumbles from one pointless scene to another without any real plot to fall back on, hits a nadir when Van Damme is crucified on the cross. However many people might not make it that far. "},{"Title":"ONE OF THE VERY WORST FILMS I HAVE EVER SEEN!!","Date":"24 July 2002","Score":"11 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this movie again on Sky One last night, I had not seen it since it first came out on video (did it even get a cinema release?). I could not believe how badly made it was! The acting, even by Van-Damme standards was woeful. The special effects (if you could call them that!) were as bad as an episode of Dr.Who and the costumes were really bad. The scene were all the bad guys beat that guy up near the beginning of the movie is hilarious-they look like something out of a Michael Jackson video!! It is such a poor rip-off of far better movies like the Mad Max movies and Terminator. I found it very hard to sit through this movie, it was really an insult to my intelligence! Did the people who made it not realize what a pile of rubbish it was? Could they not see that? This has definitely got to be one of the worst movies ever made! "},{"Title":"Oh my god","Date":"9 November 2002","Score":"12 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Ten years ago I loved this type of movies; Action, SciFi, Van Damme. It should have everything an 18 year old would love in a movie.But even back then this particular movie stroke me as not being a very good one.Yesterday I watched Cyborg again, and oh my god...... this is by far the worst movie I have ever seen, and I have seen quite a few. "}{"Title":"A Cult Classic of the 80's","Date":"1 January 2015","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" A must see of the 80's. I can Guarantee you will not be bored.Although a movie with a seemingly flawed story line and an experimental 80s camera work combined with below par acting should have been an absolute disaster, a complete waste of good film Reel.But surprising it worked, this movies defied all the laws of Film making which is very simple the basics are good acting, directing, locations, sets, creativity and most importantly a Story to make a basic movie but to make a great movie you do need imagination, and somehow they had plenty of that plus a Cyborgs and they did it. Who would have thought all that was wrong will become just the the right ingredient to make it one of the best movies of the 80s.A true cult classic. "},{"Title":"If you know the Albert Pyun style of filmmaking (and if you do, we're so sorry), Cyborg is more of the same.","Date":"7 October 2011","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" In a desolate, post-apocalypse world, Gibson (Van Damme) is a fighter hired to escort a cyborg named Pearl (Haddon) who has a potential cure for a plague that is decimating what's left of the world's population. They have to get from New York to Atlanta, but along the way there are murderous baddies who want the cure for themselves. These so-called Pirates are led by Fender (Klyn). But Gibson has his own reasons for wanting to take down the evil gang. Will Gibson fight his way through the obstacles to save the world?Released in the golden year of 1989, the same release year as the far-superior Bloodsport, Cyborg is basically an afterthought for Van Damme in '89. It's like Cannon had some excess film so they gave it to Albert Pyun to play around with. Bad idea. While Cyborg, amazingly, was theatrically released and spawned two sequels, it turned out to be the last theatrically-released Cannon movie in the U.S. It's not a great note to go out on. Pyun has proved time and again he's not a talented filmmaker, and Cyborg really is no different from any post-apocalyptic slog. It's in the same vein as American Cyborg Steel Warrior (1993), Neon City (1991), or any number of Ron Marchini movies. The characters have wacky, ragged costumes, and there are a lot of capes on show. Capes are going to be huge in the future.As far as the cast, besides Van Damme, we have Klyn as Fender, but due to the fact that he resembles a cross between Mario Van Peebles and our current president, we kept calling him Mario Van Obama. Seeing as Van Damme plays Gibson Rickenbacker, Klyn plays Fender Tremolo and Alex Daniels plays Marshall Strat, apparently also in the future you get a guitar name. Ralf Moeller is on show looking like some sort of ridiculous, long-haired caveman (named Brick Bardo of course, Pyun's ubiquitous trademark name), and in his first movie role, none other than Matt McColm plays one of the Pirates.So you'd think a movie with Van Damme, Moeller and McColm would be a surefire winner, but sloppiness, nonsensicality and a defiant lack of character development sink that quickly. There are some cool, bone-crunching fight sequences, but not enough to save the movie. These guys running around yet another abandoned warehouse isn't all that interesting, but then there are some cyborg effects and a Passion of the Van Damme crucifixion, but none of it seems very competently handled.If you know the Albert Pyun style of filmmaking (and if you do, we're so sorry), Cyborg is more of the same. Personally we believe this is one of Van Damme's weaker efforts, especially from the prime of his career when he was firing on all cylinders.For more insanity, please visit comeuppancereviews.com "},{"Title":"One of the worst science fiction movies I've seen","Date":"29 June 2013","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This is one of the first movies of Albert Pyun , who is considered by many (including me) as one of the worst movie directors in history of cinema . After watching Cyborg it's not hard to understand why. It's also not hard to understand why Cannon films bankrupted. The movie is called Cyborg  despite the fact it has nothing to do with the story . Yes , there is one cyborg in this movie , but you could easily replace it with a human with data on CD and the movie would work the same way . Anyway , this movie seems to be inspired by Mad Max , Terminator , Blade runner and Highlander . I recommend for you to watch them instead of Pyun's masterpiece. Interesting thing &#x96; Cyborg is not set in the Blade Runner universe , but one of the characters makes a reference by saying we have a skin job.This is an earlier Van Damme effort &#x96; I think he's incredibly lucky that after making this piece of (censored) he STILL was able to become a star. I do like some of his movies (Bloodsport , Kickboxer  , Nowhere to run), so you can't say I'm criticizing Cyborg for the fact it's Van Damme movie .Cyborg fails mainly because of two things &#x96; screenplay and direction. The story written by Kitty Chambers (is that a real name ?!) is thin . All the characters seem to be named after guitars (LOL) ! I've already told you about the pointless title of the movie. There is one HUGE mistake in continuity &#x96; there's an incredible age difference between two characters just because the movie wants to shock audience with a twist . In the end twist is predictable and illogical. The movie never really bothers to describe us the universe in which the whole story is happening . All the characters are one-dimensional and unlikable. The movie makes a few feeble attempts at humanizing the characters, but it's a fruitless effort. Not to mention the dialogue is either cheesy or uninteresting. The funniest thing is the whole movie could be a decent popcorn flick , but Pyun directs it as if he was making Seven samurai or something (LOL) . Cyborg is far more than campy , it's INCREDIBLY CAMPY because it's so pretentious . In Pyun's vision Van Damme's hero is a new Jesus / Messiah. There are many crosses in this movie and a crucifixion (LOL) . My favourite scene is the one with the weeding cake &#x96; so touching &#x85; Pyun tries to make his movie stylish and exciting , but fails.The sets look like crap and the whole film reeks of low budget . At first it was supposed to be a sequel to Masters of universe  with Dolph Lundgren , but something went wrong and they decided to use the sets to make Cyborg.The acting is tragedy . EVERYBODY gives an awful performance , but the special mention goes to the actor who plays the villain . He looks laughable with his blue eyes , sunglasses and handsome face . Not to mention his growling voice and the way he overreacts the cheesiest lines of dialogue&#x85; And why the hell is he screaming and grunting so many times ?! One of the worst performances I've seen EVER.The good things ? I think the fight scenes (very often in slow motion) are actually OK. Unfortunately , without interesting characters, good acting, and a focused energy this movie is a complete disaster. A strong contender for the list of worst movies ever made . I give it 1/10. If you're a Van Damme fan and you want to see him in a decent sci-fi movie you should watch Timecop. "},{"Title":"This movie is so bad it makes me cry","Date":"20 January 2013","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This movie is so bad that it is actually really painful to watch and not the painfulness in the sense that the movie is incredibly emotional or deep, but rather that it is just plain and truly bad. Is there is one thing about the movie that I have to say is really bad and that is the acting. The plot is sort of okay, but it is nothing spectacular, and even then, even if the plot was good, the bad acting, directing, and pretty much everything else about this movie simply destroys it.I really do not have any idea why I actually bought this movie, but maybe it was because I had a friend who pretty much watched every movie with Van Damme in it (and I have absolutely no idea why because it is not as if he is a good actor, and even if it is because of the martial arts, there are much better movies out there with much better actors than having to resort to watching a Van Damme movie). I guess initially it was the fact that it was set in a post-apocalyptic world that attracted me, but then again there are much better movies around that one does not need to actually watch this movie. "},{"Title":"One for the hardiest of hard core Van Damme fans only.","Date":"29 July 2012","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" He's the First Hero of the 21st Century...And He's Our Only Hope. Cue a post apocalyptic future, Van Damme and his mission to ensure a Cyborg with critical scientific information ends up in the right hands.Van Damme has always spoke very candidly about his early film output, he says it's not rocket science, as he got more famous the budgets got bigger and the films got better because of it. Which of course isn't saying much to non fans of the ass kicking Muscles from Brussells. But on a basic action movie level, many Van Damme movies score highly with the popcorn munching crowd, and if the haters want to admit it or not, the choreography and sheer athleticism is truly a sight to behold.Cyborg, however, is a bad film, it has some worth to the undemanding genre fan, but it's cheap in production and finds Van Damme ill at ease at the time making a film away from the comfort of the ring/fight format (he had looked well at home in Bloodsport the year previously and also in the undervalued Kickboxer released in tandem with Cyborg). The plot is lacking cohesion and director Albert Pyun decides to just lurch from one action set piece to another without a care in the world for structure or narrative thrust. Quite often the action scenes are accompanied by groaningly bad synthesiser music, and there is slow-mo as well, slow, sleepy, tired looking slow-mo. There's decent colour photography and Vincent Klyn's roaring villain is one of the more nasty Van Damme foes from the early part of his career. But really, once we get to the Christ metaphor even Van Damme's fans realise they should have rented Kickboxer instead. Fun character names, mind, makes us think of a rock concert! 3/10 "},{"Title":"Far from classic, but enjoyable","Date":"25 January 2006","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Not one of Van Damme's best films, but a good one to watch. The first of his sci-fi movie roles (the better ones are Universal Soldier and Timecop), this takes a different approach than the martial arts tournaments that Jean-Claude Van Damme played in before. It is true that at times the plot is slow and some of the action scenes are cheesy along with some questionable sound effects, but at this point in Van Damme's movie career I don't think he really gives a crap. Compared to such post-apocalyptic films such as The Matrix trilogy, the Mad Max movies or Escape From New York, it falls slightly short. In short, Cyborg is forgettable but it's enjoyable. "},{"Title":"Campy, but quite serviceable sci-fi","Date":"10 July 2004","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is an earlier van Damme effort -- and he's pretty wooden in this one, but the simple, linear storyline makes this movie an entertaining one, definitely a good popcorn movie. The movie makes a few feeble attempts at humanizing the characters, but the flashback scenes used to show us that the main character is a tortured soul are contrived and occasionally laugh-inducing. The plot -- get the life-saving data about a plague to the scientists across the barren 'no mans land' is thin, but carries this sci-fi vehicle pretty well, despite the fact that all the characters seem to be named after guitars. The fight scenes are, as usual, believable and exciting.All in all, definitely not a good movie, but certainly worth an hour or so, if you like sci-fi. FOr some it might be MST3K material, but if you can get past the camp, it's not too bad.  "},{"Title":"Sometimes Simple is Best","Date":"13 February 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Cyborg is pure Sci-Fi for the old school of tin foil, sticky back plastic, and silver spray paint special-effects team. Sets range from rubbish tips to derelict buildings and sewers; there's no complex story lines to dwell on. Just a plague induced apocalypse and a personal vendetta for justice to set the backdrop for some of the greatest choreographed fight scenes of all-time. A nobody cast of big body nasties who look the part and have little to no dialogue. It's this perfect brew that allows the directors vision to come through unadulterated, and yet in spite of it's simplicity Cyborg manages to be deep and meaningful for those who care to look. For example, in the closing scene, upon delivering the cure, Gibson refuses the hospitality of those in Atlanta, stating to his partner we're needed out there, let's go. Also, Gibson's vendetta towards Fender is for revenge for the murder of his adopted family and the attempted murder of himself. This narrative is told through flashbacks throughout the movie, in which he recalls his surrendering his way of life as a Slinger, laying down his arms to live a life of peace with the woman who has taken him as her husband and the children who have taken him as a father figure to them. Their murder is recalled by Gibson as he hangs from the crucifix crafted by Fender's cronies, it is his recollection of laying injured at the bottom of a well alongside their corpses and his realization that he IS still alive that prompts him to climb, despite his injuries, despite his grief, toward the daylight; and in defiance of the evil of the world in which he lives, fight for life and civilization and this in turn spurs him to fight free from the crucifix on which he hangs. This is, to me, symbolic in a religious sense; a man put to death on the cross returning to claim victory over his enemies. Also it speaks of the indomitable human spirit that refuses to admit defeat, Gibson's chosen life as a Slinger, which his murdered spouse questions as little better than that of the Pirates. Gibson could just as easily join a pirate gang and become party to their evil if he were willing to sell his soul and take pleasure in the pain of others, yet he chooses to retain his individuality and in turn his integrity.There's nothing to not love about this movie, if you want a kick arse no brainer action movie you got it, but if you care to look, you've got great action to keep you entertained underwritten with a deeper lesson about the human spirit to survive. "},{"Title":"Best underrated sci-fi action classic Van Damme martial arts movie!","Date":"2 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Cyborg (1989) is one of my favorite Van Damme underrated Post-Apocalyptic,Science Fiction Action movie from the late 80's. The film is Very fast-paced, under 90 min., cool post apocalyptic setting, very epic, they are great villains in here, Awesome ass kicking with the knife boots, Great score, Van Damme did a awesome job showing body language/presence, and I knew I wasn't the only one who thought Van Damme had a Badass walk. Overall Very underrated indeed. Jean-Claude Van Damme is still today, one of my favorite action stars, I absolutely love his movies from his golden years. I grew up watching Cyborg as a kid. The movie wasn't my favorite Van Damme movie. I did not watch this movie so many times on TV, like I have watched other his movie that I love. Watching countless today this flick, I fall in love with it and it become one of my favorite Van Damme movies.In the barbaric, plague-ridden wasteland of the 21st century, a beautiful half-human cyborg carries information that can save civilization. But only the strength and cunning of a lone warrior (Jean-Claude Van Damme) can deliver her --and her vital data from the clutches of the unspeakable Flesh Prates. That is the main plot about this film, that it also involves revenge and the human character played by Van Damme, which his character has a heart! I absolutely love Cyborg. Jean-Claude Van Damme did a solid job acting in this movie, which I thought was very brilliant and very fast paced. Sort of the movie reminds me on Mad Max 1 & 2, which I absolutely love those movies and Conan the Barbarian (1982) with Arnold Schwarzenegger in the lead role. Because Fender kills Gibson's family and Gibson goes out for a revenge. He travels in the post apocalyptic world in which a plague known as the living death cripples civilization. When Gbson (Van Damme) was tied and was hanging from the mast watching into the sky, the similar scene was used in Conan the Barbarian, even Conan was looking for the people who killed his family. That is why Cyborg reminds me on these movies, they are my favorite. As a kid I still remember seeing the VHS cover in the store of Cyborg and I was impressed. I could watch this movie countless times. I hope I could get this movie on Blu-ray someday but, that will be really hard.Considering its' low budget, it's an entertaining flick. Great fights, cool villain, great scenes (like the 'crucified scene')... I seriously love Van Damme's kicks with boot knife. I love when Van Damme yells FENDEEEERRR... The final fight between Gibson and Fender was absolutely epic. The similar scene was also in Universal Soldier. I think cyborg is a bad ass film from Cannon Group. It is a shame that they can't make any movies today anymore.I can say something about the actors and the whole cast crew Beside loving Van Damme in here actress Deborah Richter as Nady Simmons, the girl who helps Van Damme, killing Fender (Vincent Klyn) and finding Pearl (Dayle Haddon) a female cyborg caring a cure, did a terrific job, she was very awesome gorgeous and very beautiful sexy. Haley Peterson as Haley the sister of murdered family by Fender, was extremely gorgeous and fast feisty sexy babe on the screen ever. Vincent Klyn as Fender the leader of pirates, was a real bad ass villain ever. I wish they would make movies like this today! About the sequels I don't care they all suck ass! Once I watch Cyborg 2 with Angelina Jolie and Elias Koteas and that movie sucked! Director Albert Pyun made a great job as the director. He directed terrific the angles of the picture.Cyborg is a 1989 science fiction post apocalyptic film starring Jean-Claude Van Damme as a mercenary who while traveling the wasteland of what was the Eastern United States finds himself protecting a woman who could hold the key to restoring humanity. The film was directed by Albert Pyun. More action and high flying kicks, nothing new, except for a fun plot...to this day I still choose this movie over any other pointless movies that lead to nowhere. This movie get's a perfect 10 by me. I love this flick to death! 10/10 Grade Bad Ass Seal Of Approval Studio The Cannon Group, Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Starring Jean-Claude Van Damme, Deborah Richter, Vincent Klyn, Dayle Haddon, Alex Daniels, Ralf Moller, Haley Peterson Director Albert Pyun Producer Menahem Golan, Yoram Globus Screenplay Kitty Chalmers, Daniel Hubbard-Smith Rated R Running Time 1 Hr. 26 Mins. Budget $500.000 Box Office $10,166,459 "},{"Title":"Mix BLADE RUNNER and WATERWORLD, and then under-budget it.","Date":"1 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Mix BLADE RUNNER and WATERWORLD, and then under-budget it. A mercenary hunts Klyn and his group of murderous marauders from New York City to Atlanta in a plague-infested post-apocalypse. Expectedly bad, but the flaws are more with lingering shots of way-below-par SFX and the feeling of confinement in an open-road setting. While it never succeeds in pulling the audience into its futuristic urban wasteland, Klyn should get some brownie-points for being such an excellent villain. Admittedly, it could've been worse given the title, one would expect Van Damme's TERMINATOR attempt. Pinckney sued Van Damme for accidentally wounding his eye during a fight scene, causing permanent vision loss. Originally intended to be a sequel to MASTERS OF THE UNIVERSE.★½ (out of four) "}{"Title":"Hoist anchor mates! We gawt us a skin job to take to... At-lan-TA!","Date":"24 October 2009","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I love this movie, though on a technical level, Cyborg is very easy to find fault with. For example there's a whole bunch of hilariously gauche expositional dialogue at the start a blink into the action and a man and a woman who are fleeing stop running, wide out in the open (having just broken cover by bizarrely bursting out of a door) so that the man can say I think we lost Fender and his pirates, we've got a chance to reach the Bronx township and hire a slinger, get going Pearl, I'll try and hold them here. A little later the same guy, under duress, exposes more plotGuy Let her goFender To Atlanta?Guy To cure the plague with the information that's she's carrying Fender I wanna own it Guy Own the cure? Fender I'll be a god In chess terms this conversation is what they would call helpmate. Throughout the film there also seems to be small fires everywhere, as if wherever JCVD and co go a bomb has just hit, but...well... it hasn't! Neither does this post-apocalyptic world contain a heretofore unchronicled propensity for self combustion! The conception of the movie is holey for sure. It's certainly not a delicacy to savour after fine-tuning your thesis on Derrida and logocentrism.My preferred mode for watching this movie is in bed with one eye open, if you see it like that it has a beautiful dream logic and the synth soundtrack lulls you pleasantly and the slo-mo and flashbacks combo are like a balm. There's also a very seductive aesthetic to the movie, you get dipped into this Ballardian world where the weeds are growing through the concrete and highways are now grassy and fit for quests. Fights take place in hugely atmospheric derelict buildings, my favourite what appears to be the ruin of an office or apartment building, walls crumbling and windows gone, a decrepit skeleton open to the wind, a hollow island towering over an area that has been subsumed by the forest.I like the use of background in the film too, you may see at one point faceless brigands rappelling down in the background, dropping silently like spiders, at another enemies soundlessly running across an open air walkway in the far background whilst a drain is entered.One bonus of watching it in bed with one eye open is that you will inevitably miss the ending, which isn't so great ;) "},{"Title":"Save your money for something important","Date":"22 August 2006","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" As a rule whenever I run into a movie that has music created entirely using a synthesizer my brain flashes on the word CHEAP. Add to that the tired post-apocalyptic settings, and a cast you never heard of (except for Van Damme, of course), and you've got a reason to leave this one in the bargain bin. It didn't help that this was the last film from the nearly dead, and already bankrupt, Cannon Films. Sadly, they went out with a whimper instead of a bang. Wander through the credits and there are signs everywhere that money was tight. There are several people listed for multiple positions in the production team, and Van Damme is even took a turn as a Film Editor.The movie itself is trite, and the plot is very basic Main characters go from here to there in a world where civilization has crumbled, surviving attacks from savage gangs. Said travel includes flashbacks for The Hero to an earlier time when he suffered heavily at the hands of the same savage gang. Strictly formula.The character development is extremely basic, and could have been handled better. Watching this movie one gets the impression that the idea was just to cash in on the Van Damme mystique and spend as little as possible doing it. So, this one is heavy on fighting, albeit poorly done, and light on everything else.Calling this movie Cyborg was a lie as that particular character has a minimal part in the movie. So if you're looking for an action flick involving a Cyborg battling humans, don't stop here. As a matter of fact, don't stop here at all. There's nothing to see. "},{"Title":"The world that this movie takes you to is chilling and scary!","Date":"1 June 2006","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I've always liked the movies Van Damme starred in around this period (esp Cyborg and Kickboxer) and I'll never forget this haunting, weirdly emotional, and violent movie. Because the villains are so terrible I don't mind the some of the more cheesy aspects of the movie (i.e. the voice over at the beginning of the film). I also enjoyed the synth based music that was appropriately video game-esquire and the great costumes/make up and sets/locations. Fender, the lead villain is quite a terrifying character and the pirates' attack on Gibson's newly found family is particularly disturbing. This is a very dark film that I first viewed as an adolescent and has stuck with me throughout the years. "},{"Title":"Amazing soundtrack!!!","Date":"3 May 2006","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Nobody has mentioned the soundtrack on this film, isn't amazing? they should use Kevin Bassinson for big budget films as well. I tried to find out what this guy is doing now and i he was the conductor for a Barry Manilow greatest songs of the 50's cd!! (what the?) playing keyboards for some lady named Linda Arnold that sings bluegrass type music, music editor & sound consultant for films u never hear of, I don't know why he's doing these small things cause he made amazing music on Cyborg. He's the music editor for the music they use on that show called Westwing which is not bad at all, and it's all recent stuff so he is working. a major company should use him for a big budget action film. i had to buy the Cyborg Soundtrack from over seas, through the internet of course, i just couldn't find it anywhere. Van Damme got so freaking lucky by having that music on the film too. the best part of the soundtrack is when they're running away from the Fender gang and they get to the water, i like the punching bass part on that, even the music matches when they kick and use their weapons, it's pretty good. ANyhow I think i made my point P "},{"Title":"Lord, forgive them, for they know not what they do!","Date":"26 September 2003","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I love CYBORG, there isn't one intellectually stimulating moment during the entire 87 minutes (and 14 seconds actually..well on MY copy) That alone deserves recognition! But hey..Van Dumb WAS learning his craft here..it took another 27 movies before he mastered the art of screen inconsequentiality.Cyborg is total fun. Where else ya gonna find a robotic damsel in distress, the good guy crucified without any lasting discomfort and the bad guy a vision in Armani leatherwork and wrap around Police sunglasses!You can comfortably watch this movie......miss as much of it as you like while you cook dinner...and it makes not the slightest difference! I figure it was a class act!  In MY book it beats the bejeesus out of THE ENGLISH PATIENT!  "},{"Title":"Violent action trash","Date":"3 August 2002","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Albert Pyun's Cyborg (1989) stars Jean-Claude Van Damme as Gibson, who is a lonely avenger in the post-apocalyptic future world in which sadistic hooligans kill and torture people in Mad Max tradition. Damme's character is after the bad guy who killed his family and the film follows his quest to capture and vengeance the ugly baddie and his thugs. What follows is the usual Damme action with plenty of kicks and hits.This film is technically occasionally interesting, but for most of the time just stupid and unintentionally trashy. The editing in the action scenes is irritatingly restless and pointless as the film tries to show many things with these fast edits, but manages, in fact, to show only less by these too plenty edits. The cinematography is occasionally almost great, and the long segment at the abandoned storehouse offers a great opportunity to use camera with space and thankfully Pyun can use his camera and make his films look professional and interesting, and that storehouse segment is definitely among the more interesting in this film. Otherwise, the acting is the usual Damme level and the baddies are very irritating as they yell and scream without any point like some drunken indians. As an action scifi, this is grade B, but fortunately directed with skill so it is pleasant thing to watch, if one can stand the stupidities and hollowness of this film.There's plenty of violence in forms of kicking, hitting, punching, slashing, snapping and so on so this is no less violent than your average Seagal/Damme/Norris vehicle which always tend to share these same no brains elements but also sometimes something cinematically noteworthy and interesting. Cyborg gets 4/10 from me and I would've given it much more if it had at least some point and less stupidities in it. "},{"Title":"Cyborg is a first class action movie","Date":"30 September 2005","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Cyborg, is definitely the appropriate title, the future of mankind depends on the infomation that is in the possession of a machine. Mankind was going through a critical situation, there was no law, the world was like a jungle. The director performed a wonderful scenario, the content of the movie was very interesting not only because of the critical situation on earth but because of the way the history is presented, the eternal fight between good and evil was perfectly demonstrated by the Actors in leading and supporting roles. If we take a look at other top movies like Predator Arnold Schwarzanegger, we will realize that they are perfectly similar, the violence is there, but the scientific knowledge is also present, and there is no much of complicated dialogs in the script, but spectacular scenes that keep you stuck at your seat. "},{"Title":"-ouch-","Date":"30 April 2001","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Okay, before I even delve into the horrors of this film, I'd just like to know what the heck is with Kitty Chalmers obsession with guitars?? Couldn't she come up with some more original names? Gibson Rickenbacker, Fender Tremolo, Marshall Strat, Roland Pick...GIVE ME A BREAK!!Okay, now that that's out of the way, this film is pure cheeze. Non-stop cheddar from beginning to end. The thinnest of plots, the background is so shallow you need a helmet to wade through it...and the acting is *horrible*!! Not that I expected much from a Van Damme film, but COME ON!!! Vincent Klyn can barely put two syllables together! It amazes me that he could even get through his lines! (And what's with that outfit? The sunglasses were bigger than his head (nice contacts, btw...) and that chain (?) mail was odd-looking...Anyways, the plot is cheezy, the acting's horrid, the effects are worse (even for 1989!), the costumes look like they were from the Mad Max rejection pile...in fact, this entire film is like one giant Mad Max outtake!Overall I can't believe I actually ever almost liked this film (I saw it in the theater in '89 and thought it was fairly good). If you want to see Van Damme that's even *close* to worth watching, skip this one and rent Hard Target (GO JOHN WOO!!), Kickboxer or Bloodsport. 3/10. "},{"Title":"One of my favorite'so bad it's good'movies","Date":"12 November 2000","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Inane dialogue,hilariously bad acting,cheesy music,bad special effects and Van Damme's over the top facial expressions all combine to create one of the most enjoyable unintentionally funny movies I have ever seen!We get our first unintended chuckle literally five seconds into the film with the opening narration;First there was the collapse of civilisation,anarchy,genocide,starvation,and then when it seemed things couldn't get any worse we got the plague.The living death,then we heard the rumors that the last scientists were working on a cure that would end the plague and restore the world.Restore it?Why?I like the death!I like the misery!I like this world!!!Absolutely hilarious!  "},{"Title":"Post-apocalyptic martial arts movie with some Christian symbols","Date":"20 October 2006","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This film may be interesting for those who like dark post-apocalypse, martial arts, 80s electronic soundtrack and some Christian allusions.I've seen this movie before by God's grace I became a Christian. It was exciting and scary back then, somewhat similar to the depressing soviet movies of the late 80s with a creepy synthesized soundtrack about the rise of crime, breakdown of society, etc.Right now it doesn't feel quite so good, because it enforces the idea of revenge and hate, though hidden under the pretense to save humanity.A Christian must understand this, and instead should strive to follow Jesus' teaching to love our enemies, and leave the justice to God, as clarified by saint PaulDo not take revenge, my friends, but leave room for God's wrath, for it is written It is mine to avenge; I will repay, says the Lord. (Romans 1219)An interesting idea are the present Christian symbols - crosses, crucifixion, references to hell, a wonder of fast healing. It seems the original idea of the film was more about the battle of God's forces vs satanic forces, though later converted mostly to a sci-fi/martial arts B movie. "}{"Title":"If you've seen this...","Date":"6 May 2001","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" ..why the heck are you reading the user reviews?Timecop is the only VanDamme film that I've seen that ever should have been released.  Yes I watch at least parts of his films to see if it can possibly be as bad as the previous one.. this one is the 2nd worse.. cant remember the name of that one. J.C. must thank providence every day that the VCR had been invented in time for his Career.But I have to differ from other reviewers regarding Pyun's direction... when you accept the given that the set production cost about $1.98, I think the direction is the only interesting part of the film. BTW   1. The street fires are ridiculous... supposedly it has been years.. but there's still refuse fires burning. 2.  NOW I know where Whhaaa--a-a-aZzzzzUUUUPPPPPP! came from! (the Atlanta street fight)I guess this film and others like it may fill the time between WWF pay per views.I dont see how you could even give this a 2 without skewing the curve. "},{"Title":"The story in itself is interesting but it's never really given the focus or development necessary to make it worth caring about","Date":"11 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Gibson Rickenbacker (Jean-Claude Van Damme) is a bodyguard who, as part of his duties, protects Pearl Prophet (Dayle Haddon) from being attacked. Rickenbacker strikes up a conversation with Prophet and discovers that she is a cyborg that has been sent from Atlanta to gather data on a deadly plague. Prophet needs to get the data back to Atlanta and believes that scientists in Atlanta may be able to find a cure for the plague based on the data she has collected. However, when a group of pirates led by the notorious Fender Tremolo (Vincent Klyn) learn of the data that Prophet has gathered they kidnap her with the intention of taking her to Atlanta in order to use the data for their own evil purposes. Rickenbacker now finds himself having to save Prophet and also make sure that she gets back to Atlanta.I'll say something for this film and that is that it does, at least on the surface, have more intelligence than your average JCVD film. The idea of a deadly plague wiping out civilisation with one person potentially finding a cure is certainly something that should work on paper. Sadly though Cyborg just doesn't have enough flesh on its narrative bones....It's all well and good coming up with an interesting concept but to then expand upon this concept to create an engrossing and rewarding cinematic experience is something else entirely and this really is where Cyborg fails....Yes we're told that there is a deadly plague but the details of the plague are pretty much kept a secret. Why we're not privy to more information about the plague is something that only the filmmakers can answer? The fact that we're given so little information about the plague means that it does become a hard film to care about. This in turn has a knock on effect with other aspects of the story such as Rickenbacker's flashbacks. Whilst these flashbacks presumably exist to give a bit of depth to his character they seemed to be clumsily thrown in and seem almost at odds with the rest of the film. We're given a lot of development to one character, but no real development to the story??? Hmmm... just seemed a bit strange to me. The flashbacks are good at first, but become tiresome when you realise what little purpose they are actually serving....We all know that JCVD films suffer somewhat in the acting department, but the performances in this film are just beyond the pale. Klyn is a good physical presence but he's so cartoonish here that it just becomes impossible to take him seriously. Was that his actual voice or was it dubbed?? Either way it sounded awful and I found myself laughing whenever he was on screen. The rest of the cast are pretty much the same with either some members trying too hard or not trying at all. The ridiculous performances actually clash with the serious story that is attempting to be told and ultimately undermine the whole film.Cyborg is a terrible film and unlike many other JCVD films it isn't even terrible in a way that is entertaining. One or two good fight scenes are not enough to save this film and I personally feel that everyone involved with this mess should be ashamed of themselves. "},{"Title":"So awful it's magnificent","Date":"31 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I was seriously conflicted over whether to give this film one or ten stars. It has a dreadful script, some of the worst acting you will ever see, clunky flashbacks - one sequence repeated in full in case you missed it the first time, I assume - terrible special effects, lousy direction and sloppy editing. It's full of tired old action movie tropes and has one of the most cringe-inducing final lines you will ever hear.On the other hand, it's a great post-apocalyptic concept, the costumes are excellent and the fight scenes magnificent, Jean-Claude Van Damme is in his youthful prime, looks gorgeous covered in dirt, gets his kit off a couple of times and acts as well as can be expected JCVD benefits from good direction, which he surely didn't get here. A real collector's item. "},{"Title":"Has NOTHING to do with Cyborgs!","Date":"24 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Hmm...a film called cyborg. Everyone's probably thinking about cool Terminator-like cyborg action scenes but you can quickly bury those thoughts coz besides a woman who supposedly is a cyborg made to transport data about a cure for a post-apocalyptic plague to Atlanta there are no cyborgs in this film. This film was conceived to use the costumes and sets built both for an intended sequel of Masters of the Universe (1987) and a live action 'Spider-Man' film. Both projects were planned to shoot simultaneously by Albert Pyun. After Cannon Films, the production company, had to cancel deals with both Mattel and Marvel because of their financial troubles, they needed to recoup the money spent on both projects. So Pyun wrote the story Cyborg. Some network television channels still give the film's title as 'Masters of the Universe 2 Cyborg' which often confuses many into thinking a sequel to that film was made. Let me tell you guys, this is one of the worst films I have ever seen. The acting is absolutely horrendous. Besides 'arrrgh and waaagh' there is very little comprehensible dialogue and it is delivered in the most amateurish way you can think of. There also seems to be tons of ADR looping coz the dialogue sync is way off and it simply sounds like it was recorded in a studio. The music is is quite funny as it seems to be the score of Kings Quest VI or VII and not the score of a scifi action flick. I turned this movie of twice despite it's short 86 min running time because I always got the feeling I should be watching something better. I finally made it to the end but I sure as hell won't be watching that again! "},{"Title":"Very unpleasant.  Don't touch it with a stick.","Date":"20 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Following his spectacular debut with Bloodsport (1988), Jean-Claude Van Damme appears in the post-apocalyptic sci-fi action thriller Cyborg. I did not enjoy Cyborg one bit. I found it to be unpleasantly violent and somewhat depressing and bleak. Cyborg was certainly one of Van Damme's movies I would rather forget.Cyborg takes place in an post-apocalyptic future where a plague has infested most of the world. Civilisation is almost on the verge of being wiped out through anarchy, genocide, and starvation. A lone mercenary named Gibson Rickenbacker (Jean-Claude Van Damme) finds himself protecting Pearl (Dayle Haddon) who is carrying information about a cure for the plague which has infected the world. Unbeknownst to Gibson, Pearl is a Cyborg. Gibson must protect Pearl on her journey from New York to Atlanta and must evade a group of sociopathic pirates led by the intimidating and sadistic Fender (Vincent Klyn) who is also sporting a pair of sunglasses and loves to wear chainmail outfits.Cyborg was very unpleasantly violent and unlike most Van Damme movies where audiences accepted that it was part and parcel of his movies, I just could not find myself comfortable watching the movie. The movie itself was also very bleak and depressing. I can understand why Cyborg encountered many censorship issues to its strong graphic violence. It just felt like it has a very sadomasochistic appeal to it.To conclude this review, Cyborg was a very unpleasant movie and not one to remember for Van Damme. Don't touch this movie with a stick.1/10. "},{"Title":"More like Cybore","Date":"2 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The basic components for a serviceable 'Mad Max' rip-off are all here, but the story is so listless and the pacing so slack--even at 85 minutes--that it totally undermines the film's relative strengths.Van Damme may not exactly be Brando, but he normally has an easy charm that buoys even his worst films. Not so here, as JC is asked to be a brooding anti-hero. This robs the film of its greatest asset right off the bat. The rest of the cast mostly just growl. So much so that *my* throat was sore by the end.Schlockmaster Albert Puyn does do a decent job of creating his post-apocalyptic world on a shoestring budget, and there are a couple of solid moments (the flashbacks that set up the history between JC and the villain, a fight in an abandoned factory) and some great shots (JC suspended above a toadie by doing the splits between two walls) but none of it is enough to save this tedious dreck. "},{"Title":"A Great Science-Fiction Film that Finally Became Whole","Date":"9 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The following review is for the Albert Pyun release of Slinger, his director's cut of the film. It also explores the differences that make the director's cut a far superior film.I grew up with the film Cyborg, along the same lines as the film Terminator. Even then, I saw that Cyborg was something special. But, no matter how much I tried to pinpoint it, I knew there were things missing in the storyline. It wasn't until about 2010 when I finally saw what it was.The rough-cut release of Albert Pyun's vision of Cyborg - known by its original title Slinger - was a final attempt to show what the film should've been, not what it could've been. The film was masterfully put together in its original version and adds more of a back story into the world of the film, which was excised for whatever reason from the finished product. The subplot that showed a war between the warriors of the light (slingers) and the children of darkness (the Satan-worshiping pirates), which was only hinted toward in the theatrical version, was plainly stated in this version.Also, it flowed as a story better than the theatrical version, which seemed to me very choppy in places, leading up to the alternate shortened ending. This ending actually suited the film when put against the previous 80-plus minutes.Lastly, the newly-composed score by Tony Riparetti And Jim Saad put a rock and roll theme to a great science-fiction send up to the spaghetti western. It's not the orchestral score that disassociated the theatrical version.All in all, the Albert Pyun director's cut is a far superior version of the film. It has more of the heart and stark bleakness that was surgically removed from the first release, which is what I completely love in a post-apocalyptic film of this caliber. If you haven't seen this version and are a fan of science-fiction in general, please support Albert Pyun and buy it from his website. Trust me, you will not be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Van Damne's futuristic entry has some damned moments","Date":"25 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This film heralds the arrival of a new action star, is you discount blood sport. I went into the film not knowing about it, except for what I analysed from the movie ad, the day before. What was strange, was apart from me, there was only one other guy in this cinema, and I was in a big cinema too, one cinema really reserved for big hits. This wasn't one of em' where Kickboxer shortly followed in it's footsteps. The movie is futuristic fun, but I found some parts of it boring. It's backdrops and fight sequences make for absorbing viewing, only we haven't got the best actor, who like Seagal, only has little gestures or expressions, but Van Damme's presence does make the film. There's a plague going around, and a lone warrior bumps into a woman (Dayle Haddon) who's telling him of this merciless killer (a sort of Brian Cobra Thompson speaking guy, who likes as he says The misery) who's out to find the creation of the plague to destroy all mankind, and who better than Van Damme to stop him. But Van Damme is also on a personal mission to track down this killer. Granted, with the positives of what I've said, Cyborg still really isn't a futuristic hit, just a kill timer really. Watch how Van Damme frees himself when tied to a wooden cross like Jesus, (I can just feel those legs again). "},{"Title":"It's Van Damme in the future.  Just snicker and move on.","Date":"18 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Watching 'Cyborg' is like watching your blender at work, you've seen it before, you know what it does and you know not to expect anything new. And, like any kitchen appliance, it's hammered together from pieces and parts from somewhere else. Anything organic is really unintentional.The movie takes place, not in the future, but in one of those movie futures where society has collapse, everything is a smoldering desolate wasteland, yet there is no shortage on tight leather outfits. None of the leather outfits by the way seem to provide sleeves for the men or a modest neckline for the women, but in any case they all wear leather because it looks, I dunno futuristic when you're on a budget.In this world Mad Max would have laughed at, the title character (Dayle Haddon) has a flashing computer brain and holds the key to the plague that has killed the world's population. She has to get to Atlanta to her headquarters so that the antidote can be put into use.Standing between her cute little circuits and Atlanta are a group of vicious thugs (c'mon you saw that coming) who don't want humanity to survive and figure that if the plague wipes out more and more of the population they can rule it. They 'LOVE THIS WORLD!!!' and we know that because the group's leader repeats that phrase more than once. He speaks in guttural mechanized speech patterns that sound like C-3PO if he had a cold.Our hero Gibson Rickenbacker (You can stop laughing) is played by Jean Claude Van Damme as one of those characters that Jean Claude Van Damme played in his last three Jean Claude Van Damme pictures and would play in the next seven or eight John Claude Van Damme movies (Damme, time to think of a new angle). Anyway, he plays the bulky armed hero that will escort the cyborg to Atlanta wiping out the post-apocalyptic punks until he gets to the leader and we watch extended scenes as they beat each other stupid.'Cyborg' never aspires to be anything more than the sum of its parts and its running time is just under 88 minutes because it's target audience won't have the patience or the attention-span long enough to make it through another half hour. Then again those who consider and think about movies won't be able to sit through the first hour of it either. So who is it really made for? * (of four) "},{"Title":"Ragtag","Date":"9 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Bad movies can be as revealing once you accept that what is on the screen is reflecting an accidental self. They may or may not be enjoyable, this isn't, but in either case we come up against someone creating a world, just like as in Bladerunner or Alien every choice reflects decisions about the world.This is the sci-fi movie your little brother would make. It has a juvenile conception of the future chaos and ruins everywhere, medieval weapons, a plague, an antidote. A hero who must save the day. The plot is dumb, the dialogue tacky, the acting about as good as in Godfrey Ho films. But even more specifically juvenile. Whereas other filmmakers puzzle about the overall world, its feel and appearance, its tentative cohesiveness as a whole, these guys have simply filmed around. Filmed a bit around a set, then around some nondescript buildings somewhere, then in a dirt road. We have no sense of how we have moved from one place to the next, we're just there and a scene plays out. If you've observed kids play with their toys, they do just this move stuff just so they can start bumping them.This is to film what a threadbare rag is to an evening dress. In the right crowd it is a style all its own. "}{"Title":"I like the death! I like the misery!","Date":"11 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Entertaining schlocky post-apocalypse action thriller casts JCVD as Gibson Rickenbacker, a slinger in the near future who doesn't have much meaning in his life other than revenge, against vicious gang leader Fender Tremolo (imposing surfing star Vincent Klyn), who'd destroyed his chance for happiness once upon a time. Now he's after Fender again, who's gotten his hands on an important cyborg named Pearl Prophet (Dayle Haddon), who will be able to obtain information on how to cure the plague that has ravaged mankind. He acquires an initially unwanted companion on his journey, a scrappy, sexy survivor named Nady Simmons (Deborah Richter). The makers of Cyborg, led by B movie veteran Albert Pyun, were able to take advantage of the aborted Cannon Group productions of Masters of the Universe 2 and Spider-Man, and the sets and locations subsequently available to them help to lend production value to a project that itself only cost about $500,000. All things considered, it's no better or worse than many other films of its kind. It's fun, but reeks of familiarity all the way through. That's not to say that it doesn't have some life; it hits the ground running and delivers some decent action scenes. It does get rather bogged down in exposition as repeated flashbacks explain to us Gibsons' motivation and history with Fender. It's still a reasonably cool little gimmick to have named a number of the characters - there's also Marshall Strat, Furman Vux, and Brick Bardo - after musical instruments. The acting is merely varying degrees of stiff, but Richter briefly shows off a nice body, and Klyn does have a field day with his maniacal bad guy performance (and, of course, will have to be killed more than once). One thing the movie really could have used is punchier violence, i.e. just a little more gore, as the killings are edited a little too judiciously. The finale, taking place in the pouring rain, isn't bad, but isn't all that great either. In the end, this sizes up as a decent diversion but no more. Action, sci-fi, and post-apocalypse aficionados may find it entertaining enough, even if only on a so bad it's good level. Six out of 10. "},{"Title":"I love this world","Date":"24 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" sorry I have to give this movie the max score because it is simply put one of my favourites of all time. It was the first DVD I bought when my parents bought me my first ever DVD player.Simply put world has been ravaged by a plague and the last remaining scientists commission a cyborg to journey to New York and retrieve data from a computer and then try to return it to Atlanta (no internet I guess??). Obviously Fender and his flesh pirates get in the way, although I confess I always wondered how Pearl Prophets bodyguard who is armed to the teeth, manages to lose his machine gun with grenade launcher. You don't see this used at any point by the way. Enter Mr Van Damme who plays a Slinger (mercenary for hire) and sets out on a personal vendetta to try and kill Fender. Now there are holes a plenty (van damme loses his sword very quickly, no reason really given). The pirates have guns that seem to fire a ball bearing of some type (as does he) but no gunpowder etc.What I love about this movie is that there are so many scenes that showcase Van Dammes kicking prowess, and the entire movie for the budget is actually quite well put together. Now bare in mind that the production crew had limited budget and this film made in excess of 10,000000 dollars on a 500,000 dollar budget. Not bad. This is one of the movies which actually got me interested in martial arts (now a journey) and is up there with IP Man 1 and 2 as well as Enter The Dragon. Albert Pyun directed this movie and he is a very talented guy who I think could make Avengers for a 1000 dollars. "},{"Title":"Watch it for the knife-fights, not for the cyborg","Date":"22 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" There is a lot of knife sharpening in Cyborg. It's about a post- apocalyptic world in which the lowly knife has become the weapon of choice. There are a few guns, but I guess everyone ran out of ammo. And that makes Cyborg a pure fantasy because the knife will never be more than a secondary weapon no matter how far we slip as a civilization. Spears, swords, axes, hammers, and bows will all take precedence. Not to mention armor. Those aforementioned weapons do make a few appearances in this movie, but the characters all seem to prefer knives for some reason. Why? Because it makes for some awesome fight scenes. They really are great. Whoever choreographed the action in Cyborg knew what they were doing. It's rare in an action movie, but you can follow a scene and conclude that, Yeah, one man really could beat several bad guys like that. Cyborg has several one-vs-many martial arts sequences that are cohesive and make sense. Those intense few scenes set Cyborg apart and make it worth watching. And do you really want any more in a movie than some of the best knife- fight scenes ever made? Hopefully not, that's all Cyborg has. The script was clearly gutted from its original because the cyborg in Cyborg is treated as an afterthought. It's a woman that decided to have herself enhanced with mechanical parts in order to carry information about a plague back to the last scientists who can cure it. Why do you need to be turned into a cyborg to carry info about a disease? I'd love to know. Anyways, for all the back-story on the cyborg, she doesn't do anything for the entire movie. She just sits by while good guys and bad guys have awesome fights all around her. They are fighting over possession of her, yet she does nothing. You'd hope that as a cyborg, she might have some cyborg abilities that help in a fight. And you'd expect that in an action movie named Cyborg, the one cyborg would participate in the action.It's no wonder that many people are disappointed with Cyborg. But this low-budget, post-apocalyptic fantasy has some intense martial arts scenes that are both smart and entertaining. Watch it for the knife- fights and you won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"B-movie action fun","Date":"15 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" What is this? Is it a forgotten gem of cinema? An overlooked masterpiece that rivals the likes of The Godfather and Apocalypse Now? A hidden treasure that, if revealed to the world, would take humanity to a new level of existence, enhancing our minds and bring us closer to understanding the secrets of the universe? Of course not, it's a post apocalyptic action flick with Jean-Claude van Damme. This movie will never claim greatness, but if you're up to some no-brainer action, it will surely deliver the goods.In a future were civilization is shattered by natural disasters and a severe plague, van Damme plays the part of Gibson, a sort of fighter-for-hire that makes a living guiding people through the lawless wilderness. One day he comes across a woman who appears to be a cyborg. She claims to possess the knowledge of a cure that would end the plague. She is however abducted by a band of outlaws led by a man named Fender (yeah, Gibson and Fender), who wants the secret of the cure for himself so he can... well, it's a bit unclear, but apparently he kinda likes it when everything is miserable so he wants to prevent the cure from, well, curing. As it turns out however, Gibson wants revenge on Fender since he killed Gibsons family several years in the past. With Gibson joins a woman named Nady, who takes an interest in saving the cyborg and securing a cure for the plague. Of course there are a some issues with this film. The acting isn't great, and the characters doesn't really have much personality. The story doesn't really evolve into anything. The fact that the captured woman is a cyborg does not really effect anything, the villains motive never leaves the standard evil for the sake of being evil, and there are a lot of plot holes or plot happenings that are never explained or are explained very poorly. The movie is also very fond of unnecessary flashbacks, and sometimes shows the same flashback twice! The storytelling is really sub-par and amateurish, and it is the movie's great weakness. The movie is saved however by two things looks and action. The film looks great. It has a nice atmosphere and some really nice photography. The music is also pretty good and helps to get you pumped up for the action scenes. The action scenes are great and the obvious highlight of the film. Van Damme shows his stuff, punching and kicking and besting his opponents in some really well written and well choreographed fight scenes. The action sucks you in and keeps you entertained trough the entire thing. All in all, it's not Citizen Kane, but if you want to kick back with some popcorn and some no brainer action, this film should do just nicely. "},{"Title":"I like this world!","Date":"22 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Being an avid bodybuilder and martial arts enthusiast my whole life I've got to say I love this film not just because of Van Damme although I'm a huge fan but because of Vincent Klyn, I think his character Fender Tremolo is one of the most brutal evil villains of all time.If you wanna see a formidable group of people just look at his gang in the movie, just one look at them will probably stop your heart beat.In Fenders gang Most of the actors are bodybuilders or martial artists in the real world so I like that, even though the fights are choreographed It still gives me the added bonus knowing there real athletes not just actors.It's not going to be nominated for any Oscar's, but if you like martial arts with a touch of post apocalyptic war thrown in with nice fights then you won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Cyborg","Date":"16 December 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" A journeyman warrior(Jean-Claude Van Damme), known as a slinger(..those who support the weak and innocent, escorting them out of hostile areas), must thwart the efforts of a murderous, sadistic brood of savages whose goal is to gain access to a cure for a plague which is diseasing and killing around the globe, by forcing a cyborg(half-human/half-machine female with important vital information stored inside her robotic brain)to lead them to the secret laboratory where scientists are on the verge of a scientific breakthrough.Gibson(Van Damme) is seething with guilt, sadness, wrath, and pain regarding the loss of a young woman and children at the hands of Fender(Vincent Klyn), a vicious cold-blooded leader of the scavengers who rape, pillage and destroy innocents along the way, just for the hell of it or for kicks, taking what supplies they need(..including a boat to charter a course for Atlanta)and leaving those thieved dead or worse. The memories of the woman and her son he could not save(..and the little girl Fender snatched away to join his parade of brutish crazies)remains to haunt him and Gibson uses this as motivation to pursue his adversaries, wherever they may be. Along the way he encounters Nady(Deborah Richter), a tough civilian who wishes to help him save the cyborg and get her to those in need of the information which can halt the plague that has devastated the world. Both will have their hands full as Fender and his band of fiendish freaks offer difficulties they can't even imagine.You have the Post Holocaust backdrop of The Road Warrior, shades of The Terminator in regards to the cyborg(known as Pearl Prophet, portrayed by Dayle Haddon), with martial arts injected into the formula. When Van Damme contends with a limitless number of men to fillet and kick the poop out of, we recognize that all involved in the various martial arts sequences are trained fighters with considerable skill, or stuntmen who serve the purpose of being victims. Heavily choreographed and carefully edited(..with lots of loud sound effects)to make Van Damme look exemplary against his foes. Klyn, as the monstrous heavy who seems to tower over Van Damme in their fights against each other, has eye contacts which makes him look reptilian, complimenting his physical stature. In their duals, Van Damme is often a punching bag as Klyn pummels him endlessly. The movie presents a world in ruin, vehicles and buildings destroyed, those still alive living in filth, wearing the garb one associates with the Post Apocalyptic sub-genre, tattered costumes featuring abstract fabrics thrown together so that the people can have clothing to keep them warm(..well, in this film's case, the villains look like nutty punk rockers). The swords used are mostly small and/or curve, providing those who use them with an ability to engage in athletic battles, allowing the fighters to move about, before attempting to assault each other. Interesting sequence where Van Damme is crucified, perhaps symbolizing his Gibson as a savior for the world(..or as Pearly puts it, the real cure for the world). Large action set pieces include one lengthly combat between Gibson and Fender's posse throughout an abandoned industrial complex, and the climax within the skeletal remains of what was once Atlanta as the rain pours down, drowning the actors involved in skirmishes. As was often the case in films like these whose villain is of such menace and power, Fender withstands some serious abuse to return to kill Gibson after it appears he has kicked the bucket. Director Albert Pyun is often associated with the scathing use of the word hack for directing films which resemble(..or as his critics would say, rip off) popular mainstream fare, but on a much smaller scale. His flamboyant camera work and constant editing(..not much is represented here in the way of gore, Pyun moving away from scenes where bodies are torn asunder through the use of blades slicing flesh)are on display here and it's no wonder that he would work with Charles Band on subsequent pictures. Van Damme's flexibility(..not necessarily in the acting department, I digress)athletically is established her, and he indeed is shown, in an important sequence while escaping, doing the splits in order to eliminate one of Fender's goons following them. Passable entertainment, I guess, but there are much better Post Apocalyptic flicks out there to choose from, in my mind. "},{"Title":"if you study film and intelligent read this","Date":"9 January 2012","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I will be brief in my comment we are in day apocalyptic genre films that fill our view of all lies and follies as (Knowing) that the point of having a greater than cyborg punctuation is not that I see more real cyborg as this films tells you through the evil that exists in the whole world was destroyed, death, and the group that will destroy was fender, and he was a mercenary fighting for the cure is yet to come from fender (now ) (eye) in the director's cut (director cut edition) we see that fender was part of a satanic religion which made ​​her all the destruction in the name of Satan (fijence a scene out of a child eating mutants) now impacts but certainly an apocalyptic movie hits version is by the final destruction of this world through something that today we see death, hate, destruction, war, world certainly not non-existent UFOs .... etc. for me is a great movie "},{"Title":"One of my all-time favorite movies!","Date":"18 July 2012","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Cyborg is, in terms of a pure, entertaining, popcorn action flick? Amazing! Great action/fight scenes, great soundtrack, great settings & atmosphere, classic revenge plot, Van Damme was awesome with great presence, a menacing villain, etc. The story isn't much but its simple, sweet, and effective. It does not try to be anything else and it SUCCEEDS.Also while many film makers are tempted to try their hand at the post-apocalyptic world, few have ever gotten it right. When the subject of such films comes up, viewers NEED to give this one a look. It is simply one of the few quintessential examples of the post-apocalyptic movie done right. "},{"Title":"A kick ass movie","Date":"18 May 2011","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I've always been a big fan of this film, Cyborg is a kick ass movie, good story, good action, good acting, good music, can you ask for more?..Many would say is a low budget film but I never care about it, because today action films are made with a big budget and those films are bad as hell and compares with this one I can t even consider it movies...This film is starred by Jean Claude Van Damme at his best, he is the hero of the story and he does it great, he is more than perfect on his role, his charisma and presence fill the screen, one of my favorite scenes is the crucifixion one where we can see Jean Claude's character anger..The rest of the cast is okay, specialty the evil fender played by Vincent Klyn..I've always been a fan of cannon films, I always think that they really knew how to make commercial films, those kind of films had soul not like today cinema...If u want to have a great time, is a must watch film "},{"Title":"Vintage Van Damme","Date":"1 February 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The target of much vitriol upon its initial release, it would appear that attitudes have however somewhat mellowed towards this early Van Damme vehicle. In this post apocalyptic tale, our favourite ripped Belgian plays a tough as nails hero for hire with a score to settle against a particularly ruthless bandit called Fender. Albert Pyunn directs this somewhat bleak tale with a touch of visual panache and includes a fair few rather exciting action set pieces as our hero shoots, stabs and of course, kicks his way to his final objective.Whilst Van Damme's legs and feet are certainly on fine form, the same cannot sadly be said of his acting chops....... Still, it matters not and in truth he doesn't get many lines to bumble through at any rate. Funnily enough, Van Damme isn't the worst actor on show anyway......that honour must go to the aforementioned main bad guy but he cuts such a menacing presence that it matters not a jot not a tickle again.Visually stylish with a great musical score, Cyborg is essential viewing for Van Damme fans. "}{"Title":"So bad, even He-Man cut it loose","Date":"24 April 2005","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The main problem I had with this movie was its shocking lack of slow-motion roundhouse kicks to the face. Sure, it suffered from bad acting and a poor plot, but that could have been redeemed with another, say, thirty slow-motion kicks to the face. That would leave the movie with maybe twenty minutes of plot, which could be boiled down to someone saying, Oh. I guess Jean-Claude doesn't like those guys. This script is terrible. Jean-Claude is in a movie called Cyborg that features him NOT being a cyborg. Instead, the cyborg is a woman. A kick-ass woman? That would be cool, but no. She's merely a plot device.This was originally supposed to be a sequel to the Masters of the Universe movie, but was so bad that it was decided not to sully that franchise's good name and simply release it as Cyborg. Dolph Lungren has gone on record saying that he hates this movie so much that he would be willing to kill 200 pounds of cute puppies just so he never has to see this movie again. Or wait ... I'm sorry. I got myself mixed up with Dolph again (!).On the bright side, it is amusing to see Jean-Claude handled by a totally inept director. I can imagine Albert Pyun thinking aloud right before filming this movie You know, there are a lot of flashbacks in this script, but I don't want to do anything cliché. Black and white photography would be too obvious. Changing the music or adding graininess to the film would just be dumbing it down for the audience. I know! To signify a flashback, I will just have Jean-Claude stare blankly for a few seconds! And I'll have him wear a mop head to kind of sort of look like he really has long hair! Brilliance! Now, how to get rid of earwax? I think I have a gun around here somewhere... The villain in this movie has a ridiculous voice, but is certainly ripped enough to handle Jean-Claude. So, if nothing else, Jean-Claude fights someone who looks pretty tough. Score one for the filmmakers. "},{"Title":"Stupid but so funny...","Date":"22 August 2004","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  If you're a real cinema expert, looking for a great scenario and nice shooting techniques, then you can avoid watching this film, it will make you mad for sure !But if you like 2nd degree humor, if you love stupid fights, sounds, sets and so on, then this film is definitely worth the try !I really enjoy such stupid films because it's so crappy that you can't stop laughing during 90 minutes ! I even wonder how could such films be released in the 80's....The first time I watched it, I couldn't even say any single word, I was amazed and astonished by this incredible movie, I couldn't believe they made that for real !Make your choice !  "},{"Title":"Avoid this sub-par effort","Date":"24 December 2001","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Cyborg stars Van Damme as a soldier who is out for vengence against a group of mutant thugs who killed his family.Cyborg was Van Damme's worst movie for a long time until Universal SoldierThe Return and Knock off came along. It has Van Damme fighting and fighting to dave a Cyborg who holds the cure for a unnamed plauge. The movie has not much of a story it's just a pointless waste of time that fails to deliver the goods. Overall it's a bad movie although people who love So bad it's good entertainment may like this movie.* (out of four)  "},{"Title":"Stupid, loud, mind-numbing, and pointless.","Date":"6 September 1999","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  There have been a lot of Mad Max rip offs. Some have been pretty good (1994's No Escape.) But some have been absolutely horrendous and an insult to the viewer's intelligence. And as far as post-apocalyptic standards go, there is little in between. This is no exception....and it's in the latter category. Cyborg, an early Van Damme vehicle, is probably one of the stupidest, slowest-moving films I have ever seen, and I simply don't understand what compelled the producers to make it.I rate this film a 2 on a scale of 1 to 10, and the 2 is for two particular scenes that were well done. The first is the opening scene, in which there is a narration by the film's villain that promises an interesting, campy film. It absolutely got my attention, and I was looking forward to a fun, circus of a film. But alas, it would not be thus! As soon as characters are shown for the first time, the film sinks. There's really no plot, and it's really only a series of action-sequences featuring Van Damme and his sidekicks (one of whom is the female cyborg, who really serves no purpose but to attract male viewers to a pretty face) running from a group of mean pirate people, led by a guy who looks a lot like Mario Van Peebles from Highlander The Final Dimension who likes to scream at random and decapitate people.The second part I liked was a scene in the sewers in which our hero, Van Damme, is hiding in the shadows. The way he kills his attacker is nicely shot, and other than that, it's a mindless romp which feature some wasted sets and not a single good cast member, save maybe Van Damme's female sidekick.Actually, Van Damme's character has a pretty interesting past, which we see through a series of flashbacks. If they had taken that storyline from his past and used it as the main premise, it could have been a pretty good movie. That was actually a moving story. But no, all this is is a stupid, mindless mess that tries to be a homage to Mad Max and instead ranks among Plan 9 From Outer Space as a waste of time and effort. Everything that could be called a plot is cliched and dumb, and all the fights are stiff and predictable. For example, why, in the final fight scene, does the villian only grunt and scream like a dying cow? He was so full of vocab before....and his moans really get annoying. And what's up with that crucifixion scene? Is Van Damme supposed to be painted as a Christ-figure. Gosh, I hope not.It's really not director Albert Pyunn's fault this movie is bad. His direction is actually well-done for what he has to work with. But it doesn't save the film at all....Nothing can save this. Van Damme has never been known for his Oscar-winning films, but this one is undoubtedly his worst. Don't see it....PLEASE.1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"Amazing that a film like this could be made!","Date":"8 April 1999","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I had the misfortune of seeing this movie in the theater while I was an undergrad at UF.  We had just seen Bloodsport, which is a decent martial art action flick.  This came out and we expected more of the same.  Oh were we mistaken!It was so bad we laughed during most of the movie, we should have walked out but we wanted to see just how bad it could get. After 10 years this movie still sticks out as one of the worst films I have ever seen!  "},{"Title":"Yeah you could mistake Van Damme for a cyborg.","Date":"14 August 2009","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" When I first saw the title of Cannon's 'Cyborg' and the name Jean Claude Van Damme tagged, I thought of a cyborg Van Damme. Oh yeah! Well I couldn't be any more wrong. Well Van Damme's acting is robotic, but he still gets to kick butt in human form as he goes after a cyborg woman carrying vital information that could cure the plague that affects civilization in the 21st century. However in his way and holding the cyborg hostage is Fender, the barbarous leader of the 'Flesh Pirates' that roams the vacant cities carving out a hellhole.There's rawness to it, but it's efficiently staged. What I had trouble with was how unexciting and emotionless the film was, despite its comic-book edge and choreographed action being superbly executed&#x85; although director Albert Pyun could've cut down on the over-cooked slow motion. Nonetheless it was good to see Van Damme wipe the floor with those kick-boxing skills, but it did give me a snicker during the sloppy flashback sequences which has Van Damme in an awkward looking blonde wig. However the most pitiful aspect was the over-the-top, try-hard performance of Vincent Klyn as Fender. Boy I could only roll my eyes, especially when he opened his mouth and got into his posing stances. Sadistic&#x85; far from it. Deborah Richter was the opposite, with a lively and feisty turn.The use of junky special effects works out. Being set in a desperate wasteland born from apocalyptic symptoms, Pyun does an exemplary job bringing that out the chosen locations. Some impulsively neat visuals caught by expressive camera-work and rapid pacing go onto add more to a blotchy narration without much of a story in this cheaply produced sci-fi outing. Although there's an odd inclusion of Jesus on the cross in some scenes in the background and then you another sequence with Van Damme. Is his character seen as society's true savior? Passably average. "},{"Title":"Van Damme action classic(watch out for the nail)","Date":"21 October 2006","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I liked this movie simply for its imaginative action scenes.hardcore JC fans will eat up the non stop action which only runs at about 82 minutes.It has this terminator/Mad Max kinda feeling to it.Yes there was a lot of rip offs(nailing in the desert)but all are tolerable with a mix of Van Damme and slow motion.The chase and final sequence are great and filled with cool stuff. The speech in the opening sequence was used in the song Judgement day by method man,so i know i'm not the only one that scene this.This one opened the door for JC and sci-fi,later he would star in 2 of his best movies Univesal soldier and Timecop(which was critically acclaimed as his best role.)A guilty Van pleasure. Van Damme 7.5/10 Van story 3/10 Van Damage priceless "},{"Title":"i did not create this film(thank god)","Date":"27 January 2003","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  this is a masterpeice. well it would be a masterpeice if it was supposed to be a comic look into the future. everything about it jusst makes me laugh from the way rickenbecker runs to the cheesy flashbacks and the un-needed nudity of the lets face it ugly lead female. if ever you feel like a good laugh watch this film.  "},{"Title":"Quite boring","Date":"31 July 2000","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Yes, of course the movie has action. But that is all it has. Basically, you get to see Van Damme run from a big group of bad guys and beat the crap out of them every time he stops. No kidding, this is just run to this location, fight, run to new location, fight some more.. ad infinitum. Good action movies know you need breaks and pacing, but this one had none. There was nothing too impressive to me about the fight scenes, either. You just never get that high stakes feeling that make action movies thrilling.  "},{"Title":"Attack of the German male models, or Jean Claude Van Damme Vs the pirates of the 21st century","Date":"11 May 2008","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This movie is basically a typical, campy, B-grade action flick, from start to finish. Most of the pirates not only look as I describe in the summary, but sadly possess the same acting abilities as such. The action(which does perhaps have its moments, and there certainly is plenty of it) is relatively violent, but apart from that, nothing above the usual for 80's movies of this kind. It would undeniably pose something of a daunting task to locate a mere second(!) in this that isn't infinitely and instantly(not to mention incredibly) MST3K-worthy, and that tends to be the greatest source of entertainment when I watch it. What gives this what merit it does have(which really isn't an overwhelming amount) is that it actually features some pretty decent atmosphere, as others have said, partially due to the stretches that do not have any dialog. The story isn't terribly told, and it isn't the *worst* piece of cyberpunk out there. This goes somewhat fast, but it could also be attributed to it not even being 90 minutes long(seemed closer to 75 without credits), though there are some films of similar running time which are considerably more difficult to sit through. I guess this is sort of a cult feature(and it did somehow beget two sequels), and as such, some people will love it, but most people probably won't. I recommend this to big fans of gloomy, dystopian future works... if you're not one, you may find this rather uninteresting. 5/10 "}{"Title":"So bad that I had to laugh myself through it","Date":"13 May 2005","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Van Damme made a couple of terrible movies after the success with Bloodsport, and this one is without doubt one of them. Although this is said to be a sequel to Masters of the Universe, I really don't understand why, because I have problems in finding any connections between the two movies. Then, over to this movie. In fighting movies, I usually don't care about story at all. But here, I just had to. It was so bad that I just couldn't believe it. Things seem to happen without a specific reason. For example, I never could figure out why the bad guy (Bender) was bad. He just did what he did, without proper explanation. The fighting is bad too. Many of the fight scenes include use of knives, it was too much of that in my opinion. And when it comes to the final scenes, that was so typical B-action. It was also so extremely bad that i sat and laughed through it. That's really not a sign of quality, especially in a movie that totally lacks self-irony. "},{"Title":"The only movie I ever wanted my money back after seeing","Date":"10 November 2000","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  My friend and I went to see this at the dollar theater.  I thought it was SO bad that I wanted my money back.  Yes it was only a dollar but I thought the whole thing stunk that horribly.  In general I enjoy a good mindless Jean Claud flick but PEE-YOU!  It stunk. "},{"Title":"Thank you very much, Mr. Roboto...","Date":"22 May 2006","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" A slinger(?) from the future looks to take revenge on the group of pirates who killed his family in a post apocalypse wasteland. Also on board is a cyborg who has the cure for a plague and holds the key to the survival of mankind. Of course she must deliver the information in her head to Atlanta and she needs a hero to deliver her from the pirates. I must admit that Cyborg is one of those movies I found extremely funny. Where as I can give other action flicks a higher rating because they actually do a few things right, Cyborg manages to do practically everything wrong. The action sequences are decently choreographed but the ridiculous nature surrounding them and interminable grunting and screaming which accompanies them make this a laughable effort. Plus the movie is often times hard to follow coherently and Pyun tacks on far too many pointless flashbacks to beef up it's (thankfully) scant running time.Also why on earth does the main bad guy wear chain mail when he's in a hot climate half of the time? * out of 4 (Bad) "},{"Title":"At one time, the worst (major) film I'd ever seen","Date":"14 December 2005","Score":"12 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I'm only entering 1 out of 10 because zero isn't an option. I used to think that this was the worst (major) movie that I'd ever seen. However, as a result of Highlander 2 (which I'm ashamed to admit that I actually paid to see... uck!), this is now only the *second* worst.The only explanation for my having seen this was that it was part of a period of time in my younger days when myself and a friend went out and saw a movie every Sunday evening without fail, for two or three years straight. Sometimes, the movie we actually wanted to see was sold out, and we ended up taking a chance. Some of these chances turned out to be good. Some (like Cyborg) didn't. Not too long after this came out, I decided that movies were getting too expensive (and my time too valuable) to waste on crap like this, and I became a little more discriminating about what I paid to see. Perhaps this was an early warning sign that I was starting to move out of the 'key demographic' of the movie industry. "},{"Title":"Dumb and retarded movie","Date":"30 December 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" From the horrible matte painting in the opening shot to the plastic knifes and the plastic chains to the ridiculous customes and the horrible lines and the so called acting, this has got to be one of the worst movies ever made.This is so amateurishly badly made that me and my friends could have made a more convincing movie with a video camera and no budget at all.How a movie like this could ever get a green-light and even be allowed to get a theatrical release is beyond me.My friend and I could'nt stop laughing at how bad this was.I recommend this to no one. "},{"Title":"A Future of plague and pirates murderers","Date":"28 April 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" From the beginning of the film we are warned by the villain like death and destruction, a plague has managed to kill many people, the pirates are legions to exterminate the innocent survivors, the leader of these pirates is a sadistic murderers, this almost a diabolical villain is interested to take over the cure. a female cyborg carries valuable information on healing, she is captured by the villain, but a skilled hunter martial art emerges can help in the salvation of mankind, it really pursues the hunter's revenge, her name is Gibson and want to kill Fender called the villain while a girl named Nady wants to help the cyborg. each character conveys emotions and feelings, Gibson is emotionally shattered and need to apply justice, Nady is tender and sweet, she needs help innocent people, the cyborg girl named Pearl conveys compassion, even a young girl named Haley influenced by pirates conveys sadness. Pirates including women have muscles and are threatening, the atmosphere of the film is disturbing, the music is beautiful Bassinson Kevin, Heidi Kaczenski your wardrobe is very good, great cinematography from Philip Alan Waters, and great editing. The action scenes and fights are very well developed, all the characters are fascinating, the book by Kitty Chalmers is remarkable and shocking, Albert Pyun's work is admirable, I really liked the scenes of Jean- Claude Van Damme and Deborah Richter all actions of the cast is excellent. Cyborg is a perfect action film and science fiction as dark, sharp, dramatic and very exciting, personally left me a nice feeling. "},{"Title":"I like the death! I like the misery! I like this world!","Date":"29 July 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Cyborg is a film that tries so hard to be wicked and awesome. It is at least partway successful; set in a cruel violence-ridden apocalyptic landscape, the characters fight bad guys at every turn, with knives, big guns, and their fists! The overall look, style, and tone of the film would make it a fine compliment to the Mad Max series, but Cyborg is a grade meaner and more intense.That being said, the film is still very much on the cheap side. Many of the fights are cheaply-edited and choreographed. There are laughable moments to be had. Dialogue and writing are pretty cheesy, and the whole film feels pretty short and insubstantial.The film's story is pretty basic, lacking in any deep characterization, depth, or emotional resonance. It's very short and small-scale overall. The plot consists of a man meeting cyborg woman, and they fight their way to a specific destination. There are moments in between the action where characters try to warm up, with some flashbacks and touching scenes, but it never feels like we really get to know these characters in depth. It's all just a fine excuse to see Van Damme kicking a lot of butt.This film does have quite the style though, with some impressive camera angles and cool photography. Editing is pretty good. Acting can be quite cheesy, not only with the occasional silly line, but also with the exaggerated movements and the way everybody likes to scream at each other. Writing is alright. This production uses pretty cheap sets, props, costumes, and locales, although it doesn't show that much; the film plays within its limitations pretty well. I personally don't like the music score, but I see that other viewers love it.Cyborg is pretty wicked, but also quite cheesy, with a short and small-scale story attached to it. It does have its moments though. If you're a fan of cheesy action, gritty post-apocalypse sci-fi, or a Jean Claude Van Damme fan, then this film may satisfy. Otherwise, you'll probably dismiss it as something trashy and dumb.3/5 (Entertainment Good | Story Average | Film Marginal) "},{"Title":"Cheap but Mildly Entertaining","Date":"2 March 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Cyborg (1989) ** (out of 4)Jean-Claude Van Damme plays a martial arts expert in the post apocalyptic future who must try and rescue a female cyborg from a group of murders in this cheap film from Cannon. You can tell you're watching a Cannon film early on because there's really nothing about the sets that make you feel like you're watching something set in the future. The film has a very cheap look to it and this certainly doesn't help making you believe what you're watching but at the same time it does add some campy appeal. It really does seem like the filmmakers just found some abandon buildings and run-down neighborhoods to film in. Outside of the look, the film also delivers on some rather generic looking action scenes with Van Damme doing his best during them. These scenes really aren't that special and at times they're poorly edited but they're good enough for this type of film. As far as the performances go, Van Damme is fairly stiff but this really doesn't take away from the fun of the character. The actor can certainly handle himself well during the action scenes and this here is the most important thing. None of the supporting players are terrific but they too fit their characters well enough. With such a low-budget and rather weak story, there really wasn't too much they could do here except deliver a cheap B movie. As long as you don't come in expecting too much you should be mildly entertained but there's no question that there are better films out there in the genre. "},{"Title":"a violent and dark martial arts classic, a typical early van damme film","Date":"12 May 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" this post apocalyptic action flick, is very dark, grim, and violent, and is a great early showcase for van damme, who has some really great action scenes in this, he's a warrior, sure the acting is far from top notch, and it does look a bit low budget at times, but it all adds to cyborg's charm. in many ways its a typical early van damme flick, and in many ways it's it, and that sums up the movie pretty good. the lead villain, while an imposing figure, is a seriously bad actor, and the costumes look cheesy at times, but look i never said this was a masterpiece it's not, it's just a solid late 80's action martial arts flick from van damme, and it delivers the goods, i recommend to action fans "},{"Title":"the last flick for Cannon label but a classic","Date":"26 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This flick has become a classic in the post-apocalyptic genre even as there are much better ones out there to grab. But it's still watchable and that's by two reasons. First it came out under the Cannon group and those distributors are known for so many good B flicks like for example Lifeforce , Deathwish 3, Hercules and of course Enter The Ninja. But around 1988 it was almost over with Cannon. So they had to find a way to survive. Cyborg was that flick. On the other hand this flick had many attention due Jean Claude Van Damme. He was hot back then for action/fight flicks, the best then was Bloodsport (1988). But for many the best acting from Van Damme was here in this flick. The idea of Albert Pyun, the director, was to shoot it in black and white and without dialogue. And it shows, there is dialogue but one of the cheesy kind and with a lot of the famous AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA screaming. It was Cannon themselves who demanded to be shot in colour and having some dialogue for commercial reasons. The flick is also legendary due JCVD picking out Jackson 'rock' Pinckney's eye during a sword scene. It had to be solved in court. The flick came out and was a big success but it was all too late for Cannon. This was their final effort. A classic and still hunted down, a famous distributor was gone. Cyborg has it's highs and lows. The acting isn't one to watch and why it is called Cyborg is still a mystery for me. There's one shot of a cyborg for a few moments. The rest is all fighting. It isn't full of red stuff but most of the fighting is shown in slow motion. Still, you kept watching it to see what is going on and is going to happen even as is the script written in two sentences. None of the actors in it made it really in the business maybe Alex Daniels became the biggest name as a stunt man for flicks like Pearl Harbor (2001) and so many others, 125 up to this writing. Classic flick to watch with a lot of history as been written above.Gore 1/5 Nudity 0,5/5 Effects 2/5 Story 2/5 Comedy 0/5 "}{"Title":"Endearing to its fans.","Date":"17 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" In the 21st Century America has become a wasteland. In the ruins of New York, a slinger (some kind of mercenary) named Gibson Rickenbacker learns of a female cyborg that has been captured by the Flesh Pirates, a group of cannibalistic thugs led by the sadistic Fender Tremolo. Paired with a young companion, Gibson heads across the Badlands, determined to rescue the cyborg (who is carrying vital medical data) & to avenge the deaths of his family.Long before he rose to superstardom with the films Universal Soldier & Hard Target, Jean-Claude Van Damme got his first major starring role in Cyborg. The film was the final release from Cannon Studios, purveyors of most of the action films made during the 1980s, as well as being the first of director Albert Pyun's numerous futuristic cyborg-themed action films.Ever since its release, Cyborg has become something of a cult film among fans of Van Damme, martial-arts fanatics & action film junkies. The film has almost no plot, all the characters are named after brands of guitar, the acting is robotic to say the least (I'm not talking about the cyborg) & Pyun ruins the action scenes with his overuse of slow-motion. That said, there's something about Cyborg that makes it endearing to its fans. It's very violent, with the hero taking on an endless supply of baddies armed only with his martial-arts skills, fierce determination, a bunch of knives & a (paintball) gun. The film has a lack of internal logic &#x96; Van Damme is shot in the shoulder but the wound heals in less than 10 minutes without leaving a scar; the villain is kicked in the chest a dozen times yet retains the lungpower to growl like a bear & decapitates a man using only a knife; Van Damme gets his head rammed repeatedly into a car door without even bleeding. The film may be cheesy & shallow but it's not a bad way to waste 80 minutes. "},{"Title":"Highly Underrated Apocalyptic Thriller","Date":"28 December 2011","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Is it a crime to like this movie? If so, then I stand proudly convicted. Cyborg is one of action icon's Jean-Claude Van Damme's earliest efforts, but takes him out of the martial arts arenas of Kickboxer and Bloodsport and into the apocalyptic future. Set in a wasteland where a plague has reduced America to near-barbarism, the last hope for a cure waits in Atlanta. The cyborg of our title is headed there, but is captured en route by the evil Fender, a nomadic warlord who likes the savage place the world has become and wants the cure for himself. Van Damme is a mercenary with an old score to settle with Fender, and it's up to him to rescue the cyborg and make sure the cure stays out of Fender's hands.Often coldly maligned by critics and even Van Damme fans, Cyborg is actually highly enjoyable. True, it is very much a b-movie, but that's not always a bad thing. The film's budget was obviously minuscule, but director Albert Pyun does a good job with what he has and creates an interesting world of chaos and mayhem for our story to unfold within. Some of his directorial touches are also rather creative, and the action choreography, if unsophisticated, is very well done and frequently hard-hitting. Van Damme is still a bit raw as an actor at this point in his career, but even so he has the charisma that has made him one of the biggest action stars in movie history and has no trouble capturing viewer interest as the enigmatic Gibson. Deborah Richter is attractive and appealing as Gibson's female sidekick, and Dayle Haddon is a suitable semi-damsel in distress as the titular cyborg who falls into Fender's diabolical clutches. Vincent Klyn really seems to enjoy playing Fender, and chews the scenery with gusto every chance he gets. Klyn's Fender is a psychotic escapee from Mad Max, rotten to the core and a one of those villains you really love to hate. His showdown with Gibson is brutal and highly satisfying.Low-budget as it may be, Cyborg is highly enjoyable. It's never boring, with lots of visceral action and an interesting setting. While I admit it's no action classic, it's certainly more entertaining than many big-budget productions that have been generally better received. Fans of dystopian action will probably find a lot to like in Cyborg, as will fans of Van Damme or director Pyn. If not a masterpiece, Cyborg is at least a satisfying b-movie adventure that holds up to multiple viewings. "},{"Title":"Van Damme's Cyborg Cheese&#x85;","Date":"4 May 2010","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" When this movie came out, I absolutely loved it. I was in 7th grade at the time and JCVD was already a big action star with his movies Blood sport and Kick Boxer. I haven't seen this flick for years now, and I wanted to revisit the post-apocalyptic adventure once again, but I didn't own on DVD. While cruising through the channels last Saturday night, I came across Cyborg on TV. I sat down and watched the movie entirely, and then I realized how bad this movie was. Times change and so does our perspective toward movies, perhaps this has happened to you when you absolutely like a movie and you see it years later, and your feelings change completely. Story&#x85;Cyborg takes place sometime in the future, when a deadly plague kills most of mankind causing chaos throughout the world. The remnants of humans are left to survive against warring gangs and pirates that have total control over the land. A small group of scientists manage to input information of the cure for the plague in a half woman, half cyborg which needs to take such information to Atlanta. Gibson Rickenbacker (JCVM) is a mercenary hire to escort Pearl (Cyborg) to Atlanta, but they are pursued by a menacing gang of pirates lead by Fender who want to have the secret cure to for himself. Unfortunately, Pearl is kidnapped by Fender. After recovering from the pirates attack, Gibson tracks down the pirates and meets Nady, a chubby girl whose family was killed by the plague. But Gibson motives are more than just the cure, he want revenge against Fender who before killed his entire family years ago.Cyborg, is pure 80s low-budget cheese and there's no denying that. The story is simplistic, but with potential. Unfortunately, the story was poorly executed and it was clear that the director was focus on the action, not the story. But even with the movie's plot holes and poor set design, it has its moments.The positives1. There's no doubt that the highlight is the action. JCVD delivers his trademark kicks and screams that made him so popular in the 80s. 2. The antagonists are quite intimidating. Unlike other movies were the villains are portrayed as punching bags, in Cyborg they present new challenges to the protagonist, especially the main villain, Fender, who looks like he spawned out for a video game. 3. The costumes the wardrobe reminded me of the Road Warrior movie, which is a good thingThe negatives1. The limited budget was clearly reflected on the set design. Most of the action takes place out in broad daylight in abandoned buildings that look too pretty neat and clean for an apocalyptic future. It is clear that they didn't take the time to at least make the future look a little bleak 2. Although some of the fights are quite enjoyable, others are just plain ridiculous. The fights where Nady is involved in, are so awkward and out of place that I lost count of how many times I rolled my eyes 3. The acting is below average. I know JCVM is not a great actor, but as an action star, his acting is forgivable. But the rest of the actors are just terrible. No wonder they didn't work in anything else after this. 4. The screenplay is the worst thing in this movie, looks like it was written by a 10 year old.If I keep going I never finish, but I have to admit that watching this retro-junk brought back some nostalgic memories. This is not a movie I would recommend if you haven't seen it, I would only recommend it to those who saw it back in the day just for the laughs. Of course, I have to admit it was a guilty pleasure watching it again. The only thing I was missing was the beers and the pizza.Interesting note Apparently this movie was going to be a sequel of Masters of the Universe and for some reason Cannon Films and Mattle canceled the project. Later Cannon decided to come with the idea for this film. Although this was supposed to be a sequel to He-Man, Cyborg looked more like the anime Fist of the North Star. "},{"Title":"Some people just don't know what they want","Date":"27 January 2009","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This is one of my favorite movies, I've watched it maybe a hundred times and still didn't get tired of it. One thing that really annoys me is that some people pretend that they know a lot about movies, but actually they don't have their opinion. Only because it's not that well known post-apocalyptic action film, made on low budged doesn't mean that it's bad. Of course, I'm not blaming those people that they didn't like this movie, but at least if they decided to write a comment on IMDb about it, they should properly explain why. Some people say that the acting was bad. I don't think so. I'm not saying that the acting was worth Oscar, but it really wasn't bad, if you think that acting was bad, then you don't know what the bad acting is. Jean-Claude Van Damme's acting was really good, especially when his character was angry, you could feel his rage. Vincent Klyn did such a great job, his character (Fender Tremolo) used to scare me so much that if I met Fender in real life, I would probably get a heart attack, I've seen Vinsent Klyn in other movies and I liked them so much, but this one still is the best. Other actors were good too, I ain't going to write about them all, but they really did a great job. Some people dare to criticize the direction of this film. The direction was perfect, Albert Pyun did a great job. There was a really creepy atmosphere in this film, all the action scenes looked great and all this thanks to Albert Pyun. My English is pretty bad, so it's hard for me to explain why I liked the direction so much, so I just say that Albert Pyun is one of my favorite directors and I'm so thankful to him for directing this movie. The action was great too. All the fighting scenes were fun to watch, though it was not typical for Jean-Claude Van Damme's films, because this time he often used knifes and swords, but it looked so realistic and effective on screen. All the action sequences were filmed so well that, this movie beets most of that time American martial arts movies. The story was great, some people compare this film (and many other post-apocalyptic films) with Mad Max, but let me remind you, that Mad Max wasn't the first post-apocalyptic film. Actually the story was quite original and creepy, like that scene where Jean-Claude Van Damme's character was crucified. What else did I liked was the costuming and decorations, which were much better than in most of the post-apocalyptic movies and of course the music which created that creepy atmosphere. "},{"Title":"One of my favorite JCVD movies, a classic.","Date":"3 March 2008","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This is a very cool movie great fight scenes (and chase), great villain (if he would shut up at times), and Jean-Claude Van Damme plays, as usual, a great main character. He has a knack for playing a realistic person, with extraordinary fighting skills. There is a certain down to earth attribute he has, yet he is still larger than life. Not many action stars can manage to be that way. He is very believable as the main character. Not sure if you can count what I say about the movie as a spoiler or not, but it's there just in case.The plot is pretty good, and has two sides of it. In the future, after a plague sweeps the land, the strong survive and often prey upon the weak. On one hand, Gibson (JCVD's character) wants nothing but revenge on Fender for what he did to his love, and her children. He is a man who had a rough life, settled down with someone he fell in love with (along with her children), and started living the good life. His dream was shattered by a gang member and his crew. He is now but a shadow of his former self, living and breathing only to track down and take revenge on Fender and his gang, referred to as Pirates. He saves the life of a woman, and discovers she is a Cyborg. She claims to have the cure for the plague, and needs to be escorted to a place where doctors reside. Gibson is not interested, he only wants revenge. He happens to run into a young woman who also wants to help with the cure, and becomes his companion. Without giving anything else away, here is the good, the bad, and the ugly about this movie. The Good *Fight scenes *Scenery (looks real in every scene.) *Story *Action *Plot *Hero, villain, and support. *Believable characters, motives, and the message the movie delivers *One of the best foot chase scenes ever seen in a movieThe Bad *The Dialog is VERY bad at times. *Special Effects were pretty primitive, like the cyborg scene was pretty bad *Though Fender (Played by Vincent Klyn) is a very well done bad guy for the most part, his dialog is pretty bad at times, probably the worst in the whole movie. He throws in random cuss words, and the way he structures sentences is not very realistic sometimes. He has a deep voice, and his opening narration (where he tells the story) was pretty good, and realistic. You will understand when you see it.The Ugly *The guttural noises Fender makes while he is fighting Gibson at the end was just stupid, and ruined a good fight scene. He even changes pitch with the stupid yelling and such as he is hitting and being hit. Probably the worst part of the movie overall, and at a terrible moment The final confrontation!Still, the movie moves at a good pace, some of the scenes are just amazing, and despite the few flaws (especially character dialog and Fender's vocals in the last scene) it still ranks up there as one of my favorite movies. You can relate to the main character, and his struggles to become human again after loosing everything he held dear. Also, I really like the sound track, and the end credit song is really awesome sounding. When it plays during the fight scenes it's really good. Definitely worth seeing, especially if you are a fan of post apocalyptic, Van Damm, or Sci-Fi movies, or just want a night with a great action film. Check this one out!Someone must have really liked guitars, because you will notice most characters have a guitar Brand name in their names. Fender, Marshall, Gibson, and more. Kind of cool I guess. "},{"Title":"Entertaining action flick","Date":"29 February 2008","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The Muscles from Brussels stars in this low budget sci-fi post apocalyptic movie that's actually pretty good, it's got great action and that's it. Unlike a few movies Cyborg doesn't have many slow moments where the characters can spend minutes talking about sometime, this movie only has a few scenes with dialogue and there pretty brief too. I was actually kind of surprised with the lack of dialogue used in this film, most scenes focused more on facial expressions than speaking. Jean-Claude Van Damme's character hardly says anything except for a few words here and there, instead he manly just beats people up and looks hard as nails when doing it. The film is a sci-fi movie but unlike most other films this doesn't show anything futuristic apart from the Cyborg effect and the projectile guns, the thing that makes this like a post apocalyptic film really is the characters wearing that torn looking clothes. The only shot of the destroyed city is at the beginning, but that doesn't really hurt the film that much because it makes the world look like it's became a wasteland. The budget of the film was probably that low they couldn't really afford destroyed cities. Cyborg is a great entertaining action movie that doesn't have many slow points, it's got fast paced action and cool fights. Jean-Claude Van Damme fans should definitely check this film out. Cyborg is a entertaining movie that should be seen. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Cyborg..one of the best Sci-Fi/ Martial Arts  movie ever made and one of Albert Pyun's finest achievements","Date":"9 July 2005","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This is one of the very first movies I have seen and It is one of my all time favorites. Awesome display of martial arts with some gritty violence involved as well, great cinematography, good atmosphere, special effects were good for its time and budget (only a $2 million dollar budget), awesome Post Apocalyptic setting, and the editing was played out smoothed, and good acting (for the setting) and characters.Albert Pyun in my opinion is one of the most underrated directors in film. Here are my reasons why, he was an apprentice to Akira Kursawa, and he is a Sergio Leone fan and you can see it his impact in Pyun's, and Pyun can do film-making in away that he doesn't need huge budgets and expensive actors. Pyun was also inspired by Sam Peckinpah and John Woo (during the 90s). That is why I feel that he is underrated and not just a hack or a rip off.Anyways the basic story of this great movie is that Gibson Rickenbacker (Jean-Claude Van Damme, one of the coolest martial artist to grace the silver screen besides Bruce Lee, Sonny Chiba, and so many other)a drifter and a former salinger (protector,samurai, escort service, and pirate fighter) must rescue a cyborg that has a cure for the plague in the Post Apocalyptic world and fight the pirates led by Fender Tremolo (Played by Vincent Klyn, former champion in surfing and one of the meanest villains to appear in a movie) who have the cyborg and Fender also killed the family that Gibson became involved with a couple years earlier which is shown in flashbacks. This movie has one of the most realistic and amazing fights scenes ever captured on film,they were just simply awesome. The acting was good but many critics and audience members complained that Van Damme doesn't say much and a lot of the villains were screaming and grunting like animals. That was the whole idea, Van Damme was suppose to play the whole silent man with no-name character and the villains were suppose to represent what the people have come down to... savages. Some visuals were just poetry like Kursawa and Leone would have presented and the camera angles were just right, the music was good for being 80s. Like I said in my earlier reviews rent the movie before buying it, do it for sure this movie,I saw part of this movie on TV when I was really young and I was amazed by the action and martial arts and this what got me hooked on the martial arts and then I saw it again because I saw a story being covered on Dateline about Van Damme accidentally hurting an actor during filming and then I rented it and then I received it for present just recently (one of best presents ever) and the rest is history. I just wish that the MPAA wouldn't had got a hold of it and I hope soon that a Director's Cut come soon.If you enjoy this movie I also recommend 'Steel Dawn' and the 'Mad Max' trilogy. "},{"Title":"Master's of the Universe 2?","Date":"7 June 2005","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Well that is interesting that this was supposed to be a sequel to that movie, though it most definitely does not play out like the famous cartoon at all. Looks like they had to have rewritten the script because this movie quite frankly seems to be a little dark to be a follow up to that movie. That and the fact it goes in a total different direction. What we get is a rather bad Jean Claude Van Dame movie with the same old stuff you would expect with his movies, and a few differing things. Such as the future setting, the bolt guns, and the plot which has some originality in it. Still though, in the end it boils down to a fight between Van Dame and the bad guy, in the rain. You can expect lots of kick boxing action, and the cyborg you ask? Almost a needless part of the plot as she is a rather weak cyborg with no fighting skills or anything that would even indicate she is any different than a human. The only special about her is that she has a cure to some disease. So you may want to check this little movie out as I do believe it was a theatrically released movie, just don't expect much. Another funny part about this movie is that they give the main villain a handicap...you are not supposed to give the villain a handicap that would make the good guy look like a wimp when he wins. "},{"Title":"How dare you say this movie sucks!!!!!","Date":"10 February 2003","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of the finest pieces of cinema ever made. I don't like movies, I'll admit that. But his movie is not just a film....it's art. ART. I remember my oldest brother shoed this movie to me when I was a wee one and I thought it was the coolest movie ever. Now, more than ten years later, I found it at a drug store for three dollars (what a steal!!!!) and I couldn't help but buy it. And man, this film has more depth than most movies praised today by the artistic community. As it always is with art, it is not so much what is said, but what is not said. And aside from that, the post-apocalyptic setting is dope. If you like post-apocalyptic films, then this is a must have. Indeed. And there are also boobs in it, and, as it has been said throughout time, boobz are cool. The directing is beautiful, the artistic backdrops of ruined cities are cool, and depicted misery is wunderbar.  Good villain, and really cool if you also like action/adventure/kung-fu movies. dig. bea "},{"Title":"Van Damme the ULTIMATE 80's / B-movie actor","Date":"11 April 2006","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" As an avid fan of JCVD, I was devastated after watching this film. It broke my trust in Van Damme as an actor (only to be renewed after watching Bloodsport-immediately after). This film was obviously before JCVD had any authority in the production of movies as HE would not put out such a poor movie. There were no cheesy comments, no little guys getting beaten up, no training montage, no solid soundtrack...all in all there was nothing. If you are a B movie advocate than you MUST watch this as a learning experience, if you are a Van Damme fan, then you MUST watch his for nothing else but to greater your JCVD knowledge. I don't even recall a token ass shot. "}{"Title":"campy cult B-action movie","Date":"13 April 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Pearl Prophet is trying to escape a band of pirates. She is a cyborg carrying valuable information to the doctors in Atlanta looking for a cure to the plague. Gibson Rickenbacker (Jean-Claude Van Damme) is a mercenary or a slinger who temporarily rescues her. Pearl is quickly captured by Fender's gang. Fender intends to go to Atlanta with Pearl as his hostage. The pirates kill for a boat. Gibson follows them on the road and is joined by Nady Simmons.It's a second rate action B-movie. The production, the acting and the script are all lower quality. There isn't much to recommend other than Van Damme in this post apocalyptic world. Its best hope is for great action but it's not filmed that well. It still has Van Damme kicking and possibly has some campy cult value. It doesn't have much more. "},{"Title":"very Eighties, not a typical Van Damme movie...","Date":"8 January 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The movie has something to do with the titular character and something to do with saving the earth/mankind.the plot doesn't really matter to be fair. what we all know is that the narrative is about Van Damme (called Gibson here) trying to get revenge on the people who tied him and his wife up in barbed wire and made his daughter hold it.With Roundhouse kicks.this involves several sequences filmed in what look like drains, fields, and industrial estates so they can all fight.and the bad guy has strange eyes, which automatically puts him to the front of the queue for oozing pure evil.Van Damme doesn't say much throughout the film, he just has a perplexed look about him throughout. but no matter, as they say, less is more.it does have a definite mad max feel to it, and it can be at times very apocalyptic and not very comfortable viewing.those who enjoyed Bloodsport, may be put off by this, because it's not your typical eighties action film. it's a bit left-field at times, and may become 'boring'(i.e, not enough fights in it) for some people.But it was good to see Van Damme do something different at such an early stage. "},{"Title":"Not one of Van Damme's best movies.","Date":"13 April 2015","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Gibson Rickenbacker is a lone warrior in post-Holocaust New York, who meets up with & saves a female cyborg named Pearl Prophet, from a marauding group of sadists, weirdo's, rapists & murderers, led by Fender Tromolo, a seemingly invincible & tough as nails warrior. Rickenbacker learns that Pearl has vital medical data that she needs to get to plague ravaged Atlanta & agrees to assist her on her journey. However despite his best efforts, she is captured by Fender & his gang, who want the cure for themselves so that they can rule the world. Rickenbacker than runs into a young woman looking to save herself from being another victim of the gang & who aims to help him in tracking down Fender & his gang, who have them targeted for death. As the film goes on, the audience is given brief flashbacks to Rickenbackers past, showing his meeting with a widower & her children & their meeting with Fender & his gang, who slaughters them mercilessly, which leads to Rickenbackers determination to track down & get revenge on Fender & his men. But as Rickenbacker soon learns, planning that is easy, pulling it off will be anything but&#x85;Released a few months before Van Damme made himself a household A list Hollywood name with KICKBOXER (I bet the then struggling CANNON FILMS wishes they would have waited to release the film after that movie, in order to capitalize on Van Damme's success!) CYBORG is a film that is all but forgotten by the vast majority go the movie going public, with the exception of course being Van Damme's most dedicated fan base & cult movie audiences. There are reasons for this, mainly because while CYBORG does have some interesting idea's in it's script, they are rather poorly handled thanks to the sluggish direction by B movie director Albert Pyun, poor characterization, & a plot so thin it's almost non existent. CYBORG is for all intents & purposes a really cheap movie, most of it is set in the usual cliché'd post apocalyptic future we usually see in movies like this, scavengers with dirty faces & adorned with dirty rags rummaging about a rusted, steel & metal strewn society, old damaged cars littering the landscape, roving gangs of psycho's&#x85;In fact the film is mainly a cheap sci-fi knock off of MAD MAX. The acting is not what you would call good & it's not helped much by even poorer characterization. The film mainly exists to show off various action set pieces, which seemingly occur every five minutes, as we view countless scenes of Van Damme taking on the gang members who murdered his lover & her children, whom he swore to protect & failed. While this might have been good news for Van Damme's biggest fans, the sad fact is, is that the action sequences are so badly mishandled, shot & choreographed & lacks any kind of real excitement that Van Damme's fans have come to expect from his movies. While there are a few decent moments, most of the film chugs along at a somewhat slow & unexciting pace. The villain Fender is the usual grinning villain we see in movies of this type, with a voice that makes him sound like he's gargling Liquid Drano & is no more fleshed out (character wise) & is basically interchangeable with the rest of his paper thin gang. That said, he still makes for a pretty tough & sadistic villain that is fun to watch. The title of the film is utterly meaningless, since there's only one cyborg & she's barely in the movie & despite the somewhat decent running time (90 minutes) the film feels long & drawn out for some reason. CYBORG also tends to revel in cheap B movie conventions such as gratuitous cheap nudity & while that does help make a bad B movie somewhat watchable, it doesn't add anything to CYBORG to make it worth the rental. The final fight scenes between Van Damme & Fender while decent for what it is, lacks the usual excitement & tension it should have, especially from an experienced fighter like Van Damme is...All in all, CYBORG is strictly for Van Damme's biggest fans. As for me, I will admit I didn't get much out of it myself, I liked the story (what little there was of it) but it was just to badly mishandled & even the action scenes were underwhelming. Had the right script writers & director got involved, this could have been something really special, as it is, it remains a watchable movie nothing more, nothing less. Worth a look if you can ever catch it on cable or satellite, but I wouldn't pay to see it, since Van Damme has done so many other movies that were way better than this one. Followed by two unrelated sequels, starting with CYBORG 2 GLASS SHADOW**1/2 stars "},{"Title":"And the award for the most annoying villain in film history goes to...","Date":"28 April 2014","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Wow. What a terrible, terrible film.This is quite a well known film so I was expecting it to be one of JCVD's better ones, an action classic. But sadly not. The story was almost absent, characters were (despite some out of place, and repetitive flashbacks) shallow, and the acting was some of the worst I've ever seen.All this I can expect and will normally forgive in a martial arts film, but they at least require some decent fight scenes. Instead there's some general punching and kicking, but no real sense of danger or intensity, and there are breaks in the fights when JCVD stops to look around as if he's forgotten that someone is attacking him.The only positive thing I can say is that I was rooting for the hero at least. I wanted the villain, Fender to be killed just to shut him up, especially in the last few minutes when he's constantly shouting RRAAARRGGHH!! for absolutely no reason.People kept referring to how strong and dangerous Fender was, but I saw no reason why. He's just a big man with sunglasses who likes to roar. "},{"Title":"Just because it's bad doesn't mean it can't be fun.","Date":"29 February 2004","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" There are different kinds of bad films. Some are bad because they're overrated. (Fargo, The Green Mile, American Beauty) Some are just plain bad. (Armageddon, Dumb and Dumberer, The Toy) And some are bad, but they can be really entertaining in spite of themselves. The film which I think was the worst ever made is also one of my favorites to watch. It's called R.O.T.O.R. and it was released the same year as Cyborg. And like Cyborg, R.O.T.O.R. is a cheap, terribly made film, but at least it makes me laugh.Cyborg is in fact a terrible movie. The budget must have run in the low thousands, the acting is atrocious, and the script almost non-existent. There seem to be more grunts than actual lines! Every now and then you can make out an entire sentence. I like them, says Van Damme referring to a couple of kids he is entrusted to watch over. Over all, this film was never destined to win any Oscars.It is, however, a fun film to watch every now and then. There are some truly awesome fight scenes, and even a hot chick or two. The film is tightly paced, and the conclusion will be certainly satisfying to anyone who can sit through the entire thing. If ever I need a sci/fi laugh, I know I can always count on my copy (VHS of course) of this film to pick me up. I'd rather watch this than any number of acclaimed film duds which have walked away with those little golden trophies they'll be handing out once again tonight in Hollywood. Cyborg is also the ONLY film of Jean Claude's that I have ever been able to sit through more than once. NOW THAT'S A SCARY THOUGHT!.Cyborg earns a solid 5 of 10 stars. (and a best supporting actor award to Vincent Klyn whose dreadlocks and dubbed futuristic voice round out one of the greatest villains in the history of cinema!) So sayeth the Hound. "},{"Title":"Dumb good movie","Date":"19 June 2006","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" You can't take a Jean Claude Van Damm movie serious. This movie is low budget as it gets and the acting is awful. But, you still gotta give Van Damm some credit when credit is do. He can make some cool fight scenes that make a action film fun to watch. This flick is all about the knife fights. Its a true blood and guts type of film. This is not a film to watch on a first date. This is a true man movie. My favorite part of the movie is when Van Damm is on the run against twenty or more guys and he ends up in a sewer taking care of his Business. Don't expect to find any big names in this movie, just blood and guts. If your an action fan its a must see. If you like movies that win acadamy awards, its probably not for you. Enough said. "},{"Title":"Low budget or not, I love this film!","Date":"7 June 2006","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" In order to rate a movie fairly, I think you need to be a fan of the genre of movie to begin with...what I mean is, if you are used to watching award-winning dramas, than this movie may not be for you.I saw this movie for the first time in early 1990, after a friend of mine who managed a video store recommended it. We ordered a couple of pizzas and had a few beers...(a typical setup for watching an action movie) It was awesome!!! I had to watch it a couple of times to catch a few details, but the more I watched it, the better it got.The actions sequences are good, I think Van Damme was at his best in this film. Less talk, more action. There are several scenes that were shot that I think the camera work was unbelievable. The music track on top of some of those scenes made for perfect action sequences.I am a big fan of older movies that have good action without high-budget computer graphics and other modern touches. I think this movie would not have been near as good if more money had gone into it.I still have a copy of this movie today, and I watch it regularly.It is still my favorite pizza and beer movie! Mr. North "},{"Title":"Van Damme - the cure of this world!","Date":"12 March 2004","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is CLASSIC Van Damme! it was made at the beginning of the Van Damme's era. (Although Van Damme belongs in the 80's) It has the Visors, the Mullets, and the Chessy lines (more Chessy than a X-Chessy Cheese Burger from CheeseLand)it also has a supreme bad-ass bad-guy who could contend with Stone Cold. + the 360 Roundhouse Kick with an extra special feature of a pop-out knife in the sole of his boots. You can imagine! Van Damme is also pasted in fake-tan which adds a little something for the girls. So if there any guys who a wondering what film to watch with their girl on a Romantic Night, theres no better choice ;) A NIGHT OF VAN DAMME Another bonus of this film is the price, I bought it for £5.99, DEAL!  "},{"Title":"A sci-fi film that doesn't attempt to engage its audience","Date":"18 June 2014","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Robotics is an interesting field. It has fascinated scientists for decades and now it is becoming more and more integrated into everyday life. The next step is bionic robotics where mechanical equipment is connected to the living tissue. In some cases, it does exist but in limited ways. Upon first seeing the title to this movie, the first impression is that the star, Jean-Claude Van Damme is a cyborg. However, this isn't the case, which is misleading. Credit should be given for this at least being one of the few science fiction films Van Damme has been in that takes place on earth somewhere in the future. Many of Van Damme's early films involve him just participating in tournaments. That being like his most popular, Bloodsport (1988) a year before.Back to cybernetics, the title is actually for what propels the plot. In a dystopic future, a lonely man named Gibson (Van Damme) happens to meet a female cyborg being chased by a notorious street gang. The cyborg holds what could be for a possible cure for a plague that inhabits this future. The leader of the street gang, Fender (Vincent Klyn) wants the cure for himself because he and his crew love death. Maybe chaos and being the headman but death? Mmm,..I don't know. As it turns out, Gibson has a history with Fender for him killing his wife, who which also happens to look like the cyborg he ran into. However, Gibson is only after Fender for revenge. He could care less about the cure, but someone else does. Meet Nady (Deborah Richter), a girl who also lost her loved one to Fender but is also more adamant about finding a cure for the plague.So now there's your set up. Two lonely people venture out to take back from them what Fender and his cronies took away. Unusually, for such a simple follow and grab plot, the movie drags - even for its 86 minute running time. There are numerous scenes that just set up Van Damme for another brawl against Fender's mates. Albert Pyun's direction lacks focus in its storytelling. It is a minor chase film but it never feels like there's a need for a chase. Much of the time the protagonists just nonchalantly walk to their destination. Even though this cyborg is the main plot device, no one seems to be concerned to be in a rush about it. The writing is another strange element. The main characters do have back-stories but have little to no development. For example, when the cyborg finally confronts Gibson, it says There's no point in rescuing me because the enemy is too strong. Then later on, she decides to help fight back with no explanation. Why the change in opinion?Gibson's history with Fender is also explained but told through flashbacks. There are even a number of flashback scenes that were repeated, which is a waste. I'm amazed that viewers will be able to understand as much as they can because the dialog peculiarly lacks anything intellectual either. Van Damme barely says anything and Klyn booms with one-word commands that are too simplistic for a gang leader. That and he and the rest of his numbskulls just yell a lot. The only character that does the most talking is Nady (which may be annoying to some) since she's one of those tag along characters. Thankfully, the writer Kitty Chalmers did not move very far after this movie. Well, since this is a Van Damme film, there's got to be some decent action; appallingly not. If you're the truest Van Damme fan, then maybe, but if you just want something to entertain, it's not all that special.In fact, the action scenes might bore at times. Throughout the running time, there were only two really unique kills. Other than Van Damme doing his usual and being all that he can be, it's a standard affair. Viewers may enjoy Nady (even though I mentioned earlier she may be annoying too). She too displays feminine power and fights with Gibson. Along with that are decent looking practical effects for the cyborg. That looked good. Philip Alan Waters' cinematography looked good around the beginning but as the film enters its final act, there aren't many shots to admire. Sadly, Kevin Bassinson's score isn't all too effective to the film. It attempts to involve its viewers with appropriate tunes, but the entire sound is synthetic and feels detached. It could've been at least average, but its writing prevents it from getting there.Jean-Claude Van Damme tries his best, but his and several other cast members' characters barely make an impact. The writing is sloppy, the direction is slow, the action is derivative and the music is unappealing. "},{"Title":"The slinger","Date":"1 June 2014","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This is probably the last true B film Jean Claude Van Damme made before he hit the big time for a brief period. However Albert Pyun is a true B movie director who has difficulty elevating any acting abilities of any of his actors.The positive aspects of this film is that the production values of this film is very high. The sets and the set dressing shows a lot of technical skill. For a post apocalypse set film there is a lot of outside location filming when these films are tend to be done on studio sets. There is also some good photography and a few decent action sequences.The downside is a poor plot, the bad guy is leaden with a horrid voice. We have JCVD doing some signature moves with his high kicks, even a splits scene but some woeful roundhouse kicks time after time very slowly, all people have to do is jump out of the way.The cyborg in question is a woman who is carrying information which she needs to take to Atlantic City as it holds a cure for a virus. This future did not have Wi-fi! Also this cyborg also did not have any kick ass moves programmed by a Series 800 Terminator robot.The film is only sporadically entertaining, lapses into silliness such as flashback sequences with Van Damme in a bad wig. "}{"Title":"Post-apocalyptic failure or masterpiece?","Date":"22 February 2014","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I remember seeing this movie in my youth, back when it was normal to make movies like this. Back then, the stars were named Stallone, Van Damme and Schwarzenegger, and no matter what they did, they couldn't go wrong. We all wanted to be like these. Today, luckily stars need acting skills and not just muscles and a bit of martial art skill. In fact, had this movie been made today, it might even have been a masterpiece to be compared to such post-apocalyptic movies as Children of Men and The Road.Lets take a brief look at the story, because there is a story hidden here somewhere.We are in The States, a world that has been destroyed completely by anarchy, genocide and starvation, a world where the plague has spread, keeping the population down to an absolute minimum. Somewhere, scientists have found a cure, though, a cure that everyone wants, for good or bad. A cyborg named Pearl is sent into the world to retrieve this cure, and at the beginning of the movie, we learn that she has found it and is taking it back to the doctors who created her. A cyborg, by the way, is a man (or woman) who have been so heavily implemented with cybernetics that they could no longer be recognized as being humans. Pearl is taken by Fender, a madman who also kicks off the movie as our narrator, explaining how he enjoys this new world. Gibs (played by Van Damme) briefly encounters the cyborg, but is really only interested in killing Fender.Those two have a dark past, a past that Gibs (or Gibson) relives throughout the movie in long flashbacks. He was once charged to get a small family to safety outside the city, but Fender interfered and tried to kill them. Now he even has one of the children, a girl named Haley, among his pirates.Gibson is followed by another girl, one named Nady. She is interested in the cure even though Gibs care little for this. They are unlikely travelling companions, but starts out on a big journey towards Atlanta, hoping to catch up with Fender and Pearl, to get revenge... and the cure. Along the way, they encounter many dangers, and finally catch up with the pirates.Cyborg is a low budget movie that tries too hard. Just take a look at the first scene, in New York. Less is more, and if only the director would have remembered that. If only I had had the option to remove the music, then I might actually have enjoyed the movie a little, but no, there is music in nearly all scenes, with only a few exceptions. Music that wants us to feel certain things, and that wants us to be prepared for what is coming. If only we were talking about a beautiful score by Hans Zimmer, but alas, we are not. So why do I ask if this is a failure, or a masterpiece? Well, what if the director deliberately used poor actors, to tell us something of the human race. What if he wanted us to think that all humans in this future were somehow cyborgs, part man, part machine? Unfortunately, this is not so, the director wants us to feel something for Gibs, Nady, Haley and Pearl, and therefore he makes them all human, a humanity that their acting skills cannot handle. Alas, this is not a masterpiece in any way, but a big failure, a movie with a tolerable plot, but that fails to deliver it in a believable way.My only star goes to the two beautiful paintings of New York and Atlanta that we see in the beginning and end of the movie. These are hauntingly beautiful, but unfortunately, the rest of the movie... is not. "},{"Title":"Meh...","Date":"21 November 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Cyborg is probably Jean Claud Van Damme's worst movie in his career. But I wouldn't say it's bad at the same time. There are a lot of factors that make the movie look bad. The biggest factor that ruins the movie is of course the horrible acting throughout the movie, which looks strictly scripted, unenthusiastic and not creative. Then, it is the goofy special fx and CGI, even though it's 1989 (I still think they could've done it better). The other thing that ruins it is the setting of the plot. Most of the movie takes place in boring, mediocre places. As for the music, from the musicians point of view, it is very repetitive and annoying. The only thing that is enjoyable in the movie, in my opinion, is the Jean Claud Van Damme's fight scenes (which are still poorly done considering Van Damme's martial arts skills). You might think it's weird, but I also enjoyed the actual cheesiness and goofiness of the movie (it kinda makes me laugh when I watch it). So if you like old movies with goofy CGI, weird acting, cruel, bloody scenes, and Jean Claud Van Damme you might wanna watch this movie after all... "},{"Title":"The Ultimate Warrior redux...","Date":"28 December 2008","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Director Robert Clouse (of ENTER THE DRAGON fame) gave us one of the earliest post-apocalyptic pics, THE ULTIMATE WARRIOR, and, while Yul Brynner did a commendable job as the title character, something was clearly lacking; his acting ability may have been legendary, but he sorely lacked the martial arts skills an ultimate warrior might need. (He'd been a circus performer or somesuch during his long and multifaceted career, and was said to have done his own stunts in WESTWORLD, but was clearly lacking that little something extra.) MAD MAX and THE ROAD WARRIOR both featured Mel Gibson in After-the-Bomb scenarios, but the action there was mostly between fast-moving machines. It wasn't until CYBORG that the missing essential was finally integrated into the whole a martial artist who truly knew his stuff. (That Van Damme would turn out to be a one-trick pony whose fight scenes were as unimaginative as anything to be found in most of Chuck Norris's films wasn't clear this early in the going.) It's the hand-to-hand combat that makes CYBORG worth at least a look (and Pyun is a director capable of flashes of brilliance, as I've noted elsewhere). To put it all in its proper perspective, consider this they're still cranking out these kind of movies (the most recent being the bloated and nearly unwatchable DOOMSDAY), but they're rarely featuring believable fighting men (or women, as in KNIGHTS) in leading roles (the current CYBORG SOLDIER, with prizefighter Rich Franklin in the title role, is an exception, but Franklin's the only good thing about it). "},{"Title":"a reflection to a cause?","Date":"16 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Cyborg is a mighty fruit. A bendy, sci-fi ram explosion that fires out kung-fu and action like a hopeless woman on a power road. Van Damme Chuck Norris' up the screen with karate much aplomb while punk robots strut to 80s wow music (breaking rules like the necks of the weak). In chains they gather, while we the observers sit and ponder. How can it be true? Is it wise? Meanwhile, women perish and robots die. Jean Claude is lost, often wandering unamused, with no idea what is happening while flashbacks provide us glimpses to his inner mode, a self of the past. The film's future setting provides parallels in the Van Damme character vortex. Maybe he too is a cyborg and doesn't know? Much like the main character in another sci-fi film made only a few years earlier; The Terminator. In conclusion I rest my case. Cyborg is a film that under-boats society by holding up a mirror to the wreckage of wandered trust while partying on the bones of old masterpieces. Lonesome and alone, like dust. "},{"Title":"should be classed as a brilliant entertainment movie","Date":"17 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The film is a lot like Mad max 2 and 3 but set in New york. Van Damme plays an action hero with a very cool name which is the one and only sabre hero wielding Gibson RICKENBACKER. come on you know what a Gibson and a Rickenbacker is? Gibson is not just another Van Damme character because he has a kind heart. But he suffers from depression because his girlfriend and her kid was killed by Fender and his bandits,then went on to kidnap his girlfriend's Doughter and Gibson tries to get her back. very touching my girlfriend says to this film. This is the only Van Damme film that was written by a woman actually and named her hero in her script after guitars. sadly Gibson is not in cyborg 2 and 3. "},{"Title":"Quick Reviews!!","Date":"4 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" What was oddly supposed to be a sequel to Dolph Lungren's Masters of the Universe, Cyborg bares no relation to He-Man, Skeletor and Co. and is a strange mix of sci-fi, martial arts, and chase movie. The film is set in a desolate wasteland of the future where bandits travel the land rampaging and killing. Scientists are close to finding a cure for the disease which has almost wiped out every human. Nady Simmons holds the key and she must get to the scientists at Atlanta if there is to be any hope. However, a maniacal group of warriors is after her. She enlists the help of a strong drifter who happens to be a martial arts expert- Gibson, and who has motives of his own for helping her. For some reason all the main characters are named after guitars or parts of guitars- the main bad guy Fender Tremelo seems to be invincible and chases Nady and Gibson everywhere. It is up to him to protect her from the evil forces and get her to Atlanta safely.This is cheap looking, has poor acting, and some average fight scenes. However, it is still enjoyable, funny in parts, and has an interesting look to it. The plot is simple but throws up a few 'surprises', and there are a few good fights and set pieces. Probably one for Van Damme fans only.6 out of 10 "},{"Title":"a DAMME Classic","Date":"26 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  In this great action-classic we can see a young Jean-Claude. He wants one thing in this movie and that's to kill the man who murdered his girlfriend and her child. The movie has two moments you'll never forget. The first is when Vincent Klyne(great role) removes his glasses for the first time. A real exciting moment. The second is when Van Damme kicks himself free from his crucification. 'Cyborg' is a great action-movie and a real classic. I highly recommend this movie to everyone who loves Van Damme but also to everyone who likes action-packed thrillers.  "},{"Title":"A PRETTY GOOD MOVIE!","Date":"19 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Cyborg***3 Stars-This will never be as memorable as THE TERMINATOR and UNIVERSAL SOLDIER series but it manages to be a fun film. Its got one of the best action stars Jean Claude Van Damme as the leading star plus a pretty cool villain. It also has a pretty awesome futuristic plot to it about a plague which wiped out almost the whole the world and the information about the cure is in a cyborg which has been captured by the villain and must be rescued by Van Damme and brought back to Atlanta. The movie also has a pretty awesome and brutal Van Damme fight at the end together with some cool Van Damme action scenes through out the rest of the movie. "},{"Title":"This movie ROCKS!","Date":"23 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is worse than bad, it's great!Van Damme fights his way through with a shotgun, machete and martial arts. The costumes are great, for instance; there's one guy walking about with a gas-mask, and another one with a fishnet over his head! Mr. Big 'n Bad wears sunglasses so dirty he cannot possibly see through them!If you like van Damme, martial arts and the retroactive future-theme, this is THE movie for you! "},{"Title":"Cyborg Rules","Date":"10 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Only a spoiled suburbanite with no understanding of history and societal evolution would dog this movie. Yeah, so the budget is low - all the better. And so its not even really about a cyborg, thats OK too. The scene where they are in the forest, and then the industrial fight, and of course the music - this stuff is classic! I was a fan at age 15 and am still at 29. The brooding, somewhat depressing scenes, flashbacks, and reality of how man can treat fellow man without accountability is a wake up call for all the people out there who think cheap oil and fast food is going to last forever. Truly, it represents a milestone in contemporary American pop art where only the most delusional of conceptions gain any ground. Watch this movie, even if it is only to see why spiritual warriors who are grounded with good technique and single minded determination are as important now as they will be in 50 years! "}{"Title":"Brilliant Trash","Date":"28 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Originally intended to be the sequel of MASTERS OF THE UNIVERSE, a box office bomb, CYBORG is the post-apocalyptic story of a Slinger (hired protector) named Gibson Rickenbacker (Jean-Claude Van Damme) who sets out for revenge against Fender Tremolo (Vincent Klyn), the hellish villain who murdered the woman he loved.If the names Gibson and Fender sound familiar, it's because all the characters are named after guitars or accessories like Roland Pick, Marshall Strat and Pearl Prophet.  Fender also possesses The Cyborg, an half woman/half machine who has the technology to wipe out the plague that infests the world.Director Albert Pyun (THE SWORD AND THE SORCERER) and screenwriter Kitty Chalmers (JOURNEY TO THE CENTER OF THE EARTH) borrowed plot elements and styles from legendary filmmakers like John Ford, Akira Kurosawa and Sergio Leone -- and their films -- STAGECOACH, THE SEARCHERS, THE HIDDEN FORTRESS, THE SEVEN SAMURAI, A FISTFUL OF DOLLARS and THE GOOD, THE BAD AND THE UGLY. The film is essentially a western -- punctuated with droves of kung fu and savaté -- and dressed in the melancholy garment of post-apocalypse à la THE ROAD WARRIOR and ESCAPE FROM NEW YORK -- only with 1/3 of each film's budget.  Don't watch the film expecting state-of-the-art special effects, great acting or complex storytelling.  This is a grade-B trashy sci-fi flick -- the 50s had 'em like MONSTER FROM GREEN HELL and THE GIANT GILA MONSTER -- and the 80s had just as many, such as CYBORG and COMMANDO.As far a trashy cinema goes, stands at the top of the heap.  Roger Ebert included CYBORG in his pretentious book `I Hated, Hated, Hated This Movie' -- all the more reason not to miss it!  "},{"Title":"A pretty good action movie -- but that's it","Date":"6 October 2000","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Do you remember when in the '80s it seems that every B-movie that came out had a post-apocalypse slant to it? Well, this is another one, which came out in the tail-end of the '80s, and is blessed to have snagged a good director in Albert Pyun and some guy name Van Damme.The movie's plot is essentially this post-apocalyptic world; plagues killing folks; maurauders; hero; scientist needs to get from point a to b with info on plague cure; maurauders do bad things; hero kicks their ass. You get the hint.Onto the movie itself. First, a few pointsThis is a decent action movie. I recommend watching it with the sound all the way down. There are some truly inspired action scenes, such as the one where Van Damme lures his pursuers into sewer pipes, then waits for one of the thugs while perched high in an alcove. Very inspired and well done. In fact, many of the action scenes in this movie is very well done.But, as usual, acting is not Van Damme's strong suit. Look, the guy just overacts, okay? It's what you'd expect from a muscle-bound man -- high over-compensation factor. He can't act, so he overacts. He's a short guy, so he over-pumps himself up. You get the drill. The rest of the cast aren't all that great, either. All b-actors who have since vanished off the face of the Earth.But, as mentioned before, for all its faults this movie does have its moments. And these can usually be found -- and ONLY found -- in the action scenes. The running fight between Van Damme and the bad guy's crew in the plains is pretty good stuff. You don't see a lot of running kung-fu fighting anymore on the screen, and this was very well done.So, terrible acting, terrible writing, but terrific direction and action scenes. Too bad Albert Pyun never made it out of the B-movie market. The man had style. Why did I say 'had?' Well, I've seen some of his movies lately, and it seems he's lost quite a bit of it. Oh well, i guess if you were stuck in the B-market underground for 20 years, you'd lose some of your spunk, too. "},{"Title":"A classic that I come back to from time to time...","Date":"26 April 2000","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" n a dark apocalyptic future comes the last chance to save humanity from a devastating plaque. A cyborg must journey far to get data that could be used to find a cure. On the trip back, her protector gets majorly beat down and killed by a group of Pirates headed up by the awesomely powerful Fender. Now one man stands in the way of Vendor and his pirates from getting back to Atlanta to get the cure and become virtual gods. Why I use this as an entrance to my review? Well, this movie has a lot of cool things going for it, and on a lot of levels did a very good job with using its props, costumes, and stages. The acting at times is lacking, but 90% of the time this is by passed by screaming bad guys, beefing up to do some major butt kicking, action scenes that do justice for the average action go getter, and certain places where it perfectly places you in the apocalypse that is the future. The Crucification for one, and the end battle scene were awesome. The main good guy, played by Van Damme, and the main bad guy, do a great job.Overall, its a good blend of action, a decent story for this kind of movie, and some powerful scenes make this a worthwhile venture to partake. It may not be for every movie watcher out there, but for those of us that look at its artistic value as well as other features in stride, it kicks a**! "},{"Title":"BIBLE - have you suffer so much in vane","Date":"17 February 2005","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" What can I say, those who have no idea what sufferance is, is better for them to look at FriendsWhen adrenaline is pumping, I think that it's possible to do what (Gibson Rickenbacker) aka VAN DAMME did when he was crucified.Excellent directed, excellent played and the soundtrack is so impressive.You know that sometimes life is harder then the most directors show us in the moviesNobody can escape from causality.The best movie of jean Claude van Damme. "},{"Title":"One of the worst films ever made, and I don't use the term worst film lightly","Date":"20 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Gibson Rickenbacker(Jean-Claude Van Damme) is a loner of a man whose life has been destroyed in the post-apocalyptic 21st Century America. Then two things happen. First he has an interaction with a robotic woman who seems to have a cure for some kind of plague disease that has wiped out most of humanity. Then he meets up with a street dweller woman who decides to aid him in his quest against a group of cannibalistic troublemakers who have taken the robot woman away.To start things off, a lot of the characters in this film seem to be named after guitars. Gibson Rickenbacker wanders around a wasteland of ugliness for a good portion of the film talking to ugly people about ugly things in an ugly way. The cinematography is... terrible. Everyone in the film looks sinfully grotesque, and that includes Van Damme, who I consider one of the most handsome action heroes of the early 90s. His character is awash with disgusting looking scars and he would probably look like a burn victim if the scars didn't look so fake. His face is coated with dust and dirt from start to finish, except in flashbacks where he looks like a stereotypical romantic hero on the cover of a romance novel.The whole film is full of recycled and unfinished landscapes from unfinished films and it's pretty obvious that the set-designer was pretty halfhearted in his attempt to put together a post-apocalyptic wasteland. The people who shot this film obviously did not have any idea how to shoot a film. The whole film looks like a bad home movie. The characters aren't framed well at all and you don't really ever get a good look at any of the characters at any time. The fight scenes are so badly edited that it becomes frustrating to watch. There's some especially bad jump cuts near the end of the film that really will grate on the nerves of anyone. All of the characters, at one point or another, end up shrieking in the face of the audience REALLY LOUD.It is also one of the most annoying films I've ever sat through, let alone listened to. There's a sequence where Van Damme is crucified for no particular reason, as well as a lot of other real disgusting acts of violence that come across as out of place for some reason and I'm left wondering, who was entertained by this? There's no cool moments of triumph, no good fight scenes or gore, no slick one-liners, no interesting villains, no interesting heroes, and no cool science fiction touches. It's ironic that the film's title is Cyborg, because the film doesn't exactly feature much in the way of electronic machinery. Essentially, this is basically a film in the style of Conan the Barbarian, only with some guns and a briefly appearing robot. Those are pretty much the only two things that make it in any way related to the science fiction genre. All of the dialogue in the film is pure exposition, and it's all pointless in every way. There is exactly zero chemistry between Van Damme and the opposite female lead, and their scenes together are often frightening and embarrassing.For a late-80s action film, you'd think it would be really tough to be lacking in entertainment value, in every possible way. Enter Cyborg, which is by far one of the least entertaining films I've ever watched. Please keep in mind that I love the films of Jean-Claude Van Damme and I actually really have liked a lot of his direct-to-video work. This is definitely the worst film in his filmography. Please do not watch this film.I urge you not to waste your time with this. I can pretty much completely guarantee you that you will not like this film. The film is 86 minutes long, but it is so horrible and utterly unwatchable at times that I can promise that it will feel at least an hour longer. By the time Van Damme leaves the village at the start of the film, before there are any fight scenes that last longer than thirty seconds, there is only an hour left of the film. It is the longest hour I have ever experienced with any film. It is so long that I struggled really hard to not fast-forward. This is one of the worst films I have ever seen. "},{"Title":"Great!!!","Date":"12 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This has to be Van Dammes best movie.Ive watched it over 10 times literally i still cant get enough of it.Non stop action and good scenes, this ranks up to one of the best movies ive seen and probably will ever see. Buy this movie if your a Van Damme fanatic if you want more Van Damme i suggest you buy double impact that was just about as good as this one.I haven't seen this movie in 3 years but i still remember it and i even placed an order for it just a few days back since the store was sold out of them for 3 weeks! "},{"Title":"This movie is okay.","Date":"28 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Cyborg could of been a great classic, if only they would of put more time into it.  The story is so cool (if you like end of the world type of movies).  It reminded me of Mad Max a little, but just a tad better.  This movie starts off great, but when you get to the end, you're like, That's it!  It's over.  This movie should of been longer, or maybe turned into a series like; Star Wars. "},{"Title":"Good party movie","Date":"19 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this in theatrical release at a late, Friday afternoon showing.  The audience was so 'interactive' with the movie that the rowdiest were thrown out.  Too bad, the hecklers' comments made this one of the most enjoyable movie-watching experiences I've had.Some humorous items to watch for1.  Pan-shot of Van Damme sitting in front of a campfire.  The original shot was close-in then pan-out.  When put into the movie, it was edited in reverse so the smoke goes back into the fire as the shot pans down into his face.2.  You can always tell when the antagonist is angry - he removes his shades (which, BTW, he wears in the dark)3.  Chase scene at the abandoned factory near the beginning of the movie Van Damme and the girl drop down into the manhole/sewer and are pursued by the 'native american' bad guy.  The bad guy is running too fast and has trouble stopping himself before going down the manhole.  Should've been a blooper since the guy's spastic efforts discredit him as a toughie.4.  Of course, every person in a post-apocalyptic world will have perfectly coiffed hair!As my one-line summary states, a good party movie or one for MST3K. "},{"Title":"Apocalyptic movie of the highest quality","Date":"11 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The poor rating of this flick makes me object violently. It has got a story, it has got adrenaline, it has got cruel and impressive fist fighting, it has got some crazy apocalyptic atmosphere, and some insane costumes (those guys in gas-masks are bizarre to say the least). Camera-work rocks too (slow motion at its best, not worse than in Matrix). It must be on the same level as The Terminator, Mad Max and Escape from New York. They do not make such films any more. Besides, the main villain is an evil freak to the core (as black as his deeds).You may object saying that the characters are few, the special effects are crappy, and the events are moronic. Maybe. But in my eyes here it all works. This film works on all levels. It is as captivating as the best action sci-fi can be. And it is weird.There is definitely something very special in this movie for everyone (you even have a wonderful peaceful flashback in the middle of the movie if you are on a soft side).10 out of 10, excellent movie. Thank you for attention. "},{"Title":"Bad trash...and I like it!","Date":"26 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Cyborg is a bad movie. No, really...it's really bad. There's absolutely NO production value at all. Nobody really ACTED in it. It pulls off all the stops on action/sci-fi/B-movie cliches. And y'know what? For all the trash that this movie is...it's so bad it's good. It's one of the best worst movies ever because it revels in being as bad as it is. It makes no aspirations to be more than what it is. It's very honestly a crappy movie, and it never pretends to be anything more. For that, it's actually pretty good. Turn off your brain, watch and enjoy. "}{"Title":"A great movie","Date":"22 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is not a rip off from Mad Max, or any other movies of that type. Cyborg is in the Lone Gunman type of movies, which as far as I'm concerned, there are no bad ones. This movies is absoluetly great. THe acting is SUPERB, and the plot is perfect, not to mention the fighting and other action sequences. 10/ 10. "},{"Title":"Cyborg comment and note about the title!","Date":"3 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is terribly good! Jean-Claude Van Damme stars in this action packed film!The fight scenes are great and Van Damme's acting was good. Vincent Klyn was incredible!His acting made his character an unbelievable villain! His voice or not it is one neat and scary voice! The prolog/intro was good with Fender talking and seeing the bad guys  walking was amazing! The film keeps along with the story well and the music is really good.The film is only an hour and twenty-six minute and it rolls by quick which I want more of Cyborg! I really like Cyborg as it is a fun and exciting film to watch. If you haven't seen Cyborg and like Van Damme and super violence and excitement then Cyborg is the movie your looking for!Movie Nuttball's NoteThis is old news but just in case you don't know it I'll tell you! To make a long story short the reason why Cyborg is called Masters of the Universe II The Cyborg is because of the original script of MOTU 2 wasn't good to them and they turned it around and it became Cyborg! Honestly thought I love the MOTU movie and I would have enjoyed a real sequel but this movie is great as well! "},{"Title":"Van Damme`s worst movie","Date":"31 July 2000","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Cyborg is definetely Van Damme`s worst movie.  There isn`t any action in there, the sci-fi-setting stinks, the acting is below Van Damme`s usual standard, the direction sucks and I could go on for days about how bad this movie really is.  It is a shame really, because Van Damme has made so many really good actionfilms. 1/10 "},{"Title":"At least this film is honest","Date":"22 February 2002","Score":"6 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Some other imdb user said that this movie never aspires to be anything more than the sum of its parts. What is your point? Should all films have some kind of message to deliver? Can we not have films that we watch to just escape for an hour and a half?Lets get this straight, Cyborg never pretends to be anything more than it is, and for that reason it should be applauded. Lets have more like this. "},{"Title":"Decent","Date":"17 November 2004","Score":"10 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" You could be forgiven for avoid Cyborg completely. After all, what does it have going for it? Originally intended to be a sequel to Dolph Lundgren's 'Masters of the Universe', and directed by Albert Pyun, starring Jean Claude Van Damme and a few other people lacking in the ability to speak English, it isn't exactly going to appeal to a mainstream audience.That being said, I like Cyborg. Sure, it may be cheap, lacking in any real acting, lacking in lines for Van Damme, features action scenes that are decent at best, b-grade overall, and directed by Albert Pyun, but that doesn't stop it from being enjoyable. How can you not like a movie in which all the main characters are named after guitars? I'm sure 'Cyborg' would receive Guitar Wolf's rokku ando rooruu seal of approval (see 'Wild Zero').Speaking of action, the movie is little more than Gibson Rickenbacker (a gunslinger played by Van Damme), beating up, and being beaten up, by German pirates of 21st century North America (excluding Atlanta for some reason). Lots of random fights, and though they aren't all that special, who needs quality when you have lots of random fights? My only real gripe with this movie is that no character lived up to their name - not one international guitar hero or rock star among them. Oh well.5/10 "},{"Title":"High octane action from the future!","Date":"18 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Cyborg is one of Van Damme early films, which is to say that it is one of his better films. This film is personally one of my favourite JCVD films, along with Bloodsport, Timecop and Hard Target. JCVD is Gibson, a guide in an apocalyptic future where society has broken down and its strictly the survival of the fittest. Gibson is hired to guide Pearl Prophet to the capital where she can give the scientists there the cure for the plague that ravages the world. But it appears that Gibson might have some trouble getting Pearl there but surviving the trip as well. Fender is the leader of a group of pirates and they have other plans for the cure. Fender knows that whoever controls the cure will be the most powerful man on earth, and who doesn't relish the thought of god-like power. This all leads to an action packed showdown between Fender and Gibson, and only one can survive. Van Damme not only delivers one of his best performances ever he strays from his movie mold with this one. Unlike almost all of Van Damme's other early films this one is not based on a tournament of some type where Van Damme has to overcome all odds to beat the ultimate fighter. Its sci-fi storyline is easily the best and most original of Van Damme's early films and maybe the best JCVD story period. Originally the film was entitled Masters of the Universe II this film was to be the sequal to the 1987 Dolph Lundgren action flick. "},{"Title":"High grade action","Date":"19 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Ok, so there is a weak plot, poorly drawn characters and an unoriginal post-apocalpytic setting. So what? You expected something great from a Van Damme film? Face it, Van Damme is where you go when you want fight scenes. This film has them in spades. Van Damme is at his kickboxing best doing his trademark spin kick, a set of splits in a doorway that is hard to believe and other nasty brawls. The actions sequences are good to great and the film can be mocked easily during the non-fight moments so you don't have to watch Van Damme try to conjure up emotions. . "},{"Title":"Nice film, but a sucky ending...","Date":"12 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" When I first saw Cyborg I was very impressed with what this film had to offer considering its low budget (and especially in comparison to its sequel Cyborg 3). The film's soundtrack had a weird vibe to it and the action-scenes were for the most part very cool. The sub-plot was also a nice touch and the fact that they actually attempted to give the Gibs some dept.Unfortunately, this very promising B-picture suffers from one of the most indifferent and shoddy endings I have ever seen. After a fairly formidable crucifixion the ending does not hold up and we're never quite told what's the deal with Fender. "},{"Title":"Clearly not good, but certainly has interesting elements and moments","Date":"10 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I have to say, that i used to love this movie when i was young. Well i'm still young (18), but i just know that this movie isn't good. But let's concentrate on the good things. First of all, the music is great, it creates some kind of tension. Especially the parts with Fender(eg. where he takes of his glasses). I also believe that the crucification is amazing. Even though this movie is bad, that scene is just amazing. The music, the tension, the thought that it's up to Haily to decide(well she can't really decide)whether her mom, brother and Jc are gonna live.another scene i like is the part in the sewer where Jc does his trademark splits over the bad guy and stabs him to death. Again, the music and the tension(also the dark tone and environment) are amazing. Having said that, the movie just got too many weak points. Weak acting and (though i believe Jc's face expressions are very convincing, i really believe it's due to his english that his acting is not good)lack of plot are main responsible for this. If only the makers had put more emphasis on the storyline(the fact that this movie's runtime is barely 90min, says enough), then i really would have given this move a chance. beside the action, i think this movie really could have been interesting. The story really sounds interesting and had much potential, but the makers didn't give it enough attention and therefor it wasn't well executed.  "},{"Title":"A highly stylized, fetishistic adventure with visual flair to spare...a minor masterpiece of matinee exploitation cinema.","Date":"17 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Albert Pyun does exploitation right with this atmospheric, violent, action-filled, sci-fi adventure.  The Van Damme factor has been applied as it should be, shirtless and silent.  It's all hard-edged toughness, fast-moving and suitably intense, populated with aptly designed characters and set-pieces.  A comic-book movie in the best sense of the term.  "}{"Title":"Nothing special, kind of cool, some cool fights","Date":"6 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The story is nothing terribly great, it's rather simple, but interesting at times.  The acting is ok, but nothing great.  Jean-Claude Van Damme does pretty well, and plays pretty much the same character he plays in most of his movies, so there's nothing surprising there.  The only other cast member that I'd heard of was Ralph Moeller (from Gladiator) and he wasn't in the movie enough to really talk about.  I did recognize Vincent Klyn from Point Break (he played Warchild), and he did an ok job, sometimes a bit over-the-top.There are a few special effects in the film and some of them are really cool, others are quite disturbing.  I'm sure at the time the movie was made, they were pretty good, but they are nothing compared to what they can does these days.If you're a fan of Jean-Claude Van Damme, then you'll probably like the film.  But if you're looking for a great story and great acting, then you may want to skip this one.  If you do see the film, I hope you enjoy it.  Thanks for reading,-Chris "},{"Title":"Good, but predictable.","Date":"5 November 2001","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I watched this movie over the weekend and I have this to say It was a good movie, but a little tacky at times. Jean Claude Van-Damme is a good actor who has had the bads luck of being in so many movies that never really earned acclaim. Cyborg is a very visual depiction of a future society, following in the wake of a devastating plague. The choreography and stunt work was fine, but a lot of the hits and kicks seemed too expected- a lot of times Gibson seems to wait for Fender's punches. I also liked a lot of symbolism - the contrasts between Fender's pirates (evil, death) and the lush greenery of lots of the scenery (life, goodness). As well, Fender's bright blue eyes are a startling juxtaposition to his personality. His behaviour perfectly defines a pirate, but his eyes seem as though they belong in someone else, more decent and friendly. "},{"Title":"A great movie","Date":"22 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  JCVD's 1st movie with graphic violence. He does some pretty awesome moves here 2. He is doing the splitz on the wall in a sewer & then impales a bad guy with his big sword. The main villain with his weird & bizarre eyes was creepy. Its got that cool futuristic look 2 it. A MUST SEE  "},{"Title":"A great classic","Date":"30 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This was one of the first sci-fi/action movies I´ve seen that really reach a darkness level this intense. A spectacularly strong scene is when Vincent Klyn removes his sunglasses for the first time, not to mention the romantic scene when Van Damme kicks himself free from the crucification.A true action classic recommended for everyone. "}]