[{"Title":"Best teen comedy ever.","Date":"5 April 2005","Score":"97 out of 120 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Daniel Waters wrote one of the best satires ever in Heathers, a dark comedy that ranks right up there with Dr. Strangelove and Network. Certainly it's the best teen comedy ever made. Why? Because in spite of its highly stylized depiction of teenagers, it caught the truest essence of what high school is actually like in America. Not only that, it trashed the entire genre and-- in a feat of sheer genius-- even the *reaction* to the genre by outside observers (namely parents). Terry Southern could have done no better.Westerburg high school self-destructed not *because* of society but because Westerburg High School *was* society was restated, to near-universal praise, by Michael Moore in Bowling For Columbine, but Waters said it before him, said it better, and frankly he's got a lot more credibility (Hudson Hawk notwithstanding). The cast is brilliant, even if, strangely, some of them don't seem to get what the whole movie was about. You half expect that most of the cast and crew, like the kids who sign a petition to bring Big Fun to the school for a gig, made a movie they didn't know they were making. But the key figures nailed it-- Ryder and Slater were never better.Heathers is one of the best films of the Eighties-- put the lid on the Eighties, as it were. It has suffered criminal neglect, probably because it may have required an indie auteur to really knock the cinematic elements out of the park. The direction is competent but unspectacular. Still, the star is the writing, and Waters deserved an Oscar for this script. Unsentimental, vicious, and above all hilariously funny, he drove a stake through the heart of those oh-so-precious John Hughes films and, at the same time, set the stage for Kevin Williamson and all the rest. He did it with a perfect ear for dialogue combined with a Swiftian vision of social structures, and did it all as an argument *against* ironic detachment, for which this film and its messages needs to be revisited now more than ever. Simply incredible. "},{"Title":"The definition of satire on film","Date":"15 April 2004","Score":"69 out of 81 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I first saw Heathers when it was first released in 1989 and to this day I remember most of the lines and scenes which cause me to laugh at all the wrong times.I went to see the film because the hot actor of the time was Winona Ryder and I was in love with her after seeing her in Lucas and Beetlejuice and 1969. In each movie she played a version of a Goth chick - very smart, very pretty, but with a monotone delivery and moody attitude.I also wanted to catch Christian Slater. I remembered him from his role as Binx in The Legend of Billie Jean and in the film Tucker The Man and His DreamHeathers is great satire of teen life back in the 1980's. It picks apart every teen angst and cliche and spins it in a goofy plot of rebellion and revenge gone amuck.Ryder, playing Veronica, is on the fringe of the popular clic run by 3 girls names Heather. Each Heather is abusive, dumb, and pretty. For any teen who wanted to fit in the popular crowd but couldn't make it completely will identify with Veronica.She meets a new student, J.D., played by Slater who is the complete opposite of the popular crowd. He wants nothing to do with them or the school. Veronica finds this interesting and soon she falls under the expert manipulation of J.D. Due to what starts as an accidental death, the two start a chain of events that looks like a teen suicide epidemic that was the common fear of adults back then.Slater steals the movie from Ryder with his sly Jack Nicholson line delivery and James Dean attitude. Ryder is good but she can't stop Slater from chewing up the scenes.The adults in the movie are classic clueless parental units that teen movies seem to always need. The best one is the guidance counselor that says Whether or not a teenager decides to kill themselves is the biggest decision of their life. Watching this movie I kept saying to myself They just did not do that? or They just did not say that? I never laughed so hard in my life at that time.A special treat was the Heather played by Shannen Doherty. Besides Ryder and Slater, she was the only other actor that I knew (except for Patrick Labyorteaux, who played the jock Ram who can now be seen on JAG as Ens. Roberts). Before Heathers, Shannen had played good girl roles and had just ended a series called Our House where she wanted to become a pilot. Her role became more interesting after finding out she turned out like her Heather character in real life.The only thing that bothers me about this film today is that it could never be made today. The suicide epidemics (that still happen from time to time) has been replaced by killing one's classmates at school. I just don't think the studios would have the guts to film a satire like Heathers today.As a side note I read some of the previous comments from users who have only seen this movie on TV. All I can say is see the uncut version either on a movie channel or rent the DVD. The language and satire will only work in its uncensored format. "},{"Title":"so VERY!!!","Date":"10 December 2004","Score":"75 out of 109 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Winona Ryder, back when she only used to steal movie scenes, plays Veronica Sawyer, a girl sick of being a lackey to the Heathers which is the cool girls clique. She meets J.D (Christian Slater), a deeply troubled young man who's quick to resort to violence (So Christian was PERFECT for the part). This film is what every dark comedy should seek to be. Biting, vicious, mean, and utterly hilarious. The 80's had so many good movies and this stands among the best. The funny thing is that if they stuck to their guns and kept the original ending as scripted it would've been even better, but that's just a minor nitpick. So the next time a teeny-bopper starts fawning over how great and true to life Mean Girls was, give them a copy of this and show them a REAL movie.Anchor Bay S.E. DVD Extras Audio commentary with director Michael Lehmann, producer Denise Di Novi and writer Daniel Waters ; Swatch Dogs and Diet Coke Heads documentary (30mins); Screenplay excerpt original ending; Talent biogs; and Theatrical Trailer My Grade A+ "},{"Title":"Lick it up viewer; Lick. It. Up.","Date":"15 May 2006","Score":"47 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Ahhh... the late 80's. When shoulder pads were still in fashion, Winona Ryder hadn't yet been arrested for shoplifting and teen movies didn't solely feature recycled actors.When teen genius Veronica Sawyer (Ryder) gets bored with the shallow and cliquey lifestyle of the three Heathers; her new-found high school chums, she wishes them dead. She never expects it to happen, but this all changes when she meets Jason 'JD' Dean (Christian Slater), a cool, darkly-dressed rebel who moves around the US randomly with his distant tycoon father.From the iconic opening sequence to the explosive ending, every scene is darkly comic and dripping with irony. It almost looks over-rehearsed as nearly every actor's performance is flawless. Ryder in particular shines with her angst-ridden 'Dear Diary' entries, and Slater I don't believe has ever again encapsulated such a perfect role in his career to date.The queen Heather (Kim Walker) really deserved more screen-time. She perfectly represents the bitchy, sneering, self-obsessed High School teen. She even manages to convey vulnerability after uttering the immortal line 'Well f/ck me gently with a chainsaw.' Shannen Doherty starts off with what seems a minor part which gradually builds and lets her have fun with the role. The only disappointing Heather is Lisanne Falk, with whom we don't really connect or care about. It's hard to find anything to pick on with this movie, but it could have used some smoother editing. The scenes cut to actors in different lighting and obvious passages of time to deliver major lines, and correct me if I'm wrong but I don't think corpses should breathe.The humour is dark and the plot unbelievable at times, but this only adds to the surreal atmosphere and unforgettable lines. A sexy cast, a great script and director Michael Lehmann's vision makes this a must-see film and a worthy addition to any DVD collection. If you haven't yet witnessed the brilliance of Heathers, rectify this now. "},{"Title":"Wicked Funny","Date":"15 September 2003","Score":"50 out of 62 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Unlike many of the teen movies that have enjoyed enduring appeal, Heathers survives not due to nostalgia, but because of its intelligence and searing, midnight-black wit.Winona Ryder is Veronica, the disillusioned popular girl who falls in with a dangerous loner - Christian Slater as the malefic J.D. The two attempt to right their high school's social wrongs and end up on a killing spree.Released on the cusp of the 1980s, the film feels strikingly prescient and more disturbing than ever today. "},{"Title":"A fantasy that almost every 'unpopular' kid has had at one time...","Date":"11 November 2003","Score":"34 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  With Heathers, director Lehmann has done more than create a movie. He has successfully created an escape for any student not deemed popular by their local school scene. Although the clothes and hair can be linked to a certain era in history, the truths explored within 'Heathers' are universal, and transcend time. A film that treats high school students as capable, intelligent beings who recognize a copy of 'The Bell Jar' lying on the ground in the same breath it treats them as moronic jocks who think with their . well not their brains, is destined for controversy. If controversy was what Lehmann and writer Daniel Waters were looking for, they found it in spades. Not only was it unconventional, showing the demise of the 'popular' kids, but it dealt with teen suicide in a comical way. Not something America was ready for at the time of release, causing many problems initially with simply getting the film shown in theaters. Luckily it has found its niche market now, and is now starting to be recognized as the powerful film that it is. Almost any store rents this movie, so there's no excuse for you to not watch it. Next time you're at the store pick this one off the shelf and give it a spin, even if you don't understand it fully you will be treated to a fantasy that almost every 'unpopular' kid has had at one time. Rating 33/40 "},{"Title":"darkly funny","Date":"25 April 2003","Score":"31 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  from the moment it begins with the three heathers playing croquet, you know that you will be in for an odd, cruel, and un-john hughes alike teen film. It's black as coal, and as sour as lemons. Although Christian Slater is jack nicholson with a facelift, it's still the most memorable performance in the movie. And winona ryder is also appealing as the lost and complex veronica. Some fantastically witty lines, humurously sick set pieces, and some truly great/cack 80's music make this a classic, more of a classic cult movie.  "},{"Title":"Brilliant Film","Date":"22 December 2003","Score":"35 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  There is hardly a doubt in my mind that Heathers is one of the best films of the 1980s, if not included in a list that names all the essential films of movidedom. The movie is about Veronica Sawyer (Winona Ryder) who is fed up with her role and association with the cruelest and most popular clique in Remington High. The three other members (appropriatley named Heather and identified by their last names 'Duke', hobbies 'Cheerleader', and position '#1') are the dominant members of the school and take pride and joy in other's suffering. It isn't until Veronica meets a loner named Jason Dean (Christian Slater) that she finally has an outlet to vent her frustration about her life. Eventually JD and Veronica murder the leader of the clique and are forced to cover it up with a suicide. This leads to a horrificly dark satire of the teenage suicide epidemic of the eighties. After JD's rage continues Veronica must ask herself the question Is she on the way to the prom or to hell? The movie is brilliant acted by Ryder, but the show is stolen by Slater. His Nicholson-esque performance is eerie and he gets my vote as one of the top villains of all time. The supporting roles are done well enough with the standouts being Dean's creepy father and Paula Fleming, the guidance counselour. Lehman directs the movie with a brilliant mix of colors that range from lighter at the beginning of the movie to darker at the end, as the tone changes. Although both Lehman and Waters would never match their previous success (they were actually quite bad after Heathers) this film proves that they did at one time have something to offer the world of cinema. While the story may seem like an ordinary black comedy and satire of the 1980s teen films it has a very simple message underneath Be your own person. We have always been told in our lives to not do something just because it's cool. So many teens reflect that, but there is also the other side of the coin don't do something just because it's uncool which Veronica tries with JD. So many teens conform to unconformity which doesn't make them individuals at all, this was really the first film to satire that other side of the argument. Be your own person does not mean rebel against the popular people or to join them, it just means be yourself and I think by the end of the film the viewer shares with Veronica's journey. "},{"Title":"I'll admit it, I was a Veronica!","Date":"17 May 2003","Score":"29 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  When this film came out, I didn't see it in the theater. I caught it in the video store. I walked into the video store and the funeral for the Football player was running. I stopped, watched, and laughed my head off. I immediately rented Heathers and fell in love with it.Heathers is the realization of what almost every kid in high school was exposed to at one time or another. You were either a Heather or a Veronica or the spooky/mysterious new kid, or the jock, or the undesirable, or the cheerleader, or the kid who wanted in as a Heather or..or..or. The only thing is that Heathers goes on to show you what happens if...If you could get away with some of the things you were thinking of at the time! The actions of the parents and teachers are to die for. When you're young you think you can figure out just about anything, or figure out what the adults are thinking and try to get around it. Heathers gets into it all, very darkly, and carries it off well. Although I thought the ending was a bit too...tidy.If you're in High School, (over 17 of course) or in College looking back at High School, you'll identify with this film. If you're an adult, this may remind you of those days, but this is a nicely done dark humored film. Go rent it today, see it uncut. "},{"Title":"Extreme Social Politics In High School","Date":"16 July 2008","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Ah, the 80s! It was quite a different time. Loud fashion, ecstatic energy. I love most of the 80's teen films, more than the 90's and 2000's films. There was a certain closeness between the characters and they were portrayed as real humans rather than just horny caricatures. Michael Lehmann's 'Heathers' is one of the best dark comedy teen satires. Lehmann briefly tackles many themes that are of concern to teenagers such as bulimia, popularity, bullying to self-esteem and suicide. This was the time when Christian Slater was a promising actor, when Winona Ryder wasn't arrested for shoplifting and when Shannen Doherty wasn't known yet for her unprofessionalism. the actors themselves were teenagers at the time and their performances come across as very natural. Slater perhaps gives his best performance while the adorable Ryder has gone from strength to strength until she almost vanishes into oblivion. Doherty is very cute and who knows what she could have achieved had she been more professional and not gone into soaps. I wonder whether the very young cast understood what kind of film they were doing or did they think of it as acting in a teen-flick? Waters is writing is amazing and even though a lot of the film is exaggerated, it brilliantly mirrors teen-life in the 80's (which isn't that different today either) and is brutally honest but at the same time funny. The dialogues and one liners are extremely comical and at the same time wonderfully simple. There's also a lot of clever symbolism. For example, Slater's Jason Dean says People will look at the ashes of Westerburg and say, Now there's a school that self-destructed, not because society didn't care, but because the school was society. This one line does mark a crucial truth about teenagers because for most teenagers, high-school IS society. Forget these 'American Pies', 'Mean Girls', 'One Tree Hills' etc. None of these wannabe teen flicks will ever be able to match up to the excellence of 'Heathers'. This is one of (if not THE) the best teen films. "}{"Title":"The popular kids get whats coming to them.","Date":"1 November 2004","Score":"25 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Heathers is these 3 popular girls in highschool. They rule the school. Veronica joined the clique after being promised the world. Veronica hates her friends. They are cruel and self absorbed. But one day she meets a hot rebel named Jason Dean and she is smitten. He also hates the Heathers too, and of course thats a big plus.One night after being ridiculed at a college party veronica tells Heather #1 off. Heather explains to Veronica that she is nothing and soon the whole school will know that as well. Veronica is about to go back to kissing Heather's ass until J.D. crawls through her window and convinces her that instead she can get revenge. Little does Veronica know that J.D. isn't really playing with a full deck of cards, and his idea of revenge is more violent than hers. The best part about the movie is how stupid everyone in their town is. The whole movie is a satire of Highschool, and what its like. How parents can be so cold, how the kids can be so cruel, and the way that life can suck. "},{"Title":"Dark and Strange","Date":"13 March 2011","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I'm been on this Wionna Ryder streak, but it was all unintentional. Mermaids, this among various other things. I also happen to like Christian Slater. This movie is a satire where teen suicide is funny, as in they go around killing all the jerk offs of the school. Then it gets super crazy. Hey, I'm all about crazy, unique, and weird but the execution wasn't there. Well, it was there several times, but it just wasn't working for me.The dark just got boring and strange beyond anything else. The first 20 minutes of the movie was wonderful but then it went down the hill of disappointment. And that's the greatest let down of all high expectation build and then ripped from your hands. Disappointment has no bounds, no limitations on the effects of life.I guess I was just not in the mood for a dark comedy. But I do like that there are Heathers out there. "},{"Title":"Story plot was a bit all over the place!","Date":"24 October 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Don't get me wrong I think the actors and actresses were good, I just thought the storyline was all over the shop. I mean, Veronica and J.D were suppose to be like a Bonnie and Clyde duo but instead Veronica wouldn't stop whining constantly! I thought she was the most annoying character that Winona Ryder has ever done and like she's the best actress out there, wtf was Hollywood thinking of developing her character for god sakes??! I really thought in end that the pair would end up back together again but instead, it was like Romeo and Juliet being separated from each other tragically! I say he only did that as he had lost Veronica over his craziness! They should've done this movie better instead of wasting one hour and forty minutes looking at it! "},{"Title":"Corn nut chaser, anyone?","Date":"21 September 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Michael Lehmann's film 'Heathers' is a hard one to rate. It is a very dark comedy that wouldn't be funny at all if it weren't for little moments and certain characters. Much of the humor, as seen by the writers, is geared towards older teen-agers but there are moments that are very much for the adults; like the cynical teachers smoking in the meeting room and the sinister minister at the various funerals, Heather No. 3 dabbing her forehead from water at the holy fount in the church, and the quarterback's father who says I love my dead gay son. I remember when this film was released in 1989 and it caused a sensation with the industry cognoscenti in West Hollywood and became an instant cult movie. Whether it is now a classic cult film is questionable. Certainly Winona Ryder and Christian Slater went on to great careers and it's good to see them here so young and fresh and, especially in Slater's case, uninhibited in his acting and very impressive as such.Shannen Doherty, as Heather No. 2, was very new on the scene as well and she is probably the funniest of the leads, coming into her own after Heather No. 1 is murdered and Doherty takes over the mantel of the most popular girl at Westerberg High School.The parents are all portrayed as near idiots which fits the view of most 16 year olds. Every clichéd group of students is on display here. The Heathers and Veronica, the beautiful girls who rule the roost, the nerds (who are very funny), the dumpy and dull girls and the jocks.The film takes aim at all of these entities and sets out to destroy the popular students and the jocks. Christian Slater, the outsider, has come to town and like Jehovah sets off on a killing spree of Biblical proportions, using the disgruntled Veronica (Ryder) to innocently, at first, help him.The movie basically is mocking the over-emotionalism of young people, the phony hypocrisy of the teachers and the comatose indifference of parents. It hits bull's eyes in all three of these intentions. But the whole leaves a bitter taste in the mouth, even with the strangely happy and surreal ending with the change of order coming about as Veronica takes over the mantel of most popular girl and befriends the overweight and friendless Martha, a nice bit of understated comedy played by Carrie Lynn who doesn't speak a single line until the very end, when she gets the last words in the movie.'Heathers' not as clever as it once seemed and I can't rate it all that high as comedy, and as satire it really is too dark and disturbing to be really funny. It has a bitterness and cynicism that was rather a new thing in teen films at the time, and has spawned a number of copycat movies and TV shows.But the movie has a strange impact, like a spiked date-rape drink, followed by a corn nut chaser to blow all the poison out of the system. And it certainly lingers in the memory, especially the opening and closing versions of the song 'Che sera sera'.It's a good solid entertainment for younger adults and older teens but it's not one of the great dark comedies or cult classics that the promoters told us it was when it was released. "},{"Title":"Outrageous Teen Satire Foreshadowed The Future","Date":"18 October 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Heathers has become a cult classic of the high school life genre and rightfully so. Unlike a great majority of films, which previously depicted teenage life, Heathers does not assume that the majority of teenagers are victims or victimized by a select group of nasty peers, parents, or teachers. Sure, the film displays the various stereotyped groups Queen Bees, Wanna Bees, Stupid Jocks, Bookish Rule-Followers, Geeks, Social Outcasts, and the Lone Mysterious Avenger. However, Heathers utilizes the stereotypes in unique ways, some equally hilarious, sad, and sick to make serious points about real teenage life, peer pressure, teen suicide, do-good faculty, and (most bitingly) clueless parents.What must have seemed shockingly outrageous in 1989 actually echos the times we live in now. Anyone who has worked with teenagers for any length of time, such as teachers, coaches, mentors, or parents realizes that today's teenagers are much like some of those portrayed in the film Amoral, disrespectful, extremely cruel, foul-mouthed, lacking in character, self-absorbed, undisciplined, and unfeeling. Most of them possess several of these traits and are clueless about so-doing. Christian Slater gives a perfect performance as the Jack Nicholson-like J.D. who captures all of the aforementioned traits, as well as Winona Ryder who captures them to a lesser degree. Together they explode on screen as a teenage couple intellectually justifying amorality through their twisted reasoning (reminiscent of the Leopold and Loeb case) that somehow their collective, morally bankrupt actions improve their school. The catalysts for their actions may be the bitchiest queen bees ever seen on screen The three girls named Heather Kim Walker, Lisanne Falk, and a Pre-90210 Shannen Doherty.At first, the audience identifies with the odd couples' actions and finds them hilarious and off-beat. As the stakes get higher, an emotional void develops between Slater's J.D. and Ryder's Veronica. Ryder discovers that non-conformity is not and should not be an end unto itself, and she has to choose between what she knows is right and Slater. Along the way, the film highlights the parenting anomaly that was already underway at the time of the film's production as a result of the misguided self-esteem movement which devoured the public school system across the country. In both Slater's and Ryder's parents, we see elements of childlike parents who either have no control or who allow their kids control of their households. With Veronica's parents, it's a little subtle, but it's clearly the case between Slater's J.D. and his dad (where their banter indicates almost complete role reversal). Parents are merely like friends. Scenes like this may have seemed comical and satirical at the film's release, but the reality is they're all too commonplace in real life today. I've witnessed dozens of such exchanges between teenagers and parents myself. Perhaps the scariest message of the film is how it handles the subject of teen suicide; the teenagers' reactions to their classmates' deaths are simultaneously hilarious and outrageous. Their indifference is especially chilling and strangely realistic. The faculty and parents' reactions are similar. The film ends on a more upbeat note, which seems antithetical to the rest of the film. I think the planned original ending would have been more consistent with the film's tone. Kudos to writer Daniel Waters, the real star of this film. The film's dialog created a world of its own. *** of 4 stars. "},{"Title":"I highly recommend this movie, my favorite of the 80's.","Date":"15 September 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is one of the funniest movies I've ever seen. The writer was brilliant to come up with such original dialogue. It does get pretty dark at times, but if you have a sense of humor you should be able to enjoy this movie. "},{"Title":"Pitch black Anti-John Hughes comedy","Date":"4 April 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  HEATHERS (1989) ***  Winona Ryder, Christian Slater, Kim Walker,  Shannon Doherty.  Pitch black comedy about high school clique hell with Ryder facing homicidal tendencies she never knew existed unearthed by enigmatic new kid on the block Slater (in his breakthrough Nicholson-riffing performance), a sociopathic charmer, out to rid their establishment of the girls-rule Heathers, three little bitches who know that popularity is the only thing that matters.  Smartly blending social mores, anomie, teen suicide, betrayal and of course inventive ways to off an enemy. .  "},{"Title":"One of the strangest/funniest movies ever","Date":"30 March 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film has one of the best screenplays ever written.  The last minute of the film is probably the funniest ending to a movie I've ever seen.  The idea is so imaginative and original.  There are offensive moments in this film, but it also makes you think especially after the Columbine tragedy.  I was shocked to find out that Kim Walker, the young actress who played Heather #1, died a couple years ago.  Talk about strange coincidences and sad irony.  If you watch the film, enjoy it and don't try to take it seriously...it's a satire not a slice-of-life.  If you like Heathers I'd recommend another black comedy The Last Supper with Cameron Diaz and Ron Perlman. "},{"Title":"Smart, funny, original and always surprising.","Date":"27 January 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I first saw Heathers when it came out on video in the UK, and it quickly became an all-time favourite. The script is sharp, funny and at times clever, and the humour is black as can be - not qualities you'd usually associate with a relatively mainstream US film at the end of the 1980s. Slater is superb, Ryder is excellent but the supporting cast really make the movie tick. It's something to behold when blatant stereotypes are played with such sweet irony as here - without such great performances, much of the humour would have been lost.Slater is the new kid in school, Ryder the popular girl attracted to his Nicholson-esque rebel. Sparks fly between them, and the result is a few staged 'suicides' by their school's most popular students.It's a choice movie, one that has aged well and will keep you laughing as new gags pop up - new layers emerge with familiarity, so repeated viewing is recommended. "},{"Title":"This movie was both so touching and hilarious, I didn't know  if I should laugh or cry.","Date":"4 August 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Heathers was a great movie.  I just saw this recently (which is kind of funny, considering the movie came out 11 years ago)because I really like Christian Slater, and I was so impressed with the movie that I'm planning on buying it.  I've never been really popular, and so in certain ways I could identify with Slater's role, J.D. (though I'm not planning on killing anybody anytime soon). This movie was hilarious, especially if you have a cynical sense of humor, and I think most teenagers could relate to it, either the ones like Veronica who are stuck with friends they can't stand but can't pull away from, or the ones like J.D. and me, the outcasted. It's practically a classic. "}{"Title":"So Very.","Date":"8 May 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Greetings and Salutations,If you can imagine Jack Nicholsons 'Joker' at high school, he's cool, he's a loner, has a dark mysterious quality . . . oh and he is insane and likes to kill people. Still with me?Meet J.D, this is Christian Slaters character in Heathers, Slater gives the kind of performance that makes you wish he got cast in 'dark' roles more often. J.D has spawned numerous fan websites and is arguably the greatest teen movie character ever. His lines are spot on and the one scene right at the start of the film where he pulls a gun on the two main school bully's/jocks still brings a smile to my face.Heathers takes the teen flick concept and ads a new twist. The school characters are perfect right down to the cool kids inventing a new way of speaking just so they stand out even more. You have the nerds, the jocks, the rich kids, the popular kids, the fat victim etc all your standard teen groups are here and happily bouncing along to the beat that life has given them no matter how shallow or cr*p it is.This is where most movies just continue, and where Heathers excels. Enter J.D, J.D represents everything that every kid ever wanted to do or say and didn't. Not so much a spanner in the works more a bomb!This film has pages and pages of great quotes and the acting from it's 2 stars is exceptional, Winona Ryder has not made a better film (neither has Shannen Doherty)and the supporting cast play their small but oh so important roles to perfection.The only pre 25's who will not get this movie are the rich spoilt teens who are oblivious to real life because daddy has always bailed them out or given them everything that they ever wanted (much like the 'rich kid' social group in the film). And as in the film they are largely irrelevant anyway.Everyone else you must see this movie at least once, it is a classic. You may not love it but you will definitely have an opinion on it.One quote for the road . . .In Prayer Hi, I'm sorry. Technically I did not kill Heather Chandler, but hey, who am I trying to kid right?. I just want my high school to be a nice place. Amen. Did that sound b1tchy?  "},{"Title":"hated it","Date":"30 December 2008","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Little Movie That Tried Too Hard.I finally got around to watching this movie. It was a total waste of time. The actors were young and we can forgive them for their less than stellar acting performances - they did improve in later movies. But the trying too hard to be cool factor is unforgivable.It's like the writer/directors were hoping to coin new catch-phrases and be cool in groovy new ways.It felt like they were hoping to be the Next Valley Girl or Wayne's World - nope. Miss.Summary The movie is a Wannabe Start to finish. "},{"Title":"The black comedy that changed it all!","Date":"30 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" The black comedy from the 80s that changed the game, Christian Slater and Winona Ryder star in Heathers. Nominated for seven awards and winning three (best motion picture, best first feature and a special mention at the International Feature Film Comptetition). Winona Ryder plays the part of Veronica, the high-school girl who gets to be a part of the cool crowd, but eventually wants to leave, missing her old friends. She's sure life is horrific, until the mysterious J.D. (Slater) transfers to the school. But what J.D. decides to show Veronica isn't quite the social politics Veronica expects. Are they headed for prom or hell?Heathers was amazing to watch. I loved every part of the movie; even the darker tones could be made humorous, which is not easy. The film made me laugh long and hard, and I fully enjoyed every minute.I fully recommend seeing this - it's out on DVD and can be watched online. It's a movie I have added to my own collection and I cannot wait to watch it again. "},{"Title":"Fantastic,dark and twisted","Date":"22 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" A twisted, satirical comedy about a girl who tries to be part of the most popular clique in school, The Heathers(all of whom are called Heather). She is sick of their wicked ways and when she meets a dangerous, mysterious boy who assists her in murdering a few people she doesn't like...but one murder leads to another...until she can't take it any more. Heathers bucks all the tropes of the other teen movies out in the 80s and it's executed so well with its dark humour and amazing performances from Winona Ryder(playing angsty Veronica) and Christian Slater( playing her depraved, murderous boyfriend) among other. Apparently it didn't have box office success, which I can't understand why, but has now developed a cult following. A must-see if you have a dark sense of humour and you enjoyed Mean Girls. But really there's nothing quite like this. "},{"Title":"A Classic...most quotable movie ever!","Date":"6 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" If you like twisted dark humor, well this is the ticket. I can't watch it with anyone because I can quote the entire movie. The first half of the movie is the best! Quote after quote - which I use all the time. Winona Ryder,Shannen Doherty and Christian Slater are all flawless. I do, however wonder what happened to the other Heathers?Actually, the movie isn't too far off the reality most people experience in High School...of course, in a Reader's Digest condensed version.If I'm feeling cynical and down...I just put my DVD in and have a good laugh!Enjoy! "},{"Title":"Near-masterpiece; one of the all-time best high school movies","Date":"24 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is a movie I thought I had seen previously all the way through. I was wrong. I had only ever seen, it turns out, about the final twenty minutes or so. I'm glad I finally corrected this mistake. Heathers is, without a doubt, a classic, one of the very best in its genre (high school films). Winona Ryder stars as a smart girl moving up in social standing by becoming best friends with the Heathers, three chicks with that name who rule the school (Kim Walker, Lisanne Falk and Shannon Doherty). Popularity can be a bitch, and Ryder's getting worn out by the shallowness and cruelty of the Heathers. One day, a mysterious new boy (Christian Slater) arrives in the school and promises Ryder an escape from the doldrums of high school society. Unfortunately, that escape eventually involves murder, as Ryder and Slater accidentally dispose of Walker, the lead Heather. This film plays out in clever and absolutely hilarious ways. It's downright ballsy in its use of abhorrent violence as comedy. Nowadays, it looks less like an absurd satire and more like real life. Which makes it even more impressive that the comic aspects hold up so well. This is Ryder's best work ever, and Slater, while channeling Jack Nicholson more than a little too much, works well as a guy who looks more and more like a psychopath as the film moves on. Heathers is very nearly a masterpiece, but I thought it fizzled out a bit at the end. The filmmakers wanted a different ending that they thought was far more powerful, but their descriptions make it sound just as weak to me. "},{"Title":"A deadly take on the teen movie that makes a unique point","Date":"28 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" High school is vicious, everyone knows that. And although stereotypes have run high school movies ragged, there's still a ring of truth to them even when they're blown out of proportion. Heathers, however, stands apart. This '80s cult favorite black comedy is the counter-culture version of the high school flick, the very definition of teen angst in the form of a laughable revenge fantasy.Altogether the film is quite ridiculous Veronica (Winona Ryder) has an in with the Heathers, the three most popular girls in school, but when she ends up betrayed by their contrived social hierarchies and sleazy attitudes, she and her new boyfriend, the rebellious J.D. (Christian Slater), end up on a spree of setting up the murders of popular kids to look like suicides. The reactions of those in the community are comical though sadly, so are the way the two killers deal with their actions. But there's something about the sharpness of its satirical wit that makes Heathers so incredibly laudable despite the lackluster drama and muddled character motivation. We all kind of wish those popular jerk-offs from high school would just roll over, but Heathers takes it one step further, willing to do whatever it takes -- even throw away its plot credibility -- to make its point. High school is full of these delusions and they extend from the kids all the way up through the administration. Nobody gets that there are actually serious underlying issues and everyone gets caught up in one thing or another, which is usually image. Veronica and J.D. create these false suicides and everyone buys them and turns them into martyrs when they were awful people. It's some wonderful irony. For the feature film debuts of director Michael Lehmann and writer Daniel Waters, Heathers is pretty impressive. How two high school kids suddenly become murderers is kind of slopped together, but they manage to illustrate the film's point with ease. Man, I'm glad I'm not in high school anymore. ~Steven C Visit my site at http//moviemusereviews.blogspot.com "},{"Title":"Does for the high school movie what Blazing Saddles did for the Western","Date":"18 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" American films and television programmes set in high schools seem to revolve around a few stock characters. There is always a popular girl whose popularity derives from her beauty and her family's wealth rather from her personality, which is generally an obnoxious one. (The characters played by Charisma Carpenter in Buffy, Sarah Michelle Gellar in Cruel Intentions and Megan Fox in Confessions of a Teenage Drama Queen are all good examples). The male equivalent is the jock, whose popularity derives from his good looks and sporting prowess and from his total lack of academic prowess, an intellect being a positive disadvantage in the popularity stakes. Those who possess the unwanted distinction of a high IQ are all bespectacled, physically unattractive nerds. There may also be a farouche, rebellious male outsider, cut off from the school mainstream but often attractive to a certain type of girl. Heathers is a black comedy which makes satirical use of all these clichés. It is set in Westerburg High School in the fictional town of Sherwood, Ohio, and features a clique of four popular girls known as The Heathers because three of them share this particular Christian name. (The fourth is named Veronica). Although the girls are notoriously arrogant, bitchy and snobbish, their beauty and their families' wealth means that the rest of the school look up to them. As their leader Heather Chandler puts it everyone in this school wants me either as a friend or as a sexual partner. (I bowdlerise somewhat).The clique's hold on the school is shaken by the arrival of a new boy, Jason Dean. Jason, who wears a leather jacket and drives a powerful motorbike, is the archetypal rebel, modelled on Marlon Brando's character in The Wild One (or perhaps on Aidan Quinn in Reckless). His name is an obvious reference to James Dean, the original rebel without a cause. Veronica, who is marginally more sensitive than the three Heathers, and from a slightly less elevated social background, finds herself powerfully drawn to the newcomer, and they begin a relationship.Unfortunately for Veronica, Jason turns out to be not just a rebel but also a psychopath, whose goal it is to murder all the most popular students in the school, making their deaths look like suicide. He starts with Heather Chandler and moves on to Kurt and Ram, two thoroughly unpleasant jocks, who are supposed to have died in a gay suicide pact. These deaths, however, have an unexpected side effect. Because it is associated with popular students, suicide becomes seen as cool and hip, and there are a number of copycat suicide attempts. Veronica now has to prevent Jason from pulling off his greatest coup- blowing up the entire school and making it look lie a mass suicide.There is something of a convention in American films of this type that the teenage characters are played by actors in their twenties or even thirties, but in Heathers most of the actors are around the same age as the characters they are playing. Perhaps this explains why the acting is rather more convincing than in a number of high school films; in Reckless, for example, I could never bring myself to accept Quinn as a schoolboy. This is the first film which revealed to me what a great actress Winona Ryder can be, and there are also splendidly over-the-top performances from Christian Slater as Jason and from Shannen Doherty, Kim Walker and Lisanne Falk as the three Heathers.Black comedy can be a difficult genre to get right; there are too many films which set out to be tasteless but hilarious but end up as simply tasteless. Heathers, however, which is funny, fast-moving and with a witty script, is one of those which gets the balance right, managing to deal with topics like teen suicide without ever seeming too crude. It reminded me of some of John Waters' films such as Serial Mom, another satirical black comedy about affluent American suburbia. (I note that the scriptwriter for Heathers is named Daniel Waters; are they by any chance related?) Another link between the two films is that both feature sermons in dubious taste given by manic preachers.Heathers does for the traditional high school movie what Blazing Saddles did for the traditional Western, and satirises the stereotypical way in which teenage life is portrayed by the American entertainment industry. It satire, however, is also aimed at wider targets. Westerburg High School is, to coin a cliché, a microcosm of society, and the Heathers can be seen as symbolic of all those who are admired not for what they are or for what they have achieved but for what they appear to be or for what they represent. When I saw this film again recently, for the first time in many years, I was surprised by just how fresh and relevant it still seems; it is hard to credit that it was made while Ronald Reagan was still President. With the empty-headed cult of celebrity even stronger now than it was twenty years ago, in fact, the film looks even more relevant now than it did then. If the likes of Heather Duke and Heather Chandler were real individuals they would today be featuring in glossy articles in Hello! magazine or appearing on Celebrity Big Brother. 8/10 "},{"Title":"You're probably not supposed to laugh at mass murder, but it's hard not to when it's this much fun","Date":"29 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This deserving cult classic is still as crisp and contemporary 20 years later as it was when it came out (actually, I can only guess how much impact it had upon its release; I was only 10 at the time and probably wouldn't have understood the high school dichotomy even if I had seen the film then). The blood-black humor is still as biting and sharp as ever, and the best lines still induce morbid laughter (I love my dead gay son is a personal favorite). And a top-notch cast of 80's actors who really deserved to end up doing more with their careers (except the ones who actually DID do more, most of whom should have stopped right here) carried this material with such grace, the film really hasn't aged at all.There is a timeless feel to Heathers, and it's something that definitely struck me watching this film today. Here's the confession I am writing this review after watching Heathers for the first time. Of course, I had heard about this film for years, but somehow it stayed out of my DVD library until just recently. After finally taking in this much lauded classic, I'm sorry I waited so long.But, perhaps approaching this film with today's eyes lends a useful gauge of its true effectiveness. After all, I watched the film simply to watch it, and I had no historical or sentimental ties to it to cloud my judgment of exactly how much I enjoyed it. The fact that Heathers is so great, despite the fact that it came out of an era during which high school films were made in a very specific mode, thus have mostly aged very poorly, speaks volumes about its quality.Let me explain... Picture teen films made in the 90's during that dark period where pagers, not cell phones, were the apex of communications. Of course, all the hip kids at the time would have a pager, so naturally, references to this ultra-modern form of technology would enter into the plot, or at least the peripheral. Someone watching a film from this period today would immediately notice this antiquated device, and the film would then date itself. Heathers has no such attachments to its era, and in fact, it looks very little like any high school film made in the 80's (or ever, actually). The use of almost no music in the film adds to this mystique, and since there's no Simple Minds song guiding the action, we can't quite place the Heathers' link to popular culture there. Ditto with the fashion, which, aside from some pretty intense hair-dos, doesn't place our characters into any historical context. The teens in this film don't strut around in legwarmers or Member's Only jackets, and even if they did, this would have an ironic coolness about it in today's retro culture.I only point this out to demonstrate that Heathers seemed to have much more on its mind than entertaining teens for a couple of hours. It takes significant forethought to omit anything that places significance on the time and place the story unfolds and focus all of the elements on the darkly delightful story instead. Heathers wouldn't work nearly as well, or apply so encompassingly, if it tied itself to a singular post of time. One of the reasons the film holds up so well today is that it looks like it could have very well been made today. This fact makes the rumors I've heard of a remake in the works one of the worst ideas of all time... and that's really saying a lot considering how many classic films have been tainted by a wretched modern make-over/cash-in (oh, that's right... we're supposed to call them re-imaginings).You can easily find the plot and any other pertinent information on the very listing you browsed to come to this review, and certainly Heathers is a film that has been discussed so much that I won't be able to add any significant perspective to it. Rest assured, I won't try.I'm only here to say that I finally watched Heathers, and found it deserving off all the hype that I've encountered in the decades this film has existed. The satire is cutting and brilliant and the themes are universal, and will remain universal as long as there are millions of insecure teenagers on this planet vying for the ever-present enigma of acceptance. Hell, most adults are still searching for that themselves, which would sort of make Heathers a film that grows up with you. That's no simple feat, and the very fact that 20 year-old jokes about mass murder are still funny today says as much about humanity as the film does about the dynamics of popularity.I'll admit I arrived to the party late, but I can assure you this it won't take another 20 years for me to watch this again. "},{"Title":"Violent high school fantasy-parable","Date":"3 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is a breathless, stylish, shocking movie, a black halfway-house between the John Hughes masterpieces prior to it and their day-glo bubblegum postmodern successors (viz. Clueless and Mean Girls). Winona Ryder's Veronica struggles as a half-hearted friend of the ruling high school social class, a group of three girls all named Heather. Exciting alternatives present themselves when Christian Slater's J.D. (James Dean?) catches her affections and fires her mind.It's debatable whether J.D. actually exists at all, given that the film is narrated by Veronica and we see her writing in a diary - he could be a manifestation of her Nietzchean yang, devilishly tempting. I think the whole film has a magic-realist quality to it though and its too much work to try and isolate particular metaphors. What Michael Lehmann has done very well though (along with Ryder, who is superb) is to chart a course through the film in which individuals are presented as characters rather than stereotypes and so their dilemmas and actions are not easily categorisable. Consequently, the film is very much alive, exciting and funny and its arguments (although sometimes a little buried in the patois of the script, I felt) seem fresh.For all the humour it's often black and violent, although it's never unnecessary. Though dated, it's not particularly interested in it's detail so it wears well. Best of all are the cover versions of songs topping and tailing the film during the title sequences which really sum up the project - old tunes but in thoughtful arrangements. A noteworthy film - and one to watch shotgun with Grosse Point Blank. 7/10 "}{"Title":"How very...","Date":"17 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" A radio announcement issues a warning of a snow storm and just when you are about to step outside to get the paper before it hits, the movie 'Heathers' comes on. What do you do? Sit down and watch it or get the paper -you don't want to miss Marmaduke! Heathers is a very good movie! Forget all the others that followed. This is the ultimate teen angst movie. Veronica Sawyer (Ryder), a young teen who wears blue befriends everyone (with few exceptions) is in the popular Heathers clique where every girl is named Heather. Heather Duke (Doherty), the quiet,bulimic and studious teen who wears green and gets picked on by the Red-leader snobbish, prom-queen Heather Chandler. Heather McNamara, dressed in yellow is a cheerleader who follows Heather C. Veronica meets Jason Dean (Slater) the dark, mysterious 'rebel' of the school with a sinister cause. What follows is a trail of teenage..er...um problems. "},{"Title":"Good Film If Not Taken For Face Value","Date":"1 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This film was definitely original, and cleverly avoided clichés that bogged down a lot of teen movies (not just in the 80's, but even teen movies made this decade so far). It also ended unexpectedly, and it had a killer climax that really kept you glued to the screen to find out what happens next. Aside from it being a dark teen comedy, it's good because it really makes you think.That being said, I'm pretty amazed that the cult followers of this movie have successfully seen this movie as a farce and not one to be taken literally. I'm glad, too, because the climactic events in this movie, particularly the killings, are highly unrealistic. Every mature viewer can tell that if these events happen in real life, police would not just walk into the room, look around, and jump to conclusions and assume the killings were suicides. That's just not the way law enforcement works, especially in the suburbs. A CSI unit could easily take some fingerprints (particularly on the botched suicide notes written by the Veronica character) and have a list of suspects ready by the end of the day.I'm particularly surprised at how well this movie has stood the test of time, particularly after the Columbine shootings when the killing of high school classmates went from a fantasy (like in this movie) to a grim and harsh reality. After Columbine, the media went after violent video games, flexible gun laws, and Marilyn Manson as motives for the shootings. They could have easily gone after this movie as well given the subject matter, but it's surprising they didn't.The reason they didn't was probably because this movie is not only a farce, but also a cautionary tale. One lesson to extract from this movie would be that violence and homicide, even in the rare instances when it is well covered up, only worsens the usual high school problems. An even deeper moral would be that if we wiped out one particularly annoying high school classmate, someone else would take their place.I'm happy that people young and old who see this movie actually understand these messages, and that no reports have come out about some kid shooting up their school because they saw this movie. Potential violence in high schools, as this movie shows, is rooted a lot deeper than violence in the media. People get that, and that's why this movie has successfully stood the test of time so far. "},{"Title":"Black comedy spot on","Date":"17 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Great black comedy/satire about suicide and teenage life. Director Michael Lehmann knew exactly what he was doing and has delivered an hilarious film that hits home again and again with its observations of life at high school. It is deliciously dark, and marvelously sends up young teens trying to be cool and popular.Winona Ryder is superbly sexy and very funny, but Christian Slater steals the show with his wicked portrayal of a cynical teen who has no time for plastic people, or anybody for that matter. His acting talents in this film parallel the best of Jack Nicholson's darkest roles. Superb entertainment.Friday, May 10, 1991 - Knox District CentreMarvellously written, deliciously acted and superbly directed is Heathers, a wonderful black comedy about High School, popularity, teenage suicide and every other issue that may crop up amongst the young.Christian Slater is amazingly malevolent as J.D., a newcomer to Westerberg who joins forces with Veronica Sawyer (Winona Ryder) to get rid of the 'cool' people who make so many students' lives miserable. Michael Lehmann's sharp direction is a treat in a movie which hilariously sends up teens with its accurate dialogue and dead on depiction of their way of life. Loses a little momentum toward the end, but still a great film.Sunday, January 9, 1994 - Video "},{"Title":"In my opinion the best HighSchool Movie!","Date":"15 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I'm so glad to know this film. It's a Masterpiece and the best film from Director Lehmann (this is his debut). It is also the best role Christian Slater and Winona Ryder have ever played for any movie. And don't forget about Shannen Doherty. She's so lovely in the beginning of this film. I love this film so much I could watch it every day. Entertainment Weekly have placed it on # 5 in their list of best HighSchool Movies. It should be at # 1 in my opinion because teenagers and their problems have never been portrayed any better than in this movie. I own the Soundtrack CD, the Limited Tin Edition and a VHS-Copy. Folks, do yourself a favor and watch this Cult Classic. You surely won't regret it!!! "},{"Title":"Good movie","Date":"16 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I watched this movie several times about ten years ago. Surprised it was relatively unknown because it was really good and had a good cast. Heathers had a mix of humor and drama. Martha Dumptruck - now that's a real name! Pretty clean for a rated R movie. No real sex scenes and little violence. Some swearing on occasion though. Slater and Rider played their parts well. I liked the part when Jason and Veronica simply start mixing up some poisonous stuff at Heather's home. Was the door unlocked and they just slip in? Heather wakes up, goes to the kitchen and see those two in there like business as usual!My only other question about the movie is if Jason hated the world so much, why didn't he blow himself up inside the gym instead? Veronica placing a cigarette between her lips just before he blew up was priceless though. I loved it. "},{"Title":"A real delight to watch, joyfully blowing up the 'teenage-film' codes","Date":"14 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I was really pleased to the extreme to watch this intelligent, venomous and brilliant dark comedy I thought yes, finally I'm watching a film in which everybody gets what he/she deserves and which is depicting the characters in a much more appropriate way than the great majority of American teenagers films. Because what we do have in more than 90% of this teenager films is the following, and finally extremely boring code  on the one side, you have the so-called 'school-stars',who are of course, always depicted as an example, and which are free to do everything they want, and on the other side, you have the so-called 'outsiders', whose DUTY is to keep their mouth shut, and not, oh my God,please not to disturb the good order established at school by its 'stars', with the following, insidiously disgusting message if you belong to the first category, you can bully, spit upon, despise, in short make everything you want to anybody and get away with it, simply because you're popular. What is so delicious to watch in 'Heathers' (by the way, even the title is funny, I have always considered Heather a ridiculous and ugly first name...)is that the situation is actually reversed, and, in my opinion, much closer to the truth the school-stars are all depicted as stupid, extremely self-centered and brainless, and this time, THEY pay the high price for their stupidity.What is even more funny is that this stupidity is very carefully dissected, depicted and analyzed, to the point that the director does not give the impression to shoot the film from a great distance, but like an infiltrated 'enemy within'. Now, for those who might think that the message of the film is that the solution is to start killing, I think that they entirely missed the point it has to be taken in the second degree, it is after all a dark comedy, and the killings are much more a symbol, a call to end with that stupid order, a message of freedom what you should kill is not people, but actually a narrow-minded, boring and intolerant behaviour and way of thinking. I wish there were more similar funny and intelligently subversive alternatives to scum (in its British meaning of 'garbage', I insist)like for instance 'Dude, Where Is My Car?' or others of the genre nowadays. "},{"Title":"An acrid teen comedy","Date":"7 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is one of my favorite films. Featuring Wynnona Rider (mega babe) and Christian Slayter, the film is irreverent, sarcastic, and thought provoking. It does some of the things we always wanted to do to all of the 'popular' kids in school like humiliate and eliminate. The film is blatantly sarcastic, and just viciously pokes fun around the subject of teenage suicide. Slayter's portrayal of his character is almost as cool as Travolta can be, but with the instability that Nicholson often shows.This is a very anti-politically correct film so if you are easily offended, you probably want to avoid it. If you're sense of humor is slightly twisted and in somewhat bad taste, you'll really enjoy this piece. "},{"Title":"Forgotten Heathers","Date":"26 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Personally, I find this film to be brilliant. However, it seems most people don't realize it's a remake of another film... the 1976 film, Massacre at Central High. Both films have an unhappy new guy who deals with bullies and vows to get revenge. After doing so and seeing others spring up in the bullies places, he decides to blow up the whole school with a bomb in the boiler room. Also, in both films, the main character decides to remove the bomb and blows himself up in front of the school. As with all remakes, a few things have been changed, but when compared, it's more than obvious that Heathers is a remake.Heathers is one of those rare films where the remake is better than the original. It was done with a lot more class and creativity. Both films are worth a watch, but Heathers is by far the superior film. "},{"Title":"Fantastic","Date":"26 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I absolutely love Heathers it is the best black comedy I've ever seen, its truly dark and hilariously funny. The innocently wild talents of Winona Ryder combined with the rugged yet to die for Christian Slater corroborate to paint an embarrassingly realistic picture of the threats and angst of teenage life and erupt in the gloriousness of a masterpiece. A film that reaches beyond the limits of accepted cinema custom that pulses with the true horror of what it means to be a teenage girl trapped in the school environment plagued by peer pressure and the inevitable twisting of the sweet nature when one encounters one who will change the world, flip it upside down and alter reality to 'rock your world'. Heathers rages with emotion which will touch unveiled emotions for a very long time. A must see for anyone who likes any films in general "},{"Title":"Test of times...love the casting (MILD SPOILERS)","Date":"6 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Let me start with I am certainly outside the target demographic for this movie. I was 35 when it came out and am male.Heathers, as far as I am concerned, is not about high schools or society in general, in 1989. I first saw it on cable, a couple of few years or so after it came out. I thought I was watching a mockumentary of my 1969-72 high school class.Today I have two kids in HS. The cliques are the same, the issues, the attitudes, the feelings of entitlement, the parents who don't (fully)understand what goes on.My then-15yo son, who has an appreciation of dark humor, loved this movie when I rented it. My then-13yo daughter prefers Mean Girls. Maybe it hit too close to home for her.In short, Heathers reflects cultural steadiness in the US (at least the midwest) and not a short-term phenomena.CASTING and PORTRAYALS First off, I was floored when I saw Glenn Shadix as Father Ripper. After seeing him in Beetlejuice my first impression was this was another of Otho's careers...color analyst, psychic, priest.PORTRAYALS I'm going to skip some of the obvious because I have nothing to add to the other kudos the oblivious parents, Wynonna Ryder, serious young cops and caring teachers.The Heathers were wonderful in their interchangeability. It was like watching a take-off on multiple personalities all fighting for dominance. It took more than a few viewings before I took time to try to differentiate them.***MILD SPOILER follows*** Then there was the pairing of Kirk Scott, as Big Bud Dean (JD's father), with Christian Slater. The cold heat between them was perfectly portrayed. Big Bud had alienated JD by focusing on himself. JD rebels by acting like his father.Finally there was Christian Slater's intentional over-the-top Jack Nicholson imitation. It's a great portrayal of a teen looking for an appropriate life M.O. by imitating celebrity personnae. At least we didn't get hit over the head with this by subtleties like Nicholson movies or a poster of Jack Nicholson in the background (at least I didn't see any). "}{"Title":"Excellent satire, that's really unique, and highly entertaining, with a fantastic story and wicked performances! *Minor spoilers*","Date":"21 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is an excellent satire, that's really unique, and highly entertaining, with a fantastic story, and wicked performances!. All the characters are excellent, and I loved the black humor in it as well, plus Winona Ryder, Christian Slater and Kim Walker are all simply amazing in this. It has the perfect mix of Comedy/Drama/Romance and suspense, and I thought Christian Slater was extremely creepy in his role, plus I especially loved the ending, as it was really unpredictable and chaotic!. I thought the suicide notes were really funny in a morbid kind of way, and we are able to care for Ryder's character, plus Kim Walker is absolutely amazing as the bitch Heather Chandler, and was a real scene stealer. This film isn't for everyone as it's an acquired taste, and another one of my favorite scenes is when the two football jocks that are killed are dressed in a black suit and tie, with football helmets on there head in there coffins, plus it's very well made and written. It has plenty of shocking moments, and Ryder and Slater had very good chemistry together, plus all the characters are extremely likable. This is an excellent satire ,that's really unique,and highly entertaining, with a fantastic story and wicked performances, and I say it's a must see for everyone!. The Direction is excellent!. Michael Lehmann does an excellent! job here, with awesome camera work, very good angles and just keeping the film at a very fast pace. The Acting is wicked!. Winona Ryder is amazing as the lead, she is very pretty, extremely likable, had great chemistry with Slater, and you are able to care for her character, I will admit to not seeing much of Winona but she was just amazing here, I absolutely loved her!. Christian Slater is amazing as always and is amazing here, he is very creepy, extremely unpredictable, played a really good psycho, had very good chemistry with Ryder, looked so young, and plays one of his coolest characters here, he was amazing and brought a lot of edge to the film that it already had plenty of!(Slater Rules!!!!). Kim Walker is also amazing here, as the witch Heather Chandler, she was hot, very cruel and hard to like, but she had so many classic lines, and was so incredibly convincing, that I couldn't help but like her at times, it's too bad she got killed of so soon!. Shannen Doherty is cute, and did fine as one of The Heathers I really liked her. Lisanne Falk is also cute, and did fine too as a Heather. Glenn Shadix is OK as the Father, although I'm not the biggest fan of his. Rest of the cast are fine. Overall a must see for everyone!. ****1/2 out of 5(just barely) "},{"Title":"Cult Classic","Date":"4 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Veronica Sawyer (Winona Ryder) was a typical High School girl. She had made it in with the popular crowd, the Heathers The group leader was Heather Chandler (Kim Walker). In other words, Satan. Then, there was Heather Duke (Shannen Doherty), runner-up head-of-Heathers. Heather Duke was the sweet, quiet girl who's one flaw was her bulimia. And then, the cheerleader, Heather McNamara (Lisanne Falk). Veronica absolutely hated life as a Heather. Playing mean jokes on innocent people, having sex with practical strangers, and acting like a total bitch, just wasn't Veronica.But when Jason Dean (Christian Slater), the new kid who was a bit rebellious entered her life, things perked up a bit. When he pulls a gun out on two guys in school, Veronica doesn't really think he's too harmless. When J.D. is around, Veronica has no mind of her own, which is pretty dangerous. Veronica wants to kill people in the sense that they're out of her lives. J.D. has something else in mind... "},{"Title":"Late eighties satirical semi cult classic.","Date":"11 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Winona Ryder and Christian Slater are in top form, especially Slater is a lot of fun, chewing the scenery, spitting out rebellious bad boy lines left and right while doing his best Nicholson filtered through a cartoon (This is Ohio. If you don't have a brewski in your hand you might as well be wearing a dress. Football season is over, Veronica. Kurt and Ram had nothing left to offer the school except for date rapes and AIDS jokes.) It's a brilliant showy entertaining performance that makes it obvious why many thought he would go on to become a superstar. Ryder is less 'out there', she doesn't have as much to play with, but that's the name of the game when you're the sympathetic protagonist, and she does and excellent job with what she's got. Those two essentially has to carry the film through the periodic problems it runs into, and it sure runs into some of those; a dream sequence disrupts the narrative completely, and comes of as the cheat it is, that problem segues right into the final act of the film which is a complete mess of morals and ideas from the entire spectrum tearing each other apart (I think some producers may very well have had some input there), and on top of that there's a certain loose quality to the visual style Lehman has chosen, a striking difference between scenes and sequences that aught to feel as part of the same whole (in other words, he's not quite sure what he's doing), that gives the film a wobbly unfocused feel. The attempt to make it a classical story about a hero against villains fails since the film also wants to make the lead an immoral self-absorbed teenager, it wants to be amoral and cold, meaningful and profound, all at the same time, eat its cake and have it, and that doesn't quite work... But it doesn't really matter that much, 'cause this film is gutsy, funny, original and clever enough to get away with problems, heck, it doesn't really seem to care if it's somewhat badly structured, Lehman & Co just throw on another swipe at teachers, teenagers, the media, parents, social hierarchy, or whatever tickles their fancy, and it's of and running again.I very much enjoy Lehman's use of background action to deliver small insignificant non sequiturs, which despite their lack of direct meaning nonetheless broadens the films universe, and more importantly, makes me smile. The kid who for some reason is sleeping in the middle of the cafeteria through the entire school intro scene, the girl who keeps chewing gum through a funeral etc...Undoubtedly outdated in some ways, but mainly it's still a fresh and funny look at teen angst and all that jazz. "},{"Title":"Chaos was what killed the dinosaurs, darling.","Date":"28 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" After I finished watching Heathers for the first time, I couldn't help but look over my body to make sure that I wasn't bleeding from any cuts. This was literally the sharpest written film that I have ever experienced arriving from the 1980s. From the dialogue to the story to the underlying symbolism that hits you right in the face, it is hard to believe that this film isn't on the top list of everyone out there. It reminded me of the first time that I watched Fight Club. The darkness surrounding Tyler Durden was nearly the same as what followed Slater around as he forced Ryder into these situations. In fact, the similarities between the two films are outstanding. I would love to take these two movies and watch them back to back to see what else could be connected. For those that liken Heathers to Mean Girls, I would say yes, but Fight Club has more relevance. Even the film The Suicide Club seemed to ooze a bit of Heathers the first time I watched it. Either way, this movie stands out above anything else that I have witnessed. The dark characters, the lines spoken by the actors and the story just seeped cult classic and should be watched by everyone interested in film.I have to applaud the actors in this film. I realize that this was one of Christian Slater's first films and he was phenomenal. The speeches that he delivered spoke to me and really defined him as a better actor than what he eventually became. Ryder was exceptional as well. The chemistry that these two had together should go down in film books as one of the quirkiest romances Hollywood has ever contrived. Their ability to make us believe in their plight as well feel their frustration and anguish is tough to find in today's Hollywood. Combined with some great performances by (gasp&#133;should I say it?) Shannon Doherty, Lisanne Falk, and Kim Walker as the three Heathers, you cannot help but find yourself lost in these rich, devoted characters. While the story carries itself, these actors brought the words of the screenplay to life. They spoke of more than just high school drama, but instead the status of our society and the absurdity of suicide. They changed themes, destroyed stagnant decisions, and opened the door to so many possibilities, both dark and comical, that I am shocked that more isn't explored with this film. If I were to grab three films about our society to show to a race of aliens, I would take Fight Club, The Suicide Club, and Heathers. These are the films that are not afraid to speak the truth about our world.I need to go ahead and say WOW to the story. Not just WOW in a state of shock, but also a WOW in the style of excitement. I did not see this film coming. I knew that it had been promoted as this dark comedy, but I have seen plenty of those and was concerned that it just wouldn't hit the buttons that it needed to. Again, and I love to say this, but I was wrong. Daniel Waters dove deep into the world of High School and exposed some of the darkest corners that other Hollywood films were afraid to touch. Even Mean Girls never quite hit the buttons that it should have. This movie talked about sex, parties, drugs, clicks, and the harshness of being an outcast. It did this in such a real way that you could not't help but think back to your own High School days while watching this movie. The language is so intense that after you watch it for the first time, certain quotes are just embedded in your mind. What other film can you say creates that impression? I know of only a handful that I walked away from still quoting the movie. Heathers is a success and should never be ignored.Finally, I would like to give credit to director Michael Lehmann for exposing such a brutal topic and not going too commercial with it. There were some moments where you could tell that there was a Hollywood path that Lehmann could have followed and made viewers probably happier, but instead he completely turned and went a new direction. There were scenes that I was shocked to see, like the scene in the bathroom with Heather and her pills, because it was as if Lehmann was creating more than just a story, but an entire world. His attention to detail and obvious hand on the pulse of the young adult world was obvious in this film. Lehmann successfully created a lasting dark comedy that is both thought provoking and exciting at the same time. I would even go so far as to say that this might have been the best movie to come out of the 80s, but I don't want to jump too soon &#133; but it is close.Overall, I suggest Heathers to everyone and anyone. I also suggest skipping any version that comes on television and go straight to getting it on DVD. The R-rating gives you the full effect of this film, while I think anything less would diminish the quality of this Grade A work. For those that passionately loved Fight Club and want to see the issues expressed in that film on a high school level, than this is the film for you! Amazing from beginning to end with some of the greatest quotes any singular film has created! I cannot wait to watch this film again &#133; and again &#133; and again &#133; and again &#133; and again! Grade***** out of ***** "},{"Title":"Where did Christian Slater go???","Date":"12 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  It's hard to believe that Christian Slater's breakout role as Jason J.D. Dean in Heathers was almost 15 years ago.  It's also amazing how well he pulled off his take on Jack Nicholson and psycho characters.  Of course, when you look around, Christian Slater has all but fallen off the face of the earth.  I haven't seen him since his two-minute cameo as a Starfleet officer reporting to George Takei's Captain Sulu in Star Trek VI  The Undiscovered Country, and that was in the early 90's.  I can't remember if Murder in the First was before or after that little spot.As to the movie itself, it definitely falls under the category of cult classic.  Very 80's, very much a cross between social commentary and satire about that commentary with plenty of comedy and surrealism thrown in for good measure.  An interesting feature from the DVD of Heathers is a screenplay of the original ending where Winona Ryder's Veronica kills J.D. in the boiler room, then takes his bomb and blows herself up outside the school.  The original ending finishes with what seems like a dream-like school prom where all the cliques of the school break out of their molds and dance and mingle with each other.  This includes all the characters who died during the movie.  Apparently, the powers that be felt this ending would have been too dark for the teen audience of the time.  I'd actually have to agree, although it would have fit in with the strangeness of the movie in general.Another little tidbit  Shannon Doherty as one of the Heather characters BEFORE she hit it big with 90210. "},{"Title":"I don't patronize bunny rabbits","Date":"31 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  It's difficult to find a teen movie more scathing and trenchant than Heathers. Packaged and sold as a film about a group of wanna-be Valley Girls, it turned out to be a deadly examination of cliques and teenage vengeance, a black comedy comparable in its own way to Lord of the Flies. Screenwriter Daniel Waters and writer-director Michael Lehmann took audiences by surprise with smart, telling dialogue and a diabolical plot. Playing the only member of an Ohio high school's ruling clique not named Heather, Winona Ryder did much to launch herself into stardom. The film also cemented the bad-girl reputation of TV star Shannen Doherty and featured Christian Slater in his first major starring role. Heathers was too dark to be as popular with mass audiences as it was with many viewers and critics.  "},{"Title":"The classic Teen Movie","Date":"22 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie had a lot of different mixtures to it. It was really funny, but then again twisted and scary! Then it was kind of sad, and then romantic! The actors are brilliant and they really brought a lot more to the movie. I thought it really opened people's eyes so that they could realize that not everybody's life is perfect and some things aren't what they seem. And some of those things, we need to pay little more attention to. "},{"Title":"Moment of silence please...this movie is the absolute BEST","Date":"31 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  OK, there are no words to describe how great this movie is. Christian Slater and Winona Ryder are absolutely amazing and perfectly cast in Heathers. This is a must see for everyone who loves a revolutionary teen movie, or any of the actors in this in general.The writers and directors of this movie had set out to make THE definitive teen angst movie, and they did just that. Heathers is a holy grail that will remain in the hearts of those who truly love it forever.*SPOILERS HEREIN*Winona Ryder is excellent as the movie's heroine, Veronica Sawyer. Her thoughts and feelings about what's going on in her life are raw and real. Teens seeing it can connect with her. The plot is basically about teen suicide, and many were worried that after seeing this movie, there would be an outbreak of copycat suicides, but it did just the opposite of that. Heathers shows teens that suicide isn't a cool thing. The film's rather garish approach to it is necessary for this message to be conveyed.Now, the real spotlight in this film shines on Christian Slater as J.D. He is extremely sexy in his psychotic nature, and he gives the film a dangerous edge. Mr. Slater makes this movie what it is. No other actor could possibly have carried this role out as well as he did. He seems to be psychotic yet apologetic all at the same time. It's a strange web of emotion, and he weaves it flawlessly. Slater has been critisized for his imitation of Jack Nicholson in this role, but the mimicry fits J.D.'s mold perfectly. Congratulations, Mr. Slater. You won my heart with this role.Bottom line, see this movie, 6 out of 5 stars, it is truly amazing. "},{"Title":"Classic brain candy...","Date":"5 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film is a dazzling little piece of dark comedy that is a must see. Winona Ryder and Christian Slater are both perfectly cast in a story about the darker side of teen angst. Truly a wicked and totally watchable farce. "},{"Title":"No words can describe...","Date":"18 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Having seen this film almost 100 times, I have broken it down to its metaphors, imagery, references, inside jokes, etc.  I won't bore you with all that, but know...this movie has so many layers, you can see it again and again and never get bored.  Having some of the best one liners in movie history (F**k me gently with a chainsaw, Did you eat a brain tumor for breakfast?, Bulimia is so '87), and the best cast of talented unkowns (forgetting of course its two stars), it is also the most intelligent teen angst film with it's second being The Breakfast Club.  It is impossible for me to recommend this movie enough.  All you have to know is, if you're my friend, you've seen this movie.  If you're destined to become my friend, you will see this movie.  I share it like Mormon's share The Book of Mormon.  It holds the secret to life in between its biting sarcasm.  The key to happiness rests inside the lockers and in the boiler room of Westerberg High School.  Color-coded emotions and ironic pop music paint the most vivid picture of all we've felt and dealt with in the four long, miserable yearsof High School.  >  "}{"Title":"Why I don't miss High School","Date":"7 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is one of the best teen films ever made. Yeah, i said it.Filled to the brim with satire, black humor and melodrama, this movie is teen angst at it's over-dramatic best. The dialogue is clever yet ridiculously quotable (there is strong language, for those who are sensitive to that kind of thing - used in interesting ways, for those who like that sort of thing). The plot plays on the heightened emotions of  an i'll just die if they don't like me, social pecking order. And heck, it's just funny.Daniel Waters, the screenwriter, is John Hughes' evil twin and this is the anti-breakfast club. Those who are looking for a 'can't the jock, the princess, the geek and the misfit get along' feel good kinda flick look elsewhere (though all the major teen stereotypes are there). Christian Slater is great as the James Dean/Jack Nicholson-bad-boy-who-makes-us-feel-so-good, this is probably Winona Ryder's best role (besides in court w/ the whole arm bit), and  Shannon Doherty is perfect in one of her first roles where she plays the character she plays best - a B****! It is also great that the teenagers are actually teenagers (ok, SOME of them were).Overall, if it came down to a cool contest Heather#1 would kick Cher (from Clueless)'s butt. How very! "},{"Title":"Ryder proves herself..dark comedy at its best","Date":"28 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  There's no point denying that Heathers is a cult classic.  Its dark and disturbing, yet hilarious in places, and the dialogue used is spot on. Veronica Sawyer (Ryder) comes out with some splendid one-liners, and it is in this film that I feel Winona truly proves herself as an A-list celebrity. Her work prior to this (Lucas, Beetlejuice etc) is also excellent, but in Heathers she really comes into her own.  Christian Slater and Shannen Doherty both perform really well; Christian as the rebel-without-a-cause Jason Dean, and Doherty as the bitchy Heather Duke.  Kim Walker (RIP) makes a truly memorable performance as Heather Chandler - the first student to fall victim to JD's evil ways.Heathers teaches that cliches ain't all that and they are also a prime example of the nature of high school life, especially state-side.  I am maddened by the negative reviews of this film, as it truly is a classic and should not be missed! Although I am not denying that the script is a little weak and patchy in places, it truly is a masterpiece.  Many people dislike it because it is definitely dark, but that is its appeal.  Too many films fall into the stereotypical teen movie mould these days, and Heathers breaks the mould and pushes at the boundaries - and succeeds!  I think people can recognise the characters in Heathers from those at their own high schools - and that is another appeal of the film.It truly is one of the best films I have ever seen. Excellent. Deserves 10/10. "},{"Title":"Society Can Be Deadly","Date":"13 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  WOW!I am officially in love with Winona Ryder (Reality Bites, Lost Souls, Girl Interrupted) after seeing this movie! She was absolutely adorable in this flick. Christian Slater (Broken Arrow) plays a complete nutcase, his character resembles something that he played not too long ago (Very Bad Things), another black comedy flick which is a must see! If you enjoy movies such as these, you have to see Very Bad Things. It's also worthy to mention that this flick comes from the folks who also brought us 'Hudson Hawk & Airheads'. This is the main reason why I had to see this. I absolutely loved Hudson Hawk, and Airheads was simply a kick ass movie. Just look at its cast! (Steve Buscemi, Adam Sandler, Brendan Fraiser!) I had no doubt that 'Heathers' wasn't going to satisfy me. Although, the movie itself is a bit cheesy at certain moments, I didn't let that bother me too much. After all, it was shot in the 80s.This movie is much more than just a comedy. Some people might find a deeper meaning throughout it's thick dialogue, especially about the society and how it affects people. Can society drive certain individuals to the point where they are unable to control their own doings? Maybe so. It's up to you to decide. This movie screams '1980s' like a f***in' opera. Not so much the scenery but the outfits and the hair. I can't believe I lived through this and didn't think it was lame. I guess that's how it goes, once you grow older, you find yourself mocking something you once enjoyed.So, here we have a girl (Veronica) who is fed up with the popular 'cliq' and wants to break free. She's aided by J.D. who is also a fed up with the people from his school. They commit murders and make them out to be suicides. Sounds like a lame premise but it's really not. The only problem I have with this movie is that it wasn't developed they way it could have been developed. It seemed as if the director and the producers were trying to rush things just a tad bit too much.Winona Ryder did an amazing job, she was so adorable in this movie that it was almost impossible to shut it off. I've always been a fan of Christian Slater so it was no surprise that he did good in this flick. Shannen Doherty in another hand was kind a flaky. I don't know if I dislike her because of her acting or just because she's known to be a raging bitch. Even though she was rad in Mallrats, she didn't do much for me in this one. Another thing that's really cool about this movie are the memorable quotes. Here are few of them..Jason Dean The only place different social types can genuinely get along with each other is in heaven.Principal I've seen a lot of sexually perverse photographs involving tennis rackets.Heather Chandler Grow up, Heather. Bulimia's so '87!Jason Dean This is Ohio. If you don't have a brewski in your hand you might as well be wearing a dress.Veronica Dear diary, Heather told me she teaches people real life. She said Real life sucks losers dry. If you want to f*** with the eagles, you have to learn to fly.The last one cracked me up. I couldn't help but notice how many times I've said What the ...? while watching this movie. It's really different from anything you might have seen, except 'Very Bad Things' those two flicks share a striking resemblance, not just because of it's mood, but also because Christian Slater plays almost the same exact character he did in Heathers. Is this movie worth owning? Only if you're a cult fan. If it a worthy rental? Most definitely, get this if you're nostalgic for the 80s or just want to see a flick packed with black humor. "},{"Title":"As Black As Comedy Gets","Date":"16 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is one of the most perfectly crafted movies of all-time.  It's not completely original (check out Massacre At Central High for a similar plot) but the snappy dialog, cinematography, and even the music make this one of the most seamless, perfect comedies ever made. "},{"Title":"Disturbing but entertaining dark comedy","Date":"25 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  As a former teacher, I'm both ashamed to admit I love this film and disturbed that almost every kid with whom I have discussed it tells me, That's my high school except for the dying. It's scary to think that stereotyped caricatures seem real to many students. The clueless adults would be pitiful if they weren't so ridiculous. The film is well-crafted and entertaining and great fun for fans of VERY dark comedy. "},{"Title":"Like a CBS AfterSchool Special directed by Wes Craven.","Date":"6 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Heathers is a dark, hip comedy that will emerge as one of the best remembered films of its' decade. Alternately hilarious and disturbing, the film details the exploits of a young couple knee deep in high school politics and murder. Slater's Nicholson persona originated here and only adds to the offbeat charm. Smart and filled with more heart than anyone ever gave it credit for. It's like a CBS Afterschool special as directed by Wes Craven.      "},{"Title":"MY own personal cult classic.","Date":"28 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  In my own personal perfect world I would consider Heathers to be a cult classic.  In high school I could watch this movie every day, recite every line, and enjoy Jason Dean's character more and more.  I love how it portrays high school life dealing with cliques, jocks, parents of the rich, and those cast aside as if they weren't really people.  Perhaps today if people would watch this movie they would understand how some of us are treated so poorly. Then we could do something before someone blows away their fellow jock or classmate.  Of course you can't take the film too seriously.  Veronica (thanks to Winona Ryder) is just so cool, you have to love the way she deals with her so called friends.  It's a shame Jason had to be so psychotic. . . I thought they made a great pair.  This film will always be a 10 in my catalogue of movies, but it is just a silly teenage angst BS flick. "},{"Title":"Heathers should have been the teen movie to emulate...","Date":"7 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  in terms of tone.  These days, the teen movies seem to be taking the John Hughes route--very bright, very sunny, but the best teen movies seem to be the darker, sharper ones, movies like Welcome to the Dollhouse and Heathers.  These movies know that high school (or middle school for that matter) is hell and it has fun blowing up its quirks with a bomb.  For me, the only misstep was that Veronica did not blow up the school at the end (the original ending).  Oh well, I can't have it all. "},{"Title":"No Heather, it's Heather's turn","Date":"11 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Razor-sharp and blackly comic commentary on the high-school caste system features memorable and colorful production design and outstanding performances, especially from Winona Ryder -- who perfectly realizes Veronica Sawyer, the exceedingly intelligent social climber who comes to understand quickly that her quest for popularity is a gigantic waste of time.  Thoroughly quotable, the script dishes up plenty of de rigeur teen film types the distant parents, the vacant teachers, the catty cheerleaders, the over-sexed football players, and the hopeless geeks. Whether or not one will appreciate the film depends largely on the acceptance of Christian Slater, shamelessly mining the Jack Nicholson school of line delivery.    "},{"Title":"Cult Movies 50","Date":"4 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" 50. HEATHERS (comedy, 1989) High school wannabe-Veronica (Winona Ryder) just wants to be accepted. That's why she hangs out with Westerburg High's glamorously elite 'Heathers', a group of 3 prepped-up fashion minded teens. The sort of gals every school has but everybody hates. Sick of always following their lead she desperately seeks her own individuality. She meets the not-so-normal J.D.(Christian Slater) the kind of kid who spends most of his days in the principal's office. His ideas on getting rid of the 'Heathers' problem, while effective, turn out to be a little bit deadly.Critique The tag line for this film is 'a killer comedy'. A better one would've been 'don't try this at school kids!'. Black (bordering on the insane) comedy was supposed to be a serious statement against youth suicide. It's anybody's guess how it turned out the way it did. A sort of 'slapstick-death comedy' similar in tune to the 'horror/comedies'. It shares the same wickedly absurd touches of the surreal, funny and weird. Critics responded positively to this one, admiring its many one-liners and sharp social commentary. I like it most for Christian Slater's star-making role as J.D. A Jack Nicholson/Bruce Dern/Dennis Hopper inspired crossbreed of characters that instantly made him into a bona fide presence. He would follow this with the equally enjoyable (Generation X) cult Pump Up the Volume (1990). 'Heathers' is the true sleeper film, creating its own unique style that will remain through celluloid ages.QUOTES Veronica Dear Diary, my teen angst bulls#!t has a body count. "}{"Title":"Didn't see that coming.","Date":"20 July 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" The other day I was sitting on the couch with my mother and she turns on Heathers. I had not seen the movie before and from only seeing the cover art and hearing the name I feared the worst. A coming of age movie telling the tale of a distressed highschool girl looking for love, friendship, and the other side of the rainbow. Essentially crap. But dear lord in heaven this knocked me off my feet. With their clever back and forth between J.D. and Veronica I assumed it would just be a funny part in the movie setting the base for the stereotypical bad boy J.D. would be. Then they killed Heather. I got a bit skeptical and thought maybe they're in for a little more hyjinx than expected. As the movie progressed I found myself paying more and more attention to it. Eventually I was glued to the screen. For a movie I thought was going to be a steaming pile of stereotypes, this was a pleasant surprise. "},{"Title":"Grows more relevant with age..and all by accident","Date":"31 October 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I don't think Heathers ever intended to be an important movie. It's a dark comedy probably meant to take a stab at high school rom coms of the 1980s more than anything else, with a hint of social satire for good measure. Yet it's one of those films that repeat viewings scream irony after watching the news.For the uninitiated, Heathers is a subversive black comedy that pokes fun at high school cliques and the faux coming together that sometimes results from a tragedy at a school, particularly in regards to teenage suicide. It was a career starter for Christian Slater and Wynona Ryder, while being laced with enough great dialogue to influence an array of writers - well, if not, at least Diablo Cody.The film takes particularly aim at the elitist clique of girls, while taking a brief jab at jocks. JD and Veronica are that voice in the heads of so many, doing to these groups what many only imagine. JD creepily wears black clothing and at one point in the film, is carrying a bag full of something we only dread hearing about on the news.Heathers was funny initially. Over time, it's become a cautionary tale, yet never rising to the level of significance that it should. Heathers successfully gets into the head of would be school bombers and the danger of cliques and exclusive groups. In a time where teen suicides are making news again due to these exclusive groups' persecution of others, the film takes on a whole new relevance.The writing is sharp and dares to speak uncomfortable truths that resonate with the youth not only of the 80s, but also of today. Whether accidental or on purpose, the film is still important. It doesn't really offer a hero or even hope at the end. While the ending seems a little uncertain about how to handle any of our problems, the mere airing of our own dirty laundry provides topic for discussion. Despite the dated music and fashion, this film deserves a repeated viewing or two in this day and age. "},{"Title":"Ultimate Team Film Of All Time","Date":"15 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This was the film I watched as a child and its fascinated me to this day. Every time I watch this film i pick something new from it each time.The script was ahead of its time and many teen films of today have taken something from it. From Scream to Meangirls, many films would not have existed without Heathers.This film also introduced me to dark comedy and unleashed the odd humour that lies within me.If you want to watch a timeless teen film with an edgy script and stellar cast then this is the film to see. "},{"Title":"Whats Your Damage Heather!","Date":"24 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" loved this movie. there are so many great things that was in this movie. such a shame that they never did a sequel. the language and line in this was so ahead of its time. people don't even talk like this today. the funny thing about this movie was all the colors each girl wore. red being the power and bitchiest of all of them. green a bitch but not liked even buy her friends. yellow popular but wanted out of the crowd she was in. and then there's Veronica with her blues and greys the not so popular girl who the Heathers take in to be one of them. did you have a brain tumor for breakfast. as watching this movie didn't think it was going to end up about murder and cover it up with suicide. as the first kill is being done it awful to say but it is so funny when bitchy red heather is choking on drano and she utters corn nuts being that is the last thing that she ate the night before.i just killed my best friend, and your worst enemy. and this movie was the last movie that its company produced. so it went down as a classic. anyway sad no sequel but there maybe would have been if Wynona Ryder wasn't caught shoplifting. Bulemia is so 87, come on Heather show us todays lunch. "},{"Title":"The more things change, the more they stay the same","Date":"21 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is without a doubt one of the great social satires of cinema. Two great reasons to see this (a film which is, indeed, more effective today than it was when it came out originally) are 1.) It cleverly depicts all the kids in a high school as a caricature of politics in America (which STILL have not changed). 2.) It is chilling as a prophecy of what was to come in Littleton, Colorado. If you will remember, when the Columbine massacre happened, the mass media tried desperately to influence the public to desire a crusade against violent works of cinematic fiction and rock n' roll music. The sad truth was if the same media people wouldn't have over-publicized what went on, so many kids wouldn't have had as much an inspiration to do violent things to others in their schools. (Let me make it clear that I know the mass media weren't the ONLY reason for kids killing each other because violence became a way of American life so long ago that the oldest people alive today weren't even born in time to witness the birth of our nation.) This film, from 1989, is creepier than ever when you make a connection between this seemingly unrelated political rant and what happens in the film. Some of the symbolism in this a riot. A great example As oral sex is about to be performed by a preppie girl, the camera pans up to a picture of an MTV advertisement on the wall that shows someone being blown away by their TV set. That is commentary, man! I absolutely love everything about this movie. Even if people like Shannon Doherty spent most of their careers doing crap, everyone does an excellent job here. Heathers is scathing, brutally honest, and easy to forget that it's a comedy, but that's what makes it as unusual and entertaining as it is. This film deserves every bit of its cult status, and I would urge anyone who is not of a plastic state of mind to watch it (because only they will enjoy it).    "},{"Title":"The most original teen flick campy and dark as can be","Date":"7 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Heathers (1989) Winona Ryder, Christian Slater, Shannen Doherty, Lisanne Falk, Kim Walker, Penelope Milford, Glenn Shadix, Lance Fenton, Patrick Labyorteaux, D Michael Lehmann. High school popular-wannabe Veronica (Ryder, who gives most of the film its edge) hangs with her snotty `in crowd'-the Heathers-where she agrees with her new outcast boyfriend Slater to give the head witch-spelled-with-a-&#145;B' a reality check that turns into an accidental killing. At the very last minute she discovers he has something to do with another series of suicides. Dark, inimitable teen satire is so cruel but it gets brownie points for its novel and campy ideas. Script by Daniel Walters goes two ways; Lehmann's feature debut has the probability to be a cult film. Running Time 102 minutes and rated R for language and violence. ** ½   "},{"Title":"Well F*ck Me Gently With A Chainsaw...","Date":"15 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Because this is one hell of a movie.I remember seeing this a few years ago and being blown away by the acting, the concept and the script, and it very quickly made it's way up the list of my favourite movies.This is arguably Christian Slater's best career performance (but I am biased by the fact that I happen to be a big fan).  He plays the dark, psychotic teenage boy perfectly and I can see why he was being tipped as the new Jack Nicholson when this movie came out.Winona Ryder was exceptional in her role as well, she hasn't really topped, or equaled for that matter, this role since (apart from maybe Girl, Interrupted, but that film was stolen by the lovely Ms Jolie).Most of the lines in the movie are fantastic as well, very dark and comedic. The best usually come in the form of Veronica's diary which we hear her narrating)Overall this is one of the best movies that I have had the pleasure of seeing and definitely gets and 11/10. "},{"Title":"A film for the disgruntled, anti-social teenager at heart.","Date":"2 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" The story is questionable new boyfriend convinces impressionable girl to slowly kill off all the popular people in the school to make it a better place. The message isn't good commit murder and blame it on the external influences of others.The plot is somewhat inspired, but rough around the edges. Heathers breaks conventions, but doesn't adhere to any rules, so it's not heavy on substance. It attempts to be high camp and succeeds on those merits its the unrestrained bitchiness-of-it-all that makes this film so watchable.Heathers creates its own style of dialogue without seeming put-upon, like, let's say Swingers. The language is trashy and lewd, but it finds its voice in Heather Chandler, played by Kim Walker (may she rest in peace), so effortlessly ferocious in her ability to cut people down, and the jeamous, unfaithful disciples who surround her.Many of the performances can be annoying and/or unmemorable, with the exception of parts that really matter, namely, Veronica and Heather #1 -3. Country Club Courtney and Betty Finn are also fun in smaller roles and most of the adult roles deliver. Some of the guys are appropriately oafish and cocksure (like Kurt and Ram), and I felt very indifferent to Christian Slater's Jack Nicholson/James Dean.This is a film that I watched over and over again on the HBO we got free somehow in the late 80's after our neighbor's started subscribing to it. (!?) Perhaps it appealed to my queer nature. I can't think of any other reason, because I wasn't any of those characters. I was somewhere between Peter Dawson (sans wealthy background), played by Jermey Applegate (may he rest in peace) and the geek who accidentally sneezes the milk out of his nose, although a friend enjoyed teasing me that I was Betty Finn. (while he self-appointed himself Heather Duke!) Maybe. It just had this cult-trash glimmer and came out when I was still a teenager. My high school life was uneventful, so I lived vicariously through the Heathers, I guess. 10 There's really nothing like it. "},{"Title":"Corn nuts!","Date":"18 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  'Heathers' is a thoroughly amusing dark comedy that revolves around the lives (and deaths) of one upper-class high school clique.  The movie is over-the-top, campy, blissfully satirical goodness that never takes itself seriously for a second.  The dialogue exploits the faux-angst of high school life with an arsenal of hilarious exchanges.  There's some great one-liners and memorable quotes here (F*** me gently with a chainsaw! I use my great IQ to decide what color lip gloss to wear and how to hit three keggers before curfew etc, etc).  The movie's humor is a blend of so stupid it's funny and genuinely witty and clever moments.  I definitely recommend 'Heathers,' rent it and see what a great comedy should be. "},{"Title":"The urge to purge","Date":"16 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  CONTAINS A MINOR SPOILER (IF YOU CAN EVEN CALL IT THAT)Black comedies don't get any better than this! Heathers is about three rich, snobby, unendlessly ruthless girls from a highschool, all named Heather. The 3 Heathers are best friends and stand atop the ladder of school popularity with class and a bitterness towards anyone that they don't consider 'cool'. When Veronica Sawyer (Winona Ryder - Beetlejuice, Little Women) joins the school, the Heathers soon become friends with her, that is, until Veronica and her boyfriend JD, (Christian Slater) accidently kill Heather Chandler!Ryder and Slater make a great team and no doubt take a significant portion of the storyline and one-liners, but special mention must be made of Shannen Doherty who is very entertaining as Heather Duke (it was her role in this movie, that got Tori Spelling to convince her dad to cast her as Brenda Walsh in Beverly Hills 90210).The film consistently and thoroughly entertains throughout the entire piece without lagging, struggling or dying in terms of acting or plot. The ending was extremely funny - as are the many seemingly impossible situations that   and  get themselves into! So if you haven't seen it yet, rent out Heathers right now. Or better yet, you could buy it and avoid the expensive late bills you'd end up recieving from the video store! 8/10  "}{"Title":"Well f*ck me gently with a chainsaw","Date":"4 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I love this movie, it captures the full potential of a teenager to be a total bitch, its funny and its true, you can see power struggles like this happening all up and down the country, its just plain spooky... (the other difference however is that MY teen angst DOESN'T have a body count!)This movie is one of the better dark humor movies that i've ever seen, from the moment that the movie starts playing you know that your in for a good movie. Also, Ryder is incredible in this and she shows us just how good an actress she can actually be, her supporting cast are just as good and they all capture just what its like to be a teen, and also a teen with issues. "},{"Title":"I loved this satirical look at high school.","Date":"29 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Heathers is a great satirical look at high school life in the late 1980's.It focuses at first on the popular girls, the Heathers, who are also mean to everybody, but turns when an interesting new kid enters school played by Christian Slater.  This is my favorite work of his as he plays the creepy, yet seductive Jason Dean.  Winona Ryder is also great as Veronica one of the popular girls who is starting to question how mean the Heathers can be to other kids in school.  Jason helps Veronica to question the Heathers attitudes.  When a practical joke of Jason and Veronica's takes an unexpected turn is when this film really gets rolling and leads to some unexpected scenes which are both frightening and hilarious.For all of the high school movies that come along every year this is definitely one of the best of all time which I would include in the company of Ferris Bueller's Day Off, Risky Business, The Breakfast Club and Fast Times at Ridgemont High.  Daniel Waters screenplay is wonderful and the dialogue between the characters is very interesting.  Michael Lehmann's direction is also very good as he chooses some interesting camera angles at times, but is not overbearing in his direction.Heathers is a rare movie in that you both feel sympathetic for the characters while also disliking them sometimes.  It shows how easy it is to become involved in something wrong in high school without really trying to. Christian Slater and Winona Ryder have never been better and I wish they would get together on screen again.  Heather is a movie that should be enjoyed and provoking thought for a long time.     "},{"Title":"80's teen genre turned upside down!","Date":"2 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A masterpiece without any doubt. How popular those 80's teen flics were, and for good reason, a new genre explored and through the likes of John Hughes, delivered masterfully, Heathers changed all that. It is in this context that the film must be viewed, see the likes of The Breakfast Club, Some Kind Of Wonderful, St. Elmos Fire, and you may start to realise the huge impact this film had (and still does!) Here the genre is torn apart and reshaped entirely the wrong way up. Where before, this type of film was a real feelgood factor genre, Heathers flips this into a dark (yet comical still?) shocker. Winona Ryder and Cristian Slater are perfectly cast and allows the film to evolve beyond the simple teen flic.If you havn't seen it, do so. If you have, then get and watch some of those other 80's classics and admire further it's geniusDave "},{"Title":"Wow. . .what a movie","Date":"22 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Having just seen this movie for the first time as a freshman in college i can honestly say that this movie was light years ahead of its time.  I doubt it could be made now due to all the violence in schools nowadays, but i think every high school kid should see this movie, and i can't believe i went through four years of high school without seeing it.  Paints a painfully realistic picture of the hell that is the high school experience "},{"Title":"That's the flick that can be called classic!","Date":"19 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Heathers portrays it all.  The classic details of suicide in a High School. When suddenly the dead one is more popular than the live ones.  When the whole world realizes that they were the best friend of the suicide victim. Just to get their face on the news more or less.  Heathers shows a classic world of High School as it will always be.  From the preps (the Heathers) to the Jocks.  It's all there and I expect no different in the sequel. "},{"Title":"As vicious as they come...","Date":"24 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  *Possibly contains mild plot spoilers. You have been warned!*The most ingenious of the so-called dark comedies are successful for the way that they manage to take a most unpleasant aspect of human society and lambast said sociological flaw as shrewdly as possible. _Fargo_, for example, tackles middle class complacency, while _Election_ celebrates the triumph of human greed._Heathers_, undoubtedly one of the most vicious, relentlessly cynical films in a genre that thrives on its use of satire, focuses on the pettiness and ill-conceived social mores upon which the uniquely American construct of upward social mobility are based. Certainly no one who views this film will ever look at the game of croquet in quite the same way again.And therein lies the greatest strength of _Heathers_ as a film-- its uncanny ability to remove the commonplace from the reality that the viewer knows and to reconstruct the symbols it chooses-- including croquet; funerals; pep rallies; and, in one of the film's most memorable scenes, mineral water-- within the context of the fictional Westerburg High in such a way that, although greatly distorted, an uncomfortable familiarity is retained. The effective use of all of these reconstructions is a vicious cariacature of a power struggle that is based upon little more than which of the involved individuals can exhibit the most grossly deviant behavior without getting caught.And those individuals are characters fully developed to a truly rare extent, as the motives of even the minor players such as Heather McNamara (as opposed to Heather Chandler or Heather Duke...) are explored. Winona Rider gives one of the very best performances of her accomplished career as Veronica Sawyer, the member of The Heathers who dares to challenge the status quo. The results, of course, are gloriously disastrous, as her involvement with Christian Slater's-- also in peak form-- mysterious, murderous Jason Dean nearly results in the destruction of Westerburg in its entirety. As is, Veronica says it best when she writes, Our love has a body count.The most satisfying complexity of _Heathers_ is that, at the ultimate, explosive resolution of the struggle for supreme popularity and control of Westerburg, the most overtly corrupt character actually _does_ ascend to authority. Though she does maintain a certain strength of character that permits her to promise some important changes by film's end, Veronica's method for attaining the power that allows her to make such a decree could not be called noble, not even by the most unflinching cynic.As far as films go, _Heathers_ is brilliantly crafted. The dialogue is hilarious, with vicious one-liners coming at a rapid-fire pace. All of the performances, particularly those of the perfectly-matched Rider and Slater, are first rate, and they convey a self-awareness and complexity that might seem to belie individuals who so thoroughly revel in their own shallowness. Interesting murder sequences and satisfying plot twists keep _Heathers_ engaging for the duration of Veronica's tale of redemption.RATING 10 out of 10. One of just a handful of near-perfect films out there. Never taking itself too seriously, _Heathers_ carries shrewd social criticism without ever being obvious. A should-be classic film that, for now, must settle for cult status. A gleefully vicious satire of adult society packaged into an intelligent film that should appeal to anyone who has ever attended high school. "},{"Title":"QUEEN OF HIGH SCHOOL BLACK COMEDIES","Date":"29 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  It's funny how this movie can be so over-the-top, yet hit right marks of high school portrayal so precisely.Dan Waters's dialogue is priceless. What's your damage, Heather?  Corn Nuts!  I'm worshipped here and I'm only a junior.  You're beautiful.  Grow up, Heather. Bulimia is so '87!  These are just a few. The movie is almost like an encyclopedia of catch phrases, and so much more.It's the little things that make this comedy lethal. Like the oblivious parents who love pate (played outstandingly by Jennifer Rhodes and Bill Cort) and the tennybopper band Big Fun with its one-hit wonder Teen Suicide (Don't Do It) as the movie's theme song.The casting is ingenious. Christian Slater has never been better than his role as JD, the charismatic sociopath rebel who steals the heart of Veronica (Winona Ryder, don't miss Slater light his cigarette from her freshly burned palm!!) who hates being in the Heathers clique. Once murder of the leading Heather in red occurs, the school takes it as some sort of fad.Though the movie uses the serious issue of suicide as a joke, the themes that are very understated makes the movie work. Popularity, authority, the disillusionment the media has on real life, the masks we wear in high school, the strains we go through to fit in. Drama, comedy and violence is all beautifully photographed and staged by director Michael Lehman, who also made, strangely enough, HUDSON HAWK and THE TRUTH ABOUT CATS & DOGS!!!All hail the Queen.  "},{"Title":"THE dark-comedy film...","Date":"4 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  There are very few movies that have absolutely everything-- from direction and acting, to plot and theme-- working together so perfectly well. Heathers is one such film, and it still epitomizes the very notion of 'dark comedy' in my book... moreso than even Fargo, which is equally as brilliant, but in a different, more morbid sense.An even more vicious fantasy for the teenage outcasts than even Carrie, this movie takes all of the cheap shots... but pulls them off intelligently, without making the viewer feel 'dirty' for laughing at the things that Veronica and JD have the audacity to attempt.And the dialogue, from Veronica's Suck it down, baby! to (Shannen Doherty) Heather's exuberant Praise Jesus! is not only hysterical-- it's intelligent, and it's absolutely BRUTAL.The direction is flawless-- the coffee table scene is an absolute CLASSIC of 80's filmmaking. The numerous funeral scenes could've easily become tiresome, but each one is uniquely funny.The students of Westerberg High show us more about the world in general-- the blase attitudes of the affluent (I get to be red...), the plight of each 'Martha Dumptruck,' the extent to which stereotypes and phobias penetrate our society, and the dangers of failing to recognize sociopathy for what it really is-- than merely about the 'angst' of the everyday teenager. Heathers works amazingly well on that level, too, but it has SO much more to offer.Rating 10 out of 10. Absolutely brilliant. Amazing acting, dialogue, and plot coupled vicious humor and social criticism. NO little nit-picks that detract from just how well everything in Heathers works together to a cohesive, brutal film that defines its genre. "},{"Title":"What a stunner","Date":"4 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I rented it cause of Winona Ryder.  I wasn't excepting much.  Wow, was I surprised!  I saw it three times that night, and then I bought it.  It's one my favorite films, and it made me like weird, dark, independent movies such as this.  Watch it; it's well worth your time.  Winona was terrific. "},{"Title":"Dark-Comedy At It's Finest!","Date":"8 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie defiantly packs a punch, and a meaning for that matter, not pussy-footing around like most do... Leaves you with an overwhelming urge to do something extraordinary... wither it's eat a whole box of Malamars or go blow up a building of everyone you'ver ever hated or something like that.... (ha, ha)Very well made movie, (almost taking it a step to far at the end... but holding its own) Ryder is perfect and the whole things comes together like you wouldn't believe it would...One of those kind of movies... you just like and you don't really know why, and you will continue to watch it again and again... however this movie is not for everyone, exspecially if you are not one for dark humor...Builds a hype and doesn't let off till its got what it was going for... wish there was somehow a sequel, but you know there never could be...... and to all you 'Heathers' out there... look out... cause we're gonna get yeah.... "}{"Title":"A ruthless satire","Date":"5 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Sardonic, innovative and engaging, Heathers is a film that you can thoroughly enjoy no matter how many times you see it. Amidst the clutter of the conventional, sentimentality-oozing John Hughes flicks, an escape was finally made when Heathers was released, fearlessly and ruthlessly giving high school films a kick in the @$$. One thing that makes this film stand above the rest is it`s razor-sharp humour, with a script abundant with brilliant slang and insults (F**k me gently with a chainsaw!), delivered by ingeniously created characters ranging from vicious hellcats to repressed-homosexual jocks. High school has never been so pessimistically portrayed than it is here, it is shown as a society where sadism, murder, suicide and media frenzies all seem to be the latest in trend. Winona Ryder and Christian Slater deliver excellent performances as the Bonnie and Clyde couple of the 80`s. But there is a lot more than black comedy going on here, at the heart of Heathers lies a scathing satire on adolescence, one that mercilessly displays just what might happen if extreme cruelty and violence continues to flourish in high schools, and just exactly how the American media will exploit it. Now that`s what I call provocative. "},{"Title":"Best of the best","Date":"4 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  It has been 10 years since Heathers was released, and there still hasn't been a teen movie more smart, funny, or filled with memorable lines such as How very.  A girl and her new boyfriend kill the socially elite at their school.  Sounds, funny?  No.  But because of the writing and acting I found myself cracking up as the various characters met their doom at the hands of Veronica (winona ryder) and JD(christian slater).  As horrible movies starring Jennifer Love Hewitt seem to be in demand, I long for the days when films like Heathers, Better Off Dead, and Sixteen Candles took a twisted yet kind-hearted  view at teen life instead of insulting it. "},{"Title":"Biting, Brilliant","Date":"31 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Heathers should be considered as a classic. This very uncommon film is a delicious blend of a hilarious black comedy and a biting, cruel satire on adolescents. Enough with the John Hughe`s sunny, gooey, optimistic teen flick, Heathers is a more like cynical but sadly realistic film on the dark side of adolescence. The film takes a look inside an Idaho high school called Westerberg High. It is ruled by a party of pate-eating, polo-playing b*tches who ruthlessly torment others to get their kicks. But an outside member of their clique, Veronica,(Winona Ryder)starts to feel sickened by their ways, and with the help of a mysterious but insane rebel, JD,she decides to teach the Heathers a lesson. Unfortunately, the lesson turns into an accidental murder, making Veronica and JD, the Bonnie and Clyde of the 80`s. In the tradition of the horror flim, Carrie, Heathers depicts high school as a torture chamber for some, and a domain for others. Heathers itself is a total mocking of teenagers today, from the amazingly original and incisive dialogue, to the extreme but honest characters. On the surface, Heathers may seem colourful, but the plot gets blacker and blacker as the film unravels, it is hysterically funny too. The main message of this film is that today`s teenage society is dangerously edging extreme violence and destruction. I found the message to be expressed clearly, through the slits of this startling original and brilliant movie. "},{"Title":"One of the Best Black Comedies Ever Made!","Date":"19 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Heathers is a movie for anybody who has ever known the terror of trying to find a seat in a crowded, friendless high school cafeteria.  It also is one of the most quotable movies of all time (What's your damage!?).  Winona Ryder is terrific as the former everygirl (Veronica) who sells her soul to join the popular girls and then decides she wants to buy it back.The titular Heathers are the three reigning bitch goddesses of Westerburg High whose favorite pastime is torturing the unpopular kids.  One early scene has the Heathers writing a fake mushy love note to popular jock.  They forge a signature from an unpopular, heavy girl and send the note so they can watch her be humiliated by the jocks.  Tell me you didn't know people just like them in high school.This early scene is when Veronica starts to realize she's sold her soul to the devil. It's like they're people I work with and our job is being popular, she laments.  Enter a mysterious young man named J.D. (Christian Slater), who helps give her the courage to break away from her new clique. Unfortunately, J.D. is a bad influence of a different kind and Veronica's life quickly gets out of control.Heathers is well-acted dark comedy that somehow manages to have something to say about teen suicide, homophobia, self-esteem, murder, and parenting without losing its razor sharp wit.  See it, if for no other reason, than to hear Wynona Ryder yell at Shannen Doherty `Why are you such a mega-bitch?' and hear Shannen reply `Because I can be.'  "},{"Title":"You'd have to be a Heather to hate this film.","Date":"30 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film completely blew me away when I saw it for the first time in a theatre in a suburb just outside of Toronto; I was thirteen and I had never seen anything so provocatively hilarious or as cleverly satirical.  It immediately became one of my favourite films and I still believe that its lack of box-office success was in part due to the fact that it deals with issues people are often unwilling to discuss and pokes fun at characteristics that people may not necessarily want to recognize in themselves.  My brother saw this film with his then girlfriend - she hated it so much, she walked out. I think that a lot of the satire in this film has either been misunderstood or lost on many people.  It doesn't help that despite its status as a dark comedy satirizing teenaged angst, it has a tacked on Hollywood ending (the original ending supposedly had the entire school exploding, but that would have been too much for the distributors). Still, even with its surreal storyline and execution, this movie said more about what was going on in the Eighties than every John Hughes movie combined.  "},{"Title":"Quite possibly the best dark comedy ever made!!","Date":"26 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Quite possibly the best dark comedy ever made!! This movie has given me some of the best one-liner's and retorts that I have ever used. Winona Ryder AND Christian Slater together?? Who could ask for more? And can I just say that any movie where Shannen Doherty gets slapped in the face, deserves to be hailed as a classic. "},{"Title":"Mean girls","Date":"21 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Heathers was released way ahead of the disturbing school killings that have been at the front of the news in recent years. The film is an eye opener about what typical teen agers in high school face on a daily basis. Peer pressure, cliques, drugs, and other things make the lives of young students hell, when in reality it should be a happy time where they are prepared to face life later on.Director Michael Lehmann, who seems to work mainly on television, showed tremendous courage to bring Daniel Walters' screen play into this black comedy about high schoolers. Mr. Lehmann shows an understanding for what makes people in high school be the way they are, what bothers them, and the rituals of passage they must experience in their young lives.The three Heathers are found in lots of places. These misguided young women are basically control freaks as they demonstrate by dragging Veronica Sawyer to be the instrument of their meanness. Veronica, who is not as strong as her three friends, mainly goes along, although she hates them. These girls show a cruelty for those that are not into the same things they are. They hate everything and everybody; they are miserable and want to make everyone feel the same. In a way, the three Heathers are just cowards who find strength in numbers, as usually is the case with these type of people.Veronica rebels from her three best friends when the psychotic J.D. enters her life. Little does Veronica know she leaves one situation to get into deeper waters with the menacing young creep who resolves everything with a gun. Veronica is made to go along with the punk J.D. in spite of knowing he has deeply rooted problems.The young Wynona Ryder gave a great performance as Veronica. Together with Christian Slater, who is seen as J.D., she had one of the best opportunities of her career that got derailed recently because of her problems with the law. Shannen Doherty, Lianne Falk and Kim Walker are fine as the three Heathers.The film serves as a reminder about what is basically wrong in our society. "},{"Title":"The best teen movie ever made.","Date":"16 April 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" It is rare to see a teen movie explore anything outside of the tragedy of not finding the right pair of shoes at the mall or the other trials and tribulations in the life of some suburbanite white kid. Heathers is that rare one that actually gets it right. It satirizes the superficial nature of teens and their ignorant self importance. It actually asks the audience to think and has a point other than some star crossed nerd and popular kid getting together. Yes, Heathers actually has a point! Something that is still revolutionary in the world of teen movies.One of the first things you will find is the funny and inventive use of vulgarity. This movie is actually hip instead of trying to be hip. It is vulgarity that borders on Tarantino or Kevin Smith style dialogs. It also has Winona Ryder does a great job and the use of narrator voice over is well done and written. The true heart of the movie is still Slater though. He plays a ignored troubled teen who isn't abused or even an angry minority. That's right. No big reason behind his madness other than parents that just didn't love him. The quickness of everyone to embrace the easiest illusion around is just typical americana. If it isn't outsourcing is good it is They hate us for our freedoms. The movie works so well because as a satire it has liberty to wonder out of reality but still be more real than most serious teen dramas. I'll tell you this much. Heathers is more realistic than A Walk to Remember or She's All That.As the movie progresses and JD reveals his murderous insane side most movies would instantly demonize him. They would have the female lead repelled and disgusted. Not Heathers. Keeping with the unconventional feel Winona's character just can't keep her hands off of JD even though she knows their murder spree is wrong and JD is never put into unlikable territory. In fact the terrible people surrounding him make the viewer sympathize with anyone that wants to slaughter them. The ending is just so brutally uncompromising that you have to applaud. We see the end of JD when he detonates bombs strapped to his body while the school is having a pep rally not a 100 yards away. No one cares and you know they won't care when they find out that he is dead. They'll just explain it away in a way that saves them from blame. Bitter, cynical, and always depressing? Not your typical teen movie and thank God for that. "},{"Title":"Biting","Date":"11 December 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Starring Winona Ryder , Christian Slater , Kim Walker , Jennifer Rhodes and Shannen DohertyA gem from the late 80's, Heathers is a brilliantly written indie film which not only managed to launch the careers of its stars, but will be forever remembered as a strong social satire and one of the finest examples of film-making and how many things you may accomplish with a witty and genuinely daring screenplay. Although the basic set is a high school, this movie appeals to all ages because the main theme is that cliques exist in every aspect of human life business, sports, art, science etc,etc.Veronica Sawyer (Winona Ryder) is the rookie in her school's most powerful clique. Her 3 friends are all called Heather. They are snobbish and dislikeable. Heather Chandler (Kim Walker) is the leader and runs the school. Veronica is the newest member and she has doubts about her new lifestyle and the attitude she has to adopt. She has traces of guilt for abandoning her old best friend Betty Finn (Renee Estevez), a nerdy , geeky, sweet girl with glasses who (surprise!!) is still a virgin! Meanwhile a new student called Jason Dean (Christian Slater) comes to town. J.D. has changed about 5 schools in 3 different states because he can't fit in anywhere and as he says...the only difference in these schools was the combination in my locker. J.D. and Veronica soon hit the sheets. J.D. is a rebel and convinces Veronica to acknowledge her hate for her friends. After a fight with Heather Chandler, Veronica and J.D. set a prank for her but Heather accidentally ends up dead. The couple manages to cover it up as a suicide and gets away. But this is only the beginning for a chain of unusual and surrealistic events which lead to an explosive finale!! Slater and Ryder give arguably the best performances of their careers and this helps. Ryder has a sweet face which is perfect. She is convincing as the disorientated teenager who is searching for her identity and although she has aristocratic looks she finds it hard to fit in with the snobbish manners her friends impose. Slater was also perfect playing his psychotic character with the proper innocence to make him look normal enough. The social subjects the film deals with are tremendous. First of all everyone of us has faced cliques in our schools and not necessarily snobbish rich girls. There are always teams of people who form a mafia-like group, are annoying to the bone, do nothing more than serve and protect their own interests and are on a constant conflict to pull the others down. They are so irritating and antipathetic that all of us have fantasies and dreams of them dying (sometimes preferably by our very own bare hands, namely STRANGLING them). Of course these people don't even remotely like each other but keep coiled up for their common interest. Shannen Doherty (playing an other member of the trio) at Heather's funeral thinks Dear God, I had prayed for Heather to die many times, and although I know it was wrong, I kept doing it. And now that finally Heather is dead I know that...you understood...Pray Jesus! Alleluia!!!  This is a prime example of how rotten these cliques are. After Heather is buried Heather Duke (Doherty) pursues her chief status and becomes even bitchier!!Veronica is an average girl which confronts the psychological dilemmas all of us have. What is the cost of being acceptable in your social environment? What does it take to be popular? Is it worth it when you end up not liking yourself and have to stick with friends you dislike? Actually the allegory is even deeper. Many times we don't show our real face to our friends and have to adopt another attitude. We never want to show our compassionate and sensitive side so our friends don't find us weak. We sometimes don't want to confide our unhappiness in order not to expose our vulnerable traits .This bold satire dares to depict with real power and not pretentious provocation what happens when a teenager's life and behavior is treated with silly Freudian terms and is put under the microscope instead of giving him / her what is really necessary; self-esteem and self acceptance.The movie is filled with tragic yet simultaneously hilarious scenes (like the funerals) or lines. One example is after Heather's suicide. The teachers council in her school tries to psychoanalyze her and the most interesting element they find in her suicide note (forged by Veronica) is the word myriads. She failed to write it in a recent dictation test therefore this led her to self-destruction! In one class the teacher asks from her fellow mates to express their feelings over this sad departure. One guy easily says I used to date Heather very briefly once. She left me because she said I was boring. But now...I know it wasn't my fault ...She just wasn't happy from her life. How convenient! Not only can a fact can be interpreted with various silly ways from various silly persons, but the tragic demise of a young individual made another one esteem himself more and overcome his rejection!! There are many other examples but I don't want to give away more spoilers. I will have to warn you that the last 15 minutes are quite lame and disappointing. The plot breaks new limits of over-the-top campiness and we end up with an unnecessary duel scene. It doesn't matter. Heathers is a masterpiece that can be viewed over and over. If you like you may fast forward the last 15 minutes and go to the final ironic line of Veronica to Heather Duke. STRONGLY RECOMMENDED!  Heathers      9 /10  "},{"Title":"The Inoffensive Banality of Evil","Date":"16 June 2010","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Heathers is easily one of the worst movies of the 90s.Or it sure as sh*t *felt* like the 90s. Only the sh*ttiest decade could have produced such swill.Seriously, I love when people say this tripe is nihilistic. It didn't have the b*lls to be anything of the sort! Only the most deserving d*ckheads were killed by an incredibly unbelievable Christian Slater (doing a lame Jack Nicholson impression, meaning that Slater was playing himself). Shrill and intentionally campy without an ounce of actual danger, Heathers moves from one dumb inside joke to the next, torpedoing the messages it thinks so highly of itself for thinking it's making. Only in its last scene does it even have the ability to offend.That scene, by the way, is when Ryder is dancing with the girl in the wheelchair who (from what I recall) she'd been a total b*tch to through the entire movie. It's as if we're about to hear Sarah Connor's narration a la T2 - If a highschooler can learn the value of befriending the disabled... Maybe we can too! PUKE!If I was in a wheelchair, I'd have walked out of the theater. "}{"Title":"Dead-pan comic cynicism bites off more than it can chew...","Date":"28 September 2002","Score":"13 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Heathers delights in shocking viewers with un-PC humor; that's fine, yet the picture is a mess from a filmmaker's stand-point, and Daniel Waters' script takes a dive with twenty minutes left to go. This is a movie that never goes in any particular direction, so Waters left himself an 'out' he could end it anywhere he wanted and figure he was safe. However the acting by leads Winona Ryder and Christian Slater (as high schoolers who murder members of the popular clique) is so strong that the audience is let down by where the writing takes them. This screenplay could be something conjured up in a high school writing class. It has pungent, dead-on scenes of satire and fantasy, but it flags too early and just doesn't have the smarts to realize that--in the end--it's dealing with characters who have become recognizable to us, and throwing them a cartoon bone is as insulting as a croquet ball to the forehead. ** from **** "},{"Title":"Much more complex than the average 80s High School film !!!","Date":"4 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I generally am not a big fan of the Hollywood movies from the 1980s which explored the life of teenagers in high school. This is because on most occasions with these films I have encountered over- glamorisation and cheesiness in the style of storytelling barring a few exceptions. 'Heathers' is one film that I will categorise in those exceptions. It is about teenagers in high school in the 1980s, but the content is very complex, sophisticated and layered.The direction and the screenplay of 'Heathers' is absolutely meticulous. The best way to describe this film I think will be to call this the lovechild of 'The Breakfast Club' and Alexander Payne's 'Election'. It has the concept of exploring the class distinctions in an high school environment like Breakfast Club but it does so in the most sarcastic and darkly comic fashion like 'Election'. The screenplay written by Daniel Waters is very artful in its way it portrays the different class distinctions in high school, how each group treats the other, how every individual does his/her level best to maintain his/her image. There is even a brilliant shot of the character Heather Chandler who is supposed to be this unlikable snobbish person looking at herself in the mirror after doing something she didn't want to do just for maintaining her popularity and the self hate that comes out in that scene is a shot of precious humanity. The character of Veronica who is our protagonist is a very relateable one. She finds herself in a similar position like the others where she has to do all she can to be with the popular group in school. She does everything that she is asked to until she gets fed up and develops a rebellious spirit. This is where a 'Fight Club' connection can come into the equation. Just like the 'Narrator' in 'Fight Club', Veronica spends her time in high school kissing asses of the Heathers clique to maintain her position and image. Christian Slater as Jason Dean as the archetypal James Dean rebel-esque character can be seen to be similar to the character of Tyler Durden in 'Fight Club'. Like Durden, Dean brings out the disturbing and dark inner rebel inside Veronica and both the story lines also end in a similar way with the protagonist finding out about the dangers of extremism. The theme of teenage suicide is also beautifully explored. Another very important aspect is the ambivalence of the elders and the teachers in the film to the problems of the youth and the 'suicides'. The director and the writer certainly take a dig at the elder generation for not trying to understand the younger generation and their mechanical behaviour.Michael Lehmann very efficiently conveys the dark comedy in the script on screen. The characters are a bit over-the-top at times, but as this is a bit of a satire it is understandable. Winona Ryder as Veronica is great. She perfectly conveys the inner struggles and distress that her character goes through. Christian Slater at times is a bit theatrical, but he still does well overall and depicts the craziness that his character is prone to very well. "},{"Title":"A Funny Satire that Still Manages to be Serious","Date":"22 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Heathers is a satire about two teenagers who decide that the only way to stop the cool kids in high school is to kill them. The idea itself sounds like a funny concept, and the movie presents it quite well.The plot of Heathers is well-presented. While there are plenty of funny things about it, the story manages to maintain a serious tone, especially towards the end, and it doesn't stand out at all. It works as a movie with a serious tone and plot, and it works as a comedy too. The characters are quite well developed too. You know what kind of people the two main ones are, and the others are developed reasonably well. While none of them are fantastic, they're good enough to keep you interested. Overall Heathers is a solid movie. The satirical humor is good, the serious plot is handled quite well, the serious tone is well- integrated, and the characters are pretty good. In the end I'd definitely recommend this movie, but only if you like dark satires like this. "},{"Title":"'I'll need to sent my SAT scores to San Quentin instead of Stanford. ' (Veronica)","Date":"23 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Even though this movie is rapidly approaching 30 years of age I had never seen it, until I watched it yesterday on Netflix streaming.The name comes from a clique of teenagers in high school, three of them named Heather. They are popular and mean, which seems a great cliché for teen movies.But the fourth member is not a Heather, and she is not so mean. She is Winona Ryder (about 16 or 17) as Veronica. Sometimes her friends call her 'Ronnie', and one of her friends outside the clique is Betty. A popular comic book when I was young was 'Archie' and the two recurring characters vying for his affection are Veronica and Betty. I wonder if the scriptwriters made that connection on purpose?The story is pretty much your usual teen dark comedy until another character enters, a new kid at school with a very strange dad, Christian Slater as J.D. The last time he saw his mother was when she was waving at him from a library window in Texas, then the building exploded as his dad had rigged it, he was a demolition expert and mom went into the building as an act of suicide.J.D. sets out quickly to eradicate the Heathers, Veronica thinks he is just kidding around until the other teens start dying.I'm not certain what to think about the movie. On the one hand it is inventive and quirky, Ryder and Slater are both good in their roles. But as a viewer what are we to make of it? Is there a moral to the story? Is it a legitimate commentary on teenagers today? (Or in 1988?) Or is it just a dark comedy made to shock and entertain those who like to view this sort of stuff?I don't know but it is well made. "},{"Title":"Dark, but witty high school comedy","Date":"16 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" From director Michael Lehmann and writer Daniel Waters comes a cult classic 80s black comedy that is both funny and unexpectedly dark, though doesn't go without its flaws. This film follows 17-year old Veronica Sawyer (played by Winona Ryder), a high school girl who is part of a clique known as Heathers, three of girls are all named Heather including the bulimic Heather Duke (played by Shannon Daughtry), the emotionally fragile cheerleader Heather McNamara (played by Lisanne Falk), and the cruel, stuck-up leader of the group Heather Chandler (played by Kim Walker). Veronica has grown despised of the group as these girls as they continue to run her reputation down the hole. He meets a sociopathic young man named J.D (played by Christian Slater) who shares equal dislike for the Heathers and volunteers to help Veronica settle the score with three girls, only to pull her in a dangerous game of murder.This is not your average teen comedy. As the matter of fact, it is quite dark as the plot deals with murder. But at the same time, it is also very clever and witty, with an original screenplay by Daniel Waters and a smart, but imperfect direction by Michael Lehmann. This plot tackles on themes of social satire, anti-social behavior,vengeance, and juvenile delinquency; and the themes work surprisingly well, especially for a movie centered on high school teens. Though it falls a little inconsistent at times, it is decently written. The characters, complete with clever dialogue and solid performances, are quite interesting, and at times, very funny in the midst of the film's dark nature. The main character Veronica serves as a likable protagonist, a young girl stuck in an unusual world of teen cruelty and must battle against her sinister reputation when she gets involved with violent schemes by his the sociopathic antagonist J.D. Winona Ryder and Christian Slater is both charismatic in their roles, and the interaction between this duo really keeps the plot in the midst of its flaws. As the story progresses, the film gets darker scene by scene, but it always stays interesting.Heathers may not be one of the best teen comedies out there, but it is truly something memorable as well as clever. It is a solid and entertaining portrayal of social satire and teen cruelty that high schoolers and adults alike can certainly enjoy. "},{"Title":"Top 3 1980s High School Movie","Date":"14 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" The 1980s high school movie craze, with actors about my age (I'm a few months older than Matthew Broderick) produced three comedy classics. In order of appearance they are Better off Dead with John Cusack; feel good Ferris Bueller's Day Off with Matthew Broderick; and feel bad Heathers. Bueller is too famous to discuss. Whereas Better off Dead is about an unstable youth (Cusack) who wants to off himself over woman troubles, it is really a light and frothy movie about teen suicide; dark-toned Heathers, on the other hand, satirizes the teen suicide movement of the late 1980s by showing a school that thinks it has an epidemic of teen suicide when in fact it has an epidemic of teen murder caused by weirdo J. D. (Christian Slater--like me and Broaderick and Cusack another 1960s baby) and his erstwhile girlfriend Veronica (Winona Ryder).Veronica, you see, finally broke into the school's most exclusive clique, consisting of three girls named Heather (a popular name at the time). But now she thinks they're all superficial and catty and she craves something new. J.D. is new, all right. In fact, he's off his rocker.The body count starts accidentally, when J. D. gives one of the Heathers a hangover cure containing drain cleaner (producing a blue muck no one in their right mind would ever really drink; the color running out of Heather's mouth is gorgeous). It cures her hangover right to the cemetery. But thanks to quick thinking on J. D.'s part everyone accepts the idea that this beautiful, rich girl with everything to live for killed herself. Go figure.J.D. and Veronica take their suicide epidemic further afield, to two jocks whose idea of a good time is cow-tipping(the urban legend--truly urban,only city people would think it was possible--of pushing a cow over so it can't get up; this is based on a number of fallacies, including the weight of cattle and the rather idiotic notion to anyone brought up outside an urban area that cattle, once down, can't get up). Though Veronica expresses qualms, deep down she seems to enjoy murdering her schoolmates and getting away with it.The whole idea was subversive in 1989, and even more so today when kids get expelled from school for carrying Tweety Bird keychains or biting their pop tarts in the shape of firearms or who draw pictures of gun (talk about censorship!--schools are nuts these days; when I went to high school boys drove in trucks with rifle racks ... but in my cultural milieu, they knew how to use firearms responsibly).So, three hilarious movies (not to be watched back to back, but perhaps on successive nights). My only regret was that I missed them on their release. Though I was almost the same age as Broderick and only slightly younger than Slater and Cusack, I was hardly interested in movies about high school when I was not ten years out of it myself. I saw them all in a row in 2011, 25 years after Bueller was made; and as a fully qualified adult I thought they were all wonderfully funny and subversive. Perhaps we need some filmmakers with a pair to make something like this these days, to satirize the lockdown craze of schools these days, and the ridiculously overprotective mothers. I wonder what studio would ever greenlight a comedy called Lockdown!?And, of course, the students who would rather text than live. And therein lies the rub with Heathers these days. Forget the teens murdering each other, that's just fine. But I suppose it does make all these movies look like dinosaurs, since none of the students have cell phones or ipads. Veronica Sawyer of Heathers writes in a diary--rather than a web blog! Today, instead of meeting J. D. in the lunchroom, she would meet him in a chatroom. This is real dark ages stuff.But Heathers (like the other two movies mentioned above) still holds up, if you can stomach a movie that has high school students who don't have phones or web devices. Watch Heathers for a dark comedy laugh of kids killing each other. If you dare!Hey, Veronica! Love the monocle! "},{"Title":"Tomorrow, I'll be kissing her aerobicized ass, but tonight, let me dream of a world without Heather, a world where I am free.","Date":"9 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" A weird one, but also a nice one, with a lot of fun foul language. It reminded me somewhat of 'Serial mom' (1994), but that one worked better as a (black) comedy. Here, at times, I thought I was watching a David Lynch movie - which isn't really a bad thing, though.I hadn't expected things getting as moralizing as they did, but luckily things didn't go too far in that respect. The ending was pretty good, even if the studios (who were thinking more of how to sell or rent this) denied the film a darker ending (all typed out here on IMDb's trivia).'The catcher in the rye' did enter my mind several times throughout the film, but J.D. Salinger didn't want his book mentioned, so that became 'Moby Dick' (Christian Slater's character is still called J.D. though).The subject of suicide was seemingly becoming (even more than usual) a big issue in the States, and the film does feel a bit like an over the top after school special, but it doesn't surprise me at all that this became a true cult movie.Acting-wise, Christian Slater and Wynona Ryder do a decent job, but that's about it. Finally, it's worth checking the trivia list on IMDb for all sorts of fun facts, such as the ones concerning Brad Pitt, Heather Graham and Jennifer Connelly. How very...Filmed in 32 days; I guess you can tell, but still it's a fine job all in all. A big 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Deliciously wicked","Date":"31 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I got reminded of Christian Slater a few days ago and I was thinking wait a minute, I like this guy, what happened to him, so I decided to see one of his overlooked movies.Heathers is a dark satire on human society set, where else but, in an American high school. What starts as yet another high school movie quickly turns weird when Slater and Ryder start killing off insufferable people and staging them as teen angst suicides. The effect on the people, the fake reactions of all involved, the realization that even the rebels are part of this stale type of world, it all makes the film worthwhile, but stranger still, the dark comedy that just sprouts off the script is just delicious.Slater does a great impression of the psychotic rebel, foreshadowing the talent he will later show in stuff like Pump of the Volume and Julian Po.Some of the direction of the film was kind of heavy handed and it shows. That is probably a reason why it has never reached a lot of popularity. Also the tongue in cheek attitude towards subjects like murder, teen suicide and the general opaque idiocy of the caretakers probably did not make it very loved by parents. But hey, the story is interesting and the film has some of the best quotes I ever met in cinema, stuff like a teacher saying Whether to kill yourself or not is one of the most important decisions a teenager can make, or JD saying The only place different social types can genuinely get along with each other is in heaven as an egalitarian argument for blowing the school up.Bottom line you should watch it before it becomes *really* dated. Just kidding, really fun stuff, but deep too. You should see it. "},{"Title":"Hilarious satire on high school life","Date":"3 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie is a laugh-riot! Imagine Eating Raoul + The Breakfast Club + Carrie, it's nothing short of weird and crazy and it offers much more than you'd think.Veronica (Winona Ryder) is on the verge of popularity amongst The Heathers (a clique of high school snobs who are literally all named Heather). Things are all well and good until she meets J.D., a mysterious outsider who has a permanent solution to messing with the social order - J.D. helps Veronica kill the jocks and bimbos and makes it look like a bunch of ritualistic teen suicides. At first Veronica is happy to be at the top of the school, but soon she starts having second thoughts.Heathers is interesting, the acting is great, the Eighties soundtrack is catchy and the fashion is nostalgic, and the plot is an ultimate satire. I'd recommend it to anyone, everyone deserves to see Heathers at least once! "},{"Title":"Subversive teen comedy","Date":"16 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Heathers is a movie that would have a hard time getting made today in post-Columbine America. The basic premise of the girl who tries to fit in with the popular clique while hating herself for what that entails is hardly novel but screenwriter Daniel Waters took the story into some pretty dark places. Playing teen suicide for black comedy, the movie has a satiric bite that most teen comedies lack.The story revolves around Winona Ryder's character Veronica, the lackey of the school's dominant female clique - the Heathers. Disenchanted with her cohorts' selfish & vindictive ways, she falls for eccentric bad-boy J.D. (Christian Slater). However, when his influence leads to her complicity in multiple murders staged as suicides she begins to rebel against his increasingly psychotic ways.As you can imagine, the story is much darker than contemporary movies by John Hughes and the like. Yet, the script's sense of humour prevents the movie from becoming a drag. Daniel Waters' inventive use of slang also gave the film a unique flavour. I'm not sure that the end result is quite as profound as it could have been but Waters deserves praise for trying something different.The acting is in pretty decent hands with Ryder & Slater ably filling the lead roles. Ryder, 16 at the time of filming, is particularly impressive but Slater's Jack Nicholson-ish performance has an endearing quality as well. The three Heathers (Kim Walker, Lisanne Falk & Shannen Doherty) are also memorable while the rest of the cast is mostly unremarkable.Michael Lehmann's direction is capably handled if not especially noteworthy. Musically, the movie has a distinct eighties feel that I'm not really a fan of, though the use of a pair of versions of Que Sera, Sera is intriguing.Ultimately, Heathers is a fascinating time capsule of late eighties teen angst that still resonates today. To see its influence, look no further than Mean Girls, co-incidentally directed by Daniel Waters' brother Mark. Clearly, the movie's sharp wit and gleeful satire have aged better than the eighties fashions featured therein. "}{"Title":"Find an unedited version","Date":"16 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" The original, unedited version of this film contains two brief scenes that are edited out of the extant versions (including the Netflix version). Without these scenes, Heathers lacks the severe, brutal honesty that makes it legitimate. Find a version which contains the burn scenes and see Heathers as it was intended to be understood. Heathers is a movie that confronts the social bullying that is too integral in High School. Heathers in its unedited version is mean, nasty and vile; Just like High School. The edited version is meant to be a dark comedy, appealing to the same audience that believes Fast Times at Ridgemont High is a documentary. The edited version is edited for a reason the studio was frightened by the truth the film suggested. "},{"Title":"Dear Diary","Date":"25 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Dear Diary Veronica Sawyer (played by Winona Ryder) is part of a four-girl clique and is the only one NOT named Heather. She becomes mesmerized by the mysterious Jason J.D. Dean (played by a young Christian Slater&#x97;the forehead wrinkles and receding hairline absent) and gets bored of the shallowness that comes with being popular. When faced with retaliation and even more pressure after trying to break free from the Heathers, Veronica turns to J.D. for help. A prank would be a good way to get back at the Heathers? Perhaps. But J.D. has other plans&#x85; Definitely meets the definition of black-comedy, but the audience has to suspend a little too much disbelief. Not to mention, much of the main character's conflicts could be easily resolved by simply dialing 9-1-1. The movie is lucky it got made when it did, as a satire on teen suicide or a student bent on mass-murder would probably never fly after the 1990s.**½ (out of four) "},{"Title":"One of the coolest films of the '80s","Date":"23 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Heathers is without a doubt one of the coolest films of the '80s-- perhaps that might not mean a lot to some people, but in a decade of films like Indiana Jones, Back to the Future, and Die Hard, I think that's quite a compliment.Heathers is funny in the way most other teen films weren't at the time. It's intelligent, unexpected, well-written, and wildly entertaining. Winona Ryder and Christian Slater also share tremendous on-screen chemistry. The film is hilarious and dark and quite unforgettable. Is there anything cooler than lighting a cigarette by blowing up the school?What's great about this film, despite the fact that it hasn't aged too well, is that it's not the average teen-flick. It's got the characters for one, but they go beyond the date me mentality of most flicks in the genre. I didn't like the film at first, but after watching it again, I've come to understand why Heathers is one of the most iconic '80s films and that it's definitely worth viewing by those who like '80s teen-flicks or clever (as clever as a teen flick can get) black comedies. "},{"Title":"Teen flick with black comedy","Date":"20 May 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is truly one of my favourite teen movies. I watched it so many times when I was at school. The characters, atmosphere and humour that was evident in the movie was very realistic. The movie intended to present a picture of high school student rivalries and how peer pressures can lead to ones isolation from others. In the second half the subject of 'teenage suicide' is explored as the students of Westerburg High are under the misunderstanding regarding deaths of fellow students. However I don't think the theme was explored in a mature manner. Treating it with a houmouristic tone was not suitable. It is a serious issue and to present it in this manner was totally absurd. Keeping that to aside the director Micheal Lehman has done a good job as a director. His camera angles and style of direction seem straight out of a horror movie. His understanding of the theme is modern. Many comedy moments are integrated in to the scenes which assist in character development.Winona Ryder and Christian Slater steal the show as the modern day Bonnie and Clyde pair that take on the method of murder to make their high school a better place. They decide to kill a few students and make it look like suicide to hide the truth. This eventually leads to negative vibes occurring all across the high school.This movie really was the source of inspiration for 'pump up the volume' Which also happened to be a Slater movie too. The movie attempted to address the issues that affect students in present times however that was as far as the similarities were concerned.The movie has a moderate pace but progresses with the plot at quick pace. Unfortunately the mid point segment seemed to run out of ideas but regained its momentum towards the end. Overall a movie recommended to those who admire teen flicks. "},{"Title":"Teen she devils or misunderstood?","Date":"4 December 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I watched Heathers so many times between ages 16 and 19, it's surprising I've only seen it once in the last decade. Now that we have digital discs and the awful spectre of rewind or else videotape is behind most of us, this film is kind of like an ex-lover you still have feelings for but can't really be intimate with on nearly the same level.I loved Winona Ryder as a younger man (and consequently hated Johnny Depp for a long time, but now that he's a top notch actor, I can forgive him for almost marrying my teen dream queen). She is an actress who plays mean on occasion, even though you know the heart that beats inside is pure gold. Her Veronica Sawyer might have been better off home schooled or come to think of it, enrolled in an alternative school, far away from the title named trio who make almost all their fellow pupils at Westerberg High wish they were someplace less stressful, like the front lines of a battlefield!Looking at it now you can see how prescient all the female energy is, directed at malls and note passing, due to the fact no-bleeping-body had cell phones and the internet in their precious little neck of the woods. Heathers really laid the track down for virtually everything about young women that came after it (with the kooky exception of that Shannen Doherty lunatic asylum, Beverly Hills 90210. I haven't seen any episodes of the remade version to compare!). Imagine what the Heathers would have done with Andy Warhol's dire prophecy, You Tube? Nothing short of streamed murder probably.The script is one of the gems of the 80's, Christian Slater was so much more than the mini Jack Nicholson he was pegged as and Ryder can still remain in my mind as a salt of the earth goddess in a business full of phonies with nowhere near her talent and spirit. "},{"Title":"Que sera, sera","Date":"9 August 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" A dark high school movie which showcases the struggle of Veronica Winona Ryder...she looks gorgeous in this film as she tries to free herself from the school's most famous clique Heathers 3 girls and her hangout friends. Enter JD Christian Slater who very quickly becomes her Boyfriend and then the dark fun begins. Seriously speaking I don't know if I liked the movie or not but it was quite good and Winona gave a splendid performance. Christian Slater fits well into his character and the movie is very well paced. The story was different from the usual high school movies and IF you want to see something refreshing, your search ends HERE...Overall I give this movie a 7/10.P.S. Que sera, sera is the tagline of the film which basically means What will be, will be "},{"Title":"This is about as black a comedy as you can get","Date":"6 March 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This has to be one of the great movies of the 1980s. It's is also probably one of the blackest comedies ever made. I would rank Stanley Kubrick's Dr. Strangelove as the blackest comedy ever made.Great performances by Winona Ryder, Christian Slater and the rest capture the game-playing, manipulation and humiliation that are part of the high school social scene and pecking order. I love it when two of the Heathers have the same answer when asked,Why are you such a bitch? Because I can be. (or something to that effect)Veronica's parents are played by actors who too old, but maybe that's part of the oblivious parental unit. The few scenes with JD's father presage the warped mentality JD turns out to have. "},{"Title":"Watch this movie and Veronica will become your instant heroine!","Date":"19 January 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Sure it's a violent movie and doesn't send out the most positive of messages to teens, but it is still a fun movie to escape reality and watch. Back when it came out, I was in my early 20's with my high school years not so far behind me. I enjoyed this movie a lot! I recently watched it again and enjoyed it just as much as before. School is a difficult place in a difficult time in life. This movie is for those of us who weren't part of the in crowd at school and those passing not-so-nice thoughts we had about people like that. Ryder and Slater work well together in this movie, likewise for the supporting cast. Full of witty and memorable lines, Veronica is a character that will become your instant heroine! "},{"Title":"Ritual suicide  Christian slater, but win on a ryder, version 1.15","Date":"13 October 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Trampling the heather of the mores. When I first purchased this, as a follow on to liking Girls Just Want To Have Fun, I found some aspects to be way too scary but others to be in the forefront of entertainment. Now I understand that split to be due to Heathers being rooted in art ways, for me a downer, but I get to like it despite that. In 2006 I interpreted it as talking about how situational ethics could backfire in a Catholic secondary school. But that said in too problematic a way. The DVD versions are a bit low on definition and interlaced. The full version, with commentary is a bit better on definition, but still interlaced. The Cinema Club version I have is like the full 2005 version for quality but without the extras. I do not know the region 1 version from 2008. I have not seen any reviews that mention image quality so the fuzziness has maybe not as much fuzz as seems to me. My disk of American Pie 2 is starting to look a bit fuzzy too, if less so. Heathers Blu-ray is nice. A modern software player with an equivalent to Yadif type de-interlace should improve the DVD quality a lot. * The commentary and behind the scenes video, which I only saw the once as I was trying to get a 2006 full version, made me re-evaluate my views. They are also on the blu-ray, in HD quality. I now understand the writer to be an ex Catholic who wanted to blow off steam. Not an uncommon thing in any religion, particularly one that has been around for more than a thousand years. I have several disks of features that feel to be by ex Catholics, I assume some also by practicing Catholics. The more recent Donnie Darko is a whole lot less scary and Lindsay's Confessions a bit less. I do not know how real the Catholic angle is with these, for me it is there. Heathers has bits of detail that I noticed in 1960's school reality, occasionally and in the background, before situational ethics became well known. This being made a playful feature in comedies, yes. That happens. The writer goes a lot further than that, though. It is as if some devil is deliberately bringing things out of a low key personal funeral context in the most offensive way? That is far from normal among ex Catholics unless they consider that they are facing real evil? Murder understood as suicide or other inversions of the deeper realities, it is not just Catholics that dive into that sort of thing were Big Babies are concerned. In the name of big good, in the name of big fun. But more likely by the way of putting to the test and icebergs and misdirection and frame and smear than by the way of the gun. Tipping cows. There is some stuff that feels to be symbolic, not intended to be interpreted as literal. Apparent unreality abounds. Spiritual overtones? * I get the impression that the writer and the production house were actually performing a form of ritual suicide by how they approached the script. It certainly looks like it. I would not know how others were drawn into this. Or the extent that serendipity acted in drawing the cast and crew together? Some appeared to survive? I assume that most involved in the making of this feature will not have been church going Christians of any flavour that could be offended by this. That they will likely have thought it an okay Boo genre story and not felt it in the way that the writer did? They could go into the production without qualms from this aspect, qualms coming from other aspects instead. The background notes showed that to me by the mention of Winona having qualms, her someone who faced that well. Just them not being the same qualms as a churchgoer. * Buffy solved one early problem by burning down a school gym. She later solved a problem that a visitor posed by blowing up a school, with the school library as the centre of the bang. Veronica starts by giving up, throwing in the towel. The story ends with what background notes talk of as a sugar coated ending. Situational ethics, how does one grow a healthy approach that heads towards sugar? This is so unlike stuff I know by other ex or active Catholics. Secret Of The Andes has my ideal, it gently shows all to be victims. For me, this feature poses questions about just how come it got made in this way. * Veronica as a Dotty in her Oz. I am from a different Oz. Writing this helped me to move closer to being comfortable with the fullness of Heathers. Move away from a puritan rulebook in iffy ways or in healthy ways then what will be will be. Modern world feels to get a similar thing via a different route, the revolutions from the 80's and later, Tit For Tat. If situational ethics has these as a heart then there is obvious trouble. Heathers subtly hints at belief system variations that rip out the heart in the name of good. Proverb Until I have sense I have no free will, what I have is pressure towards being further and further from sense. A fool does not benefit from heart attacks, but what will be will be. No prophesy needed. This is not a nice world for those who grew up in a way that makes it difficult to stand up properly on one's own feet. "},{"Title":"Sociopathic Urges in High Sahool","Date":"26 May 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is the coolset,classic,dark&demented film i grew up watching.For my money,it's a masterpiece.Wynona is at her very best as Veronica&Slater steals it with his quick wit and quick trigger finger.Great dialogue.Great actors.Great setting.Great violence.Just great period.I wish they'd actually shot the original ending,but the way they closed it is just fine by me.I still firmly believe every teacher and student should be required to watch this just to give teachers a heads up on messing with kids,&kids a head up on how to mess with everyone horribly.Just kidding,or am I?Fact is,this movie's a 10.Period. "}{"Title":"Classic, in every way.","Date":"12 May 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Just...absolutely hilarious and outrageous. It's like part cheesy, uplifting high school comedy about how being a bitch is wrong and everyone should learn to get along, part romance about two outcasts from different parts of the social ladder falling in love, part horror Bonnie & Clyde where they turn on each other halfway through and part campy, ridiculous satire of the high school comedy thing. And I love every second of it. With one of the greatest, most hilarious screenplays of all time, one of my favorite performances of all time by the incredible Winona Ryder and a great turn by Christian Slater, Heathers is quite the terrific piece of work. "},{"Title":"The Darker Side of Those John Hughes's High School Movies","Date":"10 April 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Watching The Truth About Cats and Dogs director Michael Lehmann's audaciously abrasive comedy Heathers with Winona Ryder and Christian Slater is like spiking your morning orange juice with Drano. Although the unsavory shenanigans of Ryder and Slater are rather morbid and mean-spirited, the victims of their pranks fully deserve the consequences. No, audiences who adored John Hughes' delightful teen angst comedies would probably find it a supreme challenge to sit through this trenchant, traumatic tale. The same applies for uptight religious fanatics and self-conscious prudes without a sick sense of humor. Anybody that has ever suffered at the hands of snobbish people or bullies will relish this film thoroughly and ultimately want to add it to their film collection. Generally, most critics cite the Leonardo DiCaprio drama The Basketball Diaries as the stimulus for the dreadful Columbine high school massacre. In retrospect, Heathers surpasses The Basketball Diaries as a most likely candidate for the movie that triggered the shooting rampage that Eric Harris and Dylan Klebold launched back in April 1999 as a result of the social cliques, subcultures, and bullying that pervaded their Colorado-based high school.Heathers takes place at Westerburg High School in Sherwood, Ohio, where fashion-minded Veronica Sawyer (Winona Ryder of Lost Souls) tries to fit in with three vain and vicious vixens all of whom share the same first name Heather Heather Chandler (Kim Walker of Say Anything), Heather Duke (Shannen Doherty of Mall Rats) and Heather McNamara (Lisanne Falk of Suicide Kings), that reserve nothing but venom for all that cross their paths. Veronica comes from a well-to-do but rather dysfunctional family, too. When her father (William Cort) wonders aloud why he reads spy novels and smokes cigarettes, Veronica reminds him that he is an idiot. Strangely, while she lacks the cruelty that drives the Heathers, Veronica has a conscience and a kind word for most people, so she seems rather out-of-place with this terrible triumvirate. Indeed, she seems like a considerate Nazi that follows orders. The Heathers are grooming her and they use her uncanny ability to forge letters. For their first prank, Chandler coerces Veronica into forging a note from a jock to a Martha 'Dumptruck' Dunnstock (Carrie Lynn of Disturbed), a short, fat, ugly girl. While the Heathers and Veronica are up to these antics, Jason J.D. Dean (Christian Slater of True Romance) watches this spectacle from the corner of the lunchroom. Dressed in a long, black coat, J.D. wears a squinty-eyed expression and delivers each line with a Jack Nicholson-esquire accent. Not only does J.D. attract Veronica's interest, but he also draws the attention of two letter-jacketed jocks, Ram Sweeney (Patrick Labyorteaux of Ghoulies III) and Peter Dawson (Jeremy Applegate of The Cable Guy), who try to harass him. J.D. rises and pulls a pistol and shoots them. Later, we learn that he had loaded blanks in his gun.Heathers was scenarist Daniel Waters' first screenplay. He went on to write Hudson Hawk, Demolition Man, and Batman Returns. Waters' script drips with sarcasm galore. Look at the Heathers home page on IMDb.COM for these memorable barbs. Anyway, Lehmann and he skewer themes like teen suicide and peer pressure without a qualm. Audiences that cringe at the frequent usage of the F-word and the S-word are hereby warned. Eventually, Veronica joins forces with J.D., a loner who has spent his life moving around wherever his father's jobs take him in the construction industry. Like Veronica, J.D. enjoys a witty, irreverent relationship with his dad. Revealing anything else about this absolutely brilliant but politically incorrect chronicle would dilute its impact. Prepare yourself to be entertained and enlightened by one of the more clever example of the 1980s. Sadly, the careers of both Winona Ryder and Christian Slater lost them impact in the late 1999s. She got into trouble for shoplifting, while Slater repeatedly chose bad movies and eventually found himself in straight-to-video schlock with occasional exceptions like John Woo's Windtalkers. Director Michael Lehmann helmed a couple of winners like The Truth About Cats and Dogs and the goofy Airheads, but he has confined himself since to television. Nevertheless, Heathers remains a groundbreaking film that can be watch repeatedly. "},{"Title":"One of the best black comedies ever made","Date":"1 January 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is by far one of the best black comedies I have ever seen. Heathers is tons of fun, but it also has some serious issues within it like teenage suicide, so it might be a little too black of a comedy for some people's tastes. The script was absolutely amazing and it has so many memorable lines. Winona Ryder was terrific in her role, she just keeps on impressing me again and again. Christian Slater was also great in his role as the devilish J.D., he was charming but also evil at the same time as the bad boy. This is a must see teen comedy with an amazing script and perfect cast that just can't go wrong...definitely recommended! "},{"Title":"The only place different social types can genuinely get along is in Heaven.","Date":"28 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" ... and anyone who remembers high school will know instantly that it was hardly an idyllic place to be!Working from an incisive and acidic script by Daniel Waters, talented director Lehmann does well, although he's since failed to capture lightning in a bottle so effectively as here (the closest he came being 1996's pleasant but lightweight The Truth About Cats & Dogs). This is a satire that skewers brilliantly the lengths some teenagers will find themselves going to just to fit in. There is a certain code that must be followed when you're amongst your peers, and if you don't adhere to that, then it can almost feel like you're dead - given that you'll be frozen out of the social scene. Is it worth teaming up with the school rebel to exact your revenge? As the movie plays out, it shows you where going through with that daydream will get you...Aside from the sizzling chemistry between Ryder and Slater, almost every line of dialogue is clever in some way. From Ich Luge bullets to how distant parents cope with grief - I love my dead gay son! - Heathers is a film that has you laughing at subject matter which could easily have been queasy in the wrong hands. It seems that no adolescent taboo is left undiscussed. Everything you could immediately think of is examined thoroughly. I only wish that all involved had stuck with the ending as it was originally planned, since it would have carried the nihilistic attitude adopted throughout right to its limits. Alas it was not to be, but happily there is still plenty of scorn to go around. Possibly my favourite example occurs when Veronica is approached by the school counselor Get a job, she scathingly admonishes!School prepares you for the real world, which also sucks... Never has that statement been more aptly proved than in Heathers. "},{"Title":"Winona Ryder is Legal in this movie","Date":"6 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" is it just me or is she one of the hottest female actresses.she's petite she has stunning big brown eyes, just take these few movies for examplegirl interrupted hot mental patient, in beetle juice doing her little goth thing at age 17 she looks gorgeous reality bites still hot she even looks good animated in a scanner darklyshe kind of reminds me of Twiggy i mean i don't know Keira Knightly is a 10 in my book as well i almost lost my nut when Domino came out in 05' not to mention that Edgar Ramirez is a lucky sob. anyway yea comment whether you agree or disagree that Winona Ryder Is a flaming '10' on a 1-10 scale. "},{"Title":"best movie in history","Date":"4 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" when i first seen the end of this movie a couple of years ago, i was desperate to see it. not only was Christian slater dead sexy, Winona Ryder acted best in this movie. brad Pitt would have ruined the movie. now, i watch this movie practically everyday. its good to watch when Ur ticked off at the popular people at school. but, don't do what they did. id have to say the best part of that movie would have to be when Kurt and ram go cow tipping and heather and veronica get covered in mud. this movie can be pretty twisted but its all good at the same time. i cant wait until the sequel comes out soon! hopefully it doesn't suck. "},{"Title":"the test of time","Date":"23 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" i wonder a lot how the movies of my generation will stand the test of time. if what my friends and i considered greatness will even matter in fifteen to twenty years, or if, heaven forbid, our contribution will have been reduced to Paris hilton. when heathers was first released i knew this movie was something special. unlike any other films i saw in 1989, or any other year from that decade. there are similarities between it and john hughes' early eighties classics. in particular the attention paid to high school social anxiety and the performances carried out every day. but where molly ringwald and others were content to whine, winona ryder and Christian slater actually proposed to do something. they were gonna kill em all, that'll teach 'em good. "},{"Title":"An excellent movie!!!","Date":"4 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie is one of the best black comedies of all time! The first time I saw it was last year. I quickly fell in love with it! This movie made me laugh so hard that I thought I couldn't breath! I am a huge fan of Winona Ryder and when I saw this movie I thought this was her best performance ever. Her character just hated her snobby friends and how they treated other people. The person I loved the most was Christian Slater's character. He was so mysterious and hilarious. I thought he was so cute playing J.D. My favorite part in the film is in the end after J.D kills himself. Winona's character confronts Heather Duke, I thought what she said was smart and brave. Overall, this movie is a classic and will be remembered forever. So, long live Heathers! "},{"Title":"The Extreme Always Seems To Make An Impression","Date":"30 September 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Released in 1989, HEATHERS received sharply mixed reviews. The film was popular in a few major metro markets, but it proved a box office disappointment overall. Although many regarded it as a failed take-off on such high school angst films as THE BREAKFAST CLUB, more than a few critics saw it as a film too much ahead of its time and predicted that it would have more of an impact down the road. They were right. When the film began to reach the home market it exploded in popularity, and given such later high school horrors as Columbine today the film seems less take-off than downright prophetic.It is also one of the most wickedly funny movies to hit the screen since Stanley Kubrik's DR. STRANGELOVE. The story starts off normally enough extremely bright, extremely attractive Veronica (Winona Ryder) is a high school junior who has fallen in with the high school clique to end all high school cliques, three young women each named Heather (Kim Walker, Lisanne Falk, and Shannen Doherty.) The Heathers are pretty, smart, rich... and intent on shoring up their own social positions by crushing every one around them with a degree of vindictiveness that only the teenagers can successfully carry.When Veronica meets new student J.D. Dean (Christian Slater) her interest in the Heathers begins to wane and they turn on her. J.D. has his own plan to help Veronica get even. It involves a cup of Liquid Drano--and before Veronica can think she finds herself making a murder look like suicide. The result is, as Veronica puts it, teen-age angst with a body count, and quite suddenly suicide seems the in thing at Westerberg High.If you recall high school fondly, you were probably one of the popular kids. For the rest of us, HEATHERS is so accurate that it will make you wince in its portrait of unthinking cruelty the meanness of the up-scale cliques and brainless jocks, the ridiculed good kids, the savage assaults on the unpopular ones. it is bitter, bitter stuff.It is also extremely funny. Much of this is due to a truly brilliant script by Daniel Waters, who recognizes that teens rarely speak to adults in the same way that they speak to each other--and he not only brings forth the casually used profanity, he essentially creates a truly believable and hilariously funny mode of slang that characterizes the in crowd. And Waters' plot is even more disconcerting and outrageously funny as it runs, with unexpected logic, to a truly deadly conclusion.The performances are knockouts. Ryder has given quite a few memorable performances, but she has never been more remarkable than she is here as Veronica, the good girl turned unintentional killer; Christian Slater has never topped the performance he gives here as J.D. The Heathers are perfectly, flawless cast, as is every one from the weary principal to Veronica's vacuous parents. As for direction, Michael Lehmann moves the film at a rapid clip, hitting more high points than you can imagine. Indeed, everything about the film is first-rate.The DVD package is very nice, including an interesting audio commentary, an interesting documentary featuring interviews with director, writer, and major cast members (Kim Walker, who died in 2001, sadly excepted), and a script of the ending as originally planned by writer Waters. I recommend the film as a must have--but a word of warning. If you were one of the very popular during your high school years, you won't find it in the least enjoyable. Yes that's really how the rest of us saw you.Gary F. Taylor, aka GFT, Amazon Reviewer "},{"Title":"The greatest black comedy of all time","Date":"3 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" The quintessential black comedy. Never has Christian Slater been better. Never has a 'teen movie' appealed so far across the border. Never has teen suicide been so funny. Biting satire and irony prove that an intelligent American is not an oxymoron. Director Michael Lehmann revels in Daniel Waters' script, contrasting spectacular use of vivid colour with a real darkness to the story. Unlike other teen movies, which generally patronise and classify their subject matter, this movie celebrates them and displays their intelligence and the harshness of the realities of high school. Winona Ryder was advised to not play the role of Veronica Sawyer as her close friends and agent thought other casting directors would black-list her. It's a good job someone in Hollywood has a functioning brain. "}{"Title":"greatest movie alon with american beauty","Date":"8 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  i love this movie. your not suppose to take it seriouisly and i lve that thats why i think its been so accepted in the public in general. its a movie so crazy and out there how can you take it seriously. it deals with very serious issues in a way that wont sacre you or anything. just a wonderful movie "},{"Title":"Bonnie and Clyde for the 80's","Date":"27 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is one of my fave movies from the 80's (the other being the breakfast club). The performances are strong and the polt is wicked! Definatly my fave Christian Slater role to date. I haven't seen Heathers in a while.. but looking back im noticin, even though Veronica is narrating the story and we watch it through her character. It is JD that manipulates it from his first scene in the cafeteria. For me the movie is about him. Yes he looks cool.. and he's the one so many would like to be. But really he's the loneliest character of all of them. And the whole movie is like foreplay until in the end he finally has his bang! lol.. pun intended, I don't think that JD was crazy i just think he was very un-happy. Anyway im a sucker for happy ending and i wish that ***spoiler*** he didn't kill  himself. But i guess the ending is cool, Veronica asking for a light.. she really didn't give a s*** by the end. This movie is a classic and i urge anybody that hasn't seen it.. to go out and buy it. Its dark, amusin and thought provoking. It also has some kick-ass quotes! If u liked slater in this.. id also reccommend 'Pump up the Volume'. Those 2 movies are with out a doubt his 2 best of all time )  "},{"Title":"It is more of a triller than a comedy, I think.","Date":"1 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  i thought it was more of a thriller than a comedy. It was very good. I saw it on television but now i might go and buy it. It dispalyed how a small town would react to teen suicide. Very moving and all around a wonderful film I give it 5 stars(out of fine) I highly recommend i to anybody. "},{"Title":"Entertaining","Date":"19 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Okay this movie was based on jockes, nerds, fat slobs, and dietcoke heads. I thought it was very funny though. Veronica, and JD(Wyonna Ryder and Christian Slater) go on a killing spree. They make it look like suicide and turn other students to actually trying to kill themselves.I give it a 10. "},{"Title":"Excellent Black Comedy with a Moral","Date":"3 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I just love this movie.  Christian Slater does an excellent Jack Nicholson imitation.  Winona Ryder does a wonderful job portraying a confused teenager who is trying to figure out who she wants to be.  Does she want to fall in love with the twisted, attractive Slater which will certainly offend her upper-class, cutthroat group of girlfriends (all named Heather)?  Does she want to be in the in-crowd with all of the fun parties and fine boyfriends or does she want to continue old friendships with girlfriends which will certainly lower her social status.  These are realistic situations and portray how cruel high school can be when you are on the bottom rung of the ladder.The humor is very dark but in places it is wickedly funny.  It is an excellent movie for mature teenagers, confronting issues of social status creating barriers in high school and the cruelty which can have devastating effects.  I think this and The Breakfast Club are the two best movies about high school.   "},{"Title":"It has its highs and lows, but overall, a film worth the time.","Date":"4 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie, being that Iam still in High School, I can relate to much of it.  And seeing how High School life was back in the late 80's adds to its charm.  Heathers, is a movie worth seeing for it touches upon many of the themes of High School (teen suicide; sex; drugs; friendship; cliques). And tackles them in a funny and entertaining way.  I recommend this film "},{"Title":"I loved this movie","Date":"29 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I think Heathers is probably one of those films that you either love or hate.  I loved it.  I think it is a great mix of dark themes surrounded by some truly biting comedy.  When I think back to my high school days, I can easily characterize so many of my classmates into the roles throughout this film.  This movie is well written, well directed and well acted. "},{"Title":"Profound, prolific and entertaining","Date":"5 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Bullies, of the jock and bitch variety, get their ultimate come-uppance, in this amazingly crafted film that makes anyone who's ever had their feelings hurt laugh through a few tears.  Breakout roles for Winona and Christian, as well as defining a Genre that is THE most difficult to pull off, yet most crowd evolving. "},{"Title":"the proverbial anti high school clique film","Date":"10 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  HEATHERS is a dark humor satire on high school, murder and the in crowd. Controversial and funny,the film was a sleeper success in 1989. HEATHERS is also a sly satireon the whims of teenage men and women in the 1980's (complete with glamour hair). The film is also the story of the 'age of me's affect on a loner played by christian slater who plots the deaths of the schools most popular students. The film is so clever in it's writing and visual style laughing at murder is not a guilty pleasure. I suppose the film found favor with legions of movie goers disaffected by the in crowds at high schools. Yet, the film also mocks the absurdity of the IN CROWD and asks a question, why would anyone want to join? "},{"Title":"funny yet disturbing","Date":"24 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  What attracted me to this film is Christian Slater and the fact that he was a psycho...at first it took me a while to figure out what was going on I guess it was the croquet.I think that Winona and Christian worked well together. I think that Christian played a brilliant psycho he just seemed really insane. I think that they could  have made the heathers a bit more bitchy and that the ending could have been a lot more interesting.I think this film is really good and I would recommend it. "}{"Title":"A must see movie!","Date":"20 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Heathers would have to be my all time favorite movie! I thought it was really clever and funny with an amazing cast.  I especially liked the fact that the three girls were named Heather and they all dressed in different colours.  Christian Slater would have to be my favorite character in the movie though. "},{"Title":"wordless","Date":"7 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  im sitting in the room, trying to decide what am i gonna call my title. a few seconds pass, i realise im wordless. this was one of the greatest movies i ever saw. it can really change lifes (try reading the last review) i espically loves winona ryder, with her american mcgee's alice look, (espically in the end) the script was something new and refreshing from all the happy ends i saw (it wasnt quite an happy ending - it was very weird). the actors are astounding, and this movie shows great insight. if u didnt see it yet, go rent it right now. im not kidding.not recomended for people without a basic understanding of black humor. "},{"Title":"classic!","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie is hilarious. No doubt about it. Christian Slater and Wynona Ryder are terrific. This movie is the ultimate movie for people who hate those stupid teen flicks with Freddie Prinze Jr., etc. etc. I mean... it is soooo cynical! I was laughing my head off the whole time.. watch this movie with someone who DOESN'T get offended easily. Trust me there. Oh, and after this movie was made, director Michael Lehmann and writer Daniel Waters collaborated on Hudson Hawk....what happened?? Brad "},{"Title":"Awesome","Date":"15 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Does everybody remember how their high school was? This was not anywhere near my high school experience, but this movie is worth seeing, over and over again. Another movie that is similar but not as groundbreaking and original to this one, is Jawbreakers. But, personally, I prefer Heathers.  "},{"Title":"Ultra dark comedy","Date":"8 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Winona Ryder stars as a high schooler who has had enough of the ultra snobby clique that runs the social scene, the Heathers. Ryder hooks up with Slater who plays an out of control newcomer to the area with a dark side. Slater unknowingly to Ryder thinks up a murder spree to be blamed on teen suicides which would wake up the adults (and Slater's father) to what is going on with the teens in today's messed up world. Definitley a dark satire with its share of comedic moments. Goes a little overboard in the end, especially with the violence that is going on in the schools today. Slater plays it a little over the top in his James Dean Rebel without a cause imitation. Ryder does well as his unwitting accomplice and Doherty plays her snobby Heather role to perfection. On a scale of one to ten..7 "},{"Title":"Slater's Absolute Best!","Date":"29 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  My name is Derrick Levron and I would like to say i'm a very proud to be Christian Slater fan. And this film proved it all....Slater was the dark horse I feel that everyone should be like. When I think of Heathers, of course all characters were played well but the one I seem to remember is J.D. (Christian Slater) A teenage lonesome soul who is concentrated on Veronica (Winona Ryder)and helping her with her too-proud of popularity friends, and becoming just as alone as he is. I ask all of you to watch this film. You will NEVER forget it. And other's like me will await the sequel! "},{"Title":"Lovely... being deep and being funny... EVERYONE should see it","Date":"7 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Greetings and salutations!If Christian Slater is my fave actor, Wynona - my fave actress; popularity, mad genius, love and suicide - my fave subjects, and parody and dark comedy - my favorite genres than no wonder that I LOVE THIS MOVIE!!!!!! It's extreme, the actors are great and especially Christian is GOD (he's the sexiest thing, esp. with this haircut). Heathers's message is entertaining but complicated. It is full of cool little details with thousand secret meanings. It has more vital citations than the Bible.  JD is one of the best movie characters of all time. Everyone should see this movie! I hope the sequel is as good and I'm looking forward to it.  "},{"Title":"A Classic.","Date":"18 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  For the longest, I felt like I was the only one who knew this film even existed. Thank goodness for word of mouth. This film is genius. Classic. So dry and droll and witty. Did I say dry? The dialogue is some of the best there is. From, A five keeps the neighborhood alive to Veronica sticking a cigarette in her mouth at the right moment in the finale. . .it just makes me want to cry it's so good.  "},{"Title":"Dark, Realistic, and Provoking","Date":"20 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Another movie about the popular crowd and how they're so bitchy, but it's not the same as the others. First of all, Veronica hangs out with those popular girls, hates them, and then meets this guy who provokes her to kill them. It's crazy how Christian Slater was so subtley provocative and attractive, but keep in mind, this was right before Pump Up The Volume (where he becomes a leader, as in Heathers). The movie becomes darker and darker and then it sorta blows up in your face (no pun intended). Good, though.  "},{"Title":"I could just kill her takes on a new meaning!","Date":"17 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Great acting and realistic dialogue with stand-out performances by Winona Ryder as Veronica who wants to be in the in crowd which consists of three girls, all named Heather, headed up by Shannen Doherty (the only good acting she has ever done was in this movie).  Christian Slater, doing a fine send-up of Jack Nicholson, plays a psychopath, new to the school, who convinces Veronica that the popular people in the school should all be killed.  When Veronica sees the error of their ways, it is too late and the resulting chaos sends an important message to those teens in real life who are self-obsessed and uncaring about others. "}{"Title":"Great Acting by All","Date":"14 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This hilarious movie has often been compared to Jawbreaker. But that's not true. Both are, obviously funny, and cruel. But although i love Jawbreaker, Heathers is probably more original. And plus, it has classic stars, such as Shannen Doherty, Winona Ryder and Christian Slater. All of which gave great performances. Unfortanately, the rest of the Heathers, and the rest of the overall cast, seem to have faded away from Hollywood. The movie starts off somewhat slow, but quickly gets you involved. You wonder, from almost the start, how the films going to end, and if Winona will get caught.Rent this if you liked Clueless, or any other dark comedy. I can almost guarantee that you wont be disappointed. "},{"Title":"I know I'm biased but...","Date":"17 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is my favorite film of all time.  There are parts of the movie that are a little slow but apart from that this film shows everyone how it is done. I'm pretty sure everyone out there has wanted to do something about those 'popular people' that seem to spend their entire lives putting down others and essentially c******g on all those they meet.  Well although most of us wouldn't go quite as far as Veronica or JD, this film tells it like it is.Although the film is quite serious it has it's funny moments too and for Christian Slater alone it is a must see movie.  Watch this with a massive tub of ice-cream when you've got a little bit of extra angst to get rid of...  "},{"Title":"Bizarre","Date":"10 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I've seen this movie several times, and every single time I have to laugh at that scene at the end where Winona Ryder is standing there after witnessing an explosion, and she has a singed cigarette in her mouth.  This movie is bizarre and yet a film classic.  While I don't quite understand how some people try to relate to this film, being so bizarre, it's still great.What's your damage Heather "},{"Title":"An original.","Date":"6 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie rocked everybody from society to movies in general.  Although the good, but tame, movie, The Breakfast Club deals with teen social conflict and has a non-resolution, it is more of a character sketch in a microcosm than a movie with plot.  Heathers is the first teen movie to deal with teen social conflict in a non-flinching, not-so-exaggerated way. I have seen characters like the Heathers, and I have seen followers like Veronica.  I think that this movie inspired those Columbine kids more than any other, but that is just my opinion.  Smart people will see the parallels.  I cannot break down this movie too much because it is just a great overall movie.  The acting were over-the-top, and everything else was just perfect.  This movie is highly stylized, and it takes on the thoughts of a teen's mind.  I loved this movie, and still love it.  It is good to outcasts, but to people who are Heathers...  they will not like it.  I love this movie tat inspired a generation of dark teen comedies.-------------------------10 "},{"Title":"How Can A Movie Be So Damn Good?!?!?","Date":"24 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The first time I saw this movie, I only watched about 10 minutes of it. I didn't think of it that much, maybe just, Damn that guy in the trench coat is fine!! Then I saw part of it again and I realized that it looked pretty interesting. Luckily, I got to see the whole thing and I simply fell in love with it...and Jason Dean(aka Christian Slater!). Veronica(Winona Ryder) was great. I felt that I could relate to her(not just that our names are the same). This movie is so creative! It truley is the most classic and unbeatable teen movie. But this isn't the average teen movie. There is quite a big morbid twist added into every scene which makes it all the more interesting. Not to mention, the cast is amazing. Honestly, is there an existing guy who is finer and sexier than Christian Slater? I didn't think so. Personally, I think his dark, scary, and eery personality makes him soooooo attractive and sexy. I dunno, but this kinda crossed my mind...Are all these school shootings a take-off from Heathers? I wouldn't be surprised. Michael Lehmann is such a genius! I heard about a sequel of Heathers. I think it was something like...Veronica waking up from that movie(the whole movie happens to be a dream) and she goes to her high school reunion after 10 years. There was something about JD being in her dream/nightmare but I think that's just a rumor. Anyhow, I hope that the sequel doesn't ruin the whole Heathers idea. It better be good!  "},{"Title":"THIS FILM ROCKS!","Date":"30 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  In the second best movie I've ever seen only to The Usual Suspects,the best film ever,this dark,dark,dark 89 comedy is utterly hilarious. Winona Ryder does her best work in this film and Christian Slater doesn't even do this well in his second best film,Very Bad Things,or third,True Romance. It's a wonderfully funny film. Great work,Lehmann. What happened?  "},{"Title":"very funny black comedy","Date":"31 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  this movie is a great black comedy. Its about the most popular and powerful clique in school and how their new addition, Veronica, becomes increasingly disenchanted with them. It has a great sense of style and a dark humor that is very funny. Add to that great performances by Christian Slater and Winona Ryder, and you've got one heck of a movie. A 9/10 in my book! "},{"Title":"Wicked satire","Date":"21 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Heathers has some of the best youth typical stereotypes I've ever seen on film. The dumb jocks, the nerds, the college frat boys, the loser rejects of high school, the popular crowd. All are portrayed brilliantly. I didn't really like the movie the first time I saw it, but I was very young and didn't understand half of the humor. If you are in a cynical mood then see the movie, and you will laugh at the pathetic aspects of teenage society, which are greatly overemphasized, but masterfully depicted,  in the movie  "},{"Title":"Greetings and Salutations","Date":"17 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Greetings and Salutations the very first line of J.D. a cool guy but psychotic. Stars Christian Slater in one of his best performances.  Winona Ryder is always great.  I don't know what category this movie should be in, it's funny but it's also kind of scary.  It's got an original script.  The best movie never made!   "},{"Title":"Very dark, Very cool....","Date":"5 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  What a brilliant film.  The first three quarters of this film are top notch, splattered with all of high schools little idiosyncrasies.  The film loses its way towards the end, with a really stupid ending ( a soft option), but what a ride up till then.  The stereotypes portrayed are all so funny, with absolutely killer dialogue which even in the nineties still has not dated much - unlike the fashions.  Ra-Ra skirts, thick elastic belts and scrunchies show the age of the film, but the underlying base still applies. Nothing ever really changes.  I loved this film when I was 14, and I still love it now. "}{"Title":"Off-beat, dark, but very entertaining!","Date":"4 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is one movie that I am glad I got into and have finally purchased on DVD!  Heathers is revenge for those not part of the in-crowd and a tale of forboding for those that are.  Winona's character is a typical arch-type (having the name Veronica and belonging to the Heathers?) who shines through the movie's dark spots.  Christian Slater's rebel without a cause is interesting, but falls short of really becoming a character we can relate to.  His character is an amalgalm of too many stereotypes - if his character had been more clearly defined, we'd remember him a bit more, other than him getting blown up that is!  Overall, a new American classic, if you dare call it that!!!! "},{"Title":"this movie was really good","Date":"9 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I really liked this movie.  I, too, was one of the Heathers, always picking on people and making fun of people.  I realized that I was wrong.  I am just really glad nobody killed me.  Now I am like Veronica (although I have no one like Christian Slater(that makes me sad).  This was a good movie, though not one of my favorite Christian Slater flicks.  If you like death, destruction, or Christian Slater, you need to pick this one up. "},{"Title":"One of my all-time favorite flicks","Date":"27 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  When I first saw this movie (when it was new), I admit that I was only watching it for Christian Slater.  But, a lot of time has passed since then, and now when I watch it, I see so much more.I never fit in with the crowd and was always being ridiculed for my intelligence and love of books.  I felt close to Winona's character, and I still do.  EXCELLENT MOVIE -- shows high schoolers as they are, an often UGLY sight... "},{"Title":"Awesome!","Date":"3 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I've added this movie to my list of favorites. Heathers is a very clique yet not cliche look at the teen-age society of acceptance. It deals with suicide in a dark yet very comedic way. Its serious undertones, however, are what drew me to adding this movie to my favorites. Anyone who's attended high school should see this movie. I doubt most will like it (mainly your non-teenage audience) but I can see myself liking this movie well into my adult years. It clarifies some of the tension a lot of teens have and reveals some of the most shocking yet silent problems a lot of teens face. It forces you to look into yourself and find a reason to not drink, or be blatantly tricked into drinking a cup full of Drano. What starts as an accident becomes a plan of teen angst. F**k me gently with a chainsaw, is a great expression of rage and sex wrapped in a tight blanket of suicide. See this movie. Like it. "},{"Title":"I love this movie!","Date":"22 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  It's a black, cynical parody of high school life.  I love it.  Being a high schooler, I can say safely say I relate.  The first time I saw this film, I really didn't like it, but it has meaning.  The cult-like cliques of school are captured amazingly, and so is the deeply-embedded hatred for them; hatred from the outsiders, and even the insiders.  Winona Ryder gives, as usual, an excellent portrayal of her character, Veronica Sawyer.  She and Christian Slater (J.D.) play very well off each other.  I love it... so quotable. "},{"Title":"Good satire of various teenager issues, full of dark humor...","Date":"3 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Heathers does a fairly good job satirizing the whole high school scene, but the best moments come from the dark humor with Christian Slater and Winona Ryder trying to humiliate a couple of obnoxious jocks by making them appear to have committed suicide over their repressed homosexuality.  The funeral scene is the icing on the cake, where one of the jock's father (who is struggling to accept his son's apparent gaiety) laments I LOVE MY DEAD, GAY SON!  I'm pretty sure that Heathers would offend some members of the gay community, but I can appreciate how the movie boldly pokes fun at something that is taken SO seriously. My biggest gripe with the movie is that the climax pales in comparison to some of the earlier scenes.  If they wrapped it up with something as funny as the jock's funeral, then I'd give it a higher rating.  Nevertheless, Heathers is still an above-average dark humor movie, and anyone who has ever been alienated in high school may very well find a little solace with this movie. "},{"Title":"A fitting close to the decade of the teen movie","Date":"22 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This $2 million dollar movie is a triumph in writing and visual style and comes across as almost a backlash against the typical teen movies that preceded it. The most striking feature of this movie is the dialogue, sharp, humourous and memorable lines flow thick and fast throughout. All the usual elements to a teen movie are here, drugs, sexuality, alcohol, suicide, eating disorders and so on, but they are addressed in a darkly humourous fashion that seems to tread an original line between being condescending and being exploitive.However through the haze of twisted humour comes an emotional involvement with the charactors, particurly Veronica played by superbly by Winona Ryder which counteracts the sheer charisma of the J.D. charactor played by Christian Slater.Everyone I seem to speak to about this movie either worships it unfailingly or have never heard of it, and like myself, though being English can recognise ourselves in one of the many colourful charactors of the school.Having been made by a first time director, producer and Writer Heathers is far from perfect and contains minor continuity errors and questionable logic. However this should not detract from the fact that it is a movie which emotionally effects everyone who watches it in some way or another. Ideal medicine for the treatment of the Peter Pan complex so many of us suffer from. "},{"Title":"One of my all time faves...","Date":"15 August 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The first time I saw Heathers was when I was in high school, and I wasn't the most popular kid there. I was never savagely beaten up or teased beyond control, but I had my share of high school troubles. When I saw the movie, it hit me like a brick -- I thought it was excellent! It truly is a movie every teenager should see (except for teenagers who have the mental capability to actually ACT OUT some of the plot elements in the movie). I heard that a sequel may be in the making, which would be a pity if they made it because it would NEVER surpass the original. "},{"Title":"Like so many teen movies, it's NOT a film I would let teens watch.","Date":"25 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Heathers is a clever film that I recommend you see...provided you are not young. While making teen-targeted movies with lots of sexual innuendos, nasty language and adult content is often the norm (a great example is the recent film The DUFF), I resent how the films are targeted to younger audiences. But for an adult audience, I heartily recommend the film. It will likely strike a few resounding chords from our own teen years and will appeal to most of our repressed fantasies about nasty folks we were forced to grow up with...unless you, too, were a Heather.Winona Rider plays Veronica, a pretty and popular girl who has it all...except for a sense of responsibility for herself and her own actions. She's a member of a vicious clique--three nasty and self- absorbed girls named Heather and herself. While Veronica doesn't like the Heathers or what they do to others, she excuses away her own conduct and fantasizes about doing away with these stuck-up creeps. However, when she meets a new student (Christian Slater), he encourages her to take action--and soon they are killing off these and other vile high school students. For much of the film, Veronica protests...yet goes along with the new friend's sick revenge fantasies. However, by the end of the film, Veronica realizes it must stop...and she must be the one to stop it.This is a darkly funny film about revenge and, like it or not, you'll likely enjoy seeing her killing these jerks. This is the main problem with letting teens see the film. While I doubt if it will make anyone go on a killing spree, it IS material that just seems inappropriate for young ones...along with all the very rough language and content. A well made but unsavory film that I enjoyed but which made me question who should be watching it. "},{"Title":"Dark in the best way possible","Date":"10 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Heathers is a movie I could see being made only in the 80s if this movie had been made now, it wouldn't surprise me if it got banned and that's part of the reason this movie is great. Westerburg High School is a stereotypical high school filled with cliques, especially the most dominant one including three girls all named Heather (Shannen Doherty, Lisanne Falk, and Kim Walker). Veronica Sawyer (Winona Ryder) has begun to hang out with the three Heathers which she hates how they are right from the start of the film. She just wants to have her old life and old friends back. The movie is loaded with irony and dark comedy. And when I mean dark, I mean really dark. From crazy aspects like pulling guns out in school, murder in general, amongst other things. Veronica eventually meets J.D. (Christian Slater), a rebel who is an outsider and doesn't like the way the social cliques are and wants it to change. They begin dating and this eventually leads to a bit of murder here and there to the hierarchy of school social cliques. The entire thing rarely takes itself seriously, it's meant to be completely comical but the last 30 minutes are interesting. It gets more serious and to my surprise, it worked. It actually had some decent social commentary towards the end and had much more to say than just being a really hilarious dark comedy which was nice to see. Everyone in the cast performances the comedy with perfection, it seems to be have done with care. From the completely ironic lines, witty sarcasm, and the WTF moments in the movie, it has no boundaries with its performances and writings. This movie decided to do what it wanted and essentially had no rules at all. More movies like this need to exist because they don't care. They don't care what will offend people or not offend them, it does what it wants and it's done oh so tastefully. Overall, if you like your comedy as dark as possible, you'll love this movie, it will shock you with its humor but be hilarious as you question why you are laughing at the same time, and then it will surprise you again with a slightly more serious turn. "}{"Title":"Heathers","Date":"18 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Never carried itself to admirers of  black fun», which nice representative is «Heathers».Three girls by name Heather have made the ancestral lands of usual school behave as want, speak, that want, humiliate weak, ugly, lean, clever And Veronica whom well-behaved girls have allowed to join the retinue, does not understand the similar attitude to associates. Then pretty J D suggests them simply to kill. That in vain were not go down on the transitory ground. From film carries healthy cynicism and black sense of fun. A blue plastic bottle as a hint, the cut up veins, the shot fingers, explosions, household chemical goods in cocktail &#x97; simply orgy of absurdity. From this film you do not neigh, but the unhealthy grin from time to time flies. All occurring death seriously are not perceived neither the spectator, nor students (who saw a stage of funeral in white and bespectacled 3D, that will understand). Proceeding from the name, it is logically possible to think, what exactly three girls-Heathers invented itself local queens, unless officially not crowned. But the actual stinker from them is only one which have killed the very first, Heather McNamara is almost imperceptible in the staff, thirty times will see &#x97; and will not remember. Veronica throws, being afraid to state what wants actually, (it bears out the rage on a paper) and smiling bad boy J D simply realizes its desires, let is a little original. About actors it is possible to tell at once &#x97; ball correct Christian Slater and Winona Ryder. This charisma a couple holds all film on herself. And are simply not bad looked together. Christian Slater it is characteristic enough plays cranky J Dee, and Winona Ryder represents us hammered, but yet not broken Veronica. Shannen Doherty plays a little damply and it is rough, the same Kim Walker has surpassed it in all respects. And as a whole it is more anybody to allocate it is impossible.Sneers at death and murders in the youth environment here are finished almost to Absurdity. Above one have decided to be pinned, and that take and die on seat. Others have hanged out long languages and as a result lay in a wood as two gay persons-suicides. But the most interesting, that all school chews an event, them not excites, that ringleaders were lost, as, in fact after their death all have learned about their original dignity And the unfortunate Veronica, hoped to revenge for their jeers, stirs legs for a rage and again rushes to the unhealthy knight. However, one step at a time itself understands, that the event runs away. The girl that not understanding, crosses treasured feature and in a critical instant tries to give I tear up back. And here the end of film dynamical, even very much. To whom it was necessary &#x97; those have survived, someone has rejected skates, well and Veronica has learned to make of the decision and hardly will allow someone to break itself. It still will allow to light to this world. What all the same passions are created among youth This film and in our years is looked as modern, only clothes and young persons of known actors give out its present age. It is recommended to viewing to inveterate cynics and admirers of good black fun. "},{"Title":"The greatest Dark comedy / Teen movie ever made!","Date":"13 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Winona Ryder and Christian Slater star in Heathers, the greatest black comedy high school film ever made. It's hilarious, insane fun. Everyone is perfectly cast. Especially Christian Slater, who in every film gives you a sense that he's gonna rape you.Ryder plays Veronica, a teen who is friends with this clique nicknamed The Heathers because all of them are named Heather. She hates The Heathers, but they give her popularity. So she continues to hang around with them.He life turns upside down when she meets JD(played by Chrisitan Slater), a psychopath who shares a similar hate for The Heathers. After they accidentally kill the lead Heather, things just spiral out of control, starting a chain reaction of suicide and all kinds of craziness.Heathers is an instant classic. It's obvious why. You've never seen anything like it. Heathers is weird, but hilarious, and overall, awesome. One of the best movies ever made in my opinion. You have to see it. If you haven't already.Heathers A+ "},{"Title":"God, Veronica. My afterlife is so boring. I have to sing Kumbaya one more time...","Date":"28 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is one of the funniest and strangest movies I have ever seen. I am beginning to appreciate Winona Ryder (S1m0ne, Reality Bites) more and more, and this was probably the best I have seen her.Christian Slater (3000 Miles to Graceland) was no slouch either in a strange messed up kid role. Seeing your mother commit suicide will do that to you.Michael Lehmann's second film gave an enthralling picture of high school life with the in-crowd and the geeks. You could not help but find it fascinating. Daniel Waters (Batman Returns) can sure write a great story.Don't miss this one. "},{"Title":"excellent movie with bite","Date":"5 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" the heathers, a true 80's movie that has wit spite, the 'populars' 'jocks' and every other stereotype someone can think of. This movie to me was a true hit. One funny scene was after Veronica had killed the first Heather. and she responded I just killed my best friend J.D. also your worst enemy Veronica Same difference her reaction was utterly hilarious. Everything about the movie had comedy, murder, murder designed as suicide, and a bit of mystery and some under-lying character, which you cant see who a true character is until the very ending. This is a must see movie and a recommendation to anyone mature enough and up for a good laugh. "},{"Title":"Anyone for colour-coded croquet?","Date":"7 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I thought not.'Heathers' offers a sprawling surge of contemporary 1980's high school culture but with timeless issues like peer pressure, cliques and identity. As a dark comedy, it navigates the unspeakable cruelty of the popular crowd in making other people's lives a living hell and exerting dominance on the entire high school body. It is a staple in its genre but whatever it once did for the teen comedy scene, tons of subsequent high school flicks have done better, more subtly and more enjoyably in recent years.Nevertheless, you will be pressed to find something noticeably sub-par in the film. The ending, if anything, is quite cheesy but the meticulous crafting up to this point is tended well to by director Michael Lehmann. Veronica (Winona Ryder) has infiltrated the notoriously popular 'Heathers' group with all its elaborate network of catchphrases, colour coding and cruel stares, but when she meets the resident bad-boy J.D. (Christian Slater) she begins to question if the school may just be a better place without the existence of the three heartless Heathers. Thus a morbid offing of the popular hierarchy begins in the form of staged suicide hysteria &#150; unfortunately for Veronica and J.D. (or Bonnie & Clyde) it appears as though if you cut off a cheerleader's head, another one will grow back.The story may not be the most perfectly-sketched template in modern cinema (although Ryder has said its script is up there with her favourite book 'The Catcher in the Rye' in terms of quality) but there are some hilariously engrossing detours and diversions, like the incessant croquet playing. This game &#150; the rules you play by, the strategies you use and the colours that you have been assigned &#150; is highly symbolic and significant in the story. Will you strike to hits or knock someone out? To sew it all together, the film is puffed full of teen atmosphere, peppered with quotable lines and strongly supported by an otherwise lightweight cast.Certainly the performances generally hold up fairly well with Christian Slater's effortless appeal as the bad-boy heartthrob (and arguably the Jack Nicholson of high school flicks) at the forefront. Yet most credit is undoubtedly due to Heathers' unlikely heroine Winona Ryder. With a natural leading woman presence with appropriate dramatic weight for a teen comedy, as well as interjecting narration through diary entries, she easily inhabits the protagonist slot. But she is not your innocent little lamb who gets seduced by the popular crowd, but a dark heroine who resorts to increasingly dark ways to deal with the injustices of a modern high school.It is nearly impossible to deduce how many teen comedies and dramas that have been influenced by 'Heathers' over the years (Jawbreakers and Mean Girls are two that immediately spring to mind). As a 1989 entry to the scene, in many ways it marked the end of the cutesy brat pack 1980's era with Molly Ringwald films. This is much darker, has more things to say and attempts a different level of humour. As a result, sure, you could perhaps find more to pick apart and analyze &#150; but 'Heathers' sadly does not hold up against the crème de la crème of its genre &#150; such as Clueless, Porky's, The Breakfast Club and Ten Things I Hate About You. 7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"The Ultimate Teen Movie","Date":"3 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Everyone goes on about how American Pie is the best teen movie and until recently I agreed. I bought Heathers only for the reason that I wanted to increase my Christian Slater collection, I watched it and was totally blown away, Christian Slater is so hot in it (he rides a motorbike in it and I just love them even more now) and I loved the story. JD is a bit of a bad boy and we all know that us girls love a bit of a bad boy, he takes guns to school and is a little crazy shall we say. Christian Slater plays the role perfectly, oh and by the way, I thought the start was a little slow probably cos Christian Slater wasn't in it for the first five minutes but believe me it gets a lot better as the story develops. After I watched it I decided thatHeathers has got to be the ULTIMATE TEEN MOVIE OF ALL TIME!!! "},{"Title":"Veronica was really the one in second command after Heather Chandler","Date":"10 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I was thinking about how when Veronica says someone will move in and take Heather Duke's place, just like Heather Duke took Heather Chandler's place. But technically, wouldn't Veronica have been the next in line to replace Heather Chandler, because Veronica is stronger than Heather Duke and Heather McNamara, and the one that Heather Chandler confided in the most. For instance, when Veronica comforts Heather Duke when she was throwing up in the bathroom, this scene shows that Heather Duke's weaker than Veronica. And in the later scene when Heather McNamara tries to overdose on pills, Veronica stops her. This shows that Heather McNamara is weaker than Veronica. So this brings to mind the question did Heather Duke immediately take Heather Chandler's place because the position was open, and Heather Duke wanted the position so badly? And that being so, is it true that Heather Chandler's position was clearly open to Veronica, but Veronica had no desire to take Heather Chandler's position. The fact that Heather Duke pounces on the chance to be Heather Chandler shows how much Heather Duke lacks her own personality. Heather McNamara seemed to have hope and that's why she and Veronica were the truest of friends. Heather McNamara seemed to be Veronica's truest friend next to Betty Finn. "},{"Title":"75% Perfect","Date":"7 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" As the film started, I wasn't entirely sure if it was one I was going to like. Fifteen minutes into it, I seriously wanted to turn it off. In retrospect, I'm very happy to have given it a chance. The first quarter of the film seems to be a bit uninspired. Its the same characters and plot points as almost any teen movie ever made.But once it makes its transition into a darker movie, I could not stop from watching. It has great atmosphere that adds to the creepiness factor.The acting is good, with a few actors/actresses standing out. Winona Ryder is becoming one of my favorite 80's girls, and this movie is a big reason why. She brings a solid all around performance. Shannen Doherty does well playing a bitch, and this is probably when she got type-casted as one. I have not been really impressed with any Christian Slater movie, except for maybe True Romance, but this is the greatest performance of his career. He hit every cue with his character's transformation.This film will make a great rental, and if you enjoy it, it would be fitting for any fan's movie collection. "},{"Title":"Tries to be hard to be hip","Date":"3 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" When HEATHERS works, it works very well. When it doesn't,which is about 3/4 of the time,it's shear tedium. Watching HEATHERS is sort of like staying up with a crankhead wired on acid.At first,he's amusing,with a few adroit observations and scatological irreverence's you find refreshing. Then,you get the first glimmerings somethings wrong when he keeps telling the same old joke over and over again,laughing harder each time he tells it. After awhile,He's forgot the original point he was trying to make. He realizes you're rapidly losing interest. So he throws everything he can into coming up with a slam-bang finish he's sure you'll love. You don't,but that doesn't keep him from trying it all again,until he gets it right. Or,loud. "},{"Title":"Heathers is awesome!!!!","Date":"24 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I've seen this movie a million times and i cant get enough of it!!!The lines are absolutely hilarious covered by a veil of sarcasm and black humor all the way through.The use of language is really something unforgettable.Christian Slater is fantastic as JD and Wynona Ryder is made for the part.Shannen Doherty who later on became famous as Brenda in Beverley Hills makes one of her first notable appearances here as well ...I should also mention that this film was regular on Greek TV -a few years ago-after midnight of course...By the way did u have a brain tumor for breakfast?...Absolutely hilarious... Don't miss it!!! "}{"Title":"When MTV killed more than the radio star","Date":"12 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" In the 1980s, many in the music industry feared that MTV would kill the radio star and music videos would be the output for hot new musicians, they were wrong. MTV didn't kill the radio star, but it also didn't help teenager's minds along with views on life. Heathers show's teens in the midst of the MTVera in high school. It focuses on a young girl, Veronica who is in the most popular group called the Heathers. However, she is also the outcast of the group.She doesn't really like her friends or her life very much despite having everything a teenage girl can desire. But she is forced to fit in anyway; she really has no solution to her popularity. Why should she, isn't popularity the Holy Grail of High School? Suddenly everything changed when an outsider by the name of J.D.(played by a young, extremely versatile Christian Slater) moves to town catching Veronica's eye across the CAF. Unlike Veronica, J.D. doesn't fear the importance of current high school popularity He represents everything Veronica aspires for but won't do on account of her reputation as a Heather.They both form a relationship becoming very close friends sharing their views on the whole high school scene and the contemporary social issues. It's all fine until J.D. puts poison in Heathers drink, the leader of the Heathers and Veronica's enemy leading to Heathers death. To get away with it, they fake a suicide note written by Veronica forging Heather's name on it forcing an uproar baffling the whole School. How can a girl so popular be so unhappy, and why would she commit suicide? Suddenly the media and the school get in to it; suicide suddenly becomes the hot new topic at school from the media, to the classmates, to the staff. J.D. tricks Veronica into killing the two biggest jocks at school. The whole scene is dark satire at its best. Is that mineral water? Suddenly many popular kids start attempting suicide simply to fit in escaping the hell's of 80s High School. If the most popular girl and two most guys do it, shouldn't the average kid's? The whole thing turns into a huge issue inspiring some of the best satire ever put to screen. Heathers show's the satire like no High School movie has every attempted.The 80s was a great decade for teen comedies. John Hughes was, of course, the king creating the brat pack. Cameron Crowe had a few of them too, but there is no teen comedy as daring and satirical as Heathers. The whole film gave me Goosebumps compelling me like no teen movie I have ever seen in my life. Winona Ryder is amazing. She's the closest thing to Holden in Catcher in the rye that I've seen.I just wanted to kiss her the whole time. I'm in High School, I know how tough it can be to fit in with kids constantly trying to be popular with everyone being classified by their looks, wealth, where they sit in the Cafeteria. It's very petty and short but to many kids, it's the most important time of their lives and it can also be the worst. Fortunately, my generation has become a bit more accepting.Bullying usually stops by High School today, but still occurs ruing many kid's lives. Heathers shows how popularity plus fitting in can affect everyone from the popular to the average and it does it in such a dark and intriguing way. I would recommend this to anyone who enjoyed Mean Girls but wanted more. Rachael McAdam's in Mean Girls is a pale comparison to Heather Chandler's pure shallow, vain, bitchy attitude and she enjoys every second. You won't believe where Heahter's takes you. The 80s was a tough time to fit in. Growing up with MTV making kids more shallow with materialism becoming their pride possession. Heathers show's exactly what it all can lead to. 10-10!!! "},{"Title":"Still Great After All These Years","Date":"6 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I recently saw Heathers after having not seen it for several years, and immediately remembered why I like it. This film so perfectly portrayed the high school social scene of its era. Anybody who was in high school in the late 80's can say that they recall people who were like the characters in this film. The members of this core clique, especially its merciless leader and the sex-crazed football players who thought the world revolved around them still linger today in most schools. Most of us who were not as popular in high school want some kind of karmic justice and this film is a visual gratification of that desire. Even though it goes to the extreme that it does, It is still worth watching. Unlike other teen films of the 80's, Heathers does not try to pleasantly resolve its conflict toward a happy ending. As for the casting, Winona Ryder became a star for her portrayal of Veronica, the new clique member who is trying to get back what she lost in order to be part of the crowd, her own identity. Christian Slater was the driving force of the film, and he will never duplicate this terrific performance. The two of them had great chemistry. I'm sure many guys could relate to J.D. and his demons. Kim Walker played the power bitch Heather Chandler to perfection. Her performance from the opening shot to her sudden demise will live on even though she is no longer with us. Shannon Doherty was great as the bitch-in-training Heather Duke. I strongly recommend that today's youth who has seen Mean Girls also see this film which more fully lived up to that name. "},{"Title":"A true American classic","Date":"15 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Heathers has a big advantage over most teen comedies hailing from the eighties, and that is that it obviously has a brain behind it's over the top and largely hilarious antics. The film, while bowing to many staples of the common eighties teen comedy, has enough of it's own to be original and even thought provoking. Heathers gives a thorough depiction of a society, in this case a school; Westerbegh High. It's politics, interesting characters and sharp dialogue combine to create a truly stunning piece of work, which is just as funny as it is dark and intriguing. The story really takes off when the outsider of the school's most popular clique, 'the Heathers', meets a cool youth known as J.D. She gets pulled into killing off certain members of the group along with other popular members of the school, only to find the fickleness of popularity being exposed. While Heathers' comment on society may be slightly muddled, it's clear enough and it's nice to be able to enjoy a film and then take something from it when the credits role.It isn't the social commentary that was the main highlight for me, however, as the deliciously surreal atmosphere takes that honour. The film jumps from one odd event to another, and it does this with a sharp tongue, a lighting style borrowed from Italian master Dario Argento and a maliciously dark atmosphere, which helps to hype up the tension and ensures that Heathers is always exciting. Despite being made in a time when 'b' flicks were king and not so many 'a' class films were being produced, Heathers take its 'b' plot and turns it into an a-class movie. In fact, I would even go as far as to say that Heather echoes the true American classics such as The Apartment and Sunset Blvd in that it has a very strong script, and the reliance of the film to work is aimed squarely at the cast, which are successful in their bid to make this film work to say the least. Both Winona Ryder and Christian Slater never bettered their performances in this movie, and that's saying something as both have had long and rich careers.Another thing about Heathers that is an integral part of it's success is the way it builds up it's central society by way of a great array of offbeat characters that populate the school at the centre of the story. It's amazing just how well the film comes together, and writer Daniel Waters can take huge credit for balancing the central theme, the two central characters and an entire body of different characters and making sure that the result is a success. The black humour is scintillating, and at times so absurd that all you can do as you watch is laugh out loud. There isn't a lot of murder in the movie, but the two death scenes that the film does give us are superb to say the least, with the latter being one of the most amazing funny and inventive things I've ever seen on film. All of the cast and crew can pat themselves on the back for making this movie, as everything about it is excellent. Well, almost everything; the ending could use a little work. Still, the ending not withstanding; Heathers is pure brilliance! "},{"Title":"great, original, refreshing","Date":"11 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" One of the most amazing and strong movies that I have ever seen. Winona Ryder, Christian Slater and especially Shannen Doherty showed their enormous talent and gave a performance that really touch you. The direction is wonderful but above all things the script. The script is so clever and unique that there is a moment where you feel really connected with the characters and even you know that what they are doping is completely unacceptable you agree and support them because the story is so well written that you are transported to that tremendous high school. This is a strong movie and for days it really shocked me. I saw it when I was 14 and it really made a big impact in me. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Heathers (1989)","Date":"25 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is one of the rare movies that I can think of that whenever it's on, no matter what time of day or night, I'll watch it through to the end. Hard to imagine that it could be lumped into this category, I'm sure, but, it holds the distinction along side of All About Eve, Auntie Mame, and Driving Miss Daisy. I've seen each of them countless times, but, whenever they're on, no matter if I'm just doing some aimless channel surfing before going to bed at a late hour, I stay up and watch.Even fifteen years later, it's still a New Classic in my book. Wynona Ryder, Christian Slater, and Shannen Doherty combine to put together one of the quirkiest, bordering on the edge of absolute hyperbole, performances in a story that is unlike any you'll ever see repeated. It reminds me of my college years. On Halloween, you could just about bank on any party you went to having at least six trios of girls coming as Heather Red, Heather Green, and Heather Yellow--with respective clip boards, Moby Dicks, and pom-poms in tow. What other movie can boast such a legacy?F*ck me gently with a chainsaw...How very...Transfer to Jefferson, transfer to Washington--no one at Westerburg's going to play any of your reindeer games...CLASSIC!Not to mention exchanges likeVeronica's Dad God damn, can somebody tell me why I smoke these cigarettes?Veronica Cause you're an idiot.Veronica's Dad Oh yeah...that's it.Veronica's Mom You two...or...Veronica This is great pate, but, I got motor if I'm going to make it to Heather's funeral on time.Not to mention all the symbolism--especially the croquet. Love it, love it, love it. If you haven't seen it, crawl out from under your rock and get thee to Blockbuster Video. "},{"Title":"More than a classic!!","Date":"11 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  What can I say about this movie other than it's brilliant! It was definitely one of the first times (but certainly not the last) that we were able to see the undeniable range and talent of perhaps the best actor ever to bless the screen, Christian Slater. I've liked this movie since I was a kid and then, of course, I adored it once in highschool, and now in my mid-twenties it still remains a movie I never grow tired of. It's fun and witty and charming and Jason Dean is probably one of thee best characters ever to hit the screen. Anyone who reads this review, I would like to ask them to do something. Rent Very Bad Things (or buy it..it's a great flick) and Heathers. Watch them back to back and look for how Slater uses subtle changes of style, tone, stance, poise, and mannuerisms to portray the different psychology of these characters. If almost anyone else had been playing both roles these subtle but, oh so significant, demeanor changes would be absent. Never will you be watching VBT and think to yourself your seeing traits of JD, and likewise you'll never watch Heathers and see traits of Robert Boyd. As for Heathers, it's just an amazing movie that was so before its time yet luckily appreciated nonetheless.  "},{"Title":"It's sad but true","Date":"18 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Heathers is a black comedy that is a guilty pleasure. There are numerous disturbing moments in the film. Yet, they all seem so true.SPOILER ALERTEveryone seems to remember you or pretend like they liked you if there was a suicide attempt in school. It almost is like a last resort unfortunately for kids. Everyone is so into their own groups that they don't care who they hurt. As long as their in their own group. The movie is very good. You see a young Winona, Christian, and Shannon. There are some very good points in the film too. I would recommend. Cool 80's flick.9/10 "},{"Title":"Heathers","Date":"23 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Whatever you do don't allow the fact that Micheal Lehmann directed Hudson Hawk to put you off his stunning debut with this movie about an all-girl high-school clique with their first names being called Heather terrorising fellow students. Their awful actions prompt Winona Ryder and Christian Slater to engineer a rash of deaths to break the clique's hold on their schoolmates. Beneath the hip, lip-glossed surface of this devastatingly witty black comedy lurks a serious satire on peer-group pretensions and other teen movies. But the message never gets in the way of the snappy dialogue or on-target jabs at the incrowd lunacy of high school life. Contains violence, swearing and sex scenes.  "},{"Title":"QUICK REVIEWS!!","Date":"26 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  SPOILERS!!! Two Winona Ryder movies in a row, what's going on? This is one of the most effective looks at teenage life in school, and at home, with a cynical and satirical look at everything from popularity to suicide. The script is very good, perfectly showing the feelings we all had at that time in our lives, the disgust of those above us in school, intellectually, and those whose sole point in life is to be popular. Slater steals the movie with his wonderful performance as the rebel, the outsider with one too many dark thoughts in his head. If you every felt annoyed by any person, or part of school, I urge you to watch Heathers. In the words of Homer- it's funny because it's true! Ryder is also good, but she always is, and there are plenty of laughs. For added effect, watch it with your parents they won't laugh, you'll be rolling on the floor. 8 OUT OF 10 "},{"Title":"The 'in crowd', Murder and Winona One of the best black comedies of the 80s and for that matter, ever!","Date":"19 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  *May Contain Spoilers*Words can not describe how much I love this brilliant film. Although recognised as a classic in some 'cult' circles, this film is generally forgotten and lumped in among the many terrible films of the 1980s. Veronica (Winona Ryder) is sort of a 'popular outsider' at school, and she gets sick of kissing the buts of the school's elite comunity, the 'Heathers'.  Her boyfriend Jason (Christian Slater) kills the top 'Heather' and for a while, Veronica is absolutely glad to have her and her exploitive ways out of the school and out of the students lives, but things start to repeat themselves. I won't say more so you can be dragged along the rollercoaster that is Heathers, one of the movies of the 80s, and sees the beautiful Winona Ryder in one of her most fun and natural roles. Highly recommended. "}{"Title":"OMG - I've never seen such a cool movie","Date":"6 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  after seeing this properly for the first time only a month or so ago i would like to comment on its greatness - (i am only 15 so i was born the year it came out)but i still think this movie is amazing - i have to say though... the main reason i watched this movie was because Christian Slater was in it... He is my fav character and actor from the movie - I just loved JD!!!! just thought i'd mention that this movie is great - if u havent seen it - go out and rent it. or even buy it cos its not gonna be a waste of money cos i guarrantee you will be watching it over and over and over again... you'll probly need a new copy within the next year...  (well i will n e way) 10 stars all the way...  "},{"Title":"My favorite movie ever.","Date":"29 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I believe Heathers is one of those movies you can only truly enjoy if you experienced some moderate to serious degree of trouble/hardship while in high school. This movie made me feel better about going to school on Monday morning.  And now, nearly 9 years later, it still hits home for me.  It is the most intelligent, well-written, sarcastic and witty commentary on American high school-aged youth to date.  I pull this film out of my collection every 6 months or so and watch it again.  The dialog is memorable and the situations, though hyperbolized, show just how cruel teenagers can be. Winona Ryder and Christian Slater especially shine.  Movies don't need explosions and crazy special effects to be near-perfect.  This 1989 classic delivers one hell of a punch.10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Different ina good way.","Date":"30 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Heathers is definitely not your average sweet and light teen movie. It's dark, it's edgy, it's disturbing and it's also got humor. A very different kind of movie that most people I know tend to either really really like or not like at all.I loved Heathers growing up and thought it was an excellent movie. First were the Performers. Everyone was great in it. I'm not a strong fan of Christian Slater but have to say he was positively CREEPY and very effective though there's a lot of Jack Nicholson going on there.Then there's the subject matter. The movie is as twisted as they come but thought provoking too and so different from most of the teen flicks around at that time, it really leaves a mark.Many years later I have to note a bit of similarity to Cruel intentions(which came out later of coarse) not so much in subject matter, but they both have that dark twisted quality although Heathers has more humor in it and is honestly, personal preferences aside, a better movie overall. In Fact, Heathers, while really a very serious movie, has some very funny moments, though the movie is pretty dark as a whole. This seems to be a little known classic but I think anyone who's a fan of a movie like Cruel Intentions or who like their teen movies a bit on the darker side, or who like movies about the pressures of fitting in at school, cliques, and peer pressure would definitely like Heathers.It really stands out from other teen movies and is somewhat frightening in a very serious way, as well as containing some great performances.I'd rate it an easy 8 of 10. Not an easily forgettable movie. "},{"Title":"I don't believe I ever heard that name before.","Date":"23 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Heathers is black satire in which we get to see those people we all loved to hate, the high school popular elite, systematically off'd by a beautiful but reluctant campus queen (Ryder) and her loner boyfriend (Slater). Having passed the test of time, Heathers offers a respectable cast and nominal production value, but it's the smart script loaded with cheap shots at campus social strata, teachers, and parents which is responsible for its success. An entertaining, eventful comedy watch for anyone who was ever snob snubbed in high school and is old enough for a soft R rating. (B) "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"9 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film is hilarious and sometimes it is not supposed to be like that but you just can´t help it except for laugh. It is a bad thing because many things in the film you are supposed to laugh at. The clothes are horrible, the hair is even worse, some of the jokes are so outdated and It is going to be very is hilarious. The acting was good. Kilm Walker, Lisanne Falk and Shannen Doherty were good as the Heathers. What ever happened to Kim Walker who played Heather so well. Christian Slater is also good as J.D. who obviously tries perhaps to hard to style Jack Nicholson.Unlike many films of the 1980´s Heaters was not about a poor girl who meets a rich guy and becomes popular or anything like that. The three stars in the film Winona, Shannen and Christian were all teenagers when they made it. Winona was 16 I think and it avoids all cliches. overall grade 8/10.  "},{"Title":" Do you honestly think if Betty Finn's fairy godmother made her cool she would hang out with her dweebette friends?","Date":"30 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Winona Ryder is awesome as Veronica in this bubbly teen angst film. The following cast is witty. The costumes are sophisticated. One of the good flicks in the genre, Heathers will kill the viewer and make it look like suicide. 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A Great Dark Teen Comedy","Date":"11 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Heathers is the most popular group in highschool. The group consists of Heather Chandler(Kim Walker), who is like a leader and the most popular one, Heather Duke(Shannen Doherty) and Heather McNamara(Lisanne Falk). There is also Veronica Sawyer(Winona Ryder) who isn't really a heather but still hangs out with them. Suddenly there is this new guy in school named Jason Dean(Christian Slater) and he and Veronica become a couple. Veronica slowly starts hating her friends and becomes annoyed with them more and more. Jason has this idea that they should kill all the heathers and make it look like suicide. Veronica first doesn't agree with him but then by accident she kills Heather Chandler and makes it look like suicide. Now Veronica and Jason are about to kill anyone that annoys them and gets in their way. This was a very great dark comedy. Winona Ryder was great. I would give Heathers 9/10 "},{"Title":"TOP 10 MOVIES EVER MADE","Date":"1 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  ok i have to admit while i was watching the first 35 mintues i was thinking what the heck am i watching! but after the film i couldn't stop thinking about it! the writing!(Swash dogs and diet coke heads)acting(winona Ryder is amazing along with the rest of the cast(expect since i saw it in 2002 and i am aguy christen slater bugged the crap out of me with his voice but he acted alright!) overall this movie is orginal and an amazing good black comedy! P.S if you saw the commentary on the dvd and see what he was going to do for heathers 2 you better be happy he didnt do it!  "},{"Title":"classic dark comedy","Date":"2 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The first time I watched Heathers I didn't know if I liked it or not. I rented it about three months later and just got it, loved it. I can't recommend this for everyone but if you like dark comedies this is the king. Great, dark, satirical look at high school. Christian slater does a dead on young Jack Nicholson impression, and the rest of the cast follows with outstanding performances. One of my all time favorite movies. I could go on and on about this one, but that would hold you up from going out and seeing it NOW! Truly the greatest dark comedy ever. "},{"Title":"Classic teen movie","Date":"22 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Heathers has to be one of the funniest teen movies ever made. Wionna Ryder made a carrer makig movie in the lead role as Veroncia. Christan Slater proved he was the next Jack Nicholson in his role as JD. And all of the Heathers are hilarous with their one liners. Check it out. "}{"Title":"Not a classic but solid entertainment *** out of five","Date":"19 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Everyone held this as a classic. A classic? in my opinion NO but some great work. This is solid entertainment. Maybe in parts it might portray a shool nerd like something from saved by the bell. Which is a very bad-thing. But overall this is a good film maybe a bit over-rated but still good. "},{"Title":"Excellent Black Comedy","Date":"7 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is possibly the most innovative teen movie ever. So many movies have tried to equal the portrayal of teen angst and frustration this film depicts so brilliantly, and have failed on all levels. Christian Slater and Winona Ryder are excellent, and there are a lot of funny scenes as well as serious ones. A remarkable achievement. 8.5/10. "},{"Title":"loved it","Date":"12 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie has always been one of my favorites.  It's a good story about friendship, and teenagers.  It actually was very touching, the ending, but i'm not going to give it away to those of you who haven't seen it yet.If you haven't, then I suggest you rent this film because it's very funny, it never really gets old either, I remember liking it when I first watched it.  Then I watched it again the other day after a long time and I liked it even more then when I first did.Rent this film if you want a laugh and want to watch a good movie about teenage friendships.   "},{"Title":"Very cult.","Date":"19 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie has so much appeal that I don't think anybody will forget it if they ever have a chance to watch. This is a great cult flick. I have no idea why this film works, I just know it does. The cast is exceptional and the direction is inspired. There are so many great lines in this film, you'll be quoting it for weeks afterwards. "},{"Title":"Best high school movie of all-time...","Date":"2 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  At first, this movie seemingly mocks the high school social structure (as well as death and homophobia, among other things), but as you continue to watch, the more you realize just how accurate the movie is in its portrayal of these subjects.  What at first seems like a joke suddenly hits you as being reality---you realize that people really DO act this way.  Lends validity to the old adage Truth is stranger than fiction. "},{"Title":"So lonesome you could kill","Date":"27 June 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Heathers defines the eighties, teen comedy craze in the eighties and also proves mixing two seemingly distant genres like comedy and horror can be done if the material has a certain amount of each. Heathers has a ton of comedy, and a ton of very dark elements that almost make it a soft thriller. Its mix makes the whole film enjoyable and entertaining.Winona Ryder plays Veronica, a very intelligent girl who is among one of the most popular girls in her high school Westerburg High. She is accompanied by three other girls, all with the same name Heather and form the Heathers. They rule the high school. The jocks want them, other girls would kill to be like them, and even teachers look up to them.Veronica is soon acquainted by motorcyclist J.D. (Slater) who understands Veronica's current frustration with the if-you're-not-in-my-clique-you're-not-worth-my-time phase her school is going through. J.D. and Veronica soon accidentally murder one of the Heathers and make it look as if it was a suicide with Veronica writing a fake suicide note. They soon become fake-suicide crazy, doing it to many other people until the pressure and sick joy of doing this gets to their head.The film almost never sports a dull moment, and has a beautiful lead actress in her hay-day. While Slater's performance is reminiscent of a young Jack Nicholson with his out there personality and thick overcoat as if he were crazy, it doesn't drag this down into the level of a dumb teenager movie like one could easily mistake it of.It sort of reminds me of a film I reviewed months ago called Jawbreaker. That film was almost Heathers and Mean Girls combined into one movie. The outcome was favorable, but like I opened my review of Jawbreaker, saying Jawbreaker is a copy of a copy, I meant what I said. It's a fun movie, but brings nothing new to the table of genius movie-making.Heathers, while given the same star rating as Jawbreaker, is far superior, but both stand as very well done pieces of entertainment. Of course, in this movie, the teenagers were all young and believable. In Jawbreaker, Rose McGowan and Rebecca Gayheart were pushing thirty trying to portray high schoolers. It didn't work so well.The satirical elements in Heathers work, but the murder acts are done maturely. They aren't like some eighties films that are done on a level of corny, so bad it's good quality. In Heathers, it's so good it's good. Everything about this is enjoyable, and just when you thought no teenage movie can depict stress without being immature, Heathers sticks its head out.Starring Winona Ryder, Christian Slater, Shannon Doherty, Lisanne Falk, Kim Walker, Penelope Milford, and Glenn Shadix. Directed by Michael Lehmann. "},{"Title":"Critique of Pure Shallowness","Date":"23 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Hard to understand why some people become leaders if they have no more in the way of personal qualities than the rest of us. No -- I mean high school, not politics. In a way, high school status spheres seem to echo those of the society around them. The men compete for power and the women for popularity.In Heathers the most powerful boys are on the football team and the most popular girls are the best groomed and prettiest, in this case the three girls named Heather. Veronica (Ryder), not a Heather, is an acolyte. The lower rungs on the status ladder are represented by a tall girl named Betty with thick glasses and an ordinary pony tail instead of an elaborate coif. (Betty and Veronica? Is this a literary allusion?) On the lowest rung of all is Dumptruck Dunnstock, an overweight reject. Christian Slater is Dean, the new boy in school, whose mother committed suicide and whose father rejoices in destroying wetlands and endangered species and historic landmarks through his demolition company. How Slater's dad chuckles as he watches the collapse of a big hotel on VHS.Basically, the story is this. Slater and Ryder kill the chief Heather by accident and fix the death up to look like a suicide. The other Heathers follow, not by accident. Slater then finagles Ryder into shooting and killing two stars of the football team, leaving a suicide note claiming the deaths were the result of a lovers' pact. Teen suicide acquires a kind of cachet because, after all, people come to your funeral and laud you and your picture appears on TV and all, so other innocent teens begin to attempt suicide. Slater gets swept up in the destruction until by the end he has an apparatus in place to take out the entire high school, but Ryder has come to her senses and prevents him, after which Slater blows himself up. Lots of laughs here.Actually it's a pretty acid comment on being a teenager today. And let's face facts. It does give you ontological pause to discover that you have every material thing you need and therefore nothing to live for except 15 minutes of fame.None of these kids experiences anything remotely resembling a Calvinist calling. Whatever they're studying is never brought up. Nobody has ambitions that go beyond acceptance to an Ivy League college, and please let it be Harvard. I can believe their anxiety. I can believe their shallowness and spitefulness and cruelty and narcissism. Heather #1 is defined by a sticker in her locker -- I Shop, Therefore I am. What's harder to believe is that Heather #2 has read Moby Dick and has even underlined passages in it. As it appears in this movie, this is a generation that has lost touch with its cultural data base. A joke about Moby Dick, Part Two Ahab's Revenge, would be lost on them. They wouldn't get a reference to King Kong.The dialog is pretty snappy, the acting generally okay, and the gradually revealed bitterness in the script makes it different from most movies about teens. Yet the subject of middle-class high-school cliques has been so overdone that it's a little tedious to watch still another spiel, along the lines of Clueless and Pretty in Pink and the rest of them. Ho hum.It's interesting to note though that the farther removed in years I am from my high school days the more interesting high school cheerleaders in those tiny-skirted carnival-bright outfits become. Not just because they're attractive. All young girls are willy nilly attractive and sexy. It's their innocence that's captivating. Imagine being so willing to lend your allegiance to an organization that you are willing to dress up that way and jump around on a wooden floor, shaking your pom poms in front of hundreds of strangers. The film makers kind of missed the boat there. The school can't be all THAT dead with such a naked affirmation of devotion on the basketball court. Fewer movies about suicide and more movies about high school cheerleaders, I say. "},{"Title":"Bizarre Film!","Date":"22 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Well, I must say this film was NOT AT ALL what I expected.  I was expecting a Breakfast Club/Sixteen Candles type of film.  I guess that's my fault.  Oh well.As I was watching the movie I was thinking What on earth am I watching!?!?  This is HORRIBLE!!!  But after the film was over, I thought it wasn't all that bad.  It definitely isn't anywhere near my top 100 movies or so, but it was....OK...I guess.This is most definitely a Dark comedy.  In the first minute I could tell that this was going to be an odd movie and from that moment on it just got stranger and stranger.The cast was pretty good.  Christian Slater did a fine job, as did Winona Ryder.  Shannen Doherty did a pretty good job as well.  The rest of the cast was fine too, but nothing out of the ordinary.If you ask me, it takes a strange person to truly ENJOY this film, it's got a few cool things about it, but overall it's just a weird movie.  I wouldn't really recommend going out of your way to see this, but if you've got some free time then be my guest.  I hope you enjoy the film more than I did.  Thanks for reading,-Chris "},{"Title":"Brilliant film!","Date":"24 April 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I know that almost every movie I comment on I call it a brilliant film but this truly is brilliant! It totaly demonstrates the way the high schools in the 80s we're... and it was made in the exact time! It also talks about the big suicide craze and just how stupid it was! Heathers rule!  "},{"Title":"Heathers","Date":"19 November 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I had heard about this film, mainly because of the leading actress in it, and I knew it was something about death or whatever, so with high critic ratings I was hoping for something good, directed by Michael Lehmann (40 Days and 40 Nights). Basically at Westerburg High School, Veronica (Winona Ryder) is part of the most dominant and popular clique, the Heathers, made up of three wealthy and beautiful girls named Heather leader Heather Chandler (Kim Walker), bookish bulimic Heather Duke (Shannen Doherty) and weak-willed cheerleader Heather McNamara (Lisanne Falk). Veronica has become tired that Heather Chandler can bully and control everyone, she wishes her dead so she can do whatever she wants and not what Heather Chandler wants. Veronica meets dark rebel J.D. (Christian Slater) who is willing to help her, they work together to teach Heather Chandler a lesson, making her drink drain cleaner, she does so and dies instantly from chemical poisoning. Veronica and J.D. cover up the murder forge Heather Chandler's handwriting to write a suicide note, however the bullying and cruelty does not stop, as Heather Duke replaces Heather Chandler as leader, the assumed suicide is seen as glamorous and cool. Veronica is next tricked into shooting football players Kurt Kelly (Lance Fenton) and Ram Sweeney (Patrick Labyorteaux), who had been spreading a rumour about Veronica giving them oral sex, these murders are covered up by suicide notes saying that they were secretly gay. Veronica comes to realise that, while she just wanted to scare the victims of the murders, J.D. intended to kill them, she becomes scared of him. J.D. next plans to kill Heather Duke, but Veronica wants no part of it, so instead J.D. has everyone sign a petition, this is in fact a group suicide note as part of his plan to blow up the school. Veronica tries to put a stop to J.D. and his murderous plot, shooting him and forcing him to leave the bomb in the school, but outside he straps the bomb to himself, Veronica watches as J.D. blows himself up, comforting Heather Duke, and suggesting to the school nerd that she will become the new school leader. Also starring Penelope Milford as Pauline Fleming, Glenn Shadix as Father Ripper and Jeremy Applegate as Peter Dawson. Ryder is fantastic as usual being the young innocent teenager, and Slater is great as the demented young man wanting to murder fellow students, the story is essentially two teenagers wanting to kill the popular kids, with snappy dialogue, deaths both fun and freaky to watch, and a script is full of darkly funny and satirical, a great cult movie black comedy. Very good! "}{"Title":"Strange, but kind of smart","Date":"16 June 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Heathers is a little strange, a little funny, and rather entertaining for the most part.I think it should have been about 15 minutes shorter. I thought it dragged on for a bit. Not that nothing was happening, or what was happening was boring, but it could have been edited a little tighter.It has a lot of interesting ideas, and some parts that are a little different than a lot of what you normally see. Good acting, and some cool dialogue. The humor is quite smart, I bet the script is pretty good.Even though it's partly comedy, there are some parts here that really, really shows this is from the 80's. Some stuff about the school is just totally unheard of today. But it's not made to be realistic anyway, some parts are like a cartoon almost. Some of the characters are super weird.. it's probably some commentary on something. Society, people.Don't get scared away by the strange opening credits though, the rest of the movie is not like that.If you like somewhat different 80's movies I think this is your thing!A remake/reboot of this could be awesome btw! Anyone? "},{"Title":"Darkest of dark comedies","Date":"6 November 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Veronica (Winona Ryder) is a hanger-on to the three Heathers (Kim Walker, Lisanne Falk, Shannen Doherty). Veronica is a reluctant participant to the Heathers' bullying. She finally had it with Heather (Kim Walker) and kills her with the help of J.D. (Christian Slater).This is the blackest of black comedies. The dialog is deliberately cool. It helps that Christian Slater and Winona Ryder are the ones saying it. They make the words snap.While the story is dark and the performance is great, I wish they had better cooler music. That's the one minor deficiency in an otherwise groundbreaking unique teen movie. The lines are just so delicious. "},{"Title":"Whatever will be, will be","Date":"19 September 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Three girls, all named Heather, form the most popular and powerful clique at Ohio's Westerburg High School. But in that weird high school way the most popular girls are also the most hated and feared. Nobody actually likes the Heathers. Veronica certainly doesn't like them. She's sort of an auxiliary Heather, a onetime nerd whom the Heathers have brought under their wing. This makes Veronica cool and popular by association. But seeing the Heathers up close allows Veronica to see them for who they really are. They're mean-spirited, cruel and unlikeable. The queen Heather so to speak, the leader of the group, is Heather Chandler. Veronica has definitely had it with this particular Heather. Veronica wants to disassociate herself from Heather Chandler. The new guy in school, rebellious loner J.D., thinks Veronica can do more than just that. And thus we, and Veronica, go down the blackest of black comedy paths.Heathers is great satire, often hilarious and always smart. It's a terrific script from Daniel Waters. After watching this film it's hard to believe his followup was the execrable The Adventures of Ford Fairlane. Here his plot is fascinating, his dialogue is brilliant. The film is rather cynical but it absolutely revels in its cynicism. The lead characters do some reprehensible things but we love them anyway. Well, we love Veronica. J.D. is a little harder to embrace, Veronica never seems to get a handle on him and neither do we. But that just makes him all the more fascinating. J.D. takes the film to some dark places but the laughs still keep coming. This is one morbidly amusing film.The film made stars of Winona Ryder and Christian Slater and rightly so. They're both fabulous. Ryder is a very unique performer, there's just something a little different about her. And in this film that works so well for her. She's got great personality, great charm. She delivers the film's exceedingly witty dialogue perfectly and creates a truly memorable character. And Ryder is matched every step of the way by Slater, who plays rebel with a cause J.D. with great aplomb. The comparisons to a young Jack Nicholson are obvious and fitting. Some supporting players are also excellent. Kim Walker is terrific as the ultra-snobby Heather Chandler, a girl who revels in being queen of her little world. Shannen Doherty and Lisanne Falk play the other Heathers. Doherty gets more to do and thus stands out more but Falk is fine as well. Lance Fenton and Patrick Labyorteaux play a couple of obnoxious football jocks to whom J.D. takes great pleasure in meting out his unique brand of justice. The adults in the movie make less of an impression. The film is much better when the focus is on the kids and their weird, messed-up high school life. It's a daring film, one which allows you to laugh at things which should not be particularly funny. This is satire with a sharp, biting edge to it. All the elements are there to make a cult classic. So many high school movies come and go, forgotten almost as soon as they are released. Heathers endures. Lick it up, baby. Lick. It. Up. "},{"Title":"An Excellent,Funny Teen Black Comedy,One Of The Best Teen Films Of All Time And True Classic.","Date":"11 July 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Heathers is one of the best Comedies of all time and also one of the best Teen films of all time that combines great direction,a wonderful cast,hilarious Black Comedy,a sharp,well-written screenplay and a beautiful,haunting score. All of those things make Heathers not only a Cult Classic,Teen Classic or a Comedy Classic but a film classic as well.Heathers tells the story of Veronica Sawyer(Winona Ryder),a high school teenager that runs with snobby popular girls called Heathers,Heather Duke(Shannon Dorothy),Heather McNamara,(Lisanne Falk)and the leader Heather Chandler(Kim Walker). Tired of the popular cliques,Veronica meets and falls for rebel Jason Dean(Christian Slater)who comes up with a bizarre solutionmurder the popular kids and make them look like suicides. This leads to bizarre and darkly funny situation for Veronica and Jason Dean.Released in 1989,Heathers was an hilarious Black Teen Comedy and one of the last great Teen films of the 1980s before teen films were few and far between in the late 80s to the mid 1990s because Teen Movie master John Hughes had stopped making Teen Films,the Brat Pack had gotten older and Teen films were failing at the Box Office. But then Heathers came along and gave audiences a new and different kind of Teen flick that was more dark and cynical than the teenage films that came before it and became a Cult Classic that paved the way for films such as Mean Girls and Jawbreaker. Heathers is an excellent film and the Dr. Strangelove and Network of Teen films because with Heathers we as the viewers are given the dark flip side of the John Hughes films because where as in Hughes' film High School was more optimistic and light,High School in Heathers is pessimistic and dark but in a hilarious and surreal way. If Hell looked like High School than the High School in Heathers would be a frightening representation. The Comedy and Humor in the film is funny and dark with a weird and surrealistic sarcastic oddball delivery because in the world of Heathers none of the main characters have their head on straight and their minds and thought process is on backwards and the characters act is downright funny and absurd. Some of the best Dark or Black Comedies tackle tough taboo subjects and Heathers is no different taking on the dangerous subject like suicide. The way Heathers talks about suicide is disturbing but at the same time weird and funny because in reality it not about the suicides themselves but the way the characters act when a suicide happens the teachers are thinking about when school should be let out or have half days,students are confused about how to feel some are sadden while other students are apathetic in a nihilistic way. Heathers was a bold and gusty movie to make and there probably never be anything like it and while the film did spawn many imitators and copycats but Heathers still holds up because thanks to it's originality and creative wit. The characters Veronica and J.D are really wonderful and memorable characters because with Veronica you see that she is smart and intelligent and hates being with the Heathers voicing her thoughts in her diary wanting to do things her way and no one else's. But with J.D it's a different story where as Veronica can voice and think her thoughts J.D acts on them in a dark and psychotic way that is wild and dangerous. Veronica and J.D are classic and memorable Teen film characters and are a couple made in Heaven(or Hell). The screenplay by Daniel Waters is amazing and stylish,with Waters giving the film's main characters surreal and darkly funny dialog that is memorable and quotable as well as profane and sarcastic on a twisted level. The ending of the film is great and truly unforgettable because it mixes suspense,tension laughs and optimism making you feel like that everything will be alright but at the same time the ending adds to the surreal tone of the film and is one of the things that makes Heathers a classic.The whole cast is excellent. Winona Ryder is excellent,beautiful and at her best as Veronica,with Ryder bringing humor,sarcasm,smarts and depth to the role. Christian Slater is brilliant and funny as J.D,with Slater going over the top with his hilarious Jack Nicholson impression and having great chemistry with Ryder. Shannen Doherty is amazing in her role as Heather Duke,the second evil Heather. Lisanne Falk is wonderful as Heather McNamara,a cheerleader who's not as bad as the other two Heathers. Kim Walker is fantastic as Heather Chandler the leader of the Heathers,with Walker just being dark and pure evil. Lance Fenton(Kurt Kelly)and Patrick Labyorteaux(Ram)are funny and over the top as bullying Football jocks. Penelope Milford(Pauline Fleming),Carrie Lynn(Martha Dunnstock aka Dumptruck),Renee Estevez(Betty Finn),John Ingle(Principal Gowan),Jennifer Rhodes(Veronica's Mom),Bill Cort(Veronica's Dad)and Glenn Shadix(Father Ripper)give good performances as well.The direction by Michael Lehmann is brilliant and stylish,with Lehmann always moving the camera with great angles and giving the film a surrealistic style and dark atmosphere. Wonderful direction,Lehmann.The score by David Newman is fantastic,dark,haunting and eerie and definitely fit in with the style and dark tone of the film. A great score by Newman. There are also songs from Syd Straw(Que Sera Sera),Sly And The Family Stone(also singing Que Sera Sera),Big Fun(Teenage Suicide Don't Do It)and Stewart Levin(You're The Only One For Me). Great songs on the soundtrack.In final word,if you love Teen Films,Comedies,Dark and Black Comedies,Cult films or films in general,I highly suggest you see Heathers,an hilarious and unforgettable classic that you'll never forget when you watch it and will stand the test of time. Highly Recommended. 10/10. "},{"Title":"One of my favorite black comedy films!","Date":"11 July 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I had never heard of this wonderful and hilarious film until recently. I saw that it had received really good scores on all the movie websites I visited, this one included, and so I decided to watch this film and see what it was about. My goodness, I laughed so hard throughout this film! It's such a dark yet hilarious film; it's extremely dark humor done right.The plot was quite unique yet made sense, and was interesting. Plus, all the characters were very fascinating, too. The cast was wonderfully chosen, and each actor/actress played their role quite nicely. Winona Ryder and Christian Slater both suited their roles perfectly, and were very believable. The dialogue is excellent, too, and there are some quotes that particularly stand out throughout this movie. I love the all of the music/songs used here, too; they all have that 80's feel, yet communicate the atmosphere of the scene they were used in effectively.Plus, there are some interesting things going on in this film; there is much symbolism and color-coding. In the recurring croquet games, Heather Chandler is the red ball, Heather Duke is the green ball, and Heather McNamara is the yellow ball, while Veronica (Ryder) is the blue ball. Each color describes the character well red for dominance, green for jealousy, yellow for weakness/cowardice, and blue for trueness. The ending for the film was bittersweet, might I add.Overall, Heathers is not your average teen movie; it is very funny and intelligent, and (in my opinion) very memorable. It is definitely one of my all-time favorite comedy films. 9/10 stars "},{"Title":"A teen murder spree in small town Ohio is more than what it seems","Date":"1 October 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Westerburg High School in Sherwood, Ohio is the setting for the majority of the movie, but represents so much more than the average school. In many ways, it represents the rest of the world and the type of society that fills it. The social hierarchy in the school is ever-present, such as it is in the real world. The cliques and varying types of people that occupy the school could be considered a fairly accurate representation of the population. The message that the setting delivers is that no matter what tragedy may occur, life goes on and only the people filling the hierarchy change, not the hierarchy itself.Jason Dean seems to be the embodiment of chaos, doing whatever it takes to wake society up from the everyday, mundane routine. On the opposite side of that comparison, his name indicates an obvious similarity to James Dean, and even tries to portray himself as the stereotypical rebel, complete with black jacket and motorcycle. Even during an altercation with Veronica, she states that although he considers himself a rebel, he's purely psychotic. JD also shows the traits of his father, who appears to be half crazed and obsessed with destruction. A parallel seen is the story of JD's mother, who may have killed herself in an attempt to escape her husband, and the way Veronica stages her own suicide to escape from JD's threats. The cigarette stands as an important object for Veronica. In the beginning of the movie, she seems fairly innocent, even to the point of being unable to hold her liquor. The first instance we see is when she and JD meet at the Snack Stop, she sticks a Twizzler in her mouth as they begin to talk, signifying the potential change in character that's about to occur. After they commit the second murder, Veronica attempts to smoke a cigarette but instead drops it from her mouth and burns her hand instead. Finally, at the end of the movie, when she has finally come to terms with killing someone voluntarily, she smokes a cigarette fully. Her inability to actually smoke is an indication that she isn't entirely ready, or more so able, to commit an act. When she is ready to kill JD, she smokes the cigarette with satisfaction, as if she is finally content with the way things have become.Winona Ryder portrays Veronica in a fairly realistic way, even when the rest of the characters around her seem to be taken to extremes. She shows a fairly wide range of emotions and inner conflicts to the action taking place, rather than diving head first into a murder spree as JD would prefer to do. We see her remorse, her shock, and her anger. Even more importantly, we see her slow transition into coming to terms with murdering. As the murders progress, each time she becomes slowly accustomed to it, and shows the appropriate mix of conflicting emotions. By the final murder, she is able to justify it to herself as necessary, whereas the others were not. Once she is able to do this, she is finally able to stand up for herself against Heather Duke and do what she really wishes, signaling a character breakthrough. In today's society,where constant communication, reality television, video games and social media prevail, it can easily affect the meaning taken away from this movie. The violence seen was graphic and fairly explicit for someone who doesn't usual view material that contains such subjects. Although it was enjoyable, it affected me more than it may others since I have chosen not to be exposed to similar content, therefore not being desensitized to it. In addition, this movie was different than anything I have ever seen before, with the dysfunctional humor and sudden action keeping me on the edge of my seat and thoroughly entertained. Past the entertainment factor, it was harder for me to find meanings in the small details since I haven't become accustomed to similar movie styles. I began getting caught up in the action of the movie rather than the meaning, so a second viewing was required. I had to look closer for trends between the dialogue and character traits, but had a small amount of success finding the overall themes and symbols of the film the first time through. Made in 1988, most popular movies of the era were the opposite of Heathers. With John Hughes prevailing on the movie scene, it is easy to fool the younger generation, including myself, into thinking that all movies from the 1980's are similar to that of The Breakfast Club, Pretty in Pink, or even Ferris Bueller's Day Off. These movies are all filled with lighter themes and satirical humor that crosses the lines and bleeds into the other movies, blending them into one monochrome esque genre. Next to these films, Heathers is a drastic switch to the extreme reality that can be found in teens; complete with grotesque violence and unprecedented angst. If all 80's movies are stereotyped into those like Weird Science, where everything is wrapped up neatly at the end of the day, Heathers leaves a smoking trail of destruction that is a warning of what not only teenagers, but society is capable of. Overall, Heathers isn't just about a teen murder spree, but it is a representation of the social hierarchy in life and the difference between the strong and weak. "},{"Title":"Heathers Morbid Yet Playful","Date":"1 October 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Remember back in high school those girls that everyone loved to hate? Remember how attractive, stylish, and seemingly perfect they were? If you had a chance to change anything, or say something to them, or even exact revenge on them, would you? Michael Lehmann's Heathers successfully captures all of that teen angst in a suburban Ohio high school ridden with cliques, social anarchist, and of course, that typical 1980's triad of beautiful, but wicked, teenage girls.Tapping into the social tensions and following in the footsteps of other 1980's teen comedies such as Sixteen Candles, Pretty In Pink, The Breakfast Club, and St. Elmo's Fire, Heathers triumphantly marks the end of the, Pop-culture obsessed, big haired, and clique driven, 1980's. Offering classic one-liners like, Did you have a brain tumor for breakfast? and, She was my best friend and worst enemy, Heathers, while not being a box office smash, successfully established itself as a cult classic within the era. In surprising contrast with the other 1980's film, Heathers opted out of the overdone and predictable happy ending. The film breaks that mold by offering what I loving refer to as a Crazy psychotic ending. There was no movie-ending kiss, riding off into the sunset, or the good guy ends up with the girl here. Director Lehhman instead decides to take Heathers out in a blaze of glory, literally. Not only does Veronica kill her friends, she ends up killing her boyfriend while saving the whole school. My favorite parts of the movie are the scenes of the girls playing a friendly game of croquet. The director's metaphor about croquet is genius. The metaphor is simple; cliques of high school girls' crash together constantly, just like the balls in a croquet game. It is up to the leader of the clique to ruin other competition clique's lives, or simply forgive them, much like how a player can choose to knock their competition off the course, or take a second shot. While not immediately apparent, this is the most iconic scene that is often recreated in movies. For example, the film Mean Girls, which could be the younger cousin of Heathers, has the, plastics. Much like Heathers, Mean Girls has three popular girls that talk very similarly like the Heathers did. In addition, the main Heather normally wore a bow to distinguish herself from the other two. While the bow was pretty, the Heather was vicious. This also occurs in Mean Girls by their use of wearing pink, which represents a more feminine and cute color, but in reality the girls were also vicious.Lastly, what would a 1980's Teen movie be without the dreamy man? Thus cues our love interest J.D. Equipped with mystery, dark hair, and an irresistible smirk, this suave character makes all of Veronica's imaginations a frightening reality. Running his hands through his hair, subtly tilting his head, and flashing his pearly white smile are all it takes for Veronica to swoon into homicidal acts. Then again, what teenage girl would ever imagine turning down Christian Slater? Heathers is one of the darkest comedies that I have watched. It made me look inside myself and wonder, Have I ever had those thought? Could I kill my friends? Maybe, we all have a little Veronica, J.D., and Heather in us after all. "},{"Title":"The Original (and still the Better) Mean Girls","Date":"17 September 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Heathers has to be one of the darkest, most sharply written films of the 20th Century. The fact that its humor and horror holds up so well today is astonishing, and perhaps an indictment to how gutless Hollywood has become in the years since it was made. There will never be another teen satire so bold, so mean, and so dang funny.So we have this smart teen girl who's depressed, trying to break into the popular clique at her school known as the Heathers. Veronica hates her so-called best friends but submits to being treated like a lackey to do their bidding--we never really find out why exactly, or what she is getting in return. She seethes in her diary about murder fantasies but of course, as the protagonist, she would never...oh wait, what's that? A handsome and mysterious new guy who looks like a young Jack Nicholson? It takes about 20 minutes of film time to turn her around so that we the audience now question if there ARE any good guys left here.The buildup of horror mirrors the buildup of quotable hilarity as the body count for the suicides at Westerberg High climbs.Much has been written about the cultural satire of Heathers writer Daniel Waters takes aim at John Hughes-type teen films, life in high school, political correctness invading the teaching system (via aging hippies), religious hypocrisy, clichés of detached parenting, and homophobia. It's a deadly and accurate aim, and the slaughter of pop culture is widespread.Each lead actor is right on target. Winona Rider plays Veronica to the hilt as the witty and likable anti-hero, and there could have been no better actress for the role. Christian Slater is the wry and charming Bad Boy, J.D.--the agent of chaos you can't help but agree with even as you have a nagging feeling that you shouldn't. Kim Walker is an amazing Heather #1, Shannen Doherty knocks it out of the park with her power-hungry performance as the next Heather who yearns to be the alpha of the pack. They all turned in what I consider to be the best performances of their careers in Heathers.It's not for the faint of heart, nonetheless; I urge you to see this movie. Look past the '80s fashions and you have a film that could have been made about high schoolers today, or in any era...except that it isn't going to happen, ever again. We've grown into such wimps we don't dare like this anymore, for fear of offending perhaps, or for fear of (gasp) making people uncomfortable about some of the truths of our own hypocrisy. Where's the Michael Lehman/Daniel Waters of this generation? We need him more than ever. "},{"Title":"Not Another Teen Comedy","Date":"21 August 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Heathers isn't just a black comedy; it's blacker than black. It's like, how much more black could this be? and the answer is none (Ten points to whoever gets that reference). It's a comedy so dark that it's almost impossible to enjoy it and not feel bad about it afterwords. It's a film that looks so much like a run-of-the-mill high school comedy that the very subtle satire may go over many viewers' heads. What's worse, teenagers, who are likely to enjoy it more than anybody, may easily misunderstand it completely and idolize the villain, talking it in a very dangerous direction.For all these reasons, Heathers was doomed from day one to fall between the cracks - the ones who would have appreciated it the most just didn't see it, and the ones who saw it didn't understand it. Today, in those post-Columbine times, it's more difficult than ever to appreciate its sharp satire without feeling a tinge of guilt. But it would be a real shame if it was forgotten; because it really is a unique film, one that deconstructed and pillaged the entire high-school comedy genre that was so popular in the 80's, and because it inspired Clueless, Mean Girls and so many other films that were so much tamer and more simplistic. It's a movie that stands out in a genre filled with mediocrity, and it's still very much worth watching, even if it's hard to enjoy it as a comedy anymore. "},{"Title":"A spectacular dark comedy","Date":"10 June 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" A shocking film of unapologetic candor, Heathers would have struck fear into the hearts of parents and elders all over the world in the 1980s. This film expressed the inner workings of the mind of a high school student through the words of a sharp-witted writer devoid of any form of censorship. Tackling all the important and at times, taboo issues, such as homosexuality, vulgar language and juvenile delinquency it is a spectacle for the viewer who would much rather think than see.Indifference is at the heart of this film and it forces the viewer to think objectively and even laugh at the most inappropriate moments, only to find that they laugh because they understand the film.This is not a typical high school movie you would take your children to see nowadays, as most subject matter tackled are mature in content. A movie dripping with societal undertones, it is a dark comedy. The equivalent of a writer's dirty-mind. "}{"Title":"One of the best teen-oriented movies of the 1980s.","Date":"9 May 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Heathers definitely stands out from the pack of teen comedies that proliferated in the decade, no mean feat considering how many there were. Its wickedly dark sense of humour and biting comments on the way the world, not just high school society, works, makes it something special. Working from a sharp screenplay by Daniel Waters, debuting director Michael Lehmann crafts an intriguing movie certain to hit many kids where they live, especially if they ever at any point felt uncomfortable about the seeming need for students to fit into designated groups, or if they in any way ever felt like an outsider.Lehmann gets excellent performances from his young cast, who occupy a world where the adults have little meaning. A radiant Winona Ryder plays Veronica, a girl who's a reluctant pal to a trio of girls all named Heather (Shannen Doherty, Lisanne Falk, Kim Walker), a snooty little clique that enjoys the position of power they occupy in Westerburg High School. Veronica thinks of how everybody would be better off without their influence, and seizing upon this attitude is new rebel in town Jason Dean (Christian Slater, in his entertaining Jack Nicholson-style performance). With Jason coming into the picture, the popular kids soon start becoming an endangered species as he encourages Veronica to act out her darkest fantasies.In a great twist, the resulting suicides soon take on some kind of cool factor, capturing the attention and interest of the outside world. Veronica realizes she's become part of something she needs to finish, and that ultimately this kind of thing doesn't solve much in the long run; eliminate one reigning bitch-queen and another can easily take her place.Heathers really keeps you watching, never clearly indicating where it's going next, and maintaining one's interest for its entire 103 minute running time. It's not afraid to cross the line in terms of what people might consider good taste; its black comedy is indeed delicious and it's, in the end, the kind of thing that may force viewers to take a good, hard look at themselves and see just how close to home the themes hit. It's a strong antidote to the other high school comedies of the time, and literally ends with a big bang; it's exactly the kind of thing one would expect to develop a loyal following.Eight out of 10. "},{"Title":"The logical conclusion of the 1980s teen genre.","Date":"3 February 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" If you grew up in the 1980s with John Hughes classics like Sixteen Candles, The Breakfast Club and Pretty in Pink, sooner or later you knew this was going to happen. As the decade drew to a close, Hollywood outsiders Daniel Waters and Michael Lehman came together to create a morbid, death-obsessed and harshly satirical film that essentially is a mash-up of the teen and crime genres. If Mean Girls is the Heathers for a new generation, the latter has certainly softened in comparison to the former. While both films deal satirically with their subjects, Waters' screenplay goes way over the top in the attempt to expose the frailty and weakness most people try to hide in order to thrive socially. Indeed, many others have noted that the notion of society is perhaps the main contribution of this film. The fact that Veronica (Ryder) feels obligated first to be part of the Heathers clique and then tag along with the disturbing rebel JD (Slater) seems to indicate that even she herself is not as strong-willed as initially thought. Everyone in this film has at the core of their selves a deep-seeded urge to be something or do something beyond what their lives can offer. This sets up for what has become a cult classic that to this day retains its bitter edge, particularly in this hyper-sensitive society where seemingly everything teenagers do is considered a social watershed moment only after the fact.Very funny dialogue, wonderful performances (especially Ryder and Slater) and a remarkable stylized sense of direction make this film the logical conclusion to the end of the 1980s. In a way, this film also marks the end of an era the harsh reality of the Cold War was on the decline by 1989; the compulsion for self-worth and social acceptance could only to increase after this. "},{"Title":"A bit bizarre but great satirical film with a solid message","Date":"13 November 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" The following is probably one of my favorite lines in any movie that also briefly sums up the story - The only place where different social can genuinely get along is in heaven. So Heathers is a satirical black comedy that deals with teen suicides, popularity in high schools, and ignorance of parents. Far from my favorite movie themes, but potentially the most relatable ones. Winona Ryder gives a very convincing performance as a member of the clique Heathers who possesses all the stereotypical popular girl qualities on the outside but is actually of very intelligent and contemplative nature. She gets involved with a badass new kid in school, played even more impressively by Christian Slater, who teaches her his ways of, well, getting rid of people he considers as scums of the teenage society bullies, shallow girls, and just bitches and assholes, really. It's very interesting, but just a heads up, it's easily the most bizarre thing I've ever seen and very incoherent, though probably intentional. "},{"Title":"A landmark in movies about high school","Date":"10 July 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Heathers certainly isn't the first movie about the ecosystem of popularity and loathing in American high schools, but it may the one responsible for the satirical tinge such films have had ever since.The story focuses on the most popular clique at mythical Westerburg High School. Three girls named Heather (Kim Walker, Lisanne Falk and Shannen Doherty) and a brainy fourth named Veronica (Winona Ryder) dominate the school's social hierarchy in their suit jackets and short skirts. Veronica used to be an ordinary nerd and somehow worked her way up into the Heathers' company but a life of all-consuming bitchiness is wearing her out. That's when she meets a new student in school named Jason Dean (Christian Slater) who looks like a male model, talks like Jack Nicholson and dresses like one of the kids who shot up Columbine. Under J.D.'s bitter, rebel-without-a-cause influence, Veronica turns to murder as the ultimate answer to high school injustice. They kill off one of the Heathers and two abusive jocks and make them look like suicides, discovering that death gives the vapid teens a depth they never had in life. But when Veronica sees an even more awful Heather rise up to take the dead one's place, she loses her faith in J.D. and his fantasies of redemptive slaughter and finds herself the only one ready to stop J.D.'s plan to blow up the entire student body.This is a biting satire of high school existence. Your school may not have had every character featured in this story, but every school had some of these types, you were probably one of them and Heathers doesn't romanticize any of them. That's where the film gets its satirical edge, by staying grounded in reality and not simply going for the easy laugh. For example, Kim Walker plays the lead Heather at the start of the movie. She's a horrid girl who delights in tormenting the friendless fat girl in class. But when Heather #1 finds herself being groped and pressured into sex by a guy at a college party, she's clearly disgusted with herself and what she's doing but thinks it's what the most popular girl in high school is supposed to do. Likewise, Heather #3 is played by Shannen Doherty and she starts out the film and the sweet, harmless little puppy of the group that gets kicked around by Heather #1. But when Heather #3 gets her chance to be the most popular girl in school, she becomes an even more heartless, soulless monster than Heather #1. The abused becomes the abuser and wants to hurt others even more than she was hurt. It's those bits of emotional and psychological truth that set this film apart from the rest of the high school comedy genre.Heathers is a pretty funny film, though the humor is more about highlighting the absurdity of teenage behavior and less about firing off punch lines. Winona Ryder gives a magnificent performance as Veronica. She's not a terribly likable character because&#x85;well, let's face it. Most teenagers aren't that likable and this movie doesn't pretend otherwise. But playing the sort of Sylvia Plath-in-training who always wears a monocle when she writes in her diary, Ryder makes you want to like Veronica because you can see her trying to be a better person. Ryder is also still well within that phase of transcendental cuteness at the beginning of her film career and is wonderful to look at on screen.This film was A LOT darker than most of the high school comedies of its day and remains fairly bleak by today's standards. So, if you're looking for wholesome fun, you won't find it here. For the more wicked among us, Heathers will make you laugh and make you think. Since most high school comedies don't do either, I definitely recommend you watch this one. "},{"Title":"Realistically dark and unabashedly candid about the comedy and horrors of high school","Date":"13 February 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Popular girls are so annoying, especially when they are all named Heather. Veronica (Winona Ryder) is like them, except she isn't a Heather and wishes she could be popular without being friends with them. Enter J.D. (Christian Slater), he's one of those bad guys with whispers about the kind of trouble he has gotten into. You know the kind of guy from other films, with rumours about what he did to get kicked out of school. Those rumours are always so exaggerated, except in this case, J.D. may actually be worse than the rumours about him.After introducing Veronica and J.D., Heathers takes some very shocking, disturbing, pitch-black turns. And that's why this film is so brilliant. They took an unflinching look at the maliciousness of high school students and then presented it to us as a comedy. Today, the high school comedies have the popular kids take a girl in a ponytail and glasses and turn her into a hot chick and then the cliques live happily ever after with each other, but Heathers has realistically superficial girls and there's a good chance that nobody will be living happily ever after.The only place this film fails is in their catchy dialogue pretending to be trendy and cool, like Did you have a brain tumour for breakfast? It's better written than that. It also teaches a lesson on what happens when you pretend to be trendy and cool. Trust me, it's not pretty. I wouldn't recommend watching Heathers before you enter high school, but if you manage to get out of it alive, then this film will show you one of the more fascinating tales. "},{"Title":"incredible movie.spoiler included.","Date":"25 November 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" love all Christian slater and Winona Ryder movies, they are so extremely talented.him sounding,like the great jack Nicholson's was awesome. the end veronica is standing there,literally.when jd try blow school up like that,veronica was not even caring at this post hilarious! great dark humour sad comedy etc.it has it all.great acting by slater and ryder.it was just was so cool from JD put his arm up and then veronica actually kinda laughing,smirking as she light up her cigarette, watching him about to do what we know he was going to do at the end was so cool he dances a little bit with a funny little grin j.d. shoots his gun at his own radio?Veronica,the girlfriend look at him so angrily shock and obviously stress out and goes to her boyfriendthat's it we're breaking up!LOL classic. "},{"Title":"Another gem from the 80's","Date":"13 September 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" What ever happened to Winona Ryder and Christian Slater? No, really, what ever happened to them? I know they've done work since this film, but it's hard to remember. Still, maybe that's the way it should be as Heathers is a hugely enjoyable film.Made way back in the 80's, it's been a long time since I watched this but what fun I had revisiting it. The story is brilliant, if not a little stupid, but darkly humorous and full of satire, doped up cops and parents who ask 'How was the first day of school after the suicide?' before offering pate.The film is laced with some superb lines 'I love my dead gay son' or the use of 'very' as in 'That is so VERY'. It is twisted in it's humour and I can see the influence it potentially has had on twisted TV series Strangers With Candy. The characters are full of wonderful prime stereotypes, but unlike similar modern high school films, they all work brilliantly and are played by an excellent cast.Having said that the one down side to the cast is Slater who seems to think he's Jack Nicholson, which after a few lines became intensely annoying. That aside there is so much to enjoy, the dark humour and satire is there from start to finish and whilst 80's fashions were pretty shocking, Heathers is another wonderful example of the brilliance of film making of that era. It is so VERY.More reviews at my site iheartfilms.weebly.com "},{"Title":"This is Winona Ryder before Edward Scissorhands","Date":"16 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" There are some really great films available that for some reason aren't popular with audiences. Heathers is one of those films. It is a very entertaining film that is surprisingly violent given its high school backdrop. I had seen a lot of references to this film in the literature and other films that I'd read and seen.As for plot, the film has no significant problems. I only wish that the introduction to the three Heathers and Veronica hadn't been so awkward. I was thrown into it and had no idea what was happening. However, the film did later introduce the characters properly and all was forgiven. Something I found ironic was Heather Chandler's Did you have a brain tumor for breakfast? quote. Kim Walker, who plays Heather Chandler, died of a malignant brain tumor. I also was pleased with how original the plot is. How frequently do we see high school films concerning the destruction of the school via a bomb? Now after 9/11 and Virginia Tech, I doubt we'll see films like this (at least in the United States). The film also makes good use of its R rating. There is a surprising amount of violence and sex, but it isn't graphic. Also, there is a lot of situational humor and a small amount of juvenile humor but it isn't the focus. I'm not sure if it was intentional or not but I found that the film had a strong individualist message. Veronica tries to be the most popular girl and learns how meaningless it is. As the Heathers all died, someone else replaced her. The cycle continues indefinitely. Veronica also develops into a three-dimensional character by the film's end. I wish J.D. had the same level of development but it doesn't hurt the film significantly.I've seen many comparisons between this film and Mean Girls and this confuses me. The two films have little in common other than their high school backdrop. Heathers is an intelligent and adult film with dark themes. Mean Girls is a film primarily for teenagers with comical themes. I like Mean Girls but it is not as much as I enjoy Heathers.Heathers is a rare film that combines two very different genres black comedy and high school. In addition, it also proposes a philosophical question can anyone escape from the social cycle in which they partake? You should watch this influential high school film that rivals Donnie Darko in its legacy. I assure you, it isn't a hardcore version of Mean Girls. "},{"Title":"A Must See Film!","Date":"24 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I grew up in the eighties but don't remember this film probably because I wouldn't have been old enough at the time for it's contents. This film is gross in that school clik's do form and kids feel alienated if there the geeks or uncool kids. Then there is the popular partying jocks and there all too hot girlfriends who are too cool for anyone unless there super cool jocks. Then there is the rich kids who are so preppy it hurts. The punks, goths, ravers. The dark mysterious kid who keeps to himself who is rumored to have parents who sexually molested the kid. The drug addicts and street kids. High school can be a cruel place or the best time of your life. I remember after the Columbine massacre our school was evacuated one day for a false bomb threat. I remember one girl the entire time I was in high school who committed suicide and everyone was so surprised because it was unexpected. This film was a bit hard for me to watch. Overall I thought it was as good as the hype that makes this film notorious for it's time. I thought Winona Ryder was excellent as she always is but I have never honestly been a fan of Christian Slater and hate his nasily voice. "},{"Title":"one of the more scathing high-school comedies of its time, though it falters in the last twenty minutes","Date":"13 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I enjoyed watching Heathers when it came on again the other night on TV. I hadn't seen it in quite a number of years, and my memory of it wasn't too impressionable either way. But seeing it now, years after finishing high school myself, it is definitely one of those funny films that is most effective playing against the conventions of the high school movie of the period. This isn't John Hughes here, but something that is attempting to get at rougher terrain - chiefly the dicey subject of teenage suicide - and at the jaded point of view of the modern adolescent. Winona Ryder has one of her better performances as Veronica, looking on at the 'Heathers', a clique of girls, with total contempt. What about her love life? There's the dangerous and strange kid JD (Christian Slater, at his youngest and, dare I say it, hippest), who has some crazy ideas in his head- one of which may result in lots of destruction of public property. It's when the skewering goes right against the hypocrisies of teenage vanity, the value of life and living, and what it is to be mentally stable that Heathers is sharpest; one funeral scene, I might add, is a classic satirical piece. But the only flaws end up coming out of an instability in getting a grip between the dark comedy and the real dramatic elements, which start to lean towards melodrama towards the last section where JD goes off the map (the very end, especially, is a major letdown). But for at least 3/4 of the way, Heathers makes its mark as one of the coolest films of 1989. "}{"Title":"one of the best","Date":"16 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" In the IMDb poll, I had to choose the Veronica Sawyer option as the character Winona Ryder will always be for me. It is also pretty much the only badge of respect I have for Shannon Dohrety. Too bad Kim Walker died so young. In this and Say Anything she pretty much plays high-school-evil characters.I'd like to see Daniel Waters knuckle down and write the sequel. Ryder is into it. He said it would take place in the political arena, and there is a lot of Heathers sensibility to be found there.I think this movie co-exists easily alongside The Breakfast Club even though some see it as a reaction to it. There is truth in both.My only quibble is that on some wicked level I wish the movie did not end up judging Slater. I kinda condoned a lot of his actions, and it's too bad he stepped over the line. We need psychos once in a while. "},{"Title":"Boy, do i miss the 80s!","Date":"24 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is one of the best black comedys of the 80s. Winona Ryder and Christian Slater are great as usual. The film has the 80s feel, the clothes, hairstyles etc and its hilarious. This is also one of the best performances by the late Kim Walker (R.I.P). Id definately recommend Heathers 9/10 "},{"Title":"Winona Ryder and Christian Slater steal the show!","Date":"29 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is a must see movie for those who consider themselves to be 'a child of the 80s',as well as for die hard winona ryder and christian slater fans out there!this movie has everythingcomedy,drama,suspense! both winona and christian are very good at potraying their characters,and shannen doherty's acting wasn't too bad either!i highly recommend it for those who have not seen it! "},{"Title":"One of my faves of all time","Date":"12 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I love this movie.  I was it in the theater 'way back when and have seen it about 50 times since.  (Yes, I love this movie.)  It combines black comedy and great acting to make for a disturbing, yet watchable film.  One thing I recently wondered is if this movie would be blackballed with all the recent high school violence (I know there is talk about a sequel).  Granted, this takes a very cynical look at violence by teens, but when it was made, I am sure the writers had no clue what was to come when it came to senseless violence in our schools.Ryder and Slader are amazing and the chemistry is perfect.  Some of the lines in this film are pure brilliance.  It is a twisted look at the Unpopular kid's view and solution to high school cliques and the perfect people.I love this movie. "},{"Title":"A good black-comedy that suffers from a weak ending.","Date":"22 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  For about 75% of Heathers, it is a near brilliant and biting satire on teenage life in the late 80's. But unfortunately the film loses it's footing in the last 15 or so minutes that don't quite mesh with what went before.The film is well written and all the actors/actresses do great work (Winona Ryder is a stand-out as far as her acting and beautiful looks.) Anyone who went to high school in the mid to late 80's will find this film unnervingly true to how desperately some people would go to try to fit in no matter what the consequences.If you can get by the weak ending, the film is really well done and a genuine cult classic.Rating8 "},{"Title":"Why? Why not?","Date":"11 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  For those of you who haven't seen Heathers....rent it or borrow it from a friend.  I can relate so much to it and I practically seek it for advice sometimes.  It just seems to predict your life so much.  If you need a good laugh or need to kill two hours, Heathers is definitely a movie that I recommend.   "},{"Title":"Dark Comedy, Until The End.","Date":"26 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Winona Ryder plays Veronica Sawyer, who is an uneasy member of a clique of High School girls(all named Heather) who are good-looking but really cruel and spoiled. One day, a new student named Jason Dean(Christian Slater) comes to school, and he is a breath of fresh air to her, being a rebel unconcerned with what others think of him, and who stands up for himself. They begin a relationship, but when one of the Heathers is accidentally killed, they pass it off as a suicide, only to be shocked that this makes her even more popular! More suicides are then arranged, as events escalate out of control...Wickedly funny satire for a while(that confrontation in the cafeteria between J.D. and the jock is uproarious.), and both leads are excellent, especially Slater doing a canny Jack Nicholson imitation. It is therefore such a pity that the film gets cold feet and compromises its integrity by reversing itself at the end. If you're going to tell such a bold satire, you really should follow it through to its conclusion, which this film fails to do, which is a shame. "},{"Title":"A little less conversation, a little more action please.","Date":"1 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" What happens when your socialite best friends start driving you up the wall? Why you start knocking them off one by one of course! With the help of your Nietzchian boyfriend, who soon has bigger and much more destructive plans than you expected.Heathers could have worked as a delicious black comedy, but it eventually bungles itself headlong into utmost fantasy and self consciously twee rhetoric between some truly amateur acting from the supporting cast. Much worse is a sleezy Christian Slater as JD, the aforementioned nasal pitched rebel without much cause. Winona Ryder is a good lead, but has trouble pulling off the more comedic elements.Eventually the last third of the film makes an attempt for more serious territory, and any of its previously sardonic attitude is lost amid a sea of self aware, pseudo-analytic babble on the failure of certain social groups to get along. Whatever statement it was trying to make was lost as soon as the contrived climax came about, and even the script refuses to allow to have its characters take these ravings completely seriously (that's deep, huh?). That's when you know something's wrong.Once the bodies start piling up, you realize that it's nothing more than a slightly goofier, more pretentious version of your average 80s slasher. This one works as a guilty pleasure and a nice time capsule of those late 80s shoulder pads and big hair, but not much more. Just watch ''The Breakfast Club' instead for a more poignant and believable commentary on high school society. "},{"Title":"Good, But Not the Classic It's Made Out to Be","Date":"8 November 2008","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Veronica associates herself with a group known as the Heathers, three girls named Heather who maintain what is or isn't popular in school. But rather than become a member herself, she turns in the other direction and begins dating the outsider, a boy who will stop at nothing to eliminate the popular kids from the school. Vernonica will be forced to choose... popular or not? Or is there a third way? I had known about the existence of Heathers for a long time. Along with Empire Records, it was a film that captured the 1990s in a way few films had. The film achieved legendary status since then, and when I rented it the movie was to be found in the video store's favorites section. Apparently, many people had held the movie in high regard. Sadly, I found it lacking.Winona Ryder was fine as herself, playing similar outcast roles that we saw her playing in Edward Scissorhands and Beetlejuice... only now she was free of Tim Burton's direction. Her weird boyfriend was no longer Johnny Depp but Christian Slater, certainly weird enough in his own right (Pump Up the Volume came out around this same time and these films together really present him in an anti-authority light). According to the IMDb, Christian Slater's performance was heavily inspired by Jack Nicholson. This is no surprise, as I find Slater's career as a whole to be a Nicholson homage.I wasn't sure what to think. Popularity was mocked, but so was anti-popularity. There was a distinct attempt at humor, but I think it failed... so much of it missed the mark and the subject matter was often presented in too serious a fashion. I like dark humor, I like tongue-in-cheek, but I just didn't feel this captured the spirit, and the angst that a true outcast feels wasn't even addressed. Slater's character is more anti-popularity than the popular kids are against him. The real hero should have been the fat girl with the Big Fun shirt, but she was little more than a bad joke.I'm not advising against seeing Heathers, but it didn't strike me as a strong film and it may be becoming increasingly dated. If you came of age in the early 1990s, this might hit home with you. I came of age in the mid to late 1990s and it seems to have missed me. Presumably, those younger than myself will be even more distant. This is not a timeless film. "},{"Title":"sucked","Date":"15 August 2006","Score":"9 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" what can i say, this movie sucked so much. It felt like the longest movie in history when nothing interesting happened. From poorly developed characters to dull pointless scenes. If you have a plant, watching it grow is better than seeing this movie. Or even listening to yourself breathe. Winona riders acting was very bad, she seemed to have no emotion. She was dull, just like the movie.Don't waste your time please. The fact that Christian Slater is in the movie, does not make it any better. He sucks too. I don't know who in their right mind would like this annoying movie. Please don't watch this, after I did, I wanted to break the CD in half and throw it out my window. "}{"Title":"John Hughes on crystal meth (and that's not a compliment)...","Date":"9 February 2006","Score":"9 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Heathers is one of those overly proud 'cult' items that, like Plan 9 From Outer Space, has amassed some sort of sick, twisted band of followers that apparently reside at the shallow end of the Petri Dish. This would-be satire, would-be dark comedy, would-be misfit teen romance is riddled with Hughes-ian dialog speckled with would-be shocking F-words and epithets that would-be 'outta style' the following year. A young Winona Ryder plays Veronica, a hanger-on to an elite trio of girls (all named 'Heather') who practically run their Anytown, USA high school; in enters J.D. (a pre-deep-voiced Christian Slater), who enlists Veronica as a pawn in his quest to annihilate the pond scum walking the halls. The script trots out every cliché imaginable the sexist, homophobic football jocks; the gawky nerds; the requisite Fat Girl; the bitch-princess elite; chain-smoking teachers; the mysterious loner; and parents who are either apathetic or psychotic. I wouldn't take issue with these stereotypes--heck, Mr. Hughes exploits them to no end in his films--if they had been used in a unique or funny way, which they aren't. The presentation of high school is so absurdly and self-consciously exaggerated that all attempts at humor and satire come off as contrived...and when the film finally abandons 'humor' in the third act for some very divergent, half-assed 'surrealistic symbolism,' you wonder what director Michael Lehmann and writer Daniel Waters had in mind to begin with. Whatever it was, it certainly wasn't anywhere near 'funny' or 'profound.' (My advice seek out Massacre at Central High and The Breakfast Club to see this material done properly.) "},{"Title":"blah blah blah","Date":"22 November 2005","Score":"10 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I rented this because so many public reviews on Netflix glorified it to practical sainthood. Much to our entire family's dismay it was one of the worst we've ever sat through. I was the only one who was willing to waste my time and sit through the whole thing.Plastic acting, dumb story and we're somehow supposed to laugh with this as a dark humor flick. Should be renamed to sick and obnoxious flick or dumb humorless waste of time. Fans make this slug trail seem like it should have won a hundred Oscars. Want to see a decent dark comedy... The Player is one of our all time favorites. American Beauty is good as well but with less comedy. Snatch is another one and is a bit on the darkly funny side. "},{"Title":"Beware of cute killers!!!","Date":"8 October 2002","Score":"11 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I just can't believe that IMDB can give 7+ to a movie like that! For god's sakes, people, this movie is essentially a stupid little teenage version of How to Kill Someone without any Reason and Get Away With it.The fact that it has three cute girls on the cover deceives the fact that beside being quite stupid and boring it also bears a quite unacceptable message to its target audience, i.e., teenagers.'Heathers' almost makes me wish there was something like censorship in Blockbuster.... "},{"Title":"A great dark comedy","Date":"17 June 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" During the late eighties comedy-dramas set in American high schools were all the rage and 'Heathers' is amongst the best of these. Winona Ryder plays Veronica, a girl who doesn't really like her friends; three girls all called Heather who form the most popular/feared clique in their school. When she befriends JD, a student recently transferred to her school played by Christian Slater, she has no idea just how much it will change her life and that of her fellow students. After a visit to a college party with Heather Chandler goes horribly wrong and her reputation at school is threatened she tells JD that she wishes her friend was dead... She may not have been serious but he thinks it is a great idea and in the morning gives her a wake up drink that leaves her dead. Not wanting to go to gaol JD and Veronica write a suicide note. Veronica briefly hopes that the death of the lead Heather will have a positive effect on the school but nothing changes. After being persuaded to go on a double date with another Heather and two of the school football team Veronica finds herself victim of a rumour, spread by the boys, that she had performed sexual acts on them. The next morning she invites them to meet her in the woods to do it for real... by the time school starts two more students are dead in what looks like a suicide pact caused by their inability to admit their homosexuality to the world. Till this point Veronica goes along with JD but when she learns he plans to destroy the school along with everybody in it she decides it is time to stop him.This is a great example of the high school film; it is very funny and very dark. Winona Ryder and Christian Slater to well in the two lead roles and are supported by a great cast including Shannen Doherty as Heather Duke and Glenn Shadix who is memorable despite his limited screen time as Father Ripper, the priest who performs some very different funeral services. The idea of a comedy about school children killing each other might not sound very funny but here it is handled in a way that works. There are of course some minor flaws, for example the coroner seemed very quick to accept that the deaths were suicide and nobody who knew the victims doubted it either, this is easy to over look though as the story stayed interesting and a degree of unbelievability is better than getting bogged down in explaining every detail of how they could have got away with murder. If you've enjoyed other '80s high school films and are looking for another which is both funny and dark then this is the film for you. "},{"Title":"Another Cheap New World Film","Date":"9 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Typical of many films made by New World Pictures, Heathers was the typical low budget B grade cult comedy/teen comedy film but it had some interesting parts (can't describe).  If you rent or want to buy this movie rent at your own risk. "},{"Title":"Overrated..","Date":"1 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I dont know how to Explain why I just dont like this movie. Maybe it's the fact I dont like dark comedies. Maybe it's the fact I dont like Christian Slater(except in the Excellent The Wizard(You know that nintendo movie with fred savage). OK, I do think some of the movie was amusing just really. Is it really as great as most people say it is? I think not.Sorry for the bad review but I can't review worth a damn. "},{"Title":"Best Movie Ever","Date":"1 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Heathers is, by far, the best movie I have ever seen. Winona Ryder did a very good job as Veronica Sawyer, a girl who hangs out with the popular group in her school, the Heathers, but doesn't really like them. Everything changes when J.D(Christian Slater) comes to town. This movie was dark, yet hilarious, and has a stunning cast. It's something you can watch over and over. I'll admit that my original attraction to this movie was Christian Slater, but it quickly grew to more than just him that made me like it so much. There are so many lines in this movie that I quickly began using, for example, I now answer the phone with 'greetings and salutations'. A must-see. "},{"Title":"Odd and entertaining","Date":"21 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Oh, how I have wanted to see this movie for years now... Yesterday I finally found a copy at a video store.Heathers is a very odd movie. In the beginning it is a masterful high school-movie satire. During the last 45 minutes, though, something happens. The screenwriter takes the premise too far. Much too far. The first half of the movie is funny, but after a while it gets too incredible. Great work by Winona Ryder and Christian Slater, though. And Heathers _is_ a very entertaining movie. (6/10) "},{"Title":"Hardly worth the celluloid","Date":"27 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Having read glowing commentaries on the show, I'm compelled to offer a dissonant voice. Perhaps there are some still hoping to revel in their repressed teenaged angst, but this is hardly a worthwhile movie for any well-adjusted person. Black comedy is one thing; Heathers takes psychosis and launches it to a new (and unnecessary) level. I don't know anyone who didn't have emotional or psychological misgivings about themselves during their teenage years, and there's nothing original about this exploration other than its penchant for the ludicrous. If you want to watch an '80s teen flick, go rent Ferris Bueller's Day Off or Fast Times at Ridgemont High. If you must have all of the above with gore to boot, watch Red Dawn. Heathers is better left on the shelf. "},{"Title":"pretty good,but not as good as some people say","Date":"16 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  i thought heathers wasn't bad,but it wasn't a great movie. this movie has been over-hyped so much over the years. people saying it's the best teen movie ever. or when a new teen movie comes out,some will say this is the best teen movie since heathers. i can name countless teen movies better than heathers. but heathers still was pretty good. i give heathers **1/2 out of ****  "}{"Title":"Not that funny anymore","Date":"17 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I first saw this movie in College, 2 years after it came out (1991).  At the time I thought it was delightfully subversive and funny.All these years I have considered the film a dark comedy, and something of a classic.But after just now seeing it on DVD, my opinion of the film has changed dramatically.  For some reason I just didn't find it remotely funny anymore.  I thought the dialog was stilted and unnatural, with too much of an emphasis on 'witty' lines and not enough emphasis on conversational flow between characters.  Elements like set design, costumes and cinematography were horribly dated looking and cheap.  And worst of all, I just thought the whole concept of the film was no longer surreal enough to be darkly funny.  I just couldn't get past the fact that JD, the Christian Slater character, was just a psychotic killer unworthy of any real sympathy -- it was obvious we were meant to think of him as a semi-lovable rebel.It seems like young people are still discovering this film, and maybe that is the age group that can still find the film fun, but if you are a 30-something who fondly remembers this film, you might want to give it another viewing, because if you are like me, you will find that it definately does not live up to its reputation.  "},{"Title":"Rottweilers rule","Date":"20 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" You know how there used to be half a dozen Jennifers in every high school class? Well, what we have here are three Heathers (last names Duke, Chandler and McNamara, if anybody cares) who reign as upper crust sosh queens at Westerberg High, home of the Rottweilers. One of the Heather Rottweilers is Shannen Doherty of TV infamy who seems perfectly cast except for the fact that if she's still in high school, I can play opposite Barbie Doll.Trying to work her way into their circle is a one-time study-freak with a talent for forging handwriting named Veronica (would that we had Archie and Jughead as well). I mention her penmanship because it's part of the plot, although why they bothered with the fancy foreshadowing I don't know since most of the story is beside the point anyway.This is a black comedy that takes off on the usual high school teen angst clichés suicide, rigid social stratification, dumb jocks, dumb parents, dumb administrators, and even dumber teachers. And there are some very funny bits to be had along the way. Unfortunately playing Veronica is Winona Ryder who, although she is as pretty as pretty can be, even sporting a monocle--yes, somebody must have pointed out to director Michael Lehmann that putting nerd-girl glasses on a pretty girl has been done to death, so he had an Inspiration. Ryder has moments--some of them unintentional--but there is no way she can be seen as a comedic actress. We really needed Rene Zellweger or Reese Witherspoon.Playing opposite Ryder with some finesse is Christian Slater as J.D. Dean, teen psycho, son of Psycho Dad, who explains that he is blowing up the school because nobody loves me. What really cracked me up about Christian Slater is that Columbo voice he sometimes uses. And what I found funny about Winona Ryder were all those outfits with the cutesy hats and leggings.If only they had let her keep them she might have missed her day in court.Best bit the two jocks getting their just deserts and the two cops investigating the scene.So bad it was almost good Veronica getting her cigarette lit by a dynamite explosion.Like, this could happen Veronica and Martha Dumptruck Dunnstock doing popcorn and old movies together on prom night.I want to see her do it again, slowly the Rottweiler cheerleader doing a twirling handstand.Bottom line ignore the implausible and send your parents to bed.(Note Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote! Get it at Amazon!) "},{"Title":"A little *too* black","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I like black humor movies as much as anyone, but this one is so black it veers into unpleasant territory at times.  Everything about the production is top-notch, and the caste system it addresses remains ripe for discussion.  But anyone with a scintilla of sensitivity must conclude it goes too far.  It's practically as if one can imagine the screenwriter and director rubbing their palms together and patting themselves on the back saying We're so wicked!  We're so cool! as they watched the dailies.  And usually when an artistic endeavor is produced with that attitude, it's considered uncool not to appreciate it.  If you get offended, you lose the game, so to speak.  This is one game I'm willing to write off, though. "},{"Title":"F*#k Me Gently With A Chainsaw   A Worthy Predecessor To Mean Girls.","Date":"1 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Heathers is a movie about a powerful clique in high school. There are 3 Heathers (hence, the name of the movie), and Veronica Sawyer (Winona Ryder). Although Veronica is part of the clique, she does not like her friends. Heather Chandler (Kim Walker) tries to move Veronica up in social status by bringing her to parties she does not want to go to, among other various and sometimes cruel tasks. Along the way, Veronica meets a boy named Jason Dean (Christian Slater), or J.D. for short. They fall for each other despite Heather Chandler's feelings on the subject. Eventually, Veronica and Heather C. have a falling out, in which J.D. helps Veronica gain a bit of revenge. Veronica really does not want to go through with killing people, in fact, I do not think she thought J.D. was serious about doing it in the first place but, once it was done, they covered the murder by writing a suicide note in her handwriting (a skill Sawyer just happens to be good at). After a few suicides, it becomes the cool thing to do at Westerberg High. Meanwhile, Heather Duke (Shannon Doherty) takes over the reigns as the leader of the Heathers. This leaves Veronica up against Heather D. and ultimately, J.D. as well.This movie is pretty much an 80's version of Mean Girls (although Jawbreaker probably draws a little inspiration from this movie as well). The Heathers are The Plastics. Veronica Sawyer is Cady Heron. The plots are the same, although a little more tame in Mean Girls. After watching this movie for the first time here in 2005, I think it holds up and is a fun watch. I recommend this movie with 7 of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"if you like teenagers killing eachother","Date":"27 June 2002","Score":"7 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  It was bad. We -- two adults and two teenagers -- did not think it was funny. What so funny about school killings and suicide bombers in 2002? Teenagers killing each other may have been funnier in 1989. Now it's just gross and disturbing and depressing. Even though it had Winona Ryder, it still stunk. Don't know why it was considered a comedy. "},{"Title":"unique teenage comedy goes off the rails","Date":"26 November 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Winona Ryder is an aspiring member to the most powerful teen clique in Sherwood, Ohio, acting out perhaps the ultimate High School fantasy murdering the most popular kids in class and disguising the crimes as suicides. But what begins as a morbid game of retribution against the eponymous trio of sophisticated bitches goes on too far, and then some. The same might be said about the film itself a teen comedy no less glossy and cynical than its own characters, and likewise unafraid to take some big risks, although the trendy, up-to-the-minute aesthetics (circa 1989) would be dated in two years time. Big screen teenagers never used to behave like this, but because the story and style are so obviously facetious the final nod to morality is a serious misjudgment, and the contrived climax (defuse the time bomb before it obliterates the school!) nearly spoils the vicious pleasures of the earlier scenes. But no one can say it isn't original, although as usual the script takes a dim view of adult authority parents, teachers, policemen, priests and so forth. "},{"Title":"Winona Ryder Is Brilliant.","Date":"16 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Heathers is a classic teen movie. It's odd at times, but really entertaining. Winona Ryder plays the starring role and is brilliant as usual. Every character Winona plays is so different and she always acts so well. Here she plays Veronica Sawyer, a girl who becomes friends with a popular group called, the 'Heathers', made up off three girls named Heather, one played by Shannen Doherty. Even though, Veronica really hates the Heathers, (Enough to want them dead.) she still hangs out with them. When she meets the mysterious rebel-Jason Dean played by the cute Christian Slater though, things start to change and Jason leads Veronica to help him kill the Heathers and the rest of her enemies and then cover the murders up as suicides. The plot of the film is a little strange but it's good and theirs a good cast here too. I give Heathers a 6/10.NB On IMDB, their is said to be Heathers 2, coming out. Now, that would be interesting and very good. "},{"Title":"RIP-OFF OF 70's FLICK","Date":"6 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Hate to break it to you folks but this film is not original or classic or any of the other things that people say about it. What it is is a blatant rip-off of a movie that came out in the late seventies called Massacre at Central High. The makers of Heathers simply changed the gender of the members of the clique and named them all Heather. It wouldn't be so bad if at least somewhere along the way the makers of Heathers had acknowledged their debt to Massacre at Central Highbut since they don't let me be the first to tell you that Heathers is a SHAMELESS RIP-OFF!!! Check out the original flick if you can find it. You'll see. "},{"Title":"A Very Black Humor and Weird Comedy About American Teenagers","Date":"12 October 2003","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"    ***MILD SPOILERS*** Veronica Sawyer (Winona Ryder) is a teenager trying to be popular in her school  through a fake friendship with the three Heathers Duke (Shannon Doherty), McNamara (Lisanne Falk) and Chandler (Kim Walker). She supports their nasty and shallow behavior just aiming to become a popular student. One day, Jason Dean (Christian Slater) , a new comer in town, goes to her class and starts dating with Veronica. He questions her relationship with the Heathers and one day they accidentally kill one of the Heathers. They forge a suicide note of her and even dead, she becomes more popular among the students. Other students becomes also tempted to commit suicide. In order to avoid a spoiler, nothing else can be written about this weird plot. American teenager students are always presented to the world like imbeciles. This movie makes no exception and goes further and further, showing them very shallow, trying to be popular at any price and without questioning life. The behavior of their fathers and mothers is also stupid and the most intelligent ones are presented like a bunch of morons. This original dark film has a great potential of a cult movie. In Brazil, it is not popular or known, and I just bought it because of its low price, considering Winona Ryder and Christian Slater in the cast. It was worthwhile. One of the best American teen movie. My vote is seven. "},{"Title":"Awful!","Date":"2 December 2011","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I just watched Heathers for the first time tonight. I've heard people talk about it before in the past and they seemed to like it, so I figured I'd go ahead and give it a shot...Well, now I'm sorry I did. This has got to be one of the worst movies I've ever seen. I really don't understand how anyone can like this. It's just stupid. I don't know how else to explain it. Personally, I feel that fact should be painfully obvious to anyone who tries watching this piece of crap.Every time I watch a movie, I usually find myself going to the internet to try to learn a little bit more about it. One thing of interest I found was that the screenwriter supposedly tried sending this script to Stanley Kubrick in the hopes he'd be interested in making the film. Seriously?! Give me a friggin' break! Did he honestly believe Kubrick would touch this? If so, he seriously needs to check into a mental health facility.I also learned that apparently Christian Slater sent Jack Nicholson a message asking him to watch the movie and tell him what he thought...Nicholson never responded. Now, I can't say for sure what Nicholson's reasons for not responding were, but I'd assume that he either A.) Thought the movie looked ridiculously stupid and had the good sense to avoid it.or B.) Saw the movie, but was appalled that Christian Slater would so blatantly attempt to copy him that he didn't want to encourage any further contact from Slater by even responding to let him know the movie sucked.I seriously doubt Nicholson even saw the movie, but if he did, I think it's fairly safe to say he didn't like it if he wasn't willing to respond to Slater.Maybe I veered off course on my review, but I think the main point I'm trying to make is that this movie blows and everyone who thinks otherwise is obviously a little off their nut. I'm sure some will say I missed the point of the movie or that it's a satire, but I say it's still garbage. "}{"Title":"I didn't like this film.","Date":"23 June 1999","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The film was barely funny,    the acting was overall mediocre,  and the films themes were ridiculously unrealistic to be treated as either a horror, thriller,  or comedy. I don't understand why people are giving an unstylish film like this such rave reviews but I must say the jokes on homosexuality, the unpopular,  the getting revenge on the popular just didn't make me smile.   The main highlight of the film is the chemistry between Slater and Ryder,  but everything else and the tragic/comedy ending(however you want to take it) just makes the whole film seem stupid.  The 80's picture and style also seemed dated and I'd rather watch a 90's class picture opposed to this waste of time.   I'd suggest The Craft(which has plenty of resemblances) anyday with it's class, FX, and actors.   Heathers just seems cheap.  "},{"Title":"I used to think this film was cool","Date":"17 February 2005","Score":"5 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" One of my girlfriends at university in the early nineties had a VHS of this film lying around her flat and I thought at the time that it was a masterpiece. Watching it tonight, for the first time in a decade, it seems a little clunky, desperately contrived, utterly tasteless and, well, incredibly 1980s.The 1980s had a really unpleasant sterile Nietzchian undercurrent bubbling through them, and this film is a product of that. The Christian Slater character, with his Jack Nicholson voice and Peter Falk posture, spouts inconclusive Reader's Digest/Mein Kampf aphorisms as if they seal the argument and then kills people. The satire rests upon the adults all being idiots and the children all being competitive vampiric brutes, except for the former best friend and the ostracised victim of body fascism, who wait around to prove that Winona Ryder's character has a soul by being implausibly forgiving to her.The script's clumsiness even leads it into the same homophobia which it wants to satirise. It really is a poor effort.So why did it look so cool when it was new? Well, Christian Slater certainly had an impact, although I seem to remember my girlfriend commenting that anyone who said Greetings and salutations was advertising himself as a dick-head. The colour coding, and stylization, instead of looking random, speed freaky and anally retentive, looked Very when MTV still seemed like a good idea, and...oh yes this is the main reason...There had been high school shootings before then; of course there had; Boomtown Rats wrote a song about one that was a huge hit in the 80s. However, they'd managed to sweep the idea under the carpet to an extent that became impossible pretty soon after this film was made. So, when Heathers was released, the idea of pulling out a huge gun and pointing it in the face of people who annoyed you still seemed pretty cool Radical, but cool.That's what this film is really the adolescent dream we all have of employing violence to wipe away our teen angst. Thank God, most of us grow up, accept that problem solving is a complex but rewarding part of life and look back on Heathers as a nasty, self-congratulating piece of nihilistic smugness. Most of us. "},{"Title":"Thought Provoking ...","Date":"30 April 2003","Score":"5 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" ... It provoked me into thinking I was watching an off beat TVM ! Well apart from the F word cropping up every five minutes , but everything else reminded me of the dreaded phrase  Made for television  . HEATHERS is lit and shot like a TVM , the incidental music resembles that of THE EQUALIZER and the film even features TVM queen Shannen Doherty in a major role.Being a black comedy I wasn`t keen on the script either . Strangely if HEATHERS was made in 1991 or 1992 when grunge was kicking in big time it would have been a more cynical and nihilistic and therefore more sucessfull but to set it around the Debbie Gibson / ripped jeans era seems anachronistic . That said I did find it amusing that the two anti heroes were worried about going to jail since they were played by Wyona Rider and Christian Slater . Yup sometimes life can`t help imitating art  "},{"Title":"CRAAAAAP","Date":"21 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is honest to god the *worst* movie of all time. The acting is hokey, Christian Slater's villain is unconvincing and too purely sadistic to be real, and I could not even look at the color red for a week without thinking of the blatant overuse of the color in an attempt to be an intellectual movie. This movie claims to be a dark comedy, but it is a wacked out lame attempt at the art. Royal Tenenbaums? Now that is dark comedy done right. This is obviously some lame and ineffective attempt to get even with the pretty girls in high school by someone who never got over their teenage isolation. I would not recommend this movie to anybody. Yeck. Not even for cheesy movie night. "},{"Title":"Hanging Up","Date":"28 February 2002","Score":"5 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Spoilers herein.Films are seldom about reality. The better ones have asserted distance from reality.But it is a tricky game, and depends on finding a rare niche. This same team went from here to `Hudson Hawk,' which hit a niche for me. This doesn't. `Ginger Snaps' did.I suppose part of the charm was the reputation Winona already had as a weirdo. Ah, those were the days Johnny and Winona, Brad and Juliette, Sean and Madonna. An era that is long over. Anyone who says diff is &#145;sawed.Fake pretension is so over. It's so unclever. "},{"Title":"Sounds Pretty, Okay, Really Stupid!","Date":"17 February 2008","Score":"3 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie was made the year I was born, and I still haven't seen it. Who in their right minds would? It's just about a bunch of girls (three out of four with the same name) who totally need their mouths washed out. (Spoiler Warning!) They curse and use terrible vocabulary (mostly the a-word, the s-word, the f-word, etc.) as well as kill people for no good reason at all. This is all from what I read on this website, which I've posted several other comments on in the past. This isn't comedy, this is just plain stupid! And the name Veronica is always given to a snobby person! I mean, what's up with that!? If you like this and other movies in which the characters use the worst language ever (like Erin Broko, um, Witch), I personally think (no offense) you need your ears examined. (I hate profanity, so that's just my opinion.) "}]