[{"Title":"Not my favorite Halloween flick","Date":"26 July 2005","Score":"49 out of 71 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Halloween 5, yeah, this was a disappointment, most fans don't really dig this sequel which is understandable. It is kind of stupid or just plain stupid; this is the story that most horror movie sequels try to rip off, the telepathic powers that get really annoying. It seems like every horror movie sequel has to have it, Friday the 13th and Nightmare on Elm Street had it, why not include the Halloween franchise as well? Unfortunately I didn't get into it, I think because it was extremely unoriginal and not to mention that the story didn't really continue from the 4th sequel. The ending of Halloween 4 had Jamie turning evil, I guess they just totally dropped that idea which could have been great to see, instead we got a silly and typical horror story that was badly acted, edited, and directed.Michael Myers makes his way into a small shack by the river owned by a local hermit. Once there, Michael collapses and remains in a comatose state for a full year. On October 30th Michael awakens, kills the hermit, and returns to terrorize Haddonfield, where his young niece, Jamie Lloyd continues to live after nearly being killed by Michael the year before. Jamie has been mute since attacking her foster mother at the end of film 4, but exhibits signs of a telepathic link with her evil uncle. Dr. Sam Loomis realizes that this link exists, and plans to use it to put an end to Michael's reign of terror. Michael begins stalking Rachel and her friend Tina. After both are killed Jamie agrees to put herself in danger to help Loomis stop Michael for good. With Jamie's help, Loomis lures Michael back to the old Myers house. Michael makes many attempts at killing Jamie, finally getting the chance to in the attic. Jamie tries appealing to Michael's humanity by calling him Uncle. Myers pauses, prompting Jamie to ask to see his face. He takes off his mask, and a lone tear runs down his face. Jamie reaches up to wipe it away, and Michael is thrown into a rage. The killer pursues Jamie, who runs into Loomis. The doctor seems to turn on the girl as he shouts for Michael to come and take her. It turns out that he has used the girl as bait, thus leading Michael to walk beneath a heavy chain net. But you have to see what happens next by watching the movie.While granted that this movie isn't the worst movie in the world, I do enjoy the Halloween sequels, I think this was a fall in the story line for the Halloween series. It really could have had a lot of potential, but since they dropped a few ideas that were presented in the previous Halloween sequel. Not to mention this is one of the rare times that I wasn't scared by Michael, he's loosing his touch&#x85; no, I can't say that, please I can't say that&#x85; it's the writing! It's the blasted writing! So if you wanna see the sequels, yeah, do watch it just to see the story continue, but if you are just looking for a scary movie in general, you can skip Halloween 5.5/10 "},{"Title":"Apart from Pleasence, everyone in the film is just going through the motions.","Date":"23 October 1999","Score":"25 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  When the original Halloween was made it was scary because of its gritty realism and believable characters.  Part 2 was also an edge-of-seater.  But by the time you reach this, Part 5, the tension has gone from the series and Michael Myers has descended from a believable shadow-stalking figure into an unkillable Jason 'Friday the 13th' Voorhees clone.For what its worth, the plot of this film involves Myers coming after Jamie, who is now in a childrens' psychiatric hospital after attacking her stepmother.  The concept of Jamie having a psychic bond with her deranged uncle is interesting, but it's all completely ruined by the constant unfunny attempts at humour, the tedious padding and the lack of likeable would-be victims.  Instead of genuine characters all we have here are Porky-style sex-mad teenagers with nothing approaching an IQ between them.  There's even a scene set in a barn similar to the one in some of the Friday the 13th films.  And Rachel from Part 4 seems to have been reduced to a stereotype blonde airhead whose only purpose in the film is to run around half-naked before being slaughtered. And why does Myers' mask look nothing like the one he wore in the previous films? One good point in this film is Donald Pleasence, who is at his best as an overwhelming Dr Loomis who dominates his every scene and makes the film worth viewing.  There is also an enigmatic Man in the Black Fedora-type figure who leads the film into the far superior Part 6.   "},{"Title":"I prayed that he would burn in hell. But in my heart, I knew that hell would not have him.","Date":"18 January 2010","Score":"12 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" No surprises that Michael Myers didn't actually die at the end of Halloween IV The Return of Michael Myers in a blaze of gun fire, causing him to tumble down a cave and throwing in some dynamite to hopefully finish him off. Well that didn't work, as he barely escapes and finding himself floating down a river to be rescued by some old hermit who looks after him for a year to bring him back to health. Now it's close to Halloween again, Michael awakes to pay him back for his troubles. Myers gets back to his brutal business and heads back to Haddonfield with the intention of killing his niece Jamie. After the horrific ordeal of stabbing her step-mother, she's now at a children's hospital and left with the inability to speak but somehow shares a telepathic link with her uncle to know when he would kill. Dr. Loomis sees this in Jamie and tries everything to get her to use it so he can finally destroy Michael Myers. Halloween 5 The Revenge of Michael Myers was one of the sequels that I wasn't to fond of when first watched it, but after continuous repeat viewings its slightly growing on me, nonetheless still it's not without its problems in what is an unsatisfying exercise. While a little more grittier being very misogynistic and graphic (which the previous sequel wasn't) with its deaths, it's run-of-the-mill formula fell on the dull, lumpy side with it being less punctuated with grinding suspense and moody atmosphere (as some of it takes place in full daylight) concentrating on visceral unpleasantness and plastered jump scares. This low-budget production feels like a rushed job, and the misguided, wishy washy script just doesn't cut it even with a decent concept for its basis and a few unsettling surprises that caught me off guard. However there are some odd out of character moments involving Michael (toying with his victims, driving after them in what I guess beats slowly walking after them and showing a glimpse of emotion is just to name a few), useless comic routine police officers with ridiculous sound effects backing them up and a cloudy inclusion of a man dressed in black that seems to be following Michael around. The performances are simply mediocre, however the like of Danielle Harris radiates again and Ellie Cornell proves how much of a bold talent she is with a terrifically wholesome turn. Donald Pleasance looks ragged, but he passionately camps it up (with some morbid streaks) to show the obsessive strangle hold Myers has over Loomis' personally and mentally. As now he would do anything to get his man, even risking the life of Jamie to do so. Outside these three, there's not much else. I didn't find the teens here as agreeably likable. Dominique Othenin-Girard's direction is competent, but generically flat with little visual styling (which was an imprint of Return) and few intensity filled pockets of shocks, which you only wished it could hold it throughout. Still Michael is used unnervingly as a foreshadow within the background of many shots and it always seems to work as he could be lurking anywhere. Also the creative novelty of the film's opening credits is a nice touch. It's more of the same, but an watchable pedestrian slasher blanketed with shocks. "},{"Title":"Dumb, Duh-Duh Dumb","Date":"27 December 2012","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Halloween 5 takes place one year after its immediate predecessor. We're told in the opening moments that Michael Myers (somehow) survived the onslaught of gunfire that was unleashed upon him by Illinois state troopers at the conclusion of Halloween 4 by crawling out of a sewer drain, floating down a river, and taking shelter in a homeless man's secluded makeshift shanty. Inexplicably, Michael co-exists with this individual for&#x97;again&#x97;an entire year without incident. Without warning, Michael decides to off his caretaker without warning so as to pursue his original plan of finally putting an end to the Myers family name with the murder of his niece, Jamie.I have a few questions about this.First, why was it necessary that the movie take place on year later? Wouldn't it have been more feasible (a relative term given the circumstances to be sure) to have Michael lay unconscious for several days before coming to and continuing his reign of terror? Logistically, having him exist in some sort of comatose state for a full calendar year without food, water, or any kind of nutrition seems like an unnecessary stretch; on the flip side, if he were conscious during that time, why would he wait so long to dispatch of this poor sap who would naturally serve as little more than creative kill fodder for the imposing slasher? Any way you slice it (pun intended) it just doesn't make any sense.Given the ridiculousness of how movies of this type play out, I'll concede that such a complaint could be viewed as a moot point. I only dwell on it here because it serves as the perfect example of just the sort of moronic plot developments that plague the fifth outing of the now dwindling franchise.Jamie, having been placed in a juvenile sanitarium for the attempted murder of her foster mother, now has some kind of magical ESP connection with her mask-wearing uncle. It's explained that Michael is actually the one who forced Jamie to brutally stab her mother with a pair of scissors at the conclusion of the fourth film. In fact, any time Michael is about to do what he does best, she wigs out, and the omniscient (and omnipotent) Dr. Loomis swoops in to decipher her writhing and what it means about Michael's next move. Thrown into the mix is some sort of mystic cowboy, clad in all black, who dons the same Druid-ish tattoo as Michael. The guy roams around Haddonfield, keeping tabs on the now grown up boy wonder, never doing anything of particular note (well, that's not entirely true&#x97;he does implement a breakout of Michael from the county jail after the perennial sociopath is finally subdued, but this is confusing, odd, and does nothing to advance the story within the framework of the movie). All of this, I suppose, is designed to serve as a lead-in to the sixth film.If you're scratching your head, rolling your eyes, or doing both at the same time, you're not alone. As things progressed, I found myself increasingly frustrated at the missed opportunities of Halloween 5, as the aftermath of the fourth film's conclusion suggested an interesting new direction for the series that is never made tangible. Instead we're forced to endure a stale entry that's full of logical inconsistencies.All of that said, this entry is still superior to Halloween 3, and methinks that's worth at least an extra half star. "},{"Title":"The town's infamous bad boy returns home.","Date":"26 October 2002","Score":"11 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  More or less a disappointing continuance of the Halloween saga. It has been a year since Michael Myers somehow survived massive gunfire and falling down a mine shaft. Upon healing his wounds he once again returns home to seek out his niece Jamie(Danielle Harris), who now herself is hospitalized and telepathic...knowing when the slasher is about to attack. Donald Pleasence, Ellie Cornell and Beau Starr reprise their previous roles. Also notable are Wendy Kaplan and Tamara Glynn. It is hard to tell if there are more squeals than thrills. My main complaint is they kill off Rachel(Cornell)way too quickly. Miss Harris is left with the most serious acting and does very well. This time it is Don Shanks playing the maniacal white masked menace. The finale is quite brutal, but is it brutal enough? "},{"Title":"Actually, I liked it . . .","Date":"2 December 2003","Score":"19 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Sure, they wasted their one chance to change the direction of the Halloween series (the right way).  The year long coma is BS, yes, indeed.  Sure, the psychic connection between Jamie and Michael is a little goofy, ill-explained, beyond the scope of a Halloween movie, and exists for no real reason, and yes, other people wearing a mask similar to Michael and pretending to be Michael is getting old (not to mention predictable.)  The mask doesn't resemble any of the previous masks really, the Myers house had an inexplicable make-over . . . I could keep these complaints rolling for some time (don't even get me started on the man in black), but despite all my reasons to not like this film . . . I prefer it over #4.I found Halloween 5 to be strangely fun, which horror tends to be when you stop caring for the cast.  While I like Danielle Harris and Donald Pleasance in the leads, most of the supporting characters I didn't really like at all, so when Myers starts the party rolling I'm rooting for team Thorn.  And this time around, Miky proves he has a dark sense of humor.  I especially like his choice in masks in Halloween 5 . . . But is it scary?  No, but there are a few genuine intense moments towards the end as Michael inevitably runs out of victims and closes in on the stars.  I liked all the chases involving Danielle Harris and confrontations between Donald Pleasence and evil personified . . . even if said confrontations are on the silly side.Speaking of Harris, despite her character not being able to talk in the script, she manages to rise far above the material and actually pull it off.  Or in other words, while her character was written by a hack and sloppily thrown together, she works wonders with the very little she's given.  It makes me really wish she got writing worthy of her performance, but like a professional, she makes the best of it . . . and to think the studio wouldn't let her reprise her role after this?  A slap to the face after an insult . . . oy.I remember reading on the VHS box of Halloween 5 the exclamation, `Michael finally unmasked!'  And couldn't help but chuckle as I recalled him being mask-less at least once in every Myers-inclusive Halloween until this film.  Granted, this is the first time he, himself, takes it off.  Oh well. As for the film's ending, I can't forgive because it lead to the atrocity known as Halloween The Curse of Michael Myers which felt Halloween 5 was extremely flawed but still fun . . . so it set out to make a sequel that was all flaw and no fun . . . or something.   "},{"Title":"Classic Series","Date":"29 October 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  1, 2, and 4 were the best.  5 is also good regardless of the comments.  The little girl is perhaps the best of all screen horror children surpassing Poltergeist and Linda blair in the Exorcist.  Donald Pleasence is one of the great actors of all time adding incredible class to the series.  He is in the league of Peter Cushing and Cristopher Lee.  A true great in which the series is meaningless without him.Halloween 5 spends too much time on teenyboppers with a little too much stuff borrowed from Friday the 13th with silly teen lust combined with slasher stuff.  But this film excells when it cuts to the real story of Meyers chasing the girl and the doctor's relentless pursuit.  Thank goodness it refrains from too much extreme gore ad special effects which has hurt horror so much in maby other films.Meyers here is madder than usual and more hyper.  He also commits some murders that make him a truly hated figure to me.  Spoiler  At the end I wished there would have been another quick sequel and really wanted to know what would happen especially to the little girl and the doctor.  I know that there would not be another Halloween for 8 years so I do not really know.  I have not seen 6 yet but I fear 8 years is too long to remain relevant to the little girl's story.  4 and 5 makes you really want to meet the doctor and the little girl as if they were real people.  Perhaps that is the most haunting thing in the series.  Now that Pleasance has really died one can only wonder that movies can in some ways can be far more than movies.     "},{"Title":"Disappointing.","Date":"20 December 2004","Score":"14 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Halloween 4 The Return of Michael Myers was alike Halloween II a great sequel and thoroughly justified the questionable decision to bring Myers back.The shock ending to Part 4 also left fans demanding another sequel ASAP. I bet they wished they hadn't bothered.Halloween 5 is so obviously rushed and is littered with plot holes and events that make no sense whatsoever.Jamie's madness is almost discarded as a plot line, the man in black subplot makes little sense and makes even less in Part 6. Also Ellie Cornell's likable Rachel Carruthers character is killed off almost instantly, and instead the film is carried by a bunch of colourless, obnoxious and unbelievably formulaic characters.The result of this is that the viewer begins to root for Myers, willing him to slice and dice these dull protagonists. The two cops amused me, but the circus SFX did not. The only thing that lifts this picture barely above standard horror, is the performance of Donald Pleasence, his Loomis character really begins to lose the plot in this one.Unquestionably the weakest Michael Myers flick, although Part 6, and Resurrection are only mildly better. This is where the wheels began to fall away in the Halloween saga, even H20 is frustrating, as it discards parts 4-6 as ever happening. Let's hope Part 9 is an improvement and a return to form for the franchise although I wouldn't hold my breath. "},{"Title":"The Most Agreeably Nutty of Any of the Sequels","Date":"5 November 2013","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" After the original, Halloween 5 The Revenge of Michael Myers is my favorite of the series. This is an unpopular opinion. Part five is frequently considered the worse of the series. It's certainly not a good film in any traditional sense. The script feels rushed and half-formed. The relatively likable Rachel from the previous sequel is quickly killed to make way for Tina, a deeply unlikable final girl. Tina abandons Jaime to go see her jerk boyfriend, her most egregious sin. The previous ending is largely ignored. The movie attempts to forge some sort of mythology around the Myers character, hinting at the Curse of Thorn and all that other nonsense we'd get in part six. The biggest plot hole, for me anyway, is that we see Michael's face and it isn't burnt to a crisp. Maybe the Shape has a healing factor? The point is, yes, from any sort of objective perspective, Halloween 5 isn't that good a film.Which has little to do with my enjoyment of it. Revenge is, by far, the most agreeably nutty of any of the sequels. There are so many bizarre choices here. Either production was quickly rushed or the director was going for intentional camp. Exhibit A The comic relief cops which are introduced with honking, clown shoes music. I love the hermit and his screeching parrot that takes Michael in for a year. Did the Shape spend a whole year passed out in a hobo's hobble? Imagine the fan-fiction that's been written about that. Michael spends an extended amount of time driving a teenage girl around and letting her kiss all over him. Considering he murdered her anachronistic greaser boyfriend, maybe the Shape was horny. The whole Man in Black business is, of course, utter nonsense. But it's likable utter nonsense. No wacky element is more endearing then Donald Pleasence completely sloshed performance as Dr. Loomis. He pushes the character as far as he can this time, pulling a gun on a cop, using innocent Jamie as bait, getting all up in her grill. I absolutely love it.Rewatching the film this time, I realized another reason I enjoy it so much. Most of the other sequels attempt to recapture Carpenter's magic. This one, on the other hand, goes for blatant exploitation. It's the Halloween version of a Friday the 13th film. The sex is sexier, the gore is gorier. The teens run off for a raunchy Halloween party, even though you'd think the holiday would be verboten in Haddonfield at this point. The one-note supporting characters, the slasher fodder, are far more broad, playing goofy pranks. Michael Myers has basically been transformed into Jason at this point, impaling a rutting couple and using multiple weapons. The most blatant Jason element is when Jaime reaches Michael's human side, a scene blatantly swiped from Friday the 13th Part II. It's horribly out of character for Myers, of course. He has no human side at all! Don't care. Part 5 delivers the trashy thrills you expect from the fourth sequel in a horror series.The movie is questionable, sure, but I honestly think some elements are very strong. Of all the sequels, this one most captures the autumn spirit to me. The pumpkin carving opening is fantastic. The direction is very strong, the nights thick and black. There are even some genuine thrills. Jaime being stalked by her uncle spirit through the hospital is great. The car chase scene works very well. The laundry chute creates claustrophobic tension. Dr. Loomis delivers another monologue, in which he establishes an inner rage as Michael's motivation. That's as good an explanation as any, says I. Surely I can't be the only one who loves this movie? I perfectly understand why some folks dislike it. By the same accord, I believe its underrated. Not to mention enjoyably goofy. "},{"Title":"Good scare scenes...","Date":"28 February 2005","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" After facing a firing squad and falling down a mine shaft at the end of part four, this next sequel continues with Michael crawling out through a hole just before the police throw in a stick of dynamite, and then he proceeds to escape down a river. He eventually comes to a cabin, or something like that, and once inside it he faints and ultimately goes into another of his famous comas. Thanks to the resident hermit, Michael gets plenty of rest for a whole year...Now telepathically linked to her uncle, young Jamie(now mute and unable to make use of her vocal cords)waits anxiously in Haddonfield Children's Hospital, exactly one year later. She knows that her uncle is coming, but cannot express herself with speech. Thankfully Dr. Loomis is still around, and he senses that Jamie knows something but believes that she is protecting Michael. Jamie's sister Rachel(Ellie Cornell)reprises her role for about ten minutes, unfortunately, since Michael eventually kills her in one of the many well-directed scenes in this installment. Replacing her is Tina(Wendy Kaplan), the widely hated bad actress who I actually kinda liked. Aside from being a bit annoying, I still don't think that she was as bad as some of the buffoons from part six...Anyways, I used to believe that Halloween 5The Revenge of Michael Myers was superior to its predecessor. However, having recently watched the two back to back, I realize that I was wrong about that. This sequel still has some redeeming qualities, though. While part four delivered some great scare scenes, director Othenin-Girard capitalizes on this formula and delivers even better scares this time. Examples are the aforementioned death scene with Rachel, the chase scene with Jamie in the hospital's basement, the car-chase scene with Tina, and a very suspenseful scene with Jamie in the Myers's laundry chute. In fact, every scene that takes place in the Myers house is superb. Overall I rate Halloween 5 a 7/10. Some of the editing and voice-overs were absolutely awful so I had to take away a point. Other than that I think that this installment is at least worth a viewing, and the ending will certainly leave you craving more. Too bad we had to wait about six years for another one, and sadly Danielle Harris(who plays Jamie in four and five)does not return. So, to end this, part five is at least better than the next sequel, Halloween 6The Curse of Michael Myers. "}{"Title":"Awful in pretty much every way imaginable","Date":"4 May 2007","Score":"10 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Ho boy, where to begin? At this point in the series, Dr. Loomis has become abusive, the characters are all hateful, Michael's slipping, and the scripts are making even less sense.We begin right where we left off from Halloween 4, a la Halloween I and II Michael escapes from the mine shaft, crawls to safety, and gets nursed back to health by some random bum with a parrot. One year later and with a lot more energy, his immediate action once he's able to move is to off the bum and head back to town, hoping to hunt down his niece who now has a psychic connection with him. A troop of teenagers are introduced, and the movie promises carnage. Sort of.This movie is bad. By bad I mean incompetent on pretty much every level. In horror movies, part of the delight and part of the terror is the fact that the teenagers die, but one character at least we hope will live. Not so in this one. Every single character is a hateful, stereotypical 80s idea of idiocy, and Michael's carnage can't come soon enough. This storytelling is backed up by probably some of the worst editing and directing I've ever seen, as characters move sporadically through jump cuts to... well, they don't really do much of anything, except ignore the warnings of a traumatized little child with a psychic connection to a serial killer. That role is given over to Donald Pleasence's Dr. Loomis, who somehow still has a practice and still is listened to, despite the fact that at this point he breaks about every rule of clinical ethics and the fact that he's an obnoxious jerk.Breaks every rule... that's what this movie does. This movie is so unable to bring actual horror, suspense, or gory delights to the fore that it literally just bumbles around hoping for something to photograph until Michael comes around, and then the storyline and directing are so incompetent they can't even make Michael seem cool. The scenes in the barn are pretty much must-see for film students who want to know exactly what NOT to do. And then, as if it's not enough, the movie has the audacity to introduce a new character for the sole purpose of letting Michael out of prison... who he is, what he's there for, what he knows, even if it's a he... there's no explanation. They literally wrote a character into the script because they were too lazy to know how to end this movie. That's like THE single basic screenplay no-no.Of course, there's always room for camp, but camp only works when the film goes in outrageous directions and does things creative and fun. This movie isn't even creative enough to come up with crazy, out-there ideas like Halloween 3, it just lazily serves the tropes of its genre without even the craft and skill required to make a successful continuity cut! By the time this movie ends, you will feel frustrated, bored, betrayed, and uninterested. While this movie plays, you will wish for every character to die just so that you no longer have to watch their stupid, mindless antics, and you will regret renting (or buying) the disc. Halloween 5 isn't even worth the plastic it's printed on, and that's bad considering how cheap it is to put things on DVD.--PolarisDiB "},{"Title":"Should Have Had Jamie As The Killer","Date":"3 November 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Halloween 5 was the least successful movie in the series for a good reason. This movie was so rushed into development that they starting shooting the movie without even a finished script. They should have gone with the first script by Shem Bitterman which had Jamie as the killer of the movie. I feel like this would have been the right direction to take the series. Instead they used the second unfinished script so they could make another generic slasher film.After Michael (Don Shanks) is shot into a mine shaft by the state police, he is swept down a river and ends up at hermits hut. Michael falls into a coma and this hermit (for some reason) nurses Michael back to health instead of calling the cops. One year later, Micheal kills the hermit and makes his way back to Haddonfield to try and kill his niece. Again.Jamie (Danielle Harris) is now a mute at a children's hospital after stabbing her step-mother last Halloween. However, this movie found a way to cheapen the ending of Halloween 4 by stating that she only did this because she and Michael are psychically connected. WTF? Anyway, now that Jamie is a mute and just sitting in a mental hospital, this means that the film has to focus on a new group of characters.Who is the new main character of this film? Rachael (Ellie Cornell) is sure to be the main character, right? No. Rachael is killed off in the first 20 minutes and we are left with her obnoxious friend Tina (Wendy Kaplan). There are few movie characters that can compete with Tina is terms of sheer annoyingness. The whole time I watched this movie I felt like Michael was sure taking his time is killing this hyperactive B**** in a maid costume.Loomis (Donald Pleasance) is also here but there isn't really any reason he is here. He does not do anything until the end film, and even then his role in minimal. Loomis does not even act like Loomis in this film. That is how out of character he is.Michael himself is a step-up from George P Wilbur's performance in the last film, but that is not saying much. The mask is this film is almost as bad as it was in Halloween 4, but I guess it is a little less cheap looking. Michael does stalk in the background like in the original film but it does not feel as scary as before. The walk is done more zombie-like this time around.The other characters in this film are just generic characters to rack up the body count. There are 2 cops that pay homage to the cops from Last House on Left with these clown sound effects. I don't know why Dominique Otherin-Girard though it would be a good idea to pay homage to one of the things that ruined a movie.The music score is the classic theme played with some different variations which sounds pretty good. Unfortunately the soundtrack is almost non-existent.Toward the end of the movie Loomis has the police set up a sting operation at the Myers house (using Jamie as bait) while waiting for Michael Myers. However a disturbance at the children's clinic causes all but 2 of the cops to leave. Michael shows up and kills the 2 cops and injures Loomis. Michael chases Jamie though the house which leads to Michael taking off his mask and crying like a F-ing baby. One of the worst parts in the series. Then Loomis catches Michael in a Scooby-Doo trap and beats Michael with a 2x4. Michael is then thrown into a jail cell. Then a man in black arrives at the police station and shoots it up and disappears with Michael.The man in black appears a couple times in the movie, so you know that he was going to do something at the end of the movie. It just makes the movie so predictable that way. Even putting that aside, Halloween 5 is a bland movie to begin with. It has so cool moments, like when Jamie is trying to climb up a laundry chute while Michael stabs the chute Jamie is in. Lots of suspense there. Donald Pleasance and Danielle Harris do great with what little they had, but it was not enough to save the film.A Step-Down From The Last Film 3/10 "},{"Title":"Dull  Yet Still Enjoyable.","Date":"3 September 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This entry in the Halloween series lacks depth, but still manages to entertain. Danielle Harris and Ellie Cornell reprise their roles, and must save themselves from that mad maniac Michael. Jamie is now in a hospital after the events that took place in Halloween 4, and she also develops telekinesis. She is now able to know what Michael is doing, and it is up to her to stop the terror before the whole town is slaughtered.This film has its flaws, and lacks the suspense and brilliance of the previous films. It is fun to watch on Halloween, but it does not have the same atmosphere that the previous films possess. This film has some annoying characters including Tina (Wendy Kaplan) and a strange guy who appears to be in love with his car.This is worth a viewing and isn't as bad as some make it out to be, yet it is nowhere near as good as the previous films and nowhere near as original as the first film. "},{"Title":"Not bad, but could have been better.","Date":"5 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" HALLOWEEN 5 THE REVENGE OF MICHAEL MYERS is the fifth Halloween picture in the franchise and it was directed by Dominique Othenin-Girard and starred Donald Pleasence, who once again plays Dr. Samuel Loomis and Danielle Harris, who once again plays Jamie Lloyd in this film.The story of the film takes place exactly one year after the events depicted in the last Michael Myers film, HALLOWEEN 4 THE RETURN OF MICHAEL MYERS. The killer has returned to the sleepy town of Haddonfield, Illinois, to murder his niece once again, who is now mute. Dr. Loomis tries to save the day with the help of Sheriff Meeker.The film's on-screen title does not display the Revenge of Michael Myers subtitle which is used in all of the promotional material, TV spots, trailers and merchandise. The main title simply says Halloween 5.The story is much more bloodier and violent in this film as it was in HALLOWEEN II and HALLOWEEN IV THE RETURN OF MICHAEL MYERS and it is just very intense and disturbing and that's why the director Dominique Othenin-Girard has not seen a lot of work over the years is because he chooses blood and gory over story and suspense.The film is just intense throughout the whole darn movie and I would have skipped this film, but I chose not to because I like this one, too and it is really good and the Michael Myers character is just mad as heck. This film was released one year after the fourth feature and when this one came out, the other film was barely being released on video, I don't know.I can't help that this film was made and rushed into production on May 1st, 1989 with a screenplay. Grease 2 did the same thing and suffered a series of bad reviews. WHAT KIND OF MOVIE DOES THAT?! HOW CAN YOU START FILMING A MOVIE WITHOUT A SOLID AND COMPLETE SCRIPT?! THAT IS JUST STUPID. You should WAIT until the script is finished, then START shooting your movie! Son of a werewolf! Also, this movie had been fighting an X rating due to it's violence, blood and gore. Some scenes were trimmed down to keep it R rated, including a Mikey quivering on the ground after he is killed by Michael, a shot of glass embedded in Officer Eddy's face after Michael punches through the windshield and Billy's leg being hit by the Camaro.The music in this film is just stupid, but the new version for the Halloween theme, originally composed by John Carpenter and the film is once again composed by Alan Howarth and he would compose the music for the next film.The acting is amazing. Danielle Harris as Jamie Lloyd is still good, if not her best performance. Donald Pleasence does a good job as Dr. Loomis. Don Shanks plays Michael Myers and he does a very good job and also, during the production of the film, Harris and Shanks became really great friends in this film and I really can't complain about this film.The rest of the cast is dreadful except for Ellie Cornell as Rachel Carruthers and she does cool in the screen time that she has.Overall, HALLOWEEN 5 THE REVENGE OF MICHAEL MYERS, while it still present some major issues, I still liked this one, so I can't give it my lowest rating, but I will give it my best possible rating and it is 6.2 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Halloween V The Return","Date":"15 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The Return of Michael Myers is one of the darker films in the franchise, having a grim somber Midwestern atmosphere. It also shines the spotlight directly on Dr. Loomis and his unforgettable lines about the evil Michael Myers. Its a great direct follow up from the forth film and adds a couple new solid characters namely Tina and of course The Man in Black. In this movie Meeker grows on me and becomes in my opinion a better sheriff than Brackett. One negative is there are some typical cheesy 80s scenes that I thought The Return could have cut out. Also, Harris and Billy were somewhat off-putting in some scenes with over-dramatic screams. When it gets to the last thirty or twenty minutes of the film is when its at its best. Loomis versus Myers, it doesn't get any better than that. The Return (7/10) is a slight drop off but still a solid entry to the Halloween series. "},{"Title":"Halloween 5 The Revenge of Michael Myers","Date":"3 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" 'Halloween 5' begins immediately where part 4 ended. We see that Michael Myers has indeed survived being shot by state troopers, and has fallen down a mine shaft. He travels along a small river and makes his way to some tent that a homeless person is living in. He falls unconscious for an entire year, until Halloween 1989. Jamie meanwhile has spent the entire year in a state facility for children. She has not spoken one word the whole time. She can now however sense when Michael is near or when he is ready to strike. Anyways,Halloween night approaches and Michael is back in Haddonfield ready to hack and slash anything that gets in his way of murdering Jamie. We meet a younger set of characters (only there to add to the body count) which connect to Rachel from 'Halloween 4'. The film follows them along with Jamie/Loomis leading to an interesting conclusion.'Halloween 5' is definitely the weakest of the original series. So many things that separate it from the rest, and make it less of a worthwhile watch. First of all, this one was scary or even that creepy in the slightest. The previous instalment actually did a great job at creating and establishing an eerie atmosphere. This was a rushed attempt at scary in my opinion. The acting was questionable (to say the least) from the supporting cast. Other than Pleasance and Harris, it wasn't anything to write home about. They also kill off an important character (to me anyways) EARLY on which I hated. Michael Myers himself is also not intimidating at all. Don Shanks did a lackluster job in the role of the shadow. And the Myers house looked like some mausoleum/crypt mansion, nothing like the original. It's an insult to viewers to not even attempt to make it similar. And the kills were not well done, they felt cheap when compared to the first four films (even 'Halloween III' did a greater job...). It's still one that should be seen by all horror and 'Halloween' fans. It has it's moments plus establishes a storyline (the man in black) that carries on into the sixth film.5/10 "},{"Title":"Despite its flaws, a unique a fun entry in the series.","Date":"28 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This is the movie in the series that people hate the most, mostly critics and fans of the series. Sure, it does have its noticeable flaws and cringe worthy moments. The film suffers from a rough script and was rushed into production before the script could be perfected, it was released into theaters only a year after part 4 came out. While I can understand this argument, I would argue that almost all of the Friday The 13th films were rushed into production and were also released a year after their predecessors and were far worse then what this movie did. Most people point out this movie's faceless characters but again, I would argue that Friday The 13th has done a lot worse when it comes to character development and yet, these films are not criticized for the same reason.While this isn't a great movie and no where close to the original John Carpenter film, I still feel that it includes some of the most epic scenes in the entire series, more so then the highly praised Halloween 4. The final 30 minutes are thrilling and the ending leaves you wanting more because you're not sure what's going to happen next. I also think that this film added new story elements that were interesting. This film is also much darker and even Gothic I think. Still, everyone is welcome to their opinion but I'm just sharing my voice. "},{"Title":"Tha Last Of The Good Sequels","Date":"8 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Sequel picks up after Halloween 4, and is set one year later. Michael escapes the well he was blown into, hides out for a year, and quickly resumes his murder spree the next Halloween, with young Danielle Harris as his intended victim. This time, she can't speak and goes into violent seizures when she senses he's gonna stab somebody. Halloween 5 was quickly made to cash in on the success of the previous installment. Many people hate this film, but it happens to be my favorite sequel out of the series. The movie is not a mere rehash of the events of Part 4, but really a true continuation, something a lot of sequels can't pull-off. I also really liked the strong atmosphere the makers built on. The film is brimming with thick shadows and rich colors, and the camera moves everything around quite fluidly. The Jamie character played by Danielle Harris steals the show, especially in the last half when she reaches a state of hysteria when Michael goes off after her. However, all the knife slashing aimed at the little girl sometimes seemed mean-spirited, and by the end of the film she's a bloody mess. Donald Pleasence is completely bonkers this time out, and is fun to watch. The story telling is tight and the characters likable. However, there are a lot of mistakes. Obvious voice overs run rampant through the film, and some are just corny. Plot holes pop up from the very beginning (Jamie's age went from 7 to 9 in a one year gap? Michael supposedly layed unconscious on a strangers living room floor for one whole year while the stranger went about his daily routines? Michael's house is now a mansion?, etc.). But this is a good sequel, easily my favorite for some reason. The chase through Michael's house and down the laundry shoot toward the end are top-notch. Features pitch-fork, scissor, butcher knife and car-chase maylay. Three stars. "},{"Title":" I prayed, he would burn in hell. But in my heart, hell would happen.","Date":"28 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Now, in this Halloween movie; Michael did not die! Michael ended up in a river and got himself to shore. And suddenly, he caught sight of a mountain man and attacked him. And at that very moment, while Jamie Lloyd (Danielle Harris)was at a children's clinic in Haddonfield, she could see that moment. She can see what Michael can see.On the following day, her foster sister Rachel Carruthers ( Ellie Cornell) came to visit followed by her friend, Tina Williams (Wendy Kaplan).They bought her a dress for the Goblin Costume Pageant. Now, Jamie cannot speak due to her previous incident with her Uncle, Michael and therefore; she can only communicate with sign language.There were some real freaky parts in this film e.g- someone threw a brick through the window with a message on it saying The evil child must die! Another was when Rachel got home and Jamie's dog Max started to bark at a tree and Rachel did not see what Max was barking at. It was Michael. another was when Michael got inside the house while Mr and Mrs. Carruthers were away for the weekend and was everywhere where Rachel went e.g- watching Rachel while he was in the the closet as Rachel was thinking of what clothes she was going to wear. And again, Jamie could see what Michael was doing and Rachel got a call from Dr.Loomis ( Donald Pleasance) that she get out of the house. And finally, after the cops left; Rachel went into Jamie's old bedroom and found Jamie's photo shattered and when she turned around, Michael STABBED HER, with a pair of scissors! And now, Michael is after Tina.Another thing that freaked me out was when Michael visited the Children's Clinic and when Jamie tried to escape; all the doors were locked. And to end the moment, Jamie saw her uncle's shadow everywhere on every sheet in the laundry room and thank god Jamie was still found alive and well! And another was when Michael attacked Tina's boyfriend Mikey ( Jonathan Chapin) with a garden tool. And finally, when Tina was picked up to go to the Tower Farm, she didn't know it was Michael who fetched her, not Mikey! And at the Goblin Costume Pageant, Jamie saw it happen through Michael's eyes and she shrieked.At the Tower Farm, two annoying brats named Samantha Thoman ( Tamara Glynn) and her boyfriend played a prank on the cops to do with Michael. You should see how annoying they were! And then, they got killed in the barn next door to the party while having sex and same thing what happened with the cops.Soon, Jamie and her friend Billy (Jeffery Landman)arrived and then Michael came careering out of nowhere and headed for Tina followed by Billy and then Jamie and she was chased through the woods with Tina shrieking as she ran behind. Suddenly, Michael crashes and Tina jumps up and defends Jamie and she got stabbed.Later, at Michael's house ( pity that it doesn't look the same); Jamie was waiting in the top room for Michael and then, he came. Michael didn't know this was a trap for him! It was very spooky when Jamie found dead Max, Mikey and Rachel in the attic and in the middle was a casket. Jamie got into the casket and asked Michael if she could see his face and he did reveal himself. Jamie looked just like him. And then, Michael tried to attack Jamie and then Loomis got hold of Jamie and took her all the way downstairs with Michael following them and then WHAM!Michael was caught with a net made of chains and he got beaten to death by Loomis and then Loomis passed out.And to end the movie, Michael was put in prison and then, a mysterious person entered the jail and there were gunshots heard from inside.Jamie was outside. And when she went to go see what the trouble was, she saw every passage was littered with cop bodies and she noticed that Michael had escaped from prison! If you are wanting to buy a real horror video, buy Halloween 5!This movie has been made for the ones hard at heart, if you aren't then Halloween 5 is not for you! What a great movie! the acting was outstanding! "},{"Title":"What were they thinking???","Date":"27 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I have no idea what the film makers were thinking when they came up with this movie.  I'm an AVID Halloween fan and am ashamed to admit it after this.  First of all Micheal's mask has got to go.  It looks nothing like the original except for the color.  Another huge blunder was that of Micheals house.  Since when did the Meyers live in a mansion?  They didn't.  The original house (Halloween I and II) was a lot different.  I don't even think the director watched any of the other movies.  Loomis has turned into a deranged dirty old man (i.e. when he's grabbing Jamie in her hospital bed).  And what is up with the comic cops?  Everytime I hear that music when they come on screen I just want to puke.  Now, with that all said Halloween 5 does have some cool scenes in the beginning when Micheal puts on his mask and Jamie copies it, when Micheal scratches that guys hotrod, when Micheal uses a pitchfork and sickle, and finally the laundry chute scene.  I love all the Halloween movies but wish they put the same amount of effort into this one.  Part 4 was good but 5 could've been better. "}{"Title":"Intriguing Sequel","Date":"12 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Halloween 5The Revenge Of Michael Myers begins exactly where part 4 left off.  Michael Myers escapes from the mineshaft he fell into at the conclusion of part 4 and lays dormant in a coma for one year.  On Halloween Eve, Michael awakens and sets out on a rampage, killing Jamie's stepsister Rachel and Rachel's friend Tina's boyfriend and friend.  Dr. Loomis teams up with Jamie to stop Myers and their plot involves the old Myers house.  The end of the film involves Myers, dozens of cops, and a mysterious Man In Black.  The oddest thing about Halloween 5 is that the film never really ends, it just stops and sets up HalloweenThe Curse Of Michael Myers.  A pretty good horror sequel.Halloween 5The Revenge Of Michael Myers is Rated R for graphic violence, gore, sexuality, brief nudity, and adult language.  "},{"Title":"***1/2 out of ****","Date":"28 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Although not as great as Halloween 4, Halloween 5 is an incredibly suspenseful film.  I loved the scene where Jamie is trapped in the laundry shoot and Michael is just stabbing at it trying to get her.  That scene definitely lives up to the rooftop sequence in Halloween 4.  I don't know what it was about this movie, but I loved it.  Incredible suspense, great characters and few cliches make this a winner in the series.  "},{"Title":"Unmasking Michael","Date":"23 October 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I've read that they made a decision to keep his true face in the dark, but you still see too much for it to be believable. In number 2 he is shot in both eyes and burned to a crisp. They should have done minimal makeup to show visible scarring and refrained from showing his eye. By doing it the way they did, the audience is left to feel like it's not the same guy. Keep his face shadowed and make Jaime jump from the site of his face and that's why he freaks out and starts slashing. Opinions aside, I love all these movie. Michael Myers will always be the king of slashers. These movies will never be dated and will always live on as some of the best. "},{"Title":"the Symbolism of Dr. Loomis ( SPOILERS)","Date":"5 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Halloween #5 has several deep psycholgical implications. I believe that there is a hidden message in the Halloween series that only gets revealed in part 5. Of course, as the sequels came out, tons of back story was implanted to achieve some sort of direction, some reason for the story to even continue, however, the symbolism of DR. Loomis really can be traced back to the Original. Many people will reject my theory, but it must be stated.As far as I'm concerned, Michael and Dr. Loomis are the same man, or at least represent the two sides of one man. 1. Samuel Loomis = simooL leumaS forward and backwards, it's the same, it's the 2 sides of one man.2. The two men are a package deal. When one shows up,the otheris always very close behind.3. Both spend their whole careers obsessed with children.4. The Dr. seems to be the ONLY person who has a fighting chance against Michael at any point during any of the films.I believe what the writer's are saying is that You are your own worst enemy.5. Comment #4 in mind, the Dr.'s attempts to eliminate Michael, never quite get the job done. (the explosion in part 2, the use of tranquilizers instead of bullets during the climax of part 5, theuncertainty of Michael's demise by shooting at the end of #4).In other words, the Dr. doesn't REALLY want to kill his otherdark half. 6. The Dr.'s most effective attempts at subduing Michael alwaysinvolve some sort of trap or ambush. Michael is also always using ambush tactics to get what he wants.7. The Dr. is clearly speaking to himself symbolically during the ambush at Michael's house in the climax, right before Michaelslashes at Loomis's stomach. (yet ANOTHER half-hearted attempt from one half, trying to eliminate the other half). 8. The most obvious at the end of this film, the Dr. falls faceto face with, yes, his other dark half. If this camera shot doesn't show exactly what is trying to be implied, I don't know what does.9. Dr. Loomis begins to actually CHANGE Michael's mind as seen right before the stomach slash. Little Jamie is also able to convince Michael to take off his mask!! Michael is becoming normal and he doesn't like it. That's why the Man in Black comes along. the Man in Black is now a REPLACEMENT for Dr. Loomis. Now Michael is2 halves evil, instead of half evil, half good. Ofcourse, when th MIB breaks Michael out of prison, he is Symbolically breaking Micheal out of this prison of duality!Aside from all of this, Donald Pleasance did his best work in any of this series here, in #5. Notice the long unbroken takes, throughout the film, especially the one with young mute Jamie where he frantically demands information from her. "},{"Title":"The Best In the Series","Date":"13 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Halloween 5 is truly a underrated gem in the Halloween series. I consider it the best entry since the first one. The Good Things * Something that has been missing from the series is character development, we get to know every character before they are slashed and we are saddened to see them go. I almost always weep when Michael kills Rachel, as other people have stated she was the heart and soul of the fourth and her death leaves us with an empty hole in our hearts. Another character I felt sad for is Tina, she gave up her life to save Jamie's and that alone deserves a pat on the back. The scene following with Tina being carried away on a stretcher combined with the music and Jamie's reaction makes me want to weep.* The acting for a slasher movies rises the bar. Giving a standout performance is a big round for Danielle Harris! Harris is the shining light in the cast and she is such a tremendous actress. She plays Jamie to perfection and makes you care for her character to the hilt. Donald Pleasence gives he's performance all he's got and it shows. I rooted for him to kill Michael, but you can't keep a good killer down! Rounding out the cast Ellie Cornell and Wendy Kaplan who perform to the best of their ability.* A big plus is the film is never boring and has some great action sequences. Who can forget the chase with the car and the laundry chute sequence? Another thing this movie has is the ability to scare the viewer. I haven't jumped this many times since the first Halloween. * Although most people trash the new mask that Michael wears, I think it's the creepiest mask he's ever worn. The director got Don Shanks to play Michael and he plays Michael with a creep, unnerving style that makes you fear him.* This thing has to commented on. I loved the way how Michael was treated like a real person and that added to the effect of the film.Final Say If you see this, grab it, buy it, go home and pop it in your DVD player and sit back and enjoy the masterpiece that is Halloween 5 "},{"Title":"Michael's return to form... A solid sequel! ***1/2 out of *****","Date":"26 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This to me is a huge step up from HalloweeN 4. Not that I felt HalloweeN 4 was a terrible movie, but I don't think Dwight Little knew how to make a scare scene and provided very little suspense.The director of HalloweeN 5 gives us all that was missing in the 4th installment in order to make a solid sequel.For one here we have the camera follow behind Michael Myers. We can see him observing his surroundings. We also see him in the distance many times just watching his future victims. I don't believe you had ANY of that in the 4th film. It's an element that was so memorable about the 1st and 2nd films and it continues here.The lighting and editing is also very good. And Michael Myers' mask is truly scary looking in this film.It isn't without it's flaws. The house looks entirely different looking from the previous movies. It really makes no sense. But the biggest flaw of the film is the terrible 'goofy' sound effects that play a couple of times when the two stupid deputies show up. It completely takes you out of a film that is a horror movie. It just plain doesn't fit and is guaranteed to make even the most faithful of HalloweeN fans roll their eyes. I certainly did. And perhaps Michael shouldn't be seen in a cell after being captured by cops. But look past that and you'll find that this is one of the best sequels in the entire series.The boogey man is back.... with a vengeance.SCYTHE WATCH ALERT In one of the best scenes in HalloweeN history, Michael Myers actually uses a scythe to slice a victim! "},{"Title":"Grossly underrated film","Date":"15 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This entry in the infamous horror anthology came hot on the heels of the immensely successful Return of Michael Myers. The producers really knew how to strike while the iron was hot, and as a result this movie did suffer from somewhat of a rush factor. There are some undeniable continuity problems and other miscellaneous gaffes. But now for the good stuff, the stuff that goes largely ignored in this maligned movies' legacy.This movie has a fantastic final half hour. The kind horror movie fiends dream of. The atmospheric camera shot during the tower farm sequence. The suspense of the laundry chute scene. The tension of the police ambush at the Myers house. The emotional weight of the attic sequence between Jamie and her murderous uncle. The unleashed rage of the killings. The added mystery of the ending. All of these things and so much more make the finale of this movie SO worth any misgivings you might have about the preceding 50 minutes. Strongest finish to a horror sequel I've ever seen.Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"I knew that hell would not have him","Date":"2 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" There are clearly a few problems with this movie, but I hardly noticed them at the time of its original release. I left the theatre more excited about this movie than any horror movie I had yet seen. The ending caught me totally by surprise and had my little circle of friends (all two of us) speculating over its implications for many days thereafter. To say that this movie left things a little up in the air would be a misstatement of massive proportions. Not only was I left to ponder the fate of Michael, Dr. Loomis, and little Jamie, I was mystified by the man in black. Who was he? What was his role in all of this? I still think the concluding 10 minutes of this movie are the best 10 minutes of the entire Halloween series, although I would not dare place this movie on the same pedestal as the original film, which is basically untouchable by all pretenders to the horror crown.I have nothing but the greatest respect for nine-year-old Danielle Harris. The makers of Halloween 5 put this poor girl through the wringer, and she shines from start to finish in one of the most physical roles I have ever seen man, woman, or child play. As the movie opens, she is living in a children's clinic, unable to talk since the shocking events of the previous Halloween night and increasingly prone to seizures and fits brought on by some kind of psychic connection with her uncle Michael. Eventually, she finds herself running for her life as her uncle chases her down with a car and then his trusty knife. Then toward the end comes the unforgettable scene in which she finds herself lodged in a laundry chute inside the abandoned Myers house desperately trying to stay alive. The depth of emotion and sense of utter terror she is able to convey is really quite extraordinary I have to admit I didn't particularly care for this incarnation of Michael. No man can compare to the original Shape, Nick Castle, but the real problem for me in this movie is Michael's mask. It just hangs loosely around his neck, and the sight of it flopping out on both sides like an extra pair of very large earlobes really kept me from seeing this masked killer as the Michael I know and love. Donald Pleasance is, as usual, incredible as Dr. Loomis. I admit, Loomis seems to be getting a little bit loony by this point in the series, but who can blame him? Every time, he tells the authorities what is going to happen, yet no one ever believes him until it is too late. Bearing the scars of previous encounters with Michael, his bravery and obsession with Michael Myers earns him five stars in my book every single time.Here are a few problems with this movie. Let's start with the obvious. What is wrong with the people in Haddonfield? It is very important to keep in mind the fact that no body was ever found of a seemingly vanquished Michael after the events of the previous year. Rachel, having barely lived through Halloween 4, not only leaves a spare key to her house on top of the doorframe, she leaves the door wide open while she is taking a shower. Then there are these moronic teenagers consuming far too much of our time. They insist on playing practical jokes on each other and even on the cops, finding the whole Boogeyman subject incredibly funny for some reason unknown to me. It's hard not to cheer for Michael as he goes after these goofs. Tina is incredibly immature, her boyfriend with the car fetish is unbearable, and her horny friends annoyed me as much as they apparently annoyed Michael. Then we come to the cops. Apparently, Michael's previous adventures have decimated the local police force because they are letting some incompetent people wear a badge these days. Hearing some type of obvious clown music play when the two super cops first appear is basically unforgivable as far as I'm concerned. Apparently, these two characters were supposed to supply some comic relief to a movie that needed nothing of the kind.Overall, I think this movie has moments of greatness that, for the most part, make up for its flaws. Danielle Harris is amazing, and the final 10-15 minutes are riveting. More than anything, though, I have to return to the fact that I left the movie theatre all those years ago totally excited about this movie and its mysterious twists and turns. Any slasher movie that can inspire untold hours of speculation after the fact has achieved something quite rare indeed. "},{"Title":"The bomb","Date":"29 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Grab your popcorn and turn off the lights as Michael Myers has returned to stay in your living room. This movie gives you the overbearing of what actually happened in the end of Halloween 4 The Reevenge Of Michael Myers. We get to see why Jamie attacked her stepmother and we get to see how Michael Myers survived the attack by the cops.Michael Myers(Don Shanks)returns and after a year of what I'd say hibernation, continue his killing spree. His first victim is a homeless old man and that death along with the others are sweet. I was only mildly disappointed as to why Michael attacked Rachael(Ellie Cornell).Dr. Sam Loomis(Donald Pleasence)returns to Haddonfield as it is almost Halloween. He finds out that Jamie Lloyd(Danielle Harris)has a power of knowing when her uncle, yes that's right, is about to strike. I really was shocked at the beginning as she had totally lost her voice. The only characters that I wanted to get killed were Mikey(Jonathan Chapin) and Tina Williams(Wendy Kaplan). They both were so lame. One acted as if she was retarded. And the other was so obsessed with his car. It was pathetic.If you want to have a horrific Halloween, pop in this movie, and it's sequels and allow yourself a few pillows, blankets and popcorn bowls. It's going to be a good scary night if you do. "},{"Title":"A great horror sequel well done.","Date":"31 October 2005","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Halloween 5 The Revenge of Michael Myers is a great sequel that really makes the Halloween series great.The cast makes this film great too.It is a year later from the events of Halloween 4,Michael survived the police and escaped out of a mine,went into a river.A hermit living in the woods,Michael goes to the hermit's home and stayed there the whole year.Jamie Lloyd,Michael Myers's niece is in a children's clinic after she stabbed her foster mother a year ago.Jamie has a telepathic link to Michael.She knows now that he is alive.Michael kills the hermit and is on his way back to Haddonfield.Michael is on his rampage and is looking for Jamie.This time,they know now where he will will strike since Jamie is connected to her uncle.Dr. Loomis is trying to get Jamie to tell him where Michael is at,but Jamie is frightened.Jamie is the only one who can help to stop him.I give this movie 2 thumbs up and 10 stars. "}{"Title":"First weak Halloween film.","Date":"30 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Halloween 5 is just boring but is not complete crap I was interested about seeing this one after the ending of the last and I was kinda of disappointed. For an hour and a half it's just Jamie being a mute and having these weird freak out moments which connect with Micheal and some strange tattoo on his hand. It's almost like this film was meant to be a marketing tool for Halloween 6 with the man in black the tattoo and other things like that.So this movie happens one year after Halloween 4 Micheal returns to attempt to kill his mute niece. He wakes up after a year in a coma and attacks the hermit who looked after him and Jamie thinks her sister is in trouble so Loomis contacts her and the police come to investigate to find noting. She is then killed by Micheal when her friends arrive they just think she went with her parents without locking the door huh and like the good friends they are decide to stay in the house. At the end of the film Micheal and Jamie have a confrontation in the old Myers house which then leads to Micheal arrest until he is broke out.Not much happens in this film other then Jamie having random attacks and being a mute so i would avoid but if you want to continue the Laurie story i would still probably avoid but i guess give it a try it's not awful just boring "},{"Title":"They should ban Halloween in this town","Date":"19 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" One year after the events of the previous movie and Jamie is now mute and in a children's mental institute after having attacked her foster mother with a pair of scissors.Loomis has been watching Jamie very closely and as Halloween approaches she begins behaving erratically. Believing that she is psychically linked to her uncle, this alerts Loomis to the fact that Michael is still alive, despite the fact that he was blasted down a mineshaft one year earlier.Michael is indeed alive after having escaped the mineshaft, floating down a river and nursed back to health by a well-meaning homeless man. Right on cue, Michael awakens on Halloween, killing the man who took care of him and proceeds to go about his usual murderous rampage, hunting down his niece and anyone who gets in his way.Jamie's foster sister Rachel returns briefly but is subsequently killed off at the beginning of the movie leaving her eccentric best friend, Tina as the movie's main heroine and a bunch of other bland, underdeveloped teenagers for the audience to root for.Little Danielle Harris acts her socks off and as the scene in which Jamie hides from Michael inside a laundry chute proves, she holds her own as a preteen horror movie heroine.The movie also begins the introduction to the mysterious 'man in black' and contrary to popular opinion, I thought was an interesting addition to the series and could've taken it in a fresh direction, if executed properly - which it wasn't. The nonsensical parts of the movie are almost too many to mention. From the clown noises in the background when the cops are on screen, to the fact that the Myers house has morphed into a mansion, the whole movie only seems to exist to set up the Man in Black/Thorn cult storyline... which eventually went nowhere anyway. "},{"Title":"Somewhat clunky and lazy","Date":"21 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Halloween 5 is where things start to get stale. Danielle Harris returns as Jamie Lloyd, much to the movie's benefit, as does Donald Pleasence who, bless his heart, stated in interviews that he would have continued playing Dr. Loomis infinitely. If only. It's essentially a retread of Halloween 4, which was better. There's a few nicely atmospheric scenes though that I hazily remember (I was super stoned for some of these back in the day) a surreal halloween costume pageant that showcased some cool cinematography, and a neat chase scene involving Jamie Lloyd stuck in a ventilation duct, Michael frantically clawing at her from above. Don't even talk to me about his mask in this one you can see in the photos above that its even more retarded and wrong than in the fourth film, believe it or not. The film is slightly clunky, with a murky plotted, messy narrative and one extremely irritating female character, but it's still a Halloween film by God and thats good enough for me. Ellie Cornell as Rachel survived to live another day here, which is nice since she's a solid protagonist too. The suspension of disbelief is real out here though, since Michael was basically freaking annihilated at the end of number four, but back and spry as ever (no spring chicken age wise either) to cause athletic havoc again. But hey... he's Michael Myers. "},{"Title":"Part 5 is so mush better then part 3","Date":"9 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This a lot better then Halloween III season of the witch. That is not even a Halloween sequel. This movie real is one. Halloween (1978) is scarier. Halloween II (1981) is also scarier. Halloween 4 the return of Micheal Myers is also scarier. The sixth Halloween movie Halloween the curs of Micheal Myers is also scarier. The seventh Halloween movie Halloween H2O is also scarier. Halloween (2007) is also scarier. Halloween II (2009) is also scarier. But still this is a great film. Micheal Myers is a Warlock so this is a horror fantasy. A great horror fantasy. It has a great story. It also has great acting. It is very scary. It is a must see. "},{"Title":"Different from Halloweens 1,2&4","Date":"21 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Jamie turned evil in the last Halloween movie and stabbed a woman. Are we expected to believe she would be held in a low security hospital only 1 year after that? And what happened to her evil side? It was never really explained how she became good again or why she was mute for much of the movie.The Loomis character appeared to be a bit deranged and psychotic in this chapter. I didn't like him at all I thought he was a bit cruel to Jamie at times i.e. shaking her and telling her to speak when he knows she cant. No doctor would be allowed near a sick child if he was abusive.I also feel the police would take more drastic measures than simply trying to shoot Michael since that never works, like sending in the army with rocket launchers.Quite a bit of sex in this movie which is a first for the Halloween series. Some of the girls were wearing outfits that left little to the imagination which is the trademark of a good slasher. "},{"Title":"Very Poor Sequel","Date":"28 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This is one motion picture that should have never seen the light of day in any theater worldwide. Moustappha Akkad said himself that they should have waited another year to polish the script before they filmed another sequel, and it tells. Dominique Girard rewrote the script while filming was going on, and it shows. Characters are so one-dimensional, they do the best they can with a crap script, and fans have no idea where the film is supposed to be going. This was nothing but a quick cash grab, which never work out. The Tina character is THE most annoying character in the franchise. Killing Rachel off was just stupid and silly, and Jamie having a psychic connection to her uncle? Who wrote this crap?!It's no wonder that the director has yet to make another American horror film after this debacle. Stray away from this crap at all cost. "},{"Title":"Business as usual","Date":"29 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Halloween is still one of the best horror films ever and one of the only ones which had me holding my breath. Michael Myers, as usual, has survived his supposed demise and a year after Halloween 4, which was a fairly unsubtle hint that the good days of the franchise were gone, Michael Myers returns to go after his niece. Watching Halloween 5 is like watching something through a thick sheet of glass. It's there and it's happening, but you're not connected to it. It's enjoyable enough at times, but mainly Michael Myers stalks teenagers so predictably badly behaved that it's just not interesting anymore in broad daylight with fairly unimaginative cinematography and a curious lack of John Carpenter's Halloween theme tune. Suspense is built up past breaking point, there's not enough atmosphere and it builds up to a conclusion which isn't explained and makes no sense. Audiences had to wait 6 years for the answer to that stupid ending. The direction is barely serviceable and reeks of clich.Holding it together is Donald Pleasance as Sam Loomis, who does his creepy psychiatrist performance once again to great effect, while Danielle Harris is surprisingly good for a child actor as Michael Myers' unfortunate niece. Michael Myers himself is as effective as ever, and the moment where he takes off his mask surprisingly works. Thankfully it doesn't end with another death and inexplicable resurrection. The finale, including a tense set piece in a laundry chute, is well made and the chase scenes are as entertaining as ever. The writing, however, leaves a lot to be desired. So why do I keep watching these films? Because, the Halloween franchise has a compelling fictional universe. The characters is well written, Michael Myers is an awesome villain and you're interested to see what happens next. Moderately entertaining but weak, Halloween 5 proves that Michael Myers, awesome as he is, should have just stayed dead.4/10 "},{"Title":"Lowest of the Low","Date":"26 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I am not highly interested in watching sequels. But maybe we could check them out if they continue the story in some meaningful way. Or even bring something different to the table, like Halloween 3 did. Or at least give some big action scenes like Halloween 4. Even then I didn't like the way the child actor was used in Halloween 4. This movie takes it to the limit. Maybe I have had enough. I have had enough of Michael getting up from every shot, coming out every fire. There is a limit to how much crap you can produce with the same premise. I decided to give these slasher sequels a chance because I am more of a horror completist nowadays. But I just couldn't sit through this one. The characters are absolutely annoying. Do real people talk like this? If they do, I don't want to hang around people. What a pathetic bunch of people. And honestly I think after all this nonsense, I think Michael would have been executed or at least an exorcist would have been called to deal with the problem. I am just sick of this movie and its sequels at this point. It is just excruciating to watch the predictable events play out with that little girl being tormented like that. I think, with his kill count, he would have achieved his aims long back. The ending is absolute crap and I can't believe they still want to continue this piece of crap.It is a whole lot of pointless violence and for me, that's not enough for a horror movie. I didn't fall asleep so I can't give it a 1 or 2. It does have enough action to satisfy genre fans. 3/10 "},{"Title":"A movie that could have been much more","Date":"30 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" After the rather surprising ending of Halloween 4 ,I figured that the next installment would have had Jamie become the new shape or struggling with the evil inside while trying to regain her humanity. After Michael unsurprisingly survives the fall from the mine shaft and lends in the shack of a hermit in which he ends up in another coma for a year. Halloween 1989 Jamie is placed in a children psych ward after the stabbing of her step mother Darlene and the incident has rendered her mute but strangely with a telepathic link of when her uncle will attack. However it seems too late whenever he tries to warm of a pending attack. The best performances of the film come from Donald pleasance who is great as always, Danielle Harris is terrific. Ellie Cornell is also decent in the brief screen time that she has. However it feels as though the film could have been better if the film didn't rich into production. "},{"Title":"A decent Halloween film.","Date":"24 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Halloween 4 was a huge success, no doubt. They knew it would be hard to beat that but no one expected Halloween 5 to be this bad. Now I say it's bad, but I still enjoy it thoroughly. Halloween 5 was made and actually takes place exactly one year after Halloween 4. Jamie is now mute (which is never really explained to a full extent why) and of course Michael survives by climbing through a mine shaft and escaping down a river/dam. One thing leads to another and Michael finds his way to Rachel, Jamie's sister who gets killed withing the first 10/15 minutes. We find out about a suspicious man in black who is roaming around Haddonfield every now and again. More bodies start to pile up to the point where we found out that Jamie has some kind of psychological bond with Michael by knowing when people are in danger. The film then builds up to Michael chasing Jamie around his old house where Dr. Loomis has a trap set up. Michael gets caught in the trap and is then taken to the police station where he will spend the rest of his life in prison. That is of course until the suspicious man in black starts shooting up the station helping Michael escape. All in all, Halloween 5 is a not bad film. Could have been a lot better, but it also could have been a lot worse. I would give it a 7 out of 10, because it is enjoyable but not as strong as the first 3 (excluding Halloween 3). "}{"Title":"I Prayed That He Would Burn in Hell. But in My Heart, I Knew That Hell Would Not Have Him","Date":"23 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The following review will contain spoilers.Halloween 5 The Revenge of Michael Myers is not one of my favorite films in the Halloween franchise, as it dive off into some absurd plot lines for the sequel to this film, I do generally like the underlying plot and execution delivered in this film. It is no doubt a step down from Halloween 4, the previous film in the series, but it is a film that I can still somewhat enjoy here and there. The following is my review of Halloween 5 The Revenge of Michael Myers.The story this time around was written by Michael Jacobs, Dominique Othenin-Girard(also directed the film), and Shem Bitterman. The story in this film continues where part four laves off with Jamie attacking her step mother with a kitchen knife. Much like Michael killed his sister in the original film. After the flashback we fast forward to about exactly one year after the events of Halloween 4. In this film we find out that her step mother did not die, but only suffered some injuries from the attack. An added element to this Halloween film is that Jamie and her Uncle(Michael Myers) share a bound with each other. As Michael is killing people around Jamie, Jamie can feel the presence of Myers with each kill. Connected mentally if you will. I found this plot device to be rather dull and added nothing worth of value. Another added element was the man in black who appears in this film. We see him at the end of the film break Michael out of the prison. This is the first movie we see the Thorn symbol as well, and something that is further explained in the next Halloween movie. The story for the most part stays a good chilling film with some over the top gore at moments here and there. While I don't really enjoy some of the elements that were added, this film does sell the new elements pretty well, and things do come full circle in the next film. Overall, these three writers do a better than average job, although it could have been better.The film was directed by Dominique Othenin-Girard, who is known for such movies as After Darkness and the 1991 made for television movie Omen IV The Awakening. While his career never really took off, having done a Halloween movie will have his name remembered for the rest of time. Whether in a good or bad light, that is up to us movie fans. The film was directed very nicely with some very good thrills to it. While this film won't be noticed for being the best at keeping the audience scared the entire movie, it does have a nice chilling effect to it. The gore factor is once again turned up for this sequel, and most horror sequels in the 1980s tried to do. While I would say the gore factor is more than in Halloween 4, it still for the most part is not over the top. They try to suck you in with the idea of the kill in most of the deaths, which is something I do enjoy. The acting is once again somewhat bland like in Halloween 4, but Donald Pleasence is once again back to steal the show. This was his second to last time playing the role of Dr. Sam Loomis, and just having him back in this iconic role is more than enough reason to watch this film. Dominique Othenin-Girard won't be getting high praise from me like other directors in this series, but he does a passable job for the most part.Alan Howarth once again returns to mold the score of the classic original that John Carpenter created. Much like the score in part four, the score in this film is nothing to write home about. It adds that chilling effect that the original score added, but there is no risk taking by Howarth like he took on parts two and three. I cannot say the score is bad, and while there are some minor changes to the score over part four, there is nothing that I can call impressive or original like he has done with other sequels in this franchise.In closing, Halloween 5 The Revenge of Michael Myers won't be remembered as one of the best films of the franchise, and rightfully so, but in my opinion it is not the worst or near the bottom. Hardcore fans of the franchise like myself should get some enjoyment out of the installment, while viewers who aren't really big fans of the franchises might dislike the movie for the most part.6.5/10 "},{"Title":"Probably the worst in the series.","Date":"16 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" You know the whole so bad it's good thing? Halloween 5 isn't that. It's just a bad movie. If we're not counting Halloween 3, which at least on some level works if you consider it a standalone movie, Halloween 5 was the worst of the series at the time, and the furthest we have been from the original. Michael Myers has gone from the clean simple kills of the first movie, to slicing people up with scythes and stabbing teenagers with pitchforks.Like with Halloween 2, this movie picks up right where it's prequel ended, with Myers falling down a well, that they subsequently blow up. Of course, he survives. Jamie is put in a children's hospital, and finds a friend in Billy, a boy her same age. Rachel is still around, as is Loomis and one of the cops from Halloween IV, but everyone else is gone. There's a new pair of friends to be slaughtered, some of which you're supposed to want dead. Loomis has finally gone completely insane, and I really did enjoy Pleasance's portrayal of the character, from beginning to end... if only this was the end.With regards to the cinematics of the movie, the long straight cuts are for the most part gone, though there are still some of those slow-moving shots where you'll see Myers' shadow or mask in the background, though I can't say I got the chills from any of them. The effects range from OK to down-right dumb, some of those gunshots look more like someone using a tinderbox than anything else, and I had some serious issues with how poorly some scenes were dubbed. The substantial cut in budget is very obvious. Why they decided to spend some of it on making a new mask for Don Shanks to wear.The plot is confusing, and has one of the weirdest endings you couldn't imagine. It's an obvious setup for a sequel that was put on ice for years because of the horrible reception this movie got. Jamie's somehow got some sort of a mental bond with Myers, and she's gone mute. Every time Myers kills, or is about to kill, she has a seizure of sorts where she sees what is happening. Loomis, who's completely obsessed by Myers at this point, is constantly pestering and pushing her for information, which she (at first) is unable or unwilling to share. I have no clue why they decided to have Rachel be the first kill, while trying to make us care about a couple of teenagers that we just met, before Myers gets around to killing them.You don't really care about any characters besides Jamie and Loomis. I mean, you might hate some of the new characters, like the kid who puts on a copy of Michael's mask, you know, like they already did in a Halloween movie. I'd like to believe that no kid would ever be stupid enough to do that, knowing Myers' history and that the police would be on edge about it. I'd like to believe. Anyway, Michael seems to be targeting Jamie, and anyone she loves, and it honestly seems like he's really thinking it through, killing Tina's boyfriend to get close to Tina, and later going after the Children's Hospital to get the cops away from the Myers House, where he knows Loomis and Jamie are waiting for him. It all seems very well planned, compared to the much more random killings he's done in the past.The most mind-numbing twist comes at the end. Throughout the movie you get shots of a man dressed in all black, coat included, and some iron-tipped cowboy boots. At the end, after Myers' capture, the same man shoots up a police station and breaks him out. Out of absolutely nowhere. For no reason.The good thing about Halloween 3 was that you could judge it as an independent horror movie. You can't do that with this one. It's a Halloween movie. A terrible Halloween movie that really should have been the end to the series. "},{"Title":"After surviving the mine shaft explosion in the fourth film Michael Myers returns for his niece Jamie Loyd.","Date":"20 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Having said before that Halloween 4 was a success and worked for me this one I was on the fence with. Halloween 5 was a film that I experienced awhile back. But I still remember it of course. I feel this one wasn't as accurate in its performance than the fourth film. The reason being is that this is when the gore came in. And ever since this film in the Halloween franchise there's always been blood and guts. And it gets worse as the franchise and the movies goes on. Danielle Harris does a great job of playing Jamie. But the one thing that I didn't like (SPOILER ALERT) was that they killed off Rachel played by Ellie Cornell. She should've been in the movie longer. As for the effects. Good. I felt that this film is a lot more darker and grittier also gorier than the other four films that came before it. But overall even though it's 5 stars it's worth seeing. "},{"Title":"For Halloween devotees only","Date":"18 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I hope it is not too much of a spoiler to say that the resourceful Mr M. survives the events of Halloween 4. He is wounded though and is nursed back to health by a vagrant who is rewarded for his efforts with Michael's trademark gratitude. It is then a return to Haddonfield, more menacing of Jamie his niece (traumatised following events of 4) and other teenagers while we also watch Dr Loomis try to catch him again. A sub plot concerning a mystery but clearly thrifty visitor (he arrives by coach so not much of a mystery to the other passengers and driver) doesn't do anything but set up things for a next film. If this was a silent movie, it wouldn't be a bad effort. The director clearly loves his set pieces and creates mood, tension as well as employing some dazzling camera angles with light and shadow. But it isn't a silent movie and this is where things start to go wrong as the dialogue is just awful most of the time.Whereas Halloween 4 took its time with the menace, Halloween 5 just starts off nasty and continues in the same vein throughout the film. It has a new group of teenage fodder all of whom cannot act for toffee and you will simply not care about their fate. In fact in the case of Tina, you will hope Mr M. meets her as quickly as possible.Danielle Harris does a remarkable job as Jamie; for a child to have such a large amount of harrowing scenes (trust me some are really unpleasant) must have been a tough job. Donald Pleasance delivers his usual eye rolling and hammy dialogue and frankly probably had a better time spending the cheque.What is truly unforgivable is the treatment of Rachel's character who also returns. The idea that the Rachel of Halloween 4 would leave Jamie alone on Halloween night while she goes to a party is frankly laughable. Rachel's overall treatment in this film is an insult given what she contributed to the success of the franchise's make or break return in number 4.So for the budding film directors out there, see this film to learn about light and shadow. The rest of us will just have to wonder what kind of film the Halloween team could have made if they had just taken more time and care over this film. "},{"Title":"He's a great time keeper....","Date":"16 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" It is exactly one year later since Michael Myers returned to terrorise his hometown of Haddonfield, and his long-lost niece, Jamie Lloyd. Now, he wants revenge. Jamie, who has lost her ability to speak since attacking her foster mother, has developed a telepathic link with her uncle. Dr. Sam Loomis has realised this, and plans to use it to finally put an end to Michael's rage. But unbeknown to them, a stranger has come to Haddonfield, and he is a key factor in the outcome of the madness that has plagued Haddonfield on Halloween for over ten years......The fourth movie wasn't much cop, but it had the element of Myers returning for a Halloween sequel, much like Diesel returning for the Fast and Furious franchise, but while those movies are trashy fun, this one looks so messed up for some reason.You get the feeling that so Many people messed around With the film, because half of the time, it really makes no sense, unless you watch the sixth installment. I mean who on earth was the man in black, and why did he release Myers from Jail? All will be revealed if you see the next one, which is even worse.On the plus side, Harris is great in her role, and there are one or two decent bits, but otherwise, there are time in the film where if you listen very carefully, you can hear Carpenter banging his head against the wall.A wasted idea, really dull, and almost incomprehensible.... "},{"Title":"Part 5 the worst? Not to me!","Date":"22 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" So you made it to Part 5 the REVENGE of Michael Myers. I'm willing to bet that you're a horror fan, dutifully going through the series. Awesome! So here's something to know before taking the part 5 plunge. Although Halloween is considered one of the big three of the 80's horror hierarchy, it's path was more unorthodox than the grind'em out sequels like that of Friday the 13th and Nightmare on Elm Street. After the ill fated Halloween 3 the series went dormant until Moustapha Akkard reacquired the rites and was, finally, able to cash in with sequels like all the other 80s slashers. A boom time he virtually created, I might add. While many horror-elites consider Part 4 a return to glory and often deride part 5 for it's illogical plot holes and annoying characters, it should be noted that Part 5 succeeds in spades with atmosphere, production value and cinematography where 4 does not. Making for one of the best looking sequels of the bunch. Sure it's a silly movie but it literally feels like Halloween when you watch it. Whereas Part 4 feels like a movie-of-the-week. So when fans say one is better than the other, know that, it's just not true. They're both equally goofy and quickly churned out to catch the final wave of sequel money. For complete incompetence simply look to part 6 Curse of Michael Myers. "},{"Title":"Ok, But Could've Been Better!","Date":"27 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Donald Pleasence, Danielle Harris, Ellie Cornell, Wendy Kaplan and Jeffrey Landman star in this 1989 horror sequel. This entry picks up a year after the events of the last film and Michael Myers (Don Shanks) returns to finish what he started. His niece, Jamie (Harris) is in a psychiatric clinic and has a telepathic link with him. Dr. Loomis (Pleasence) returns to stop Michael once again with Jamie's help. Cornell returns as Rachel, but not for very long. Jamie has a couple new friends, Tina (Kaplan) and Billy (Landman) who also endure her fate. This is OK, but I think it could've been better. Pleasence and Harris & great and I like the intro. I still recommend this. "},{"Title":"Horrible movie, but better than Curse","Date":"9 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Halloween 5 sucked. It was horrendous. But it had its moments, so it wasn't bad all the way through, and it wasn't like Howard the Duck, where it was almost painful to watch. No, this one kept me scared and somewhat interested. But for most of it I was shaking my head. But he is nowhere near as scary as he was when he entered the closet Laurie was hiding in in 1978's Halloween.I think that the plot is the chief reason as to why Halloween 5 is so terrible. It isn't the acting, or the scares. It starts after Michael is shot, what, like 400 times, and falls down a mine shaft. Although in the previous movie, little Jamie Lloyld (Danielle Harris) had apparently gone nuts and stabbed her stepmother to death with a pair of scissors, this is clearly ignored in Revenge, and Michael actually crawls out of the mine shaft alive as they dynamite it! So, he escapes and falls into another one of his trademark comas in the hut of some hermit, where he remains comatose for a year. Why the hermit didn't bother to go the authorities and report that he had some comatose guy in his place I'll never know. Besides, doesn't everybody in and around Haddonfield know about the infamous killer? Wouldn't it have made more sense to have some passing travelers come by, find the body, take him to their car, where they discover he had a bulletproof vest on that he stole from a cop he killed or something, and he kills them and steals their car, goes back to Haddonfield, and attempts to kill everyone again, with Jamie in Smith's Grove or something like that. Right? I don't know. Anyway, so Michael awakens exactly before Halloween exactly one year later and kills the hermit, returns to Haddonfield, where Jamie is now apparently telepathic and mute or something like that, and knows when her uncle is going to strike. Really? You had to bring telepathy into this? Well, it actually gets worse. He has some type of symbol on his hand and a mysterious figure in a black coat begins showing up everywhere. The man in black is actually a member of a cult dedicated to Michael, known as the cult of thorn!! But I can't help but feel that this is the one sequel that isn't the worst in the series, but the most absurd one that you can't help but wonder if they were actually serious about it. And fans say that the Myers house looks completely different. But seriously? That's what everybody is going after for this film? Out of all the things to criticize, that's what you are going to point out? Besides, you really get to see the inside of the Myers house, and I think that it is really neat and creepy. Michael is more gory than scary. The scene where he chases Jamie through the old house was truly horrifying. It made him look insane when he stalked and tried to stab her through the laundry chute. And Jamie was actually very clever in that scene and used a way that actually could have been done to get out. Jamie asks Michael to take off the mask and calls him uncle, and he does, which shows that he is a human. Especially in the end scene in the jail where he has his back turned and looks truly sad and ashamed, knowing that he will be incarcerated for the rest of his life. But they sent him back to Smith's Grove where he already escaped from and did so again. It has a million plot holes (like how did the man in black get dynamite and how did Dr. Loomis plant a net in the old Myers house). Overall, 5/10. But this is generous. If the film had scrapped the chase scene and the jail scene, we would be left with a typical, low budget teen slasher flick with bad acting, stereotypical characters, bad character development, random people who die and you never really cared about in the first place, jump scares, implausible Jason-like invincibility, and crappy music. Michael has become Jason Voorhees now, he cannot die, no matter what you frigging do to him, he just keeps on ticking!!!! They want money. But in doing so, the film lost money with each film, because fans stopped seeing them. Because they knew they would suck. No longer is Michael some psycho with complex motivations and a constant part of the shadows, now he just kills everyone and everything without really getting a feeling of dread with the ingenious score playing. No longer are the Halloween films a unique treat. They have now become high-budget movies that play like low budget ones. You know what? I honestly despise Moustapha Akkad for this. I honestly hate the man. He took a good franchise and ruined it. Ruined it for money. The simple idea that he had done the ending of Return like, he was dead and Jamie is now going to turn out like him. But no. That's not the route he took. When Return was in theaters, he started to think up the implausible 'here's how the killer survived' scene. Why did they do the ending like they did if they were just going to make him live? Why didn't they just do the original Halloween ending where Michael is gone? Something they did at the end of this movie. It is barely a film worth bothering over. Thankfully, there will be worse sequels to come, but this is still a fun film if you watch it with low expectations and play mst3k with it! ) "},{"Title":"Nicely shot but very muddled with a weak narrative","Date":"19 September 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Michael survives the shootings of Sheriff Meeker and his men and returns on October 31st with a vengeance.In the tradition of Halloween II, Halloween 5 The Revenge of Michael Myers picks up where 4 left off then quickly moves forward a year. Danielle Harris plays Jamie niece of Michael once again and this time she is traumatised by previous events. Again Harris puts on a good acting show especially for a child actor as she seems genuinely haunted and harassed by Michael and her visions.Due to the writers Bitterman, Jacobs and Othenin-Girard's prerogative Ellie Cornell returns briefly as Rachel and is sadly missed for the majority of the film, which is a shame given that she set out good foundations for her character in 4. Donald Pleasence once again is Loomis and gives the film some credibility and weight. He's obsessed to a point of madness putting pressure on the young child which is disturbing in itself. Don Shanks this time is Michael/The Shape and has an imposing presence, the car scene when he wears a different mask is particularly unnerving. He's both subtle and brutal.Five departs from the slasher flick formula adding a cult, supernatural and telekinetic physic connection that includes a mysterious Man in Black. Obligatory shower scene, teenage girls, cars and boyfriends cheapens it towards Friday the 13th territory. Although the story is uneven director Dominique Othenin-Girard and cinematographer Robert Draper give the film its own unique look with much of it shot in the daylight. It adds an air of uneasiness but lacks the ominous atmosphere of the 1; 2 and 4 until very late in the latter half.The pacing of Revenge is off as the film is very muddled with a weak narrative linked by a series of false scares, misidentification and a few bloody killings. There's an issue with the character of Tina (Wendy Kaplan) who for a short time inherits the role of Jamie's protector. Kaplan lacks the credibility of Curtis or Cornell and the script doesn't help her performance either as she is forced aimlessly to go from one scene to the next.Even Alan Howarth's score or the interesting 'spring a trap' closing can't make up for the padded middle segment. Sadly all the tension and suspense is crammed into the finale and retreads ideas from the forth, notably a Police Station assault. If Tina, the psychic link and the Man in Black had not been included the film may have perhaps turned out better leaving Loomis, Myers and Jamie being the focal point. This may have treaded old ground but it may have made Revenge more palatable. It has some appealing moments mainly between Pleasence and Shanks or Harris and Pleasence but the scenes are few and far between. "},{"Title":"Halloween Retrospective 5- Halloween V (1989)","Date":"18 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Hi, I'm Tyree Webster and welcome to the fifth 'Retrospective' of the spooky 'HALLOWEEN!' series! This review, will be similar to my review for 'Halloween III', as I will have MANY negative things to say about this sequel. So, without further a poo! Let's go! PROS To start things off, I really liked the idea of how Michael escaped his death, it was really creative and inventive. And having him looked after by a hermit for a full year was very original and in some way creepy at the same time! Danielle Harris played her character of Jamie Lloyd even better than she did in Halloween 4, it might have been her or how the script was written, but the way she shows she can't speak properly was very good acting for a 9 year old. Donald Pleasance is great again as the tenacious Dr. Loomis, but is down graded to me as the writers decided to mix his caring side with a crazy bastard side. But again, we are shown that he is not afraid to confront Michael, and we actually SEE him try to reason with him, and Michael listens. The scene towards the very end when Michael takes off his mask and cries in front of his niece was genius to me, because it's scenes like this that shows that even pure evil can have emotion, and it shows humanity, and it shows that Michael probably does not want to kill his family, but has no choice. I also liked the 'angry eyes', they were cool and disturbing at the same time. It goes to show that you don't mess with the Shape! CONS Here we go, the bad stuff. The mask sucked, it was probably the worst in the series. It just looked rushed, and it looked like the costume designer (Simon Tuke) didn't care about what Michael looks like. There were also a lot of douche bags in this film, mainly the stupid greaser boyfriend and the little pirate boy who thought he could help people by holding their heads and showing his over- sized kid teeth. The suspense, I usually keep in the Pros, but this film had the worst suspense of all the 'Halloween' films so far. It just took too long, and every time you thought it was Michael, it turned out to be some idiot pretending to be him. But the biggest, worst and most idiotic part of the film is the dumb, dumb, dumb, dumb, DUMB bumbling police officers! They were NOT funny, they were ANNOYING! And they had their own comedic music that we hear in EVERY SINGLE SCENE they're in! It may be the silliest in the series (so far) but it's still enjoyable, and I would recommend it! I miss Laurie Strode HALLOWEEN V Starring Donald Pleasance, Danielle Harris, Ellie Cornell, Beau Starr, Wendy Kaplan and Tamara Glynn Directed by Dominique Othenin- Girard "}{"Title":"The series goes downhill from here","Date":"22 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Halloween 5 is a disappointing movie for Halloween fans and horror movie fans. It lacks in plot, scares and suspense. It's one year later after the events of Halloween 4. Michael survives the shootings and on October 31st he returns to Haddonfield. Jamie (the heroine of H4) is in Haddonfield's Children's Hospital after attacking her step-mother the previous year. She is being treated by Dr. Loomis with the aid of her step-sister Rachel and Rachel's friend Tina. Lurking and stalking, Michael forms a plan to lure Jamie out of the children's hospital where events lead up to a confrontation at Michael's childhood house.OK, I like Donald Pleasence even though his performance went down a little and is a little cheesy. Danielle Harris does the best spending half the movie being mute. It's a great performance. Ellie Cornell is back as Rachael. She is a great character but gets killed off in the first ten minutes. The rest of the movie is filled with terribly acted, stupid teenagers. Even some of the characters from the Friday the 13th movies are better. The characters are all hateful and the script doesn't make much sense.It's a typical slasher movie, which I don't like that much. Halloween 5 spends too much time on teenagers with silly teen lust combined with slasher stuff. There's even a part with 2 bumbling cops with three stooges like music playing in the background. It's just stupid. The story feels like it doesn't know what to do next. But it does excel when it cuts to the real story of Meyers chasing the girl and the doctor's relentless pursuit. But the climax wasn't that bad, even though Michael's demise was absolutely ridicules with Loomis beating Michael with a piece of wood. Michael's childhood home looks completely different than how it looked in the first. The chase scenes with Jamie and Michael were pretty good. And a scene with Jamie hiding in a vent and Michael stabbing at it was pretty suspenseful. And it was different while being believable. That was the best part in the whole movie. Also the atmosphere is pretty good and very creepy. I would have given this 1 star if it wasn't for that.So besides the climax Halloween 5 is pretty bad. You can tell it was rushed because of the success of Halloween 4. 2 stars (out of 4) "},{"Title":"Perhaps one of the worst horror sequels ever made.","Date":"20 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" There are so many things wrong with this movie. For starters all the interesting potential Halloween 4 gave the movie to work with is thrown out the window within particularly the first 10 minutes and instead we get just a standard slasher movie. Also (as it has been mention many times in the past) Rachel the one likable character in the flick, is killed off in the very beginning and replace with some of the most annoying, one dimensional teens in any horror flicks. If it was any more clear they are here just to get killed,they would have the word cannon fodder written on there heads. Dr.loomis has changed in this movie he goes from being a obsessed but overall good guy into a psychotic jerk who is pretty much bullying a little girl through out the whole movie. The flick most of the time is extremely boring which can be attributed to the fact Michael is spending most of his time stalking these unlikeable teen which makes no sense considering the fact Michael is after Jaimie. In fact there are a lot of things that don't make sense in the flick such as why did the hermit just keep Michaels body in the shack over a year, why in the end of the movie after Michael gets arrested, is he still wearing his mask and why does Michaels face look normal even though he was engulfed in flames in Halloween 2. The chase scenes in the movie are also very boring and dull. Now I will say a couple of positives Donald Pleasence and Danielle Harris do give good performances.I do like the climax of the movie with loomis capturing Michael and the man in black freeing Michael from jail(the man in black was a interesting concept) but that is about it. Had this movie not been rushed out so fast and not been given to Dominique Othenin-Girard, this could have been a good movie. "},{"Title":"Even Michael Myers was rolling his eyes at this one","Date":"4 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" By the fifth installment, new ideas were in short supply for this once towering franchise. Michael comes back (again). OK, this guy has been stabbed a lot, shot numerous times, french fried in fires, crushed by boulders, blown up, run over by cars and trucks, fallen from heights, flushed down toilets, been forced to watch Tom Cruise marathons, and so on. And he's always back for more. Yet dopey cops and vigilantes try to fight him; hello there; he's kind of indestructible you guys. Like a bogey man creature. That makes money for movie producers every time he shows up. You might have trouble killing him, you know? I know, I'm wasting my breath. Horror movie extras are dumb. And suicidal.So he still wants to croak his sister. And anybody that's anywhere near her. Or if they're cops. Or if they're teens who forever laugh about him. Or a couple on a date that say stupid stuff. Any of that sound familiar? He robotically saunters around a town that everybody probably would have moved out of by now if they had any brain power. But nobody does, especially whoever concocted this mess. Mikey still has his trusty knife, and doesn't say much. Sometimes he likes to stand there a while before killing somebody. Sometimes he does a jump scare murder to wake you up. If you just want to see blood spraying around, there's plenty of that. At all times, the acting makes the kills almost seem merciful to the audience. There's a pitiful attempt to showcase Michael's world, and that goes predictably nowhere. Nothing new, just endless horror movie clichs.Michael is currently hunting down the people responsible for this movie. "},{"Title":"Halloween 5 The Revenge of Michael Myers","Date":"2 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This was apparently shot back to back with the previous film, and that is hardly surprising, it is exactly the same quality, but at least it sticks with the same storyline unlike film three. Basically the opening reminds of the previous events, where Michael Myers (Don Shanks) is shot and falls into a mine shaft, and we see that he fell into water below and made his way down the river to return. You may also remember that Michael's niece, daughter of the supposedly dead Laurie Strode, nine year old Jamie Lloyd (Danielle Harris) murdered her step-mother in little Michael style in that clown costume. So it has been a year since all this happened, and Jamie is now in Haddonfield's Children's Hospital under supervision headed by Dr. Sam Loomis (Donald Pleasence). Aided by Jamie's step-sister Rachel Carruthers (Ellie Cornell) and her friend Tina Williams (Wendy Foxworth/Kaplan) they look after the little girl, who hasn't said a word since Michael apparently made her do the killing. Since then she has gained a mind-link with her uncle, so whenever he is about to murder, or during, she senses it, making Loomis very agitated to find the psycho. Michael plans to catch Jamie this time by killing Rachel and Tina at the big Halloween night costume contest with party, and obviously her sense will make her go after them. After Michael is successful killing the two women, and a few others, Loomis plans to lure the killer into the old house in Haddonfield with Jamie as bait. In the end, after failing to kill both Loomis and Jamie, Michael is finally caught and put in a prison cell, but escapes when a mysterious man in black helps him break out. Also starring Beau Starr as Sheriff Ben Meeker. Myers may look a little less menacing with a slightly different mask, but he is still very creepy, Pleasance is a little repetitive with his dialogue but still good to watch, and the death count and methods are a little better. The middle Halloween party section slows things down, really annoying, but it picks up again inside the Myers house, especially with Jamie trapped in the laundry chute, apart from that, another silly horror sequel. Adequate! "},{"Title":"Halloween 5","Date":"17 September 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This is a typical horror movie, unlike the other Halloweens, except for the last Halloween. Bad actors. The niece is so weird in this one unlike in 4. Setting is the same as first, in a town that I forget the name of, and everyone fears Michael Myers. I respect the heart touching scene in this movie between Michael and niece. If you love Halloween like me, you cant resist it. It tells you the fifth part of the story. Cliffhangers are cool, thats a respectable thing about Halloween 5 for the Cliff Hanger at the end. So if you watch this its a vital thing for you to watch the 6th movie. "},{"Title":"After Halloween 4 ended Michael Myers returns to Haddonfield again to kill Jamie Lloyd","Date":"22 February 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" 'Here' we' go 'again. 'Another' Halloween' film' How many can they' make. For' these' 'movies? I' really am wondering' why make' a fifth 'film! 'It's not a horrible' film but not' as entertaining' as the 2000's films! In one scene' Michael Myers' jabs' a knife but' a vent' to try to pull' Jamie out' to 'kill' 'her! And' this film' really did not make' me use my' brain at all! As for' the kids' don't let' them see it! This' 'is' when' the Halloween' films get' Gory! And I mean' lots of gore! There's a scene' where' Michael Myers' hits a tree then appears out of the' car minutes later' to kill Jamie! And in the end The man' in black frees' Michael Myers' for the sequel in the sixth film! Overall this movie was just' alright! "},{"Title":"wow.. this sucks","Date":"15 February 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" honestly, after Halloween 4 can this movie even be considered a sequel? or even a Halloween movie? Donald Pleasence and Danielle Harris did well with what they were given, and the music is good which is why i give this movie 3 *'s, though the storyline could not be saved, it sucked horribly, it was so unbelievably, impossibly, stupidly, DUMB! i mean honestly could there possibly be any way to make this movie worse? well i guess they could have gotten worse actors and music, but i do not recommend this movie to anybody, though i know some people who do like this movie but i just don't understand why or how. thus concludes my review of Halloween 5 The revenge of Michael Myers "},{"Title":"A disgrace to the Halloween Series.......","Date":"27 January 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This film was incredibly bad on many levels. By the middle of it, honestly I was bored and at times forgot that this was a horror film. This is a movie that should have never been made, and is one of the worst of the series. This film is really for Halloween completest only, and is for the most part unwatchable. The storyline that ended Halloween 4 isn't revisited (with no explanation), and goes in a really strange and awful direction that is continued in the EVEN WORSE film that follows. The whole man in black concept is ridiculous and silly, and actually isn't even explained until the next film. The acting is very bad, and Donald Pleasance seems like he is really slowing down and ill throughout the film. I actually felt sorry for him watching this. Do yourself a favor, and don't even waste your time renting this. "},{"Title":"Its been one year, and Michael is back once again","Date":"19 October 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Okay, the movie opens up a year later with Jamie, now a mute, in the hospital experiencing weird convulsions. We also see Michael, all recovered from being shot down a mine shaft and waking up, killing the hermit who had been taking care of him while he was in a coma. Thanks to Michael and his shenanigans, Jamie is not the most popular kid in Haddonfield. The kids picking on her from H4 has turned into adults throwing bricks in her window with full blown death threats. Sad stuff. Dr. Loomis is now Jamie's doctor and is convinced once again that Michael is back to finish the job he started. He starts by butchering Jamie's stepsister. But wait there's more! Loomis is trying to use a telepathic bond that Jamie has formed with Uncle Mike to track the big guy down and end his rampage once and for all. But Michael manages to stay one step ahead of Loomis and the task force Meeker has set up, killing Jamie's friends, including some irritating cops (I clapped when they bought it), Sam, her boyfriend, and Jamie's new friend Tina. Michael even runs over an nine year old kid with a Comaro! He's not playing around. Eventually, Jamie gives in and Loomis sets up an ambush in the old Myers house. Meanwhile, a mysterious stranger has arrived in Haddonfield, clad in all black and wearing some steel toed cowboy boots. The film ends with Michael seriously wounding Loomis but getting caught finally. But he's not caught for long, as the Man in Black comes into the police station and proceeds to blow the hell out of everything and killing most of the cops, including Meeker. On top of that he frees Michael and kidnaps JamieHonestly, I liked this one. Sure most of the characters were annoying beyond all reason, but Donald Pleasance and Danielle Harris made the movie worthwhile. Ellie Cornell and Beau Starr return, only to be finally killed off. All in all, this was one of the saddest entries in the series, due in no small part to Danielle Harris' heartbreaking performance as Jamie. I also noticed that Michael was more of spectral figure, moving quietly until the time was right, then unleashing some anger in his kills. Don Shanks made for one of the scariest shapes since Nick Castle of the original film. The one part of this movie that really intrigued me was the man in black, who shared the same tattoo marking as Michael did. I'm not going to lie, I was aching to see what was going to happen with that. Dominique Othin-Gerard has an excellent visual style and is great with lighting, which made this movie a visual beauty. My one complaint was that it all felt very rushed which makes sense, because they began production and released it within a year of the last movie. Not smart on Moustapha Akkad's part. The climax in the Myers house, I think was one of the best chase scenes in a movie. The laundry shoot got my heart racing a bit when I was younger, and still find myself enjoying that entire sequence. I also am one of the few fans who found Jamie trying to appeal to Michael's human side unique. The result is strange, with Michael going so far as to taking his mask off and shedding a few tears for his sins. I loved the cliff hanger ending and found myself rushing out to the Blockbuster to find the sixth movie.Now, this is considered by many to be the least popular entry in the franchise, next to Halloween 3 Season of the Witch. But I don't think its as bad as people are making it out to be. Like I said, I thought it was rushed and some of the characters were beyond annoying, but it was still an enjoyable entry. If your a just getting into the series, check it out. It is a decent addition to the franchise. "},{"Title":"Halloween 5 The Revenge of Michael Myers (1989)","Date":"1 May 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" One year ago, on Halloween night, Michael Myers went on another rampage in the town of Haddonfield. 'He' killed a large number of locals just to get to his niece, Jamie Lloyd, played by the underrated Danielle Harris. However his doctor, Dr.Loomis, of all people, along with the help of the cops, put an end to the horror by shooting him 'till he was out of sight. But this was only the beginning as Jamie attacked her stepmother as soon as she settled home.Now, it is Halloween night & 'he' has returned to Haddonfield killing randoms in order to murder hid niece. Yet every time he kills, Jamie can sense it which can help Dr Loomis, played by the late Donald Pleasence, to track Myers down.Halloween 5 had potential to spin a twist on the then tired series but the takes the usual, routine direction...what a shame.The plot is weak & tired & old. What's worse is that the movie plays out in the usual routine. What a bummer! So we get a weak storyline, weak direction, weak score, weak script, undeveloped characters...weak movie.Also, the film is heavily clichd & really predictable. This film isn't even suspenseful, scary, creepy, spooky, eerie, tense, intense or any other adjective that should describe a horror film. Thankfully, i was not expecting much. This picture is pretty much a washed up retread of Halloween 4 The Return of Michael Myres (1988) all over again. Pointless, really. Despite all the above, Halloween 5 was quite entertaining & did a few nice touches. 1st, The Man in Black is introduced in the movie. Good idea. But still, it lead to the stupid thorn subplot... Well there's always the fact that the acting, while not better than the previous installment, is OK. Though Danielle Harris's acting was really good. Ditto Donald Pleasence. Another touch, the atmosphere...wait not the atmosphere (that sucked). The fact that this sequel makes nice attempts to be like or capture the feeling of the original Halloween (1978). You can tell. Michael stalks the girls while they have girl talk, he watches them & when you think he is gonna strike he doesn't. AND remember from number 1 in which the girlfriend thinks Myres is her boyfriend when it's actually Myres dressed up in a costume. Well, that happens in this slasher too, encept it's a bit fractured. Some other things too resemble but i can't remember. All i all i, liked the original Halloween's inspiration towards this flick..yet the original was effective.Really, this flick is kinda like Halloween 4 The Return of Michael Myres (1988) with the style of Halloween (1978). Cool style not played out well enough, though.I almost forgot the gore! This flick has OK gore in it. We get some stabs, some stabs with other sharp weapons. We get blood. But the movie has a slow pace so much of it is tame. Hey, at least it is gorier & more violent than Halloween 4 The Return of Michael Myres (1988). Violence abound. But the death scenes don't stand out much encept for the 2nd one. TAME.I can't recommend it... but if you don't care, go watch it...that is, if you can find it.2 out 5 stars.Followed by the bad sequel, Halloween The Curse of Michael Myres (1994). "}{"Title":"The Coal Chute made the film","Date":"5 February 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I'll try the style I used semi-successfully in another life here on IMDb and see how we go.The Plot A year has passed since the events of Halloween 4, and Jamie Loyd finds herself mute and living in a child mental institution. She has developed a mental link with her Uncle Micheal, who's been nursed back to health by a rather nice fisherman, who Micheal thanks by killing him. Jamie senses her Uncle's presence, gaining the interest of Dr Loomis. His worst fears are confirmed as Loyd sees her sister dying and it actually happens. Loomis decides he will use Loyd to capture Myers and eventually the three of them are stuck in Micheal's old home for a thrilling finale, involving coffins, corpses and a locked coal chute. The film then ends nonsensically with a man in black boots kidnapping Myers and Jamie from a prison cell at the end film's conclusion.The script Uneven. Starts well, meanders through the middle in boring fashion, has a thrilling showdown and then a ludicrous ending.The acting Harris, as Loyd, is excellent. Pleasance hams it up to great effect as Loomis. Don Shanks is a terrific Micheal. Right shape and great mannerisms. Supportng cast is rubbish, particularly Wendy Kaplan as Tine. Cornell, as Jamie's sister Rachel, was good in Part 4, but under used here.The film making the scenes with Harris in the mental hospital are effective, the entire chase at the end, form the woods to the house and then in the house, specifically the coal chute was outstanding. The rest of the movie was fairly unremarkable. Shame you couldn't take the chase at the end of this and add it to the end of the fourth one.Overall Reccomednation to rent. Some of it is ludicrous, but the actual main event of the film, the big chase, is superbly done. There's a ridiculous ending and a lot of pointless exposition to endure along the way. But the coal chute scene alone is worth the price of a rental.Tame sex scenes and nudity included. "},{"Title":"Such a let down...","Date":"4 January 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I was so impressed with the Halloween series before this movie. (Excluding three) They had kept up being great horror films unlike it's peers. The first thing that gets me from the beginning is why the hell would someone keep Michael's body in their cabin for an entire year, until next Halloween. He should have awakened right when he was found and Halloween 5 should have stuck to the style of Halloween 2 tieing in to a direct sequel to the film. Not waiting a year sitting in someones cabin. The characters that made #4 great are killed off, Rachel is one, but the character that takes her place is a little too real. Tina is the new guardian figure of Jamie, and is just as real feeling as Rachel, but to an annoying point. This is made sure you understand what kind of person she is by the moment she is introduced. Danielle Harris's performance in the previous film was surprisingly good. Being a child actress, I don't blame her for her ridiculous performance in #5. I blame whoever was telling her what to do. Half the film her role is silent, which will be explained why later. She still has her moments in the film. Now the film isn't all bad, like 4's rooftop chase scene 5 has the laundry pit scene. It's the same formula as the rooftop chase scene and has the same edge of your seat effect. This chapter of the Halloween franchise, really brings in the supernatural element to Michael. Has he has a psychic relationship with his niece Jamie,(hence the end of #4) and since he appears to be mute, Jamie is too. I suppose this film could be watch by mainstream audiences but I only recommend for fans of the genre of are looking to get into it. 5/10 "},{"Title":"The Series Begins To Become A Mess","Date":"24 September 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I look at Halloween 5 as the first unacceptable film in the Halloween series. Halloween 3 could have been better, but Halloween 2 and 4 were amazing sequels with the first film being a horror classic. As anybody reading this knows, the Halloween series is about the harsh serial killer, Michael Myers (aka The BoogyMan). As the series ran on, the movies began to tell about Michael's past life, revealing that Laurie Strode is Michael's sister, and so on. Halloween 5 really moves into Michael's motivation as a killer, but this is where the series really began to fail.The whole creepy feeling about Michael Myers is the fact that he could be anybody, anywhere. As we seen in the first film, he came from a normal suburban family. He came from this to a serial killer with a very large body count on Haddonfeild Records. This is what made him mysterious, but Halloween 5 and 6 ruined this with a new side-plot which ruined the series all together.Halloween 5 introduces the idea that Michael Myers has come from a cult known as the Thorn. While this is more looked at in the next film, Halloween 6, Halloween 5 begins to introduce this. I think that this supernatural side of Michael is nothing but a pathetic attempt to cash in. It advances nothing in the storyline except more sequels in a franchise that is still carrying on to this day.Halloween 5 also suffers from being a poor film altogether. In Halloween 4, the film makers gave us a fairly likable cast as well as a talented cast. In Halloween 5, this is hardly the case. The cast of characters in Halloween 5 could very well be the most annoying in the entire series, which provides no tension in the decent kill scenes. I was hoping that some characters would get killed off earlier, because they literally took me out of the entire film. The script is also very poorly written.The only pros in this film are the performance given by Donald Pleasense and that atmosphere at times, but this didn't help the overall experience at all.Certain times throughout film history, it has been obvious when filmmakers make attempts to cash off of many, many films. Halloween 5 is one of those cases. Nothing but greed here. "},{"Title":"Michael's Revenge!!!","Date":"22 September 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I love almost all the HALLOWEEN films, but this one goes a little downhill for me for two reasons; (1)If they made the Myers house more believable and not a mansion. (2) Not hint about the stupid thorn curse, then I would probably like it a lot more! One year after stabbing her foster mother, Jamie Lloyd has been taken to a children's hospital. Since Jamie touched Michael's hand, she exhibits signs of a telepathic link with her Uncle Michael. On HALLOWEEN, Michael returns to Haddonfield to finish what he started last year. Rachel, Tina, Mikey, Spitz, and Sammy become Michael's new targets at a HALLOWEEN party as he tries to find Jamie. (That party was awesome with all the HALLOWEEN decorations and costumes!) I love the scene when Michael is chasing Jamie, Billy, and Tina through the cornfields with the car! Donald Pleasence is back playing the awesome Dr. Loomis who tries to hunt Michael throughout the HALLOWEEN night at all costs. Later, Loomis takes Jamie to the Myers house. I love scenes of the police and S.W.A.T. team stakeout at Michael's house. That's pretty cool. Loomis tries to reason with Michael one last time before the showdown. Loomis uses Jamie as bait to trap Michael. When Loomis finally stops Michael, he is taken to the police station, so that the U.S. National Guard will take Michael to a maximum-security prison until he dies, but something bad happens. What happens? You'll just have to watch! If you love the HALLOWEEN series, maybe you'll love HALLOWEEN 5 THE REVENGE OF MICHAEL MYERS!!! "},{"Title":"A great Halloween sequel!","Date":"15 September 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Supprisingly better than the fourth, Halloween 5 The revenge of Michael Myers kicks of to a good start.Michael Myers miraculously crawls out of the mine entrance where he was presumed dead. Jamie is recovering from the trauma of killing her foster mum and having some connection with Michaels grisly work. Of course Halloween wouldn't be Halloween without the return of our old friend Dr Loomis...The first 20 minutes of this film is rather slow and boring, its like watching the fourth film all over again. Finally it gets into a good story, unfortunately it drags on towards the end...The most annoying thing too is that this film was followed by the sixth instalment, you would of thought after all this time Michael would give it a rest. I guess he really is pure evil... "},{"Title":"Absolutely enjoyable","Date":"17 August 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Everyone declared Halloween 4 to be the return to form that the franchise needed after Halloween 3 failed to hit. Personally, I thought Halloween 5 was a better film. It had more action, better pacing, and still lived up to it's franchise. The latter point was also done by H4 as well, but the film just wasn't as enjoyable to me. Halloween 5 may have been panned by many, And I get it. But frankly, I thought it was enjoyable.Halloween 4 and 5 go together well, just like the first two Halloween films did. They're actually meant to, if you watch the end of H4. Provided, you have to suspend disbelief to accept how Halloween 5 continues. However, it all falls within the realm of Michael Myers' character, so it's not as if you'll necessarily be smacking yourself in the head over it. However, it really could have been done better. The obvious solution would have been the best one.That aside, this movie is just FUN. That's what it does best. From start to finish, I wholeheartedly enjoyed it. It established a solid body count, without delving in to Jason Voorhees levels of absurdity. I didn't feel like it needed to drop itself on to a lower level. Michael Myers still maintains the class that he always had. But the film evolved to suit the time in which it was released.The ESP part of the film (which I have the feeling that a lot of fans didn't like) didn't bother me in the least. I thought it was an acceptable twist, as it didn't mutilate Michael Myers's persona. Myers has to evolve in order for the franchise to remain interesting. I found this to be an acceptable part of his evolution. The main thing that made him who he was remained intact. We're given a GLIMPSE of possibly humanization by the man, but that is gone just as soon as it appears. Happily re-affirming to fans of the series that despite these developments, he's still Michael Myers.Danielle Harris puts up another outstanding performance in this film, as she did Halloween 4. Donald Pleasance, as we know, is always gold. Provided, they may be the only exceptional characters in the film, but it's not bogged down by the rest of the cast.I only had one problem with Halloween 5. The ending. I especially hated it because it set up Halloween 6 perfectly. And THAT movie is absolutely wretched. You want to talk about RUINING the character through a bad choice of character development, that movie takes it. Anyway, let's get back to H5. The whole man in black storyline was really the only reason that this movie ever SHOULD have been panned by Halloween enthusiasts. Truth be told, if I didn't know what it was setting up for (the aforementioned atrocity), I probably wouldn't have even hated it that much. Regardless, it was a sub-plot that I could have done without, that set up for a sequel that I DEFINITELY could have done without.Overall, I thought this was a damn fun movie. It has it's bad points, sure. But to me, the rest of the film was so enjoyable that I didn't dwell on them too much. Give it a shot. "},{"Title":"I was expecting MUCH more!","Date":"1 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" After seeing Halloween 4, I was wanting to see this movie. I was thinking to myself, after such a success from HALLOWEEN 4, this movie would have to be good, right? WRONG! This movie was the opposite of what I wanted. Out of all of the HALLOWEEN films, This and HALLOWEEN 3 SEASON OF THE WITCH are the only 2 films in the series I hated. This movie had horrible acting, Very predictable moments, and horrible kill scenes. (except for the one when they are in the barn, that was cool.) Also something that REALLY ticked me off, was the Myers house was a Mansion. WHAT IS THAT ABOUT? The only part I liked in this movie, was the ending which I will save for you to see yourself if you dare to see this movie! "},{"Title":"Just Doesn't Cut It","Date":"24 September 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This movie was much more boring then it was exciting. First let me start by saying that the mask in this movie was absolutely horrifying (In a bad way). Most of the actors from part 4 have return which is one of the few redeeming qualities of the film. Michael has come back to Haddonfield to make another attempt at killing his niece Jamie. Whitch is pretty much the same plot as the prequel only this time around it is far more repetitive and boring. The other major reason why this movie was so poor was because of that sad excuse for what they called the Myers house. It looked nothing like the original house and it just didn't fit to the story. It looks more like an old warehouse then what was once someones home. The town didn't even look like Haddonfield. It looked like a town down south. This movie just doesn't fit in with the rest of the series or at least not very good, and it should have just been skipped. "},{"Title":"Showed promise, but not Spectacular","Date":"23 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Halloween 5 had its good parts and it had its great parts. Some moments in this movie showed incredible promise. Some things, however, like the horrendous mask, the so-so deaths, and many other bothersome aspects lowered the rating a lot. There were times when this movie was just average slasher fare. That's right a HALLOWEEN film degraded to an average slasher. Really, this film just reuses many old story lines, but I really like the little girl. Too bad the ending sucks and promises a sixth installment that really doesn't even continue from where this one left off. Some of the subplots were highly interesting, and I loved all of the moments with little Jamie and Michael. And of course anything with the late Donald Pleasance was pure cinematic genius. This installment seemed to struggle more with the absence of Jamie Lee Curtis than the fourth movie did. On a whole, the fourth was much more satisfying, creative, original, grotesque, and entertaining. The treatment of one particular character in this fifth film was handled so poorly that I wanted to throw up. It wasn't all bad though, certainly not, and it's definitely not the worst of the series. This fifth installment is just resuming directly where 4 left off, and it fails in so many places that the fourth succeeds that it's hard to not notice the flaws. "},{"Title":"It's better than the Curse of Michael Myers (part 6).","Date":"5 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" It's good that Halloween 5 picks up where Halloween 4 left off but that doesn't save the film from almost bombing in my opinion. I really love the Halloween franchise, it was a great idea by John Carpenter and Debra Hill that was then dissected by other directors (with the exception of Rick Rosenthal). The direction the director went with this movie is strange, there are still the same old themes (murders, Halloween time, Dr. Loomis, the Strode/Myers Family dispute) but this time the movie and Michael both take on a whole new image. I will not spoil this movie for anyone so I will let you just watch it and make your own assessment as to what you think. Overall it wasn't bad at all. "}{"Title":"Not bad, but not as good as 2 or 4","Date":"21 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I suppose that, really, an eight out of ten would be more fair to this film, but I'd rather not risk it disappointing someone.It is indeed basically the exact same plot as Part 4, and it's not quite as wonderful, but, it brings back familiar characters, and it ends pretty nicely.But what I really love about this one is the big talk between Michael and Loomis. (Even though Michael never speaks, obviously.) There's a big emotional moment between the two of them, and I believe that's the heart of the whole movie- the one final attempt by Loomis to change Michael. His final goodbyes so-to-speak. "},{"Title":"You can see where it is starting to flaw","Date":"6 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Halloween 4 is an entertaining horror sequel to Halloween, I really enjoyed that one a lot. Halloween 5 however, is good but not great. The flaws start to show, the cracks in the wall seem to get bigger (hope you like my analogies) In H5 we start off with a reminder of how H4 ended, and we see what happens after Michael Myers gets shot. And of course, the old Mikey always survives. Halloween 5 will probably disappoint some fans of Halloween. But I thought the movie was OK. Halloween 5 does entertain, but not to the fullest extent. It has a few exciting thrills, and some new interesting characters, and it is explained. We find out a bit more about Michael Myers, we also see a different side of him that we have not scene before, and we see a mysterious stranger often. Halloween 5 is an OK movie, but not the best sequel in the series. Halloween III Season of the Witch in my opinion is more entertaining than this movie. "},{"Title":"Jamie the Killer!!!!","Date":"18 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" At the end of Halloween 4; the writers originally wanted to go in the direction that Jamie (Danielle Harris) was going to be the new serial killer. It was supposed to start right after Jamie stabbed her step mom repeatedly with the same clown suit as Michael when he stabbed Judith to death. I guess they didn't want to go that direction so six years later they made Halloween The Curse of Michael Myers (1995) and kept him as the killer. They made it that Jamie had a telepathic link with Myers and Myers some how possessed her. i say Jamie wouldn't be a good serial killer, because we all just want to have the same person who started the Halloween franchise. Maybe about another 20 years from now she can become the killer, but now she is young. "},{"Title":"Alright, But Not Great.","Date":"31 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Halloween 5 is a follow-up to part 4, and still focuses on Jamie Lloyd, Michael Myer's niece who escaped his reign of terror in part 4. Jamie is now in a children's hospital, and for some strange reason is able to channel in with Michael's mind, and knows where he is at. As Halloween nears again, Dr. Loomis begins to track down Michael who has seemed to make a return, and is using Jamie as his tool to find where Michael may be.This was a decent follow-up to part 4, but it has it's faults. We actually get to see Michael's face in the climax of the film, when Jamie is being attacked by Michael in the attic, which was kind of surprising but unneeded in my opinion (I mean, we already saw it happen in the original). The subplot with Jamie being able to psychologically track where Michael is was different, but I don't know if it was completely necessary either - it made things a little less believable. The film leaves you hanging off of a cliff, when Jamie is taken away by a man in all black. This subplot within the series is later explained into more detail a bit in part 6, so watch Halloween The Curse of Michael Myers after this and you will be able to understand the ending a little more.Aside from the faults in the film, Halloween 5 has some decent scares and good moments, including some interesting death scenes and some nice cinematography. Overall, it's not a bad sequel, but it isn't exactly great either. But it won't be hard to please the Halloween fans. 6/10. "},{"Title":"This Time There Ready","Date":"11 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Halloween 5 continues the story of Jamie Myers the niece of Michael Myers who has started to follow in her uncle's footsteps since the last time we saw her. Halloween 5 is one of the more cold movies in the franchise little remorse is shown by any of the characters involved which leaves the movie feeling rather flat. Halloween 5 should be prasied for it's inventivnes towards the Michael Myers character very few franchises 5 movies would be willing to portray the homicidal manic as someone with feelings and emotions (this would have been a great movies for some backstory on the character). Most of the actors in the film don't really conect with their characters instead they paradoy previous characters even Donald Plescence performance lacks the passions of his previous performance. Halloween 5 is an enjoyable film that is really only for fans of the series but is not the best representation of the great Halloween franchise. "},{"Title":"Everyone hated it at the time, but now with the crap infested duds like H20 and Resurrection, i look back with a grin","Date":"14 July 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Perhaps the darkest Halloween, this surpasses halloweens 3,6,7,8 and technically is really Halloween 4 of myers story.Most people all ready know the plot so I'll just give my two cents in. I dug the coolest credit montage ever to grace a Halloween movie (the pumpkin getting violently carved) and liked how Micheal escaped from the well, but why was the old mountain man so stupid? why did the parrot the old guy have stay in one position the whole year? what's with that one mysterious deleted scene all about? was he originally suppose to be some hick brat? The new elements that are added to the plot arn't that inventive or interesting, but I will admit to liking the Thorn tattoo on Micheals hand, when we first see it is kinda cool. Jamies psychic link is incohesive and doesn't add much to the plot, especially one infuritaing scene involved Jamie being mute, but all of sudden slowly starts to talk??? was she mute because of the trauma? the link? an excuse not to to talk to that loud mouth nurse? who knows. I liked othenin's approach to killing Halloween 4's scream queen RACHEL within the first twenty minutes, you never really knew if she was going to die or survive, he toyed with it, but her kill was so blah, come on RACHEL was a lot smarter then that.none the less, much like Alien 3(Newt and Hicks) her death makes the movie seem more dark and makes sense in a horror series. People stop complaining about this!!! The teens that replace her are soooo annoying and this (in all my opinion) is the films main fault. We spend at least 30 minutes of the movie having Micheal follow these morons from one house to the next, to the store, to the party, then to the barn where he slowly stalks and kills them. It took to long and the dialouge these kids speak (inparticular Sammy and Tina's dialouge walking from Rachel's house) is worse then mosquitos buzzing. Donald pleasance isn't given much to do her except act insane, but any pleasance is better then none. Harris annoyed me up until the myers house and there (the laundry chute, the attic)she definitely came across. such a sweetie, perfect choice of casting for JAIME!!...the man in black adds a lot of mystery and actually held my curiosity for six years waiting for the style over substance H6. and the ending had just as much impact as H4's and left me feeling confused but in a good way. So all in all, Halloween 5 kicks H20 and Resurrection's asses, stronger script(!) then H6, pretty much is the same as 4 (with flaws and characters), and is easily out beat by 1 and 2. Othenin's (dir)approach is kinda cool too, dark and slow paced, but takes time to add atmosphere (most likely his excuse to transform the myers house into a othic mansion),and the characters are soo bad you will have a little fun laughing at them, especially TINA,MIKE,and SPITZ...god, what were they thinking.** out of ****  "},{"Title":"This time we weren't waiting... spoilers","Date":"18 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Oh dear, how could you possibly expect a line like 'THIS TIME THEY ARE READY' to really bring in a good crowd? Well, anyways, Michael returns after getting  shot to hell and back and realizes that he must make some kind of major return to kill off his niece. His niece is inside a childs hospital unable to speak (from what, we have no idea), but can see through Michaels eyes like binoculars or something. So whatever he sees, so does she. So Michael finally finds her and there is a big run around where all of her friends die and the rest of her adopted family dies and she lives to see Michael finally get captured by Dr. Loomis inside his house. Ok, so Michael is tranqualized by Loomis and put into a small cell inside the sherriffs office. The sherriff gives the order to put the little girl inside the car whenever a 'man in black' comes into the office and kills every officer and lets Michael out and kidnaps him.So my question is, you can't kill Michael Myers and then they go off and kidnap him? So does that mean the government is in on this or whats the deal? I think part six doesn't totally accurately tell the entire ordeal working with this entire story line with the kidnapping of Michael Myers. It was kinda cheesy in some parts and I wasn't totally satisified with the ending at all. I thought it could have been a lot better and explained somethings before they cut to the credits.5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Mistakes were made","Date":"27 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This one was where things started to go bad. It introduced the man in black and the early stages of the soon to be curse-of-thorn idea. Danielle Harris (just like in the 4th movie) made this movie. She was a very good child actress. Pleasance also returned as Loomis. This was not one of Pleasance's better Halloween performances.  Michael's (real) face was showed way too much. All of the kills were weak. How come they didn't show the sickle death? That could have been one of the better deaths in the movie. I also didn't like how Michael was much smarter in this movie than he ever has been. He was also more built than he ever has been. I didn't care to much for the built muscular Michael after seeing him as a skinny type murderer for so long.The switching of the mask in the car was sort of pointless in my opinion. He over-used the car too much. He usually kills with sharp objects and knives. Now, all of a sudden, he is using a car to run people down. From the start of the Halloween series, Loomis preaches about Michael. You've never seen his blank stare. His emotionless face. Now Jamie can make him cry. That goes against everything Loomis preached about from the beginning.One of the victims is named Mike (i.e. Michael) which, of course, sets up a scene later for some Myers confusion. I thought that could have been left out. The Man in black was shown very seldom. There was not much build up around him. He was being saved for part 6.  I don't hate this movie although it could have been better. Seeing this movie did make me like part 6 a little better actually. This is one of the weaker movies out of the Halloween series with Michael in it.  "},{"Title":"I loved this movie","Date":"18 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  My favorite movie of all time is Halloween 4The Return Of Michael Myers.  This would rank probably third, under Halloween, the original.  I love part 4 because of Danielle Harris.  What can I say, she was my first love and I will always love that movie because of her.  Also, because I love the movie, period.  Now, Halloween 5.  Once again, Danielle did not let me down, she never does.  Why, oh why, did Rachel have to die in the first twenty minutes???  I was saddened.  She was Jamie's shield in part 4.  I still say the series could have ended with part 4 because it would have been saying the evil was gone, but not really GONE.  See what I mean.  Halloween 5 did have it's moments though.  Rachel's death was actually a good moment, weird to say because after that, I was like, oh no it's up to Loomis now to protect Jamie.  He's so old, but he comes through as always.  The scene where Michael sheds a tear, people have ripped that scene to shreds, but I think it is powerful.  It shows he has emotions.  Maybe.  I loved the psychic link, that was great.  I have to ask though, Michael layed in that hermit's place for a whole year, the hermit did not once try and take him to the hospital or tell someone about him???  Silly, but to me there are more good things to make up for it.  Then, no one can forget about the ending to this movie.  Completely unexpected.  It was, besides part 4, my favorite ending of all time.  Not just of this series or horror movies, but of all time.  I give it a 9/10 because it does get slow.  R.I.P. Jamie Lloyd, you know I still love you. "},{"Title":"Aimed too High And Blew It","Date":"12 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  With the success of Halloween 4 they rushed things and came out with this mess a year later.  Not all of the movie is that bad, the last 30 minutes are pretty interesting. There were many problems though that I thought were ridiculous. Here were my problems with the film  bad lip syncing, Tina and other annoying characters, the introduction of the Thorn, the hideous Myers mask, and my #1 problem with the film was the Myers house. (or should I say Myers Mansion)  What were they thinking when they were selecting houses?  Good grieve, ever heard of a sound stage and building your own, Halloween Resurrection made a perfect replica of the house, they could have to back then if they hadnt been in such a rush to release this film. "}{"Title":"I liked this film","Date":"26 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Michael Myers is back one year after halloween 4 still trying to kill his family well i am a big fan on the halloween films beside i did not like H20 and the new one. Halloween 5 is a good film with some alright acting and does have its scary moments but michael mask looked bad. And also i liked tina in this film she did a good job along with the rest of the cast. giving this film 7/10 "},{"Title":"Michael wasn't the only one crying...  *SPOILERS*","Date":"4 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Michael's sorrow isn't what bugs me about HALLOWEEN 5. What I dislike about this movie is the excruciatingly annoying Keystone Kop characters and the humorous music that accompanies them. (I won't even start on the twist ending that was never explained. Or the motive of the bum that nurses Michael back to health. Or why the Myers house is now a gothic mansion instead of a Victorian two-story.)The chase through the field is really the only exciting part about this movie, but doesn't anyone else question how a little girl can elude Michael's wrath while an entire police force seems unable to avoid death? Are these cops rejects from a POLICE ACADEMY sequel?I once read that audience opinion of HALLOWEEN 4 was that it wasn't gory enough (although I've never read anyone complaining that the original was too bloodless), so PART 5's producers made sure the Karo syrup flowed more throughout their followup. This prioritizing probably explains why so many details in PART 5 (the house, the mask) are just plain wrong. And director Dominique Othenin-Girard (Dominique? Is this a man or a woman at the helm?) showed zero skill in creating suspense or momentum, and looking through his (her?) filmography on IMDb (which reads like a roll-call of mediocrity) confirms this absence of talent. How the hell did he/she get the job of making a HALLOWEEN movie?Still, it's not the worst of the series; PART 6 is still the b***ard son of them all. (He's a DRUID?!? Did I miss a memo?)  "},{"Title":"Underrated? yes, but not much","Date":"17 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The series hit its low point (if you dont count part 3) with Halloween 5.  While some good things about it, ie Donald Pleasance, most of the film fails.  However, its never boring.  Its never so bad you want to turn it off in a fit of rage.  Despite the horrid performances from some of the supporting cast and the poor mask Michael wears, it keeps your attention and manages to get a few little chills in.  This films continuety sucks (how did the Myers house become a mansion?)but if you can get past that its ok for the most part.  While not as good as 1,2,4,6,7 it manages to be better than 6 and much better than 3. "},{"Title":"Not the best","Date":"8 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Halloween 5 was a step down compared to others.  A better director probally would have done better with the script, which wasn't that bad.Donald Pleasence again trys to put away Michael Myers, but this time takes a swat team into the Myers house with him.  Well of course they are no match for Myers, but Loomis does manage to capture Myers in chains and beat him to a pulp.Good performances, but badly filmed.  It looks like a made for cable movie.**/**** "},{"Title":"Good but not great","Date":"29 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Michael Myers returns to find his niece. Followed by Dr.Loomis. It has it's flaws,but it's good. The Flaws,Why did the prison cell explode?,The connection between Michael,and his niece. Yet Donald Pleasence gives another great performance.3/5 "},{"Title":"Actually a decent sequel....","Date":"14 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  <POSSIBLE SPOILERS>I don't really have a problem with this entry in the Michael Myers saga. The only beefs I have with this sequel are 1. Jamies stepsister dies way too quickly 2. The ending sucks, hard 3. Donald Shanks is no where near the level of George P. Wilbur when it comes to donning the Mask of Michael Myers Oh, no, I think I just gave away the title of the next Halloween film.....While Halloweens 1,4, and 6 are better than this entry, Halloween 5 doesn't come close to being as pathetic as H20 and Resurrection. The Man in Black and Jamie's apparent empathic powers are, in my opinion, nice touches to this film. Too bad Halloween 6 ruined the Man in Black character. "},{"Title":"Has it's moments...","Date":"4 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  While on the whole a poorly-made film that does little to help the Halloween series, this installment definitely delivers in regards to action and suspense. Most notably is the finale scene that takes place in the Myers house, with Michael and Jamie working well together to create a tense game of cat-and-mouse. Of course, the film could not have been made without the brilliance of main star Donald Pleasence - his fourth outing as Dr. Loomis is still on par with the original.The continual focus on the most annoying Tina and her teeny-bopper friends drags the film through the mud more often than not. Most of the characters are annoying, one-dimensional idiots who deserve to get the chop (particularly the boyfriends and those two clown cops). The ending was a surprise and worked quite well, and a special mention goes to Beau Starr for another excellent performance as Sheriff Ben Meeker. All in all, an average effort but nothing to get excited about.  "},{"Title":"The Revenge...","Date":"28 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Just when you thought it was safe to go trick or treating out again in Haddonfield, Someone else has other plans. Michael Myers is back and this time he's back with a vengeance, and perhaps with some help. (WARNING SPOILER) After being nursed from his wounds by a junk man after Michael was shot apparently to death at the end of Halloween 4, Michael continues his pursuit of his niece, Jamie, who is now institutionalized in a mental ward for children after Michael forces her to attack her foster mother. But this time Jamie seems to have a telepathic bond with her uncle. In other words, she can sense when Michael is about to kill his next victim. But can Jamie's telepathic bond help stop Michael before he finds her?...overall not a bad film, but the mask....needs ALOT of work.  "},{"Title":"Not as Bad as Part 6","Date":"25 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of my faves of the Halloween series. Spoilers!!!!!!Okay, Yes the death of Rachel in the first 15 minutes of the movie is a let down. Especially to be replaced by the idiot Tina character. But, this movie could have totally changed the Halloween series. The mysterious Man in Black character was a very cool added touch, and they could have done so much with that character, until Halloween 6 came along and screwed that one up for good!!!!!!!Like this one so much because of the dark tone of the whole movie. As a whole not bad as Part 6 "},{"Title":"I prayed that he would burn in hell.  But in my heart, I knew that hell would not have him.","Date":"9 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  ~Spoiler~Halloween 5 The Revenge of Michael Myers is almost a boring, standard slasher flick...almost.  There are certain qualities that keep it from falling into that category however.  First off, part 4 is my favorite sequel and, having been filmed only a year apart, parts 4 and 5 have a very similar feel (much like 1 and 2 do).  They really need to be watched back to back.  Fan favorites Donald Pleasance, Danielle Harris, and Ellie Cornell (who perhaps is killed too quickly) are back in this installment as well.  It also has my favorite opening credit sequence; I love that knife-swiping sound effect.  The laundry chute chase sequence also deserves a little credit for bringing us something we had never seen before.  Last but not least, it introduces one of the most intriguing yet not quite answered questions in Halloween history the infamous Man in Black.  This enigma may go all the way back to the original Halloween though.  When Myers first escapes Smith's Grove Sanitarium, he drives away.  Now, how did someone who's been catatonic for years learn how to drive?  When discussing it, Dr. Loomis even says He was doing very well last night!  Maybe someone around here gave him lessons.  Maybe the Man in Black is responsible.  That's just my opinion though.  I did love the ending once again.  I only wish Halloween 6 could have answered my questions about the Man in Black in more detail.  My other pet peeve about the film is the mask.  The worst mask was in part II, but that film didn't suffer for it.  This one does.  It's just not scary.  Even so, Halloween 5, adding some freshness to the series, is not a total letdown. "}{"Title":"A decent sequel, but far from great","Date":"7 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Halloween 5 is my third favorite in the series (Kinda-sorta tied with the recent Halloween Resurrection)and while its nowhere near as great as part 4 or the original, its not as poor as H20 or 6.The acting was good in some parts, bad in others. Danielle Harris, as always, did a wonderful job, and is probably the best aspect of the film. Ellie Cornell has a much smaller role in the movie, than she did in part 4, but she still does quite well in her few scenes. And of course, Donald Pleasence was excellent, but at this point Dr. Loomis' rants are gettin' kinda old. Oh yeah...and I cant tell whether it was her character or just her, but Wendy Kaplan was amazingly annoying.Theres no storyline in this film, beyond Myers is back, and he's still killin' people. But thats alright, because who really would be expecting a thought-provoking storyline from a movie called Halloween 5 The Revenge of Michael Myers)At least the movie has some good kills in it. Any death involving a scythe is cool. Although it still seems pretty tame compared to most other slasher flicks. Also, its not scary at all. Myers drives in a car a couple of that times, and I think that was supposed to be tense, but it wasnt, and I ended up muting it because Wendy Kaplan wouldn't stop screaming. Ugh.Lastly, although this isnt too bad, the Tagline is a lie. Michael Lives, And This Time They're Ready!  Ahem. Maybe Jamie Lloyd and Dr. Loomis are ready, but everybody else is as unprepared as they come. At the very end, they finally seem ready. They even call in the Haddonfield SWAT team or something. But the entire team is outsmarted by Myers, and they end up leaving one stinkin' cop to watch over the little girl. Yes, they are so ready...Myers is going down! *Cough..cough*Although I will admit, the end of the movie is pretty good. Overall, if you're a fan of the movies you should check it out.  "},{"Title":"michael's revenge!","Date":"18 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  michael is angrier than ever.halloween 5 takes place right after halloween 4, including the same characters from the fourth one. dr.loomis(donald pleasence),rachell cruthers (ellie cornell),jamie loyd (daniell harris),and sherrif meeker (beu starr). michael also stalks a couple of rachell's and jamie's friends ,samantha thomas (tamara glynn),billy hill (jeffrey landman),spitz (matthew walker),mikey (johnathan chapin),and rachell's best friend tina williams (wendy kaplin).when jamie goes into seasures saying that here uncle is coming to get her, her two doctors nurse palsey (betty corvahlo) and dr. max heart (max robinson). also including in this five star movie is a couple of funny actors deputy nick ross (frank como) and deputy tom frahha). its up to dr.loomis to stop michael myers again in halloween 5 the revenge of michael myers. "},{"Title":"One Year Later","Date":"4 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  So Michael Myers gets thrown down a well and doesn't die. Seriously though, the ending of the part 4 was pretty bad and it definately set up the sequel to come into motion. You have got to consider that everything that happened, such as him trying to blown up as well was pretty bad as well. Plus the killing of some important characters and keeping the useless ones around until the end is kinda should be the other way around. The man in black is a good touch making it a mystery to where exactly Michael Myers went off too. But all in all, it was a good pick up from part 4 and on a scale from 0 to 10, I give it another 7.5. "},{"Title":"I Liked Halloween 4 Much Better.","Date":"17 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"                       (***Contains Spoilers***) I myself liked Halloween 4 much better than part 5. Here's why okay for one, I did not understand why Jamie couldn't talk hardly at all. Two, I think they should have kept Rachel Carruthers in the film longer instead of killing her of so soonly, which Moustapha Akkad (executive producer) agrees with I learned after watching the making of Halloween 5. The parts I liked about it One, I liked the acting, of course and Donald Pleasence was great as always. Two I enjoyed the laundry chute sequence with Jamie and Michael. So, this was okay, but Halloween 4 was MUCH better. I give Halloween 5 The Revenge Of Michael Myers a 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"For such a nut, Myers sure is a great driver!","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I love these Halloween movies, the first two of, course, being the best. Even though all the sequels that followed were, well, sub-par, I still manage to enjoy them on a certain level. However, with Halloween 5, I think we have seen the worst entry into the series yet.SPOILER ALERT!!!!First off, this movie is horribly written. The movie starts off after the cliffhanger ending of pt. 4 with Michael sneaking away just in time to avoid a bomb and floating down a river (Empty graves lead to rivers? Who knew) to a hermit's house where he lays dormant for a year. Nevermind the fact that this hermit keeps a bullet-ridden maniac in a white mask who tried to attack him in his custody for over a year. Well, as things go, Jamie (Michael's niece, played by the superb Danielle Harris) is in a children's hospital and is rendered mute due to the occurences of the 4th film. She sees everything Michael sees and when Michael awakens from his year long hibernation, she freaks out. Michael kills the kind old hermit (One of many inconsistencies, Michael's purpose is to kill his bloodline and anyone who gets in the way. The hermit was HELPING him) and takes a trip back to Haddonfield. Within the first half hour, many really horrible things happen to this movie. First of all, two really annoying cops accompanied by goofy music and sound effects are introduced, a loud and obnoxious typical 80's girl is introduced and survives through the bulk of the film, and Rachel, possibly the most likeable character in the series, is offed by Myers. There are so many things wrong with this movie that I can't even begin to explain. Like I said before, Michael's intent is to kill off his family, so why didn't he just do it? He knew where Jamie was staying, but yet he doesn't kill her, and instead spends the movie stalking a bunch of lame-brain teenagers who really have nothing to do with this situation. Then of course, I must mention the Myer's house. The first time I saw this movie, I didn't even know that that was supposed to be the Myer's house. What is this place? It's like a freaking mansion! The interior looked like the interior of the first class section of the Titanic for crying out loud! Overall, this movie is pretty much a disaster. The only saving grace is Danielle Harris, who gives a performance that is above and beyond what should be expected. She truly outshines everyone in this film. Pleasance does his best with what was written for him, but he's tired of this, and it shows. It's pretty much your basic 80's slasher movie. I can't say that I hate this movie, but I have to put so much aside just to watch it. It's definetly the worst in the entire series.Memo to Michael Myers with your awesome driving skills, you should join NASCAR. "},{"Title":"Fresh Sequel","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I read all your user comments on this film and just last night decided to watch it again but in all honesty, I really liked this film.  It is such a fresh sequel.I like how Jamie and Michael has this telepathical bond between them, I think that made the film new.I like how the thorn came into this movie and the man in black walking around everytime there's something going down.  I love that, that is so psychotic.  A serial killer cursed and a madmen who found a way to benefit from it.  Great stuff!  Like let's face it, it's a horror movie, don't expect oscar award winning stuff here you bunch of morons.  I think so far from the original until 5 is good stuff.I also love when Michael showed sympathy a couple of times listening to Dr. Loomis talk to him about  stopping the rage inside  before he threw him off the platform and when he shed a tear when he took his mask off when Jamie asked him too.  That is sweet!  It shows that something is truly controlling him but he still has a human side.*SPOILERS* Some of the scenes were done really cool too.  I like the scene where Jamie is up with Billy for the costume contest and Tina gets in the car with Michael not knowing it's really Michael Myers and as Michael peels off Jamie starts screaming.  As well as when Jamie is telling Loomis where Tina is and as they're talking about it, it's showing Tina in the store.  Really neat stuff.I have no beef with this movie.  I think it's great and it gave a lot of controversy at the end for years and years until Halloween 6 finally came out. "},{"Title":"Entertaining sequel","Date":"13 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  'Halloween pt. 5' takes place right after part 4, just like the original 'Halloween' films. None of the sequels will ever measure up to the brilliant original, but part 5 isn't too bad. It's one year after part 4, when Michael Myers is blasted into a mine shaft.He manages to pull himself out, & gets nursed back to health by a hermit. Soon he finds himself back to Haddonfield, after his niece Jaime & whoever else gets in his way. Jaime is staying at Haddonfield Children's Clinic, after her 'breakdown'. Since part 4, she is somehow linked mentally with Michael, & can sense who is in danger & where. It's as she looks thru his eyes. Also, you get a glimpse of the mysterious Man In Black, who is brought back in a larger role in 'Halloween 6'. Both characters have a thorn tattoo on their wrists, & are apparently linked somehow. Some of the characters return from part 4, which is reminisent from the first two films, & of course screen icon Donald Pleasence returns as Dr. Sam Loomis, who once again is on Michael's track. This time, Dr. Loomis seems just as psychotic as Michael. It's not a bad movie at all. Watch it with part 4 back-to-back. "},{"Title":"Worthy sequel.","Date":"6 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Halloween 5 is the follow on from the fourth sequel.It is one year later and Jamie has been put into a clinic and Micheal has been nursed back to life.Jamie soon shows ability of becoming normal again until Micheal returns to get her.Halloween 5 is a worthy sequel but all it seems to do is higher the body count.The only real storyline that happens is a darkly dressed man arrives in Haddonfield,but who is he and what does he want. That is the mystery of the film,who could this guy be,could he be someone that wants to kill Micheal?is he here to protect Micheal?what does this guy want?In my opinion he is there to help Micheal but I'm not sure.The death scenes are more gory and what lacked was there was no conclusion to the ending which made the film poor.The girl who plays Jamie (Dannielle Harris now looking gorgeous) is great,but if you were a parent would you let your daughter do that kind of acting?I know I wouldn't.Overall Halloween 5 is a great one in the series and is well worth the watch.I rate 3/5. "},{"Title":"Nothing but a cheap money maker!","Date":"19 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I have seen this movie a few times and have NEVER convinced myself to watch the WHOLE MOVIE! I rent it all the time and tell myself to try and control the PAIN of watching this HORRIBLE MOVIE. First off, the movie did so VERY poorly in theaters and throughout the movie NEW things come up and we NEVER get told how this or that happened or came to be. Just after the COMPLETE DOWNFALL of this film was when the producers finally admitted that they only made this movie to MAKE MONEY. This is, by far, the WORST of the sequels. Halloween was good, part 2 was amazing, Part 3 was OK, Part 4 was OK, Part 5 was atrocious, Part 6 was alright and H2O was awesome. So there you have it, a rush to completion sequel and that's what you get, a truly terrible sequel and overall BAD movie. "},{"Title":"Michael Myers died in this film","Date":"14 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Yes, Michael Myers is not scary anymore, in fact he is stupid in this movie. HALLOWEEN 5 is the worst of the series, it hasn't something good except for Donald Pleasence and Danielle Harris.  I can't believe the HALLOWEEN series became so stupid by this far... HALLOWEEN 4 was a good movie, it was an ok sequel to part 1 and 2, but the plot in this film makes it awfull, it could be compared to HALLOWEEN 3, 'cause it's not Michael Myers anymore, he's not the main character anymore. AVOID THIS TERRIBLE MOVIE, and watch the original 1978's HALLOWEEN, an excelent film that shouldn't have sequels.  "}{"Title":"The only reason this movie was bad THE MYERS HOUSE","Date":"10 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  What the heck did they do to that house?! it's not the same! It's not supposed to look like that! they ruined it all with that dumb house!! Other then that the movie was very suspenseful and scary. The man in black is a surprise! This movie wasn't all bad. Give it some credit! Loomis gave a great performance as he always does. I certainly hoped Halloween The Curse Of Michael Myers would be even better, but guess what? it's not! take my advice and avoid the next one. "},{"Title":"Probably the worst in the series   (SPOILERS)","Date":"6 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Having seen all the Halloween films (except H3 which doesn't interest me in the slightest) I believe this to be the worst of the series. Considering the series is very good, overall, this doesn't necessarily mean it's an awful film, just not up to the series' high standards.I liked how it followed on exactly from where H4 left off, it was a good way to start the film.GOOD STUFFMyers was pretty good (despite the long flowing locks). The white mask is put to good use in this one- particularly when Myers is hiding in Rachel's wardrobe. The best part of the movie (for me) was when Myers crashes a car into a tree in a field and the horn is blaring (signifying he's slumped over the wheel or whatever) and suddenly after about a minute, the horn stops. That was pretty cool. The mask is OK. (Worst mask is H20).Loomis- he was funny for a lot of the movie. He's become such a nutcase!Jamie- well played,again, by Danielle Harris. Rachel- only teen that I could stand in this movie, and she's killed off early. Good stalk scenes in the house, though.That moron who was in love with his car getting killed off in a gruesome fashion.BAD STUFFAll the teen characters in this movie. What a bunch of pathetic morons.The complete makeover of the Myers house.Wussying out of the REAL end of H4, where Jamie stabs her stepmother to death.Anyhow, average Halloween movie. The teens really p***ed me off. Otherwise it was OK.  "},{"Title":"Inept screenplay, shoddy direction and poor acting ...","Date":"5 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  WARNING!! THIS REVIEW CONTAINS *SPOILERS*PLOT After attacking her stepmother a year earlier, Jamie Lloyd (Danielle Harris) is now mute, has a psychic link to her Uncle Michael (Don Shanks), and is now a resident of the Haddonfield Children Clinic. With Dr. Loomis on his trail, Myers continues his search for his niece, Jamie.I prayed that he would burn in hell. But in my heart, I knew that hell would not have him. &#150; Dr. LoomisREVIEW Director and co-screenwriter Dominique Othenin-Girard (Omen IV The Awakening) delivers the most uneven, and inconsistent film of the series. Here's a breakdown1) Myers, comatose, is nursed back to health by an old hermit for an entire year! 2) Self-confessed lousy cops, Deputies Nick and Tom seem like a Keystone Cops rip-off that turns out to be more embarrassing than funny. 3) While, the character of Jamie is well acted, she is ill conceived here. Her psychic link seems like an extremely poor plot device, as she's able to see some killings, and others she can't. 4) In the first two Halloween films, Myers' house was a two-story Victorian house, here it's a Gothic-style mansion. (!) 5) In Halloween II, Myers was shot in the eyes, but here, his eyes seem completely unharmed.The filmmakers of this fifth installment (the fourth featuring Michael Myers) seems bent on following the Friday the 13th formula than following John Carpenter's innovative 1978 film, Halloween. Here, in an overly long barn scene that seems to be lifted right out of Friday the 13th, Part III is a clichd-filled mess. Furthermore, many of Michael's killings seem more suited for the hockey mask wearing Jason Voorhees, as he kills off the irritating, sexually obsessive teens with a rake, pitchfork, and other sharp objects. However, Myers proves his incompetence as he slaughters just about everybody except his intended victim.The film's biggest mistake was killing off the likeable Rachel, Jamie's stepsister, in the film's first twenty minutes. Instead, we are left with characters that are as irritating as you have come to expect from a low-budget slasher film. Furthermore, Donald Pleasance seems over-the-top, more of a caricature of himself instead of being the voice of reason like he was in prior installments. Unfortunately, not even Donald Pleasance can save this basic cookie-cutter horror movie.Wendy Kaplan's character Tina jokingly said, This town should banned Halloween. I couldn't agree more. However, even though Michael Myers is the most infamous killer in Haddonfield - that doesn't stop the town from celebrating it or selling the pale-white Shatner mask.OVERALL Inept screenplay, shoddy direction and poor acting will make you reach for Carpenter's Halloween and yearn for the time when Michael Myers was actually an eerie horror character. *1/2 out of ****.  "},{"Title":"Clever continuation of Part 4","Date":"30 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Lots of bad comments have been made about this movie over the years, and after watching Halloween 5 for myself, I consider all disrespectful comments unjust and incorrect. Although it doesn't quite match up to the brilliance of Halloween 4, this fifth installment in the franchise is still a worthy movie, and contains many a pulse-raising moment - in fact it does seem to be the most emotionally-frightening of the entire series due to the viewer's investment in young Jamie.Once again Danielle Harris shines as Jamie Lloyd, and she actually manages to top her performance in Halloween 4 as she plays an emotionally and physically exhausted girl who is unable to speak due to the things she has witnessed in her past. Again the audience is able to associate with her innocence and fear, and feel her pain when she is suffering (something which not many actors can pull off successfully without excessive amounts of cheese!).Also returning was Donald Pleasence as Sam Loomis, who here is particularly dislikable as he bullies Jamie into helping him find her Uncle, and then uses her as bait for Michael. Not nice. But Ellie Cornell was as vibrant and easy on the eyes as usual, and her most effecting scene is one of the movies most shocking.There have been some noticeable changes in Halloween 5, and they are most probably the reasons why this installment is put down the most. Michael's mask itself has never looked more ridiculous, as here he comes across as something of a mad scientist with his new 'do, and the Myers' house - which was once a nondescript shack - has become something of a rambling mansion. While the new Myers building is a great setting and has lots of atmosphere to it, fans of the series were no doubt outraged by the sudden change in its appearance.Although the above bad points were so obvious and no doubt fuelled people's rebellions against this movie, Halloween 5 has more than its fair share of saving graces. Dominique Othenin-Girard's direction keeps with the series' seeming rule of reinvention with each installment, and here the film is both dark and almost spoof-esque while still managing to be undeniably scary at times. The first half of the movie - while pretty slow at times - sets up some great moments for the final showdown. In particular, a scene where Jamie is forced into a laundry shoot with little escape, and a segment within a shadowy barn are the most frightening and innovative of the film.THE VERDICT While the movie sometimes suffers from having to conform the formula set by the previous Halloween installments, Halloween 5 still manages to be a fresh and original movie. As a fourth sequel, it works perfectly. "},{"Title":"Are we sure this is a Sequel to Halloween 4?","Date":"30 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** Halloween 4, my favorite sequel of the bunch, was a pretty good slasher film. It mad Halloween hip again, made Myers scary again, and presented us with the most shocking endings in a horror film in a long while. The way that film ended i was just sure that when the 5th Halloween was to be released they were going to do something new and exciting with it.Unfortunately for us Halloween fans the filmmakers chickened out. They practially abandoned what they ended with in the previous installment and did this business as usual. To call this a sequel to the far more superior 4th installment is an insult. Why did things go horribly wrong, espcially since these films were shot and released within months of each other.Halloween 5 does a few things right. It picks up where the 4th one left off. However the actual ending of the 4th film is given screentime in a flashback in the beginning but is totally ignored throughout the rest of the film. The performances are pretty dead on. Danielle Harris is even better than she was int he 4th installment. A very solid thespian for someone at a such a young age. Donald Pleasance presence is good thing in any Halloween film but his deranged bit that was used well in the 4th installment is slightly over-played in this film. There are 2 fairly good stalk sequences. *POTENTIAL SPOILER* One with Jamie trapped in a cellar as Michael stabs through it trying to get to his prey. The other being Myers trying to run Jamie down as she runs away in extreme terror. *END SPOILER*.THE BAD HOWEVER MOST DEFINITELY OUTWEIGHS THE GOOD UNFORTUNATELY. Myers just isn't scary in this installment. He actually put chills down my spine in the 4th film however is this one it's the equivalent of a bum trying to hunt you down. The mask is also all wrong. It looks too goofy. The teenage characters are too annoying for words. When they're on screen i was rooting for Michael to take them out. One character that everyone thought was annoying was Tina. She was slightly nerve-wracking but her sacifice in the end made her a fairly likable character in the end. The movie is extremely slow. i understand when movies move gradually to build suspense but there are scenes in this film that just waste time. Such as the scenes with the two goofy cops. what was that all about? I understand that a series in its 5th installment needs to go into a new direction to stay fresh but the direction this film goes in is totally wrong. They should've stuck with the ending of part 4 and done something with that instead we get a new plot twist(the man in black) that is revealed in the 6th film but this plot thread buried the 5th and 6th film in my opinion. It just seems out of place.*SPOILER*Their biggest mistake was A)Killing off Rachel and B) If you're going to kill her don't kill her so early in the film. She was the heart and soul in the 4th film and she is killed within the first 20 minutes. Big mistake on the filmmakers part.As you can see i was very disappointed with this film especially since it followed the far superior 4th installement. In the case of this series i'm glad they kept making films until they got to H20 just so they could finally do one worth watching.  "},{"Title":"Underrated in a big way","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  OK I can see this annoying people and fans of the Halloween series but I can honestly say that I think part 5 is the best of the entire series. yes even better than the original. the girl Jamie puts a great performance in but most of the other characters were very very annoying (Tina I am looking at you). there are a few good kills like the rake in the head but  nothing to special. most people really dont like this film and I just can see why. I thought the direction was really good. great use of angles and the scene where Jamie thinks Michael is after her and she hides in the cellar is fantastically filmed.I guess this is a film you either love of hate and I loved it.8/10  "},{"Title":"not that awful...","Date":"14 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" ...yes it's a bad movie, but what did you expect of a 5th installment in the Halloween series. After the excusable part 4 the Hallowen franchise should've been killed. I'm not saying that this movie is terrible, sure it's a bad horror movie but it's ok if you want to waste 90 minutes of your life.This time Michael got special powers to stay tuned with his niece Jamie Lloyd, he also got the ability to drive, and the ability to swim.This movie is wrong in several aspects such as the plot. We don't get a reasonable explanation about the man in black (well, until Halloween  The Curse of Michael Myers - the worst of the sequels), and it seems that everyone lost respect to Michael, he isn't scary anymore.What saves this movie from being buried in the bad cinema graveyard is Donald Pleasance's performance, and I think that Ellie Cornell is the cutest girl in any 80's horror movie.If you are interested in the Halloween series, watch the original, part 2, and... if you are in the mood, part 4.  "},{"Title":"Sadly, there has 2 be a worst!","Date":"18 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I consider myself one of the Halloween movie's biggest fans. So inevitably I will find an excuse to say all the films in the series are great in some way. Although there still has to be a worst, and this for me, is it.The ending to the 4th was obviously not the ending which was supposed to finish the series so this one was well expected. It carries on straight after the 4th and we see how Michael Myers is nursed back to health by a lonely farmer.........only to kill the poor bloke! The action, now a year later shows as he emerges to kill young Jamie again. What follows is another cat and mouse chase yet this one is different from the rest. The camera's look different and it doesn't look the same creepy Haddenfield.The worst part about this film is it tries to be comic! This may well work in Scream but is completely wrong here. The clown music after the Rachel scene, and the dumb cops completely ruined it. The story is rather poor and unoriginal and the ending is very confusing indeed. The 6th kind of explains it but still makes it hard to believe! I gave this film a reaosnable 6/10 yet if I hadn't seen the others, I would prob give it 3/10!  "},{"Title":"The serious Michael Myers","Date":"23 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This film had a very serious michael. His emotions ran high. Jamie would try and change his emotions, but uh uh! He wasn't going to take that! He'd take his mask off, and try to change and then immediately slip it back on and knife away! This film was quite new at times. The Myers house was certainly new. Loomis' mind was on nothing but stopping Michael. He became obsessed. Everyone is right about most of the characters though. Most of them became quite annoying, but they had to fit the plot somehow. Quite an ending. I kinda laughed at the idea of putting Michael in jail. When they had him in jail i thought that that was the end and it would be an awful ending. Apparently it wasn't over and the evil mystery man in the movie broke him out. This movie is scary, but quite different at times. And that affected it and made it worse. A lot worse! But really, the movie wasn't awful. I mean, i'd see it again if i wanted. "},{"Title":"A sequel with a mysterious ending","Date":"30 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Halloween 5 isn't as potent as Halloween 4 The Return of Michael Myers, but I still find it watchable. The most intriguing thing about this fifth installment is the mystery man dressed in black, with silver-tipped boots. He is seen several times throughout the film, apparently stalking Michael Myers and/or Dr. Sam Loomis.(WARNING POTENTIAL SPOILERS AHEAD!) The appearance of the unknown man in black also leads to a spooky, mysterious ending As Michael Myers is locked up in a jail cell at a police station, the man in black shows up. Then, without warning, all hell breaks loose! When Michael's niece Jamie Lloyd hears the commotion, she walks into the station to see what was going on. She is horrified to discover all the cops dead--and Michael's jail cell empty! Evidently, the man in black had a special interest in Michael Myers, and had gunned down the cops to free Michael Myers! The mysterious ending made the prospect of another Halloween sequel inevitable. It would take six years to finally produce a sixth Halloween film, but the deed would finally be done. "}{"Title":"Weakest Entry","Date":"6 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I'd have to fall into the school of thought that places Halloween 5 as the weakest entry in the Michael Myers series (actually 5 was an unlucky number for the Friday the 13th and A Nightmare On Elm Street series too).It's not the re-interpetation of Michael Myers and Dr Loomis that I have a problem with (at least this helps the last 30 minutes or so get more interesting).  Nor is my problem with Jamie's telepathic link with Michael. My problems are1.  The utterly trite and out of place attempt at humour by using annoying background music (usually around the bumbling cops, as if we have to be spoonfed the fact that they're bumbling).  Hmmm someone seems to think they're making a Police Academy sequel here.  The ever reliably effective John Carpenter original score also seems to be cheesed up a bit in this outing.2.  It just seems such a waste to bring back Ellie Cornell's sympathetic and intelligent heroine from Part 4, only to dispatch her so lazily.  It seems to be as lazy as killing off the potentially interesting characters of Hicks andNewt in Alien 3.  This is especially unwelcome as they then....3. Replace her with mostly unsympathetic, annoying and wincingly embarrassing teenagers whom, as far as I'm concerned Michael couldn't kill fast enough.  The two males were especially annoying (what was the bad boy in the leather jacket's problem?  PMT?4.  We all expect at least one fake scare in these type of films but in one drawn out scene in Halloween 5, there seems to be nearly twenty of them and I'm sure I wasn't the only viewer thinking enough already.5.  I found Parts 4 and 6 enjoyable and fun and the man in black thing does get more interesting in Halloween 6.  Nevertheless Part 5 obviously suffers from being sandwiched in between these films and having to follow or incorporate themes/situations from Part 4 and lay the groundwork for Part 6.The last third of Halloween 5 does get more interesting and so this helps to redeem the film but ultimately I found parts of it (the annoying teenagers, cheesy incidental music etc) embarrassingly lame (it's Scream 3 all over again!!!). As such it's a wasted opportunity in some ways and for me it's the least of Michael's exploits (okay I'll give you that it's at least trying to be more inventive and story progressive than the H20 retread). "},{"Title":"Now I Kinda' Understand...","Date":"5 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"           The basic plot for the fifth installment of the Halloween series is that Michael wants to kill his neice.  He did not succeed before in Halloween 4 but now he wants revenge.         This sequel is as bad as the other ones, except Season Of The Witch, which was totally awful.  However there is no nudity and more of a connection with the psyche of the serial killer.  Pleasance identifies what drives Michael to keep killing and also there is a connection with Jamie and her Uncle.  At one part of the movie you actually feel sorry for Michael.         Basically if you're a horror buff then watch it because you'll learn something but if not then leave it on the shelf.           "},{"Title":"Not too bad a movie","Date":"15 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie isn't quite as good as its predecessor.  It has a weaker plot, but the movie is fairly interesting, at least its interesting enough to watch.  I do have a big complaint though.  The set directing.  The myers house is not the myers house at all.  Donald Pleasance is worse in this one than he was in the last one.  Danielle Harris is better in this than her first Halloween movie.  I have no idea why Ellie Cornell even bothered with this.  The Rachel Corruthers that we all came to know and love is gone hereshe is now just running around the house naked, under a towel or shirt, but has a great scene in the beginning with Jamie.  Wendy Kaplan gives a comedic performance, and its sad that when you look at her credits, it doesn't list much.  I think she should have done more, because I liked her in this film, and she served as a main target of Michael's to get to Jamie. Tamara Glynn is good in this one, but hasn't done anything else as far as acting, except for a guest appearance on Growing Pains.  the 2 guys, i could care less about, even thought they are portrayed well by the actors. Beau Starr reprises his role, and is okay.  The writing could have used some drastic changes.  Jamie looked psychotic in this one.  In all, I give this movie a 5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Halloween 5 The Revenge of Michael Myers (1989 ) , possible spoilers","Date":"13 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Halloween V is not the best of the Halloween-series, but not the worst either. The best parts are part 1 and 7. The worst is part 4, by far. I liked HV the first two times that I watched it, but the third time I noticed that it was quite boring. Let me compare this one to other horror films1. Scream 1 -3  They are much better. ( more original, more interesting)2. Halloween 1 & 7  They are much better.3. Halloween 4  this is way worse, because it is very stupid4. I know what you did last summer & I still know what you did last summer the first part is better, but Iskwydls is as stupid as HV, but better, though.5. It ( Stephen King, TV, 1990 )  It is much much better, because this is the scariest movie ever ( aside Sixth Sense & Blair Witch Project, and Showgirls )6. The Sixth Sense  This is the best horror movie ever, no horror movie comes up to it, but7 Blair Witch project  is the closest to T6thS, because it is very scary, if you use your imagination.8  Misery  M is much better.9  other Stephen King (horror)films  Most of them are bad, so worse than HV.10  The Exoricst  way scarier than HV11  Showgirls  the scariest movie ever12  Urban legends (part 1 )  quite good, and scary13  The Faculty  a bit worse than HV14  Alien  I do not consider it a horror movie15  The silence of the lambs  is the closest to T6thS ( as BWP is )much better than HV, and way scarier, and much more interesting.So, I think thats it. Bye byeAll in all, I rated Halloween 5  a 6/10, because it is not original and quite boring. "},{"Title":"Don't Believe the Hype...","Date":"3 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  As a fan of the series, I get ticked off when people insinuate that every film in series between Part Two and H20 stinks.  They couldn't be more wrong.  For one, Part III doesn't count, it wasn't part of the SERIES, it just had the Halloween name. Number two, Part 4 was a very good film with an especially great ending that could have set up YEARS of very good sequels. Watching it the first time, I enjoyed Halloween 5, but I can't deny that it also screwed the series up big time.*SPOILERS OF PREVIOUS FILMS AHEAD*The good parts of the film  Michael is a selfish, cold entity yet there are human elements surrounding him.  It creates an intrigue that other slasher series lack *cough* Friday *cough*. The fact that Michael's CHARACTER is constantly being explored is interesting.  He is pure evil, yet people keep trying to reach him; why?  This is the hook.The Man in Black character adds to that intrigue; it's a blatant sequel setup but hey-  it worked on me!  The question in the viewer's mind becomes Who'd want to rescue Michael and why? when it seems like it's Michael against the world.The bad  The new characters in this film are so hollow, you don't care when they get killed.  In fact, you sometimes ROOT for them to get killed.  One of the characters worth caring for, Rachel, disappears quickly.  This axes a lot of dramatic tension.  Worse still, the Myers house looks NOTHING like the original.But the most important point  By ignoring the possibility of making Jamie the new Shape, the producers copped out of a great storyline possibility. The telepathic connection is actually not a TERRIBLE storyline, and it too has potential, but why did the producers have to make it so complicated when the brilliant option of a new, evil shape was right there in front of them? My guess is that they didn't have the fortitude to make a young girl a Hollywood villain.  For shame.So all in all, as a fan of the series, I find it hard to out-and-out knock any of the films in it.  I did enjoy H5 but it's still the only film of 1-6 that I haven't seen twice.  If you want to identify the film that prevented a great series from being TRULY great, don't look at part 4, look at this film which turned down part 4's possibilities. "},{"Title":"Ok...let me try and review this movie again...","Date":"24 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"   I feel that I didn't really say what I wanted to say the first time I reviewed it so I'm going to write another one. One thing I liked about this film was it's directing and style. Some would say that it's style over substance and maybe their right, but I liked the gothic look of the film. For example, I dug Michael's look in the film when he was unmasked. You can see him without the mask very well at the beginning of the film...long black hair, very Trent Reznorish looking...the way he sits up on the bed surrounded by candles is GREAT. The entire scene is done very well. BTW, did anyone notice the thorn symbol appearing on Michael's hand? I'm sure you did...which leads me to my next point. People say that the man in black was stupid because he never appeared in prior films and had no real connection with the series...people say this assuming that Michael had the thorn symbol since the beginning...he didn't...(the hermit had Michael laid in a bed surrounded by candles and he kept him there for a year without telling anyone...The hermit was one of them? And maybe he was protecting Michael?) anyways it was just a subplot in this film that turned into a major plot point in Halloween VI. Anyways, Don Shanks Michael Myers is one of my favs. In the first one, he was a normal man behind a mask. In part two, he was somewhat the same only he seemed more evil. In part four, he was Jason Version 2.0 but in this one, while still retaining toughness and strength, he is a human walking time bomb...very aggressive...very angry. Not as scary as the Halloween I+II version but it makes for an entertaining movie. And that's what this movie is entertaining. Despite it's obvious flaws, Halloween 5 is the best of the parts 3-7 era and with a few improvements could have been the best of the series. Sadly, fans didn't dig the gothic style or the interperatation of Michael Myers and his series, so a direct follow up to this film wasn't able to be filmed until five years later and it was under the worst of conditions in the worst possible hands Joe Chapelle, Dimension Films So Halloween Fans Don't judge Halloween 5 on any of the other films in the series...it attempts to be different from all of them. It wasn't anything like the original because it never tries to be. Not to mention the good acting and decent storyline, there is also a lot of suspense which was missing from later entries.. "},{"Title":"The most underated film of the series spoilers","Date":"14 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie gets a lot of crap for many reasons. One is the beggining of the putrid Thorn storyline...well actually it was OK in this film...It didn't get really bad until the next chapter.Firstly, I'd like to say that this is a step up from part IV. The acting was 80% better. The characters ranged from okay to likeable. And this is the only character development we've seen from Loomis or Michael throughout the entire series. This movie actually set up to do something different, using more a more psychological rather than the same tired old formula.It takes place a year after Halloween 4, with Michael Myers apparently dead...Jamie Llyod under the care of a children's clinic...and all those affected by the previous rampages trying to get on with their lives. Hoewever, Halloween time is nearing and Loomis knows that Michael is still out there. How does he know? He's a recurring character...obviously he'd know!This time Michael is becoming more and more agressively and Jamie has some sort of bond with her uncle. Now she can see what he sees. Michael uses this to sadistically torture his nine year old niece by killing off all her friends one by one and she can feel it every time it happens.Another interesting storyline is Loomis trying to reach Michael's human side. Very, very good for a sequel.But the bad stuff brings it down. Too much of the movie was used as a set up for the next sequel and it couldn't possibly stand on it's own very well. The Myers mask could've been better..Overall, a very good slasher flick, just below the first two. If they had ditched the entire thorn thing and given us a more satisfying ending like Michael simply being locked away in prison for the rest of his life then this movie could've been better than the first two.I also didn't mention the excellent directing, loads of suspense, and a very agressive interpretation of Michael Myers...that makes it a good movie too. Just don't except something too much in the vein of the first film because this one is different.I prayed that he would burn in hell...but in my heart, I knew that hell would not have him!-Donald Pleasence "},{"Title":"Least of the series","Date":"2 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  MORD39 RATING  *1/2  (of ****)A great opening credits sequence shows a large butcher knife hacking its way through a juicy pumpkin. Expectations run high...and sink rapidly.The good things about this worst entry in the HALLOWEEN series are very difficult to locate, but a standout is young Danielle Harris' sincere performance and a Bride Of Frankenstein-esque moment where Michael is cared for by a lonely good soul. After that, it's routine...VERY routine.Perhaps the biggest problem is an absurd subplot regarding a mysterious character dressed in black who wanders throughout the story and seems fixated on saving Michael Myers from any danger. Though this unrelated bit of business gets clarified in the next installment, it's just plain dumb when taken here on its own. The least of the saga. "},{"Title":"Stop and think about it for a second...","Date":"8 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Okay, most fans of the Halloween series say that Halloween 5 The Revenge of Michael Myers is the weakest of the series, and the worst sequel, but if you stop and put two and two together, then the movie makes remarkably, perfect sense.  Lets start with the end of Halloween 4 The Return of Michael Myers. At the end, Jamie kneels by Michael, holds his hand and has a special moment with him, and then he wakes up and gets blown away.  If you think about it, every time michael appears dead, someone touches him and he comes back to life, well Jamie did that and so he came back.  During that special moment Michael has the perfect opportunity to gain an ESP connection with Jamie, and he does.  With that connection, Michael tries to gain an accomplice in his murderous rampage, Jamie.  Jamie goes home and attacks her Foster Mom(In a clown costume--Sound familiar).  He fails at gaining an accomplice, and Jamie goes mental.  Then H5 starts in.  The title states that this movie is revenge, right???  Then why does everybody get so mad the Rachel gets killed???  She ran Michael over with a car a year earlier, don't you think he might want to get her back(a.k.a. Revenge).  Then, Michael goes for Jamie.  Michael knows Tina is Jamie's best friend, so Tina becomes a target.  Granted, Mike (not myers) and the other guy and girl really were useless killings, but in a sequel, you have to have a certain number of deaths. The mental bond between Michael and Jamie is far fetched, but we are dealing with Celtic witch-craft, which defies all sense of realism.  The introduction of the Man in Black is ingenious, it gives the story somewhere to go and leaves the audience hanging.  Now, the mask is another topic in H5 and H4.  People get so mad that it is different.  What do you expect, the cops from H1-H2 to keep the original and sell it in a drug store ten years later, come on...IT IS SUPPOSED TO BE A DIFFERENT MASK!!!!! Some argue the Cops POV(Point Of View) in H5 and H4, but if you experience a slashing of many people, and the killer comes back, then you better believe the police will become involved and try to stop him.  The house is the only thing, in my opinion, that makes no sense.  Many argue the realism of Loomis using Jamie as bait to lure Michael to the house, but if that is what he is after, then don't you think he would go after it, no matter where it is??? You see???  Halloween 5 makes perfect sense and really contains only one plot hole, the house.  Halloween 5 comes highly recommended by me and it is a really good movie for Die Hard Halloween fans...  As a stand alone, it is really lame and confusing, but as part of the Halloween series is fits perfectly. ****1/2 out of *****. "},{"Title":"Missed Opportunities","Date":"31 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" What can I say that hasn't already been said? It's a weak sequel. H5 is by no means the worst of the series, but it's one of those sequels mired by feelings of missed opportunities, bad timing and plum dumb awful choices. Especially after the good comeback showing of H4. It also hasn't benefited from age. It fits the eighties horror movie sequel mold way too well. Cookie-cutter characters with an emphasis on teenagers and a predictable story with the usual foray of stalking, red herrings, ramped up gore and perhaps worst of all, it actually rips off it's genre peer, the Friday The 13th series. Which I've always felt the Halloween series was superior to. The saddest point is the opening credit sequence which runs for no more than three minutes is easily the best, atmospheric segment of the entire film.The whole thing isn't a complete write-off. A devoted Halloween fan can make arguments for Donald Shanks portrayal of Myers, the mysterious Thorn / Man In Black storyline (where it could have gone, so many possibilities), Danielle Harris and Donald Pleasence's continued presence (if nothing else) and even Alan Howarth's musical score. Then you counterbalance that with everything else. The awful, sloppy story. Wow - butcher the awesome ending from H4 for a starter - nice job. Then there's the cold directing by Girard. The atmosphere is off. This doesn't always feel like a Halloween movie and isn't it supposed to? Stupid teens ... another movie, another mask ... killing Rachel off ... a huge mansion for the Myers house... the clown cops ... ugh, enough said.To say the series doesn't benefit from sequels like this is beyond obvious. We all know this. Sooner of later, people are going to get tired of knowing very well that Michael is never dead, there's going to be a designated survivor (for the next sequel, of course!) and the bunk endings. It's a never ending cycle and they can't even seem to keep the formula simple (much less fresh or entertaining) anymore. Even poor 'ol Donald can't save this one. Only the most hardcore Michael Myers fans will be forgiving of this chapter in the series. "}{"Title":"3rd Best(In my opinion.)","Date":"7 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"   Many people say this is more like FRIDAY THE 13th than HALLOWEEN and they're right in a way, but that doesn't make this a bad movie. In my opinion this is the third best Michael Myers flick behind 6(P-cut)and 4.!!!SPOILERS!!! This time Dr. Loomis tries to use Jamie's new psychic abilties to capture and destroy Mr. Myers, but fails of course and the door is left open for part 6. I liked the end in the Police Station where the cops are killed off by Dr. Wynn and then I like it when Jamie walks in and cries No...no. The only things I don't like is that they kill off Jamie's foster sister Rachel(That was totally uncalled for.) and they don't really answer any questions. Exciting, suspenseful, great story, acting, and music score. ***** out of ***** "},{"Title":"As long as you know what to expect...","Date":"21 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Though episode 5 is probably my least favourite of the Halloween saga (not counting H3) i still really enjoyed watching it, because i love the series as a whole and took it for what it was, something most people don't seem to do. Sure, there's some mediocre acting and the usual holes in the plot, but it's an 80's slasher film, what else would you expect? I think its obvious imperfection is its charm. Besides that, it has a few original killings and the scenes where Michael chases Jamie in the Myers house are chilling. The last half hour makes it worth watching. I'd say give it a try if you've seen other Halloween movies and liked them, if not then don't start with this one because it's certainly not one of the best. 6 out of 10 =) "},{"Title":"This has to stop","Date":"29 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Ok. The first Halloween was done well The second halloween was good. And the return of Michael Myers was ok.But now they have gone a little too far.When the hell does Michael Myers shed tears. The scene where he unmasked himselfAnyways the story wasn't that great. It made no sense at the end. We have somone that breaks Michael out of Jail. A Jail full of police officers who never even hit the guyAnd when they made this movie. They did not use the origonal Myers houseWell for all the Halloween fans. Skip this one "},{"Title":"garbage","Date":"10 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Oh boy; where do I begin?  This movie was BAD.  Spoilers OK we pick up part 4 left off-our buddy Mike shot full of holes and tumbles down a mine shaft that leads to a river(?????) where he eventually seeks refuge and medicall assistance from an old hermit. The nice old Hermit takes him in and nurses him back to health.  HELLO!!!!!! That sequence alone will make you lose your mind if you figure out everything that is wrong with it! and this is only the first 10 minutes of the movie!! YIKES!!!! From then on it all down hill(yes it actually gets worse!) We see that Jamie is in an institution and is a mute who has a psychic link to good old uncle mikey!!  YAY!! ANd then theres Doctor Loomis who is nothing more than a deranged lunatic himself at this point. Not even the Myers house is safe in this one' for you see; it's now a castle!!!!  huh? If you love horror movies, then please, by all means; SKIP THIS ONE!! "},{"Title":"decent","Date":"10 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  not counting part 3 this is the fourth part of the series, so what do think you will see? nothing that good. all and all it was an ok movie but enough is enough, it has a very weak storyline all it is the shape once again trying to kill his niece, there was like no suspense since he can't kill his niece since she is only a kid, that made the shape into a sissy when he takes off his mask and he has tears while little Jamie is talken to him, i thought he was pure evil, that's what DR. Loomis said in h1 and h2. and what' the deal with the mystery man? you will find that out in the next part, god why did they make that movie, well back to Halloween 5 there are no scares in this movie no good suspense annoying characters, this movie was all about the money trying to cash in on the series but i would still recomend if you're a horror fan, if you're not big on horror movies avoid it. i give it 5/10 "},{"Title":"i like it...","Date":"27 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  i don't understand why everybody is saying that this sequel sucks? i really don't understand it. the acting is pretty good and there is a meaning why Michael is killing again so i do not understand why everybody hates this movie. i understand if you'd say that Halloween 3 sucks then i would agree with you, believe me, but C'mon this sequel is worth more! "},{"Title":"AVERAGE SEQUEL!!","Date":"25 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  One of the worse Halloween sequels. The plot went a little off the original plot from the first two movies. The mask in this one looked weird and the man in the black suit was introduced in this part. (THORN) Also I didn't like how Jamie knew what Michael was going to do, that was really bad. the whole THORN thing should have been brought into the series, although that does make Michael's motive make more sense. All up an average sequel but still watch it because Michael Myers is in it. "},{"Title":"Complete trash","Date":"22 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie sucks! It doesn't deserve to be called a Halloween movie, it's more like a Jason flik. Minor Spoiler ahead What the hell is it with Jamie knowing where Michael attacks? And who is this Man In Black person that follows Michael around anyway? Don't waste you time with this movie. Here is a list of the best to worst Halloween films 1,4,H20,2,6,5. "},{"Title":"Pretty dull","Date":"21 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I love the Halloween series. But after the second film, we were given a movie with no Mikey. Then we were given somewhat dull installments  Halloween 4 and Halloween 5. These two just don't capture the excitement of the first two movies. 4 had some good stuff in it, but this one was mostly dull. Despite some good death scenes. After 5, we saw, Halloween  The Curse Of Michael Myers, which captured some wonderful suspense. And Halloween H20  Twenty Years Later, which was exciting, however it ignored previous movies and lacked the Halloween-feel. "},{"Title":"Not really scary, but very entertaining.","Date":"28 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Michael returns once again and tries to kill his niece, Jamie again. As Dr. Loomis again tries to stop him. As intriguing as this sounds, we've already seen it before, which doesn't make it very scary. But it is very entertaining. The movies high points are1. Danielle Harris and Donald Pleasance give great performances again.2. Donald Shanks made a pretty good Shape.3. Wendy Kaplan provides some good comic relief.4. The scene where Myers takes off his mask was pretty emotional.5. The cool ending.Low points are1. Michael's mask looked a little wierd.2. The Myers' house looked nothing like the one in the first movie.3. The acting was quite cheesy. (But remember this is a teen horror flick. What were you expecting? Oscar caliber acting?)4. Ellie Cornell's death. Come on, she could've been used some more.Overall, this was a good movie and is worth a look. Check it out. 8/10   "}{"Title":"Expected, and unexpected, of a HORROR sequel.","Date":"11 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I found the fifth installment of this series a worthy sequel, but, of course, not as good as the first.  It may be a bad movie, but it's a good HORROR movie.  Donald Pleasence gives yet another creepy, protagonistic performance as the ever resourceful Dr. Sam Loomis.  Yes, I liked it, despite the changes that started with H4.  The ending left me hanging for six years.  As soon as H6 was released, I was there.  In my opinion, the most memorable moment of the movie AND of the series was the scene when Dr. Loomis stood side by side with Michael Myers in the middle of the dark house.  Even though there was no way of reaching Michael's evil mind, Loomis still tried, despite everything he said about him.  This is a 'Halloween' to watch, and maybe even remember, over and over again. "},{"Title":"Lots of annoying and unlikable characters","Date":"27 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Halloween 5 The Revenge of Michael Myers (1989) C-96 min. D Dominique Othenin-Girard. Donald Pleasence, Danielle Harris, Ellie Cornell, Wendy Kaplan, Donald L. Shanks, Jeffrey Landman. Although this film (picking up right where 4 left off) is a routine slashfest with very little plot, it still delivers many scary sequences (including a frightening, if incoherent, final reel). Young Jamie is now a mute, physically linked to her uncle and knows when he is going to kill. Dr. Loomis tries to extract information from her, without success, while teenagers dress up as Michael Myers and act like idiots before being impaled by farm tools. Cornell (a survivor of part 4) surprisingly gets killed off early, leaving the scream queen role to Kaplan, who isn't as good. Harris, however, is excellent as Jamie, while Pleasence disappears abruptly in the film's second half. Very violent and gory. Lots of annoying and unlikable characters. RATING 5 out of 10. Rated R for graphic blood and gore, violence, brief nudity, sexuality, and some language.   "},{"Title":"Gore, bloody murders, little logic","Date":"26 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Halloween 5 The Revenge of Michael Myers (1989) C-96 min. D Dominuque Othenin-Girard. Donald Pleasence, Danielle Harris, Ellie Cornell, Beau Starr, Wendy Kaplan, Max Robinson, Tamara Glynn. Picking up right where part 4 left off, it continues the story of Michael Myers' brutal killing spree as he sets out one year later, once again to kill his young niece (Harris, who delivers an incredible performance). Dr. Loomis is on Myers' trail (again), this time trying to figure out why he kills. The movie's biggest mistake killing off Rachel Corruthers (Cornell) 15 minutes into the movie, replacing her with airhead Tina Williams (Kaplan) and her gang of stupid, unlikable teenage characters. Offers some scary sequences to make up for the lulls, but leaves out Pleasence for a huge chunk of the movie. It also goes on for too long. RATING 5 out of 10. Rated R for graphic violence, profanity, sexual situations, and brief nudity.  "},{"Title":"Not bad, but not good","Date":"7 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The film starts out scary with some frightening scenes, then they all abruptly stop as soon as Rachel (Ellie Cornell, unfortunately so underused in an early death scene) dies. So we are left with stupid, unlikable characters.4 was better.  "},{"Title":"The second worst in the series, but it's part of the HALLOWEEN legacy, so you gotta see it.","Date":"26 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The things about HALLOWEEN 5 is one, the Myers' house looks nothing like it does in the other films, it looks like some mansion or something. I also don't like how Loomis lures Michael using Jamie as bait, but it is cool how Myers' cursed her and how she is mute at the beginning. It is cool how it's like H1 and H2 how they show the end of H4 but it wasn't that great of a movie. I also don't like how the police get so involved. In H1 and H2 they barely believe Dr. Loomis and give him minimal help, but in H5 they give him like the whole Haddonfield police department. HALLOWEEN 5 THE REVENGE OF MICHAEL MYERS was OK but it's still only a 5/10, but as I said it's part of the HALLOWEEN legacy, so you have to see it. "},{"Title":"Mediocre movie.","Date":"18 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I am one of the few people who likes this movie better than Halloween 4, which I thought was pretty pitiful. But that does not make this a good movie. Halloween 5 lacks in a lot of places that the other sequels did much better, even the fourth one. The suspense in this movie sucks. It wasn't scary at all. But it was more entertaining than some of the other sequels of the original classic. The scene where Jamie Lloyd goes down the laundry shoot was cool. The scene where Michael takes off his mask is pretty cool, too. I'm glad you never saw his face. I didn't like the new house which was supposed to be the Myers' Place. The beginning was also really dumb when he meets the old man in the cottage. That was straight out of Bride of Frankenstein. I'm surprised he didn't teach Michael how to talk. Anyway, Halloween 5 lacks in a lot of places, but what sequel doesn't (except for the magnificent Halloween H20)? It has some exciting scenes, so I'm satisfied, because I definitely didn't expect an Oscar winner! "},{"Title":"Not bad but not a great Halloween movie.","Date":"6 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  It's got some great scare scenes but it's pretty much a Friday the 13th rip-off. It's not all that bad but it's stupid compared to the first. It's confusing at times with different people that weren't in the last movie. It doesn't explain much about what happened at the end of the last movie. It's got it's moments that scare the crap out of you but the plot is so lame, the acting so bad, and the look of the part in the barn is like a rip-off of one of the worst horror movie ever, Friday the 13th. If you're a big Halloween fan than give it a look. If you want to get scared than give it a look. If you want great acting, rent Gone with The Wind. Halloween 5 The Revenge of Michael Myers C "},{"Title":"If you like kittens....","Date":"16 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  If you love movies where people ooh and aah over how cute kittens are, then you'll love this flick, as it donates a large portion of it's time to people walking around in a barn doing just that. If you like well-crafted horror/suspense thrills, check else where. While Halloweens part 2 and 4 were mearly average, this movie plumbs the depths of moronity.The characters in this are so aggravating that you can't wait for Meyers to get around to killing them. These kids' idea of a good time is to dress like a serial killer and run in front of armed policemen while pretending to murder each other. Of course, this film takes place in an alternate dimension where guys can act like total and complete immature idiots and still get to engage in sexual activities with beautiful young ladies.Micheal Meyers spends much of his time driving around in this movie. He also spends some time flailing about in a river. Very undignified, and just not scary. And why did they devote so much of their time showing a little girl screaming in torment? It's not enjoyable, okay? Please send Micheal Meyers over to Camp Crystal lake so Jason can teach him a thing or two about slaughtering young hot co-eds in an entertaining way!And what was the deal with the goofy music (which involved duck quacks and whistles- no kidding) when the two cops were introduced? They weren't that wacky and certainly not funny.Please don't rent this movie. It's about as scary as one of those SNL sketches that goes on... and on... and on...Come to think of it, that's pretty scary. But don't watch this movie anyway.  "},{"Title":"I guess it is alright!!!","Date":"14 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I thought it was alright. I mean yeah sure it's not near as good as the rest of the series but it at least has style unlike Halloween 6. I thought it was really kind of sad and I truly loved halloween 4. I thought it was just the most awesome I've seen them all and really wouldn't say this was the worst not by far!!!  "},{"Title":"Smart, stylish, sleek, and scary, a good Halloween sequel","Date":"12 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  One can love or one can hate Halloween 5. But me, I'm in between. I thought the movie was technically well-made, with a great opening title sequence and moments of true suspense. A pointless, but entertaining sequel, is what Halloween 5 is best described as. But while watching the film, I found it is a worthy and pretty good Halloween installment, marked by good performances especially by Danielle Harris, and as usual Donald Pleasence.The opening sequence is quite clever, with a Michael Myers, slicing and dicing his way through the credits, but slicing a pumpkin. They show the ending of Halloween 4, which shows Mike trying to get in the truck, to which Jamie Lloyd and her stepsister, Rache; are in. They stop, he falls, and stands back up. The police shoot him, and think he is dead. Jamie goes and checks, but Michael grabs Jamie, and the police shoot again, and he falls to his death into a mine shaft. But alas, he's not dead.After the horror and the ending of Halloween 4, young Jamie Lloyd, is in a hospital, and bed-ridden. Still having nightmares about that terrifying night, she still thinks Michael Myers isn't dead, and is coming after her once again to kill her. Dr. Loomis, whose character seems a bit odd in this movie, still is trying to help young Lloyd get away from Mike, and he knows she can sense what he is doing.Michael who is still alive, goes and terrorizes Rachel, and stalks her in her house while she takes a shower. Jamie can sense something is going to happen, and Loomis tries to call her, and she answers, and finds out what Jamie is thinking, she goes and looks, and behold The Shape is there. Well there's Mike's first death.After that, and no one notices that she's dead. Tina, Rachel's best friend, has a costume party to go to and promises Jamie, that Michael will not be there. But of course he is, and he terrorizes and slaughters teens.Tina, and Rachel, along with a boy from the hospital she is in, have to go up against Michael Myers and all his terror, only to find, he's actually a sensitive guy, which you find out, when Jamie begs for her life, and big Mike cries.With Jamie's telekentic persona to her uncle, she, Tina, the boy, and Dr.Loomis, and find out, who and where he is going to kill next. Leading up to a suspenseful finale, and a shocking, but routine ending. And leaves it wide open for Halloween 6.The performances are credible, with the lead by Danielle Harris, like Halloween 4, she does a good job as her tortured by her uncle character. If you haven't seen Halloween 4 here is who she is. Jamie Lloyd is Laurie Strode's daughter (Jamie Lee Curtis from H1 and H2). Laurie Strode died, and Lloyd was adopted, to a family. How they killed or mentions how Laurie Stode died, I don't remember.Donald Pleasence gives a good, but uneven performance as the imfamous Dr. Loomis, who like in the last 3 tracks down Michael Myers, using Jamies pyschic powers. Although he played his character best in the first and second Halloween, in 4 he did a good job, and in this he does too, but he seems weird, or underacting. He sadly only played Dr. Loomis one more time in Halloween 6 before dying.The other supporting performances by Ellie Cornell who plays Rachel, and Wendy Kaplan who plays Tina, they do give some good performances, that are even, and interesting. But I think the stand-out is Danielle Harris, who is probably the most even performance of the movie, and the most realistic.Some of the sequences I liked to, like the opening. The hospital sequence with the laundry shoot, was original, and quite suspenseful. The Barn, and the last car sequences, were also credible and suspenseful. Now the film itself, was well-made, and stylish, it's also a bit far-fetched and overly done, but still it's a good movie, and merits its award of being a worthy Halloween sequel. See it for fun, no more.7 out of 10. Rated R for strong horror violence and gore, and for some sexuality. "}{"Title":"Well I liked it","Date":"22 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  A HUGE improvement over part 4, this was a hip, smart, funny, and scary Halloween sequel. The story has from the first film the young Jame Lloyd, the daughter of the deseased Laurie Strode. Like in the first, Michael Myers was going after her to kill her, and in this one, it starts from the last, and she's in a hospital recovering from what happened to her, little does she know Mike is still alive, and is coming after her. The movie itself, was pretty pointless, but unlike the 4th, it was scary, hip, smart, and funny. I liked it, and if you're a true Halloween fan, you will too. 7 out of 10. Rated R for strong horror violence and gore, and for some sexuality. "},{"Title":"Don't bother","Date":"10 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This was the stupidest Halloween that had Michael Myers. They make him emotional at the end. His neice touched him.I thought that someone who was pure evil had no good feelings "},{"Title":"Horrible","Date":"19 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was garbage, Michael's return in Halloween 4 was good but this piece of trash should never have been made. Halloween 5 was lacking and it's sad to say that this movie sucked. Of the other sequels in the series Halloween 3 was not a bad movie, it just never belonged in the Halloween series. It's sad to say that Halloween 5 didn't either.  "},{"Title":"Worthy movie indeed.","Date":"13 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  A worthy movie indeed. It has all the elements that truly make a horror sequel 'all that' the brutal killings, a host of 20 something unknown actors with 1 well known actor, the obligatory hay stack romp, and of course a shock ending. All contribute to a watchable horror flick which is quite similar to its prequel and sequel funnily enough.  "},{"Title":"Not bad but not a classic genre movie","Date":"29 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I liked some of this but most of it was really bad.I thought the scene where Michael is chasing Jamie Lloyd around the house near the end was good but those teenagers are annoying.C- "},{"Title":"What would you expect from the fourth sequel?","Date":"5 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Well, this film has brought new meaning to the word sucks. The lowest point of the Michael Myers saga. The series so far (in my opinion) hadn't produced anything not worth seeing with the exception of Halloween III which most will agree doesn't count. If only this one didn't count too. "},{"Title":"Loved this film","Date":"15 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" HALLOWEEN 5 THE REVENGE OF MICHAEL MYERS is the fifth Halloween picture in the franchise and it was directed by Dominique Othenin-Girard and starred Donald Pleasence, who once again plays Dr. Samuel Loomis and Danielle Harris, who once again plays Jamie Lloyd in this film.The story of the film takes place exactly one year after the events depicted in the last Michael Myers film, HALLOWEEN 4 THE RETURN OF MICHAEL MYERS. The killer has returned to the sleepy town of Haddonfield, Illinois, to murder his niece once again, who is now mute. Dr. Loomis tries to save the day with the help of Sheriff Meeker.The film's on-screen title does not display the Revenge of Michael Myers subtitle which is used in all of the promotional material, TV spots, trailers and merchandise. The main title simply says Halloween 5.The story is much more bloodier and violent in this film as it was in HALLOWEEN II and HALLOWEEN IV THE RETURN OF MICHAEL MYERS and it is just very intense and disturbing and that's why the director Dominique Othenin-Girard has not seen a lot of work over the years is because he chooses blood and gory over story and suspense.The film is just intense throughout the whole darn movie and I would have skipped this film, but I chose not to because I like this one, too and it is really good and the Michael Myers character is just mad as heck. This film was released one year after the fourth feature and when this one came out, the other film was barely being released on video, I don't know.I can't help that this film was made and rushed into production on May 1st, 1989 with a screenplay. Grease 2 did the same thing and suffered a series of bad reviews. WHAT KIND OF MOVIE DOES THAT?! HOW CAN YOU START FILMING A MOVIE WITHOUT A SOLID AND COMPLETE SCRIPT?! THAT IS JUST STUPID. You should WAIT until the script is finished, then START shooting your movie! Son of a werewolf! Also, this movie had been fighting an X rating due to it's violence, blood and gore. Some scenes were trimmed down to keep it R rated, including a Mikey quivering on the ground after he is killed by Michael, a shot of glass embedded in Officer Eddy's face after Michael punches through the windshield and Billy's leg being hit by the Camaro.The music in this film is just stupid, but the new version for the Halloween theme, originally composed by John Carpenter and the film is once again composed by Alan Howarth and he would compose the music for the next film.The acting is amazing. Danielle Harris as Jamie Lloyd is still good, if not her best performance. Donald Pleasence does a good job as Dr. Loomis. Don Shanks plays Michael Myers and he does a very good job and also, during the production of the film, Harris and Shanks became really great friends in this film and I really can't complain about this film.The rest of the cast is dreadful except for Ellie Cornell as Rachel Carruthers and she does cool in the screen time that she has.Overall, HALLOWEEN 5 THE REVENGE OF MICHAEL MYERS, while it still present some major issues, I still liked this one, so I can't give it my lowest rating, but I will give it my best possible rating and it is 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"I didn't think it was that bad","Date":"28 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I can see why people hate Halloween 5 but to be honest I liked it. It's my 2nd favorite of the Halloween movies right next to the Rob Zombie remake. There are some things about it I don't like. For example How come the police officers let Michael Myers keep his mask on when they took him to prison? Why did Michael goes berserk when Jamie touched his face? If that other Mike character took good care of his car where are the brake lights? And how can Jamie have a telepathic connection with Michael? It happened in the flashback of the 4th movie when Jamie held Michael's hand before he got back up. But still how does that work? At least it's explained. But overall I don't mind it that much. Not to mention it has one of the best kills of Michael Myers When Michael used that garden claw. Awesome! The movie has a good story, good characters, and best of all, a good cast selection. "},{"Title":"So-so entry in the series","Date":"19 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Jamie Lloyd (an excellent performance by Danielle Harris) has developed a psychic bond with her evil uncle Michael Myers (hulking Don Shanks), who wakes up from a year long coma and returns to Haddonfield once again to finish Jamie off. Can Dr. Loomis (a delightfully batty Donald Pleasence) figure out a way to stop Myers once and for all? Director Dominique Othenin-Girard, who also co-wrote the sloppy script with Michael Jacobs and Shem Bitterman, manages to generate some tension and pulls off a few effectively harrowing set pieces (the laundry chute sequence is a real nail-biter), but the off-putting emphasis on graphic gore, unlikable teen characters (Wendy Kaplan in particular as the obnoxiously giddy and kooky Tina grates on the nerves something fierce), two annoying comic relief deputies, the general lack of spooky atmosphere, a dumb subplot about a mysterious stranger in cowboy hat and boots who has some kind of odd connection with Myers, and the frustratingly inconclusive sequel set-up ending doom this one to outright mediocrity. That said, Othenin-Girard warrants some praise for the pervasive dark tone and take-no-prisoners attitude; the scene where Jamie's sweet stepsister Rachel (the appealing Ellie Cornell) gets brutally murdered by Myers is genuinely shocking and tragic. Beau Starr does well as the hard-nosed Sheriff Meeker while familiar character actor Troy Evans has a nice minor part as the amiable Deputy Charlie. Alan Howarth's shivery score offers a few nifty jazzed-up variations on John Carpenter's classic theme. Robert Draper's polished cinematography gives the picture an impressive stylish look. Strictly okay, with a few decent moments and remarkable acting by Harris (who plays her character as mute for the first half of the movie), but it could (and should) have been much better. "},{"Title":"Sloppy Film(*1/2 Out Of ****)","Date":"30 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Belated Day 22 Of My 31 Days Of Horror 2.After The decent but mediocre film Halloween 4 The Return Of Michael Myers the studio's quickly shot and filmed and a year later in 1989 Halloween 5 The Revenge Of Michael Myers was released and fans, including me, were not very happy with it.The film follows Jamie Lloyd played by Danielle Harris who is now under the care of Tina played by Wendy Foxworth after Rachel played by Ellie Cornell is murdered by Michael Myers, all the while a mysterious man in black follows Michael around.This is a sloppy film. Jaime has become mute so she does not speak much throughout the film. We have annoying characters and inappropriate music in a horror film. Skip this one at all costs. The only reason to watch is for the last 20 minutes.Rated R For Strong Horror Violence/Terror Occasionally Involving Children, Language, Sexuality, And Teen Drug And Alcohol Use.1hr 36min/96min.2 uses of the F-word.*1/2/**** "}{"Title":"No one seems to be able to kill Michael Myers, but this movie pretty much kills his franchise","Date":"25 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Identifying which installment of the Halloween series ushered in the saga's slide into abject idiocy is a no-brainer (yep, this is the one), and you can also pinpoint the precise moment that irrecoverable shift occurs roughly 40 minutes into The Revenge Of Michael Myers, when the silver-tipped boots of a mysterious Man In Black step off of a bus and onto the streets of Haddonfield.Even aside from the introduction of the subplot that ruined the Michael Myers mythos forever, Halloween 5 takes hearty strides to be the worst entry in the franchise up to this point. The story makes virtually no sense, the logic that drives the key components of the plot ranges from flimsy to asinine, vital characters get killed off without anyone seeming to notice that they're gone for the rest of the film, and the ineptness of Haddonfield's law enforcement is presented to us via send in the clowns circus music that inexplicably chimes in when they're on camera.A brief exposition reveals how Michael Myers survived being riddled with buckshot at the end of the previous flick he was nursed back to health by a man who lives in a shack by the river, and The Shape was apparently somehow able to reside with this clueless samaritan for a full year without being discovered or arousing any suspicion from his house-mate. Danielle Harris reprises her role as Michael's traumatized niece Jamie, but while she was a delightfully spunky young heroine in Halloween 4, she's given very little to do here besides shriek and have seizures. After repeatedly stabbing her step-mom with a pair of scissors at the conclusion of part 4 (a savage act which all of the returning cast members are evidently totally cool with) Jamie has been remanded to a children's psychiatric care facility, where she's in the hands of brilliant and capable doctors who see no problem with requiring a young girl who was stalked and nearly murdered by a deranged killer on Halloween night to participate in a festive holiday costume pageant a mere year later.The impending anniversary sparks Michael back into action, and he embarks on a mission to wipe out everyone who survived his last killing spree, and several more people who are simply around to be slaughtered (including a dude with a serious Fonzie fixation). Meanwhile, Jamie's psychic link with her uncle allows her to see his nefarious deeds while they're taking place, and she sets out to stop his reign of terror (strangely, the impetus for Jamie's intervention is the peril of her stepsister's friend Tina; Jamie's actual stepsister is the first to die, and not only does this fail to spur Jamie on, neither she nor anyone else in the film even mention Rachel again until the very end of this wretched tale).The action is driven by the requisite stabbings and slicings you'll be expecting, but the death scenes are so dully telegraphed that they have very little impact. When the film-makers attempt to integrate suspenseful elements, the results are generally pretty lame, such as the sequence where Michael uses the Fonzie wannabe's car to pick up Tina, who obtusely thinks our lovable killer is her boyfriend wearing a mask. The Shape, having his would-be victim in his clutches and at his mercy, maximizes her vulnerability the way any sensible murderous psychopath would he stops at a liquor store so she can go in and buy cigarettes, which allows her to get out of the car and promptly be rescued by the police. That same automobile also plays a pivotal role in perhaps the silliest scene in the film, in which Michael chases Jamie down ostensibly intending to run her over, but is somehow unable to get the souped-up muscle car going fast enough to match the speed of a panic-stricken nine year-old girl on foot.One of the saddest aspects of Halloween 5 is how it renders Dr. Loomis a hysterical old coot who desperately needs to be put out to pasture. The Doc's climactic master-plan involves using Jamie as bait to lure Michael back to the abandoned Myers house, at which point Loomis essentially waves off a virtual army of policemen and SWAT troopers to face his nemesis all by himself. Worse, his ploy to finish Michael off involves soothingly counseling him and entreating him to let Jamie make the rage go away. After hearing Loomis expound about Michael being the essence of pure evil and inhumanity for more than 10 years, this pop psychology tactic plays out as a resoundingly foolhardy approach.However, the most grievous crime against the series committed here arrives during the final exchange between Jamie and The Shape, which results in a close-up shot of a tear running down Michael's cheek. So essentially, according to Halloween 5, the emotionless embodiment of murderous fury we've previously seen mow down a few dozen people in cold blood is actually a sensitive monster whose heart melts when someone calls him Uncle. The coda features the true purpose of the Man In Black coming to light when the enigmatic figure uses a machine gun to single-handedly slaughter a building full of cops and busts Michael out of jail. This cliff-hanger guaranteed another sequel would be forthcoming, but considering how awful this one was, that attempt at enticement resonates more like a threat than a promise.If you're a fan of the series, any movie featuring Michael Myers is bound to offer at least a modicum of entertainment, and this entry certainly has a few moments that will keep you from ejecting the disc. But as a whole, Revenge is an absolute train-wreck. Halloween 5 may not be the worst movie ever made, but considering the unabashed disrespect it demonstrates toward the series that preceded it, it very well may be the most disappointing. "},{"Title":"'Halloween 5' Blu-ray takes series into stale territory and adds absurd subplot","Date":"27 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Everything Halloween 4 The Return of Michael Myers accomplished by bringing back the masked knife-wielding maniac with an injection of Hitchcockian suspense was demolished by the fifth installment in the franchise. Halloween 5 The Revenge of Michael Myers is a sad attempt at taking the back story of the killer and expanding upon it. This movie is the perfect example of producers and screenwriters trying to make more out of something than is possible. Anchor Bay's release of the film on Blu-ray gives fans a chance to revisit it and scratch their head in bewilderment at the ridiculous subplot alluded to.A year has passed since Michael Myer's (Don Shanks) young niece Jamie (Danielle Harris) mentally broke down after being stalked by the killer. The attack on her step-mother leads to her admittance into a children's psychiatric hospital. Michael survived the mine collapse and shares a psychic link with Jamie. Now mute, she must find a way to communicate her painful visions to her step-sister (Ellie Cornell) and Dr. Loomis (Donald Pleasance). Meanwhile, a strange man arrives in Haddonfield with sinister intentions for Myers.Where part four showed very little, this fifth installment went the other direction and featured Myers visually stabbing his victims with pitchforks, his hands, and butcher knives. Director Dominique Othenin-Girard leaves nothing to the imagination. Besides subtle nuances like the psychic connection between Michael and his niece Jamie and the unnecessary attempt at a subplot with the stranger in black, this is a generic slasher film through and through.Danielle Harris is perfect as the mute Jamie. She thrashes around and cries without making sounds. She is completely convincing in the role. Donald Pleasance delivers a stellar performance in a movie that really doesn't justify his effort. He could've just walked through this one and been better than any of his co-stars minus Harris.What the movie lacks in content quality it makes up for with its superb high-definition audio and video presentation. The picture is clean and vibrant and the 5.1 surround sound enhances the experience with a familiar mix of John Carpenter's signature musical score, the screams of Michael's victims, and the sounds of slashing and crashing.There are enough special features included to get hardcore Halloween fans excited. Two separate audio commentaries with actors Don Shanks, Danielle Harris, and Jeffrey Landham and director Dominique Othenin-Girard and author Justin Beahm give insight into the making of the film. A featurette entitled 'Halloween 5' On the Set is also found. There's a theatrical trailer and original promo as well.The new Halloween 5 The Revenge of Michael Myers Blu-ray release spotlights one of the weaker entries in the franchise. It's mildly entertaining and still has excellent performances by Danielle Harris and Donald Pleasance which need to be seen. Just don't expect a repeat of part four's quality going into it and you'll be alright. Fans and completists will find it necessary to pick up this chapter of the Michael Myers' saga immediately. "},{"Title":"More underrated than Halloween 3","Date":"11 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Halloween 5 The Revenge of Michael Myers ranks up there with the best of the series (in my opinion), more underrated than Halloween 3 but because I say that does it mean I'm crazy? Well maybe I am I tend to like a lot of movies people hate. But anyway this movie picks up a year after the events of the previous installment showing that at the end of Halloween 4 after being shot numerous times by the police force Michael Myers (George P. Wilbur in 4, Don Shanks in 5) didn't die and when they threw the dynamite in after him he crawl out of the mine shaft before it exploded and floated down a river. Also Jamie (Danielle Harris) didn't kill her foster mother while she was under Michael's possession and is somehow rendered mute (I never understood how but I guess she was traumatized by the experience). I guess I am crazy for liking this movie because I liked the character of Tina, the two bumbling Bobby's & this whole movie overall. Despite how much I enjoy this movie I only have 3 real complaints 1.) Michael's mask. It looked horrible you don't know of someone sat on it while it was under the couch cushion or if it's meant to be an aliens face rather than William Shatner's. 2.) The character of Rachel (Ellie Cornell) a REALLY likable character whom you learn to care about in Halloween 4 dies in the first 15 minutes. 3.) Tina's death. I didn't like her death because despite that I liked her I'd rather see Rachel be the one to sacrifice herself to Jamie.Those were my cons and I get to my pros. The reasons why I like this installment is because in a few ways it reminds me of the first two Halloweens that are obviously the best. It reminds me of the original Halloween because Michael is portrayed more as The Shape as John Carpenter called him, he's the predator he was in the original, he stalked his prey, he waited and watch for the right moment to strike. It reminded me of the original Halloween II because when you think about it in the original Michael was shot 6 times off a balcony, in Halloween 4 he was shot numerous times into a mine shaft, here you get the notion that he's angry like in 2, you get more gore in the original and Halloween 4 you didn't see much gore at all but you saw more in II & 5. But I'm probably being nice to it because this was one of the first Halloween movie I saw I'm still trying to remember whether I saw this or H20 first. But either I love this movie, I enjoy watching it every year on AMC Fearfest and I'd rate this 4.5 Out of 5 Stars. "},{"Title":"The Halloween Saga Halloween 5","Date":"13 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Halloween 4 was released in theatres and spent two weeks in the number one spot at the box office. Michael Myers was back and dominating the box office. Halloween had returned, and like it's many imitators it officially entered the realm of the slasher film serial drama.At the end of part four, Michael was dead and his niece, in a twist ending, had taken his place as 'pure evil'. The series was poised to move into new places and new realms of terror. 1989 came and saw the release of more Nightmare on Elm Street's and Friday the 13th's, but as Halloween had returned to its roots and Michael Myers joined the echelon of horror movie icons, things began to change.Audiences, it seemed, were growing somewhat tired of the slasher genre. The idea of seeing the same story play out again and again, with very little, if any, originality was starting to get old. The fifth Nightmare and the eighth Friday, just didn't play as well as the movies the ones before. Audiences, it seemed, were ready for something new. And Halloween 5 was poised to do just that.Almost exactly one year after Halloween 4 was released, Halloween 5 debuted in theaters. The film opens up with the death of Michael Myers in part four, only this time you see he doesn't actually die. And although things had seemed like they would be different, within the first five minutes, it becomes clear that Halloween 5 is just going to deliver more of the same. After the abysmal fourth entry in the series, and the poor (er) performances at the box office for Halloween's rivals, more of the same might not of been a good idea.But surprisingly, Halloween 5 delivers more thrills and chills and entertainment than it's predecessor and makes for a rather enjoyable hour and forty minutes. Halloween 4, unlike the original and first sequel, seemed more like Friday the 13th (without the gore) than a Halloween movie. Halloween 5, on the other hand, feels like a true Halloween movie (with Friday the 13th gore).In the first Halloween, Michael lurked in the backgrounds and shadows, hiding and watching and waiting for the right time to strike. This is what made Michael Myers scary. Part four ignored this aspect and had Michael up front, in the foreground, barely in shadows and thus much less terrifying. Part five brings back the shadows and the darkness; the lurking and the followin. As well, unlike the fourth film, the man behind the mask, the man who played Michael Myers, actually felt imposing, and large and frightening. Not since the first film did Michael Myers feel and act so right.Other than the man behind the mask, the whole surviving cast of part four returns here, and again, unlike the fourth film, the acting isn't half bad. Donald Pleasance is his usual great self as Dr. Loomis and Danielle Harris brings out a stronger and more well rounded performance as Jamie then she did a year previous. She carries the picture and is a joy to watch. Not all of the acting is as good as hers but it is a sure improvement over the last entry. The main reason for this, it seems, is the director.Helmed by Frenchman, Dominique Othenin-Girard, Halloween 5 is a rather well directed slasher flick. It has moody atmosphere, some great (not as good as Dean Cundey's glorious work in the first three films) cinematography and lighting, and decent editing. It has a cohesive, if not great, story and it flows well from the opening moments until the closing moments of the film.The story has Michael once again chasing after Jamie, but thrown into the mix is a psychic connection between the two of them and a mysterious 'man in black' who keeps popping up in unexpected times and places. Who is this 'man in black' and what is he up to? The answer, it seems, will be told in the next film or films in the series.There are many weak spots in the story though, like the inclusion of Rachel (Jamie's 'sister' from part four) 's friend, who for no reason is incredibly attached to Jamie and vice versa. Or that many incidents from the fourth film are forgotten, ignored or disregarded to make this film work. Probably the biggest and most frustrating inconsistency is the Myers house. The first two movies made Michael's house legendary and in this film the house makes another appearance, only the viewer at first doesn't know it. It looks different in shape, colour and design, and since not much exposition is given, it is kind of confusing as to where people are when they first get there.But Halloween 5 does have some good gory deaths. It has nudity and sex. It has Michael Myers acting like Michael Myers. It has great atmosphere and creative and interesting camera work. It has decent acting and scary moments. It has unexpected deaths and an unexpected ending. It has all the right touches to make Halloween 5 a worthy sequel in the Halloween saga and a worthy entry in the sky high pile of slasher films. Even though it didn't deliver on the promise of something new that part four left the audience with, it still did what part four didn't and couldn't do. It brought Michael Myers back home.Film Rating 63%Breakdown (How Halloween 5 scored 63%)Production Design 7 out of 10 Cinematography 7 out of 10 Re-playability 6 out of 10 Originality 5 out of 10 Costumes 5 out of 10 Directing 7 out of 10 Editing 7 out of 10 Acting 7 out of 10 Music 7 out of 10 Script 5 out of 10Read my other reviews at www.fullmetalreviews.blogspot.com "},{"Title":"Decent effort, but falls apart at the end.","Date":"29 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Not many people realize that Moustapha Akkad, who produced the first Halloween movie fought with John Carpenter for copyrights for years before winning the right to shoot the Halloween 4 and 5 sequels. I wish John would have won. In Halloween 4, Michael makes a fairly decent return. However, Halloween 5 shows (like in Halloween 2), that Hollywood does not know when to leave something alone. First, Michael Meyers betrays his character. In the first movies, he kills to set a trap, when he's cornered, splits up his victims, and relies on brute strength. The scene where he stabs a couple with a pitchfork (and they are sure to use a condom) is a farce. The most ridiculous is when he chases his victims down with the car. The movie was opposite in its predecessor. While Halloween IV starts out good and falls apart, this one starts poorly but gets better towards the end. At the outset, I must congratulate Danielle Harris who plays Jamie. She is an outstanding young talent who can be scared, strong, and courageous all at the same time. There are also some neat camera tricks and new things (like moving in and out of the trees). Also, there are some really tense scenes when he returns home and chases his niece, Jamie. The personality almost returns when she reaches out to Uncle. The suspense is almost breathless. What will he do? Michael almost comes back in another scene when his old nemesis, Dr. Loomis tries to reach Michael again. It truly shows that Michael has the personality that Jason never had. However, the biggest downfall is now a mysterious stranger with an unusual tattoo. Moreover, Michael has the same tattoo. I find it odd no one ever noticed it before. Shouldn't it have been burned off because of the Ether explosion in Halloween II? In the end, Michael escapes. Just let him wander. "},{"Title":"Not even one of the best entries in the franchise","Date":"6 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Picking up where part 4 left off The Shape getting shotgunned into a tomb, falling in a river and being found by some bum. The bum babysits Michael for a year, but when Halloween comes he wakes up and his thirst for killing Jamie (Harris) hasn't toned down, he goes on the hunt again. Jamie is now in a hospital, she can't talk and it winds up that she's somehow psychologically linked with her uncle. Loomis (Pleasence) is still around, waiting for Myers and plus we get a mysterious guy dressed in black who enters the film towards the end.Halloween 5 is very disappointing and my least fave apart from part 3 in the entire Halloween series. Halloween 5 is just dull and is obviously rushed in order to cash in on the success of part 4, it has almost no tension apart from when Michael Myers chases his niece around and even they feel rushed and unprofessional and this time around Loomis's ranting feels very redundant, poor Mr. Pleasence, it shows he doesn't want to be on set he's just doing it for the paycheck. The movie is filled with nerve testing characters, from Jamie who can't speak whicgh is very annoying, from her stuttering sidekick (excruciating), to the two comic relief bumbling cops who always show up accompanied by clown like sound effects (what the f..k) but the real test was actually the main character Tina, We are treated with the worst teen to teen dialogue, a lagging pace, awful writing, a Michael that cries and a stupid weird ending that makes no sense and plus no build up.Donald Pleasence (Loomis) seems very unhappy to be there, his performance feels like a throwaway one, but I don't blame him&#133;at least he knew he was in a piece of crap. Danielle Harris (Jamie) is solid in this one, yes the fact that she doesn't speak for half the film is testing but she does it good Ellie Cornell (Rachel) plays the only real and sympathetic character in the film, but the director makes the tragic mistake of killing her off within' the first 15 minutes which just spoilt the rest of the film for me. Jonathan Chapin (Mike) gives a one dimensional, poser tough guy performance. I know the part is written that way but I really wanted to beat him silly. Matthew Walker (Spitz) couldn't act his way out of a wet paper bag, Samantha (Tamara Glyn) well she may be stunning but she's a poor actress and last but not least Tina (Wendy Chaplin), well I know a lot of people thought she was terrible but I thought she weren't that bad, yes her character was very annoying at times and she is just another bad bimbo actress but she has heart and goes all out for Jamie in the end and showed some real courage.All in all Halloween 5 is not the worst in the series Halloween 3 holds that honour. "},{"Title":"As good as the 4th one, which means, it's pretty good","Date":"30 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Halloween 5 is one of the most intense Halloween movies in the series. At the least the ending in. The full title is Halloween 5 The Revenge of Michael Myers. He is taking his revenge on Jamie (his niece in the movie), and Rachel (Jamie's stepsister), for running him over in the previous film. Michael just barely escaped the explosives, and now he wants revenge. Not as pointless as you may think, it still carries the first Halloween movie's plot with it. The only Halloween movies that don't carry the Halloween plot is Halloween 3 Season of the Witch, and Halloween 8 Resurrection. Halloween 5 is still one of the best Halloween movies in the franchise.Original MPAA rating RMy MPAA rating R Strong Horror Violence/Gore Including Intense Terror, Disturbing Images, Sexuality/Nudity Including Dialogue, Language, and Drug References.My Canadian Rating R Violence, Gory Scenes, Frightening Scenes, Disturbing Content, Mature Theme, Coarse Language "},{"Title":"For all you scientists,evil floats","Date":"26 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" After Michael Myers miraculously survived being shot once or twice and having wood falling on his ah, suit, he returns to Haddonfield to go after his now insane niece Jamie and his new victim Tina. I don't know how Tina is of any importance to Michael, I guess she just never called back or something. Apparently, some people will miss Tina so Dr.Loomis goes out to stop Michael for once and for all. Again. This is all very familiar to me.The actor who plays Sheriff Meeker also stuck around, so he returns as well, getting every cop available on the case. I don't really know why, because Michael doesn't do a damn thing. None of the Halloween-movies is particularly well-paced, but this is just plain ridiculous. Kill someone, something, yourself, I don't care, do SOMETHING! Eventually he goes after Jamie, but come on, like they're really going to kill of a little girl. There's some more, something about how Michael is driven by some sort of rage. Given that he chases random people with a butcher's knife, that is an interesting theory. We also get a pretty good Donald Pleasence speech on the subject. A step up for him, he spent the last two sequels just commenting on how Michael can't be stopped. Not with that attitude, no. He could still bring some relief from the boredom, but not enough. As if some guy killing people isn't enough of a story, there's also a really crummy subplot that could fall apart any second, about a man in black. We get to see him, or at least his shoes going someplace, and he has something to do with Michael. I suppose that's another attempt to keep stuff smarter than Friday The 13th, but boy does it fail. This mystery just doesn't work at all. This is just not a good movie. The story lines still make some sense and don't screw up continuity (unlike the modern sequels that just lazily ask us to ignore this movie), but this thing is really bland and lifeless. "},{"Title":"Quick Reviews!!","Date":"7 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" POSSIBLE SPOILERS!!Following on directly from number 4, Number 5 has both the flaws, and the good points of its prequel, making it a respectable horror movie, and superior to the other entries in the series.After the shock ending of number 4, we find that Jamie is now extremely traumatised and expects Michael to appear all the time. Rachel, the other survivor from 4 is sympathetic but unfortunately conforms to the dumb teen status of her friends. Of course Michael is still around, and the killings begin again. Loomis decides to use Jamie as bait to lure and catch Michael, but it now seems that Michael is completely indestructible.Again Harris is superb, the rest of the cast are made to look like amateurs, apart from Pleasance who descends further into madness, but seems to be getting tired with the series. There are enough shocks to prevent the film from becoming another stab flick, but there are the usual unsurprising elements-teens having sex then getting mutilated, characters there with the sole purpose of being killed. The scene in the old house where the police 'guard' Jamie is very good, with Jamie showing she may be the only one capable of protecting herself. We see a different side to Michael, just a glimpse, as Jamie tries to get through to him. Again the ending is a shock, though not entirely unexpected, but the man in black thing is intriguing, and the viewer is left wondering what has happened, and what is yet to happen. 8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Boring and uninspired.","Date":"11 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Michael Myers is back! Who would ever have thought that? Anyway, this time he's out to kill a little girl who is bound to him by psychological powers, of course he's not content with this. Michael, the good fella he just happens to be, walks around and kill almost everyone you'll ever see in this movie, which, of course, is very good since almost every person who appears on screen is either a complete and utter @rsehole or just very painful to behold. The acting is pretty stinky here, Donald Pleasence is the only one who manages to make his character remotely interesting, supporting actors have a hard time doing anything else for their characters than making me wish for their death.A thing that made this movie a bit worse was the fact that Myers acted exactly like Jason, he probably lost his big knife somewhere because he's slaying with everything from a schythe to gardening tools. OK, the knife was never very original in itself but it was Myers's trademark for crying out loud! Myers without a big knife is like a roman emperor without orgies or a festival without mud. It just doesn't seem right.Anyway Halloween 5 had one creepy scene where Myers is spying on some girls but that's really all terror there is and it's all downhill from here.And for the gore; there's just to little to keep me interested.This movie will probably work just fine if your out for the cheap thrills of watching stupid idiots getting whacked and repelling women screaming in terror, but it's pretty weak both as a horror movie and as a goreflick so don't blame me if you don't like it, because I warned you!4/10 "}{"Title":"A good addition to the series.","Date":"12 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Michael Meyers (Don Shanks) is on the loose again in this fifth sequel to the highly successful franchise. Meyers is again in pursuit of his niece Jamie Lloyd (Danielle Harris) introduced in the last film. Danielle Harris is splendid in this one and proves that she knows how to act. Never before have I seen a twelve year old give such a magnificent performance. Of course Danielle isn't to outdue character actor legend and genre favorite, Donald Pleasence. Pleasence reprises his role as the maddened doctor obsessed with stopping Michael Meyers. Pleasence is in signifigantly more of the film than he was in the other Halloween films. Pleasence gives another top notch performance here and makes the movie worth it just for that. The comic relief does hurt this movie a little. The comic relief, provided by two wacky loser cop characters, is weak and not funny. Halloween also develops the interesting 'Man in Black' character that would appear in the next film. Overall a good entry in the series that everyone, for whatever reason, doesn't like. I for one enjoyed it. 4 out of 5. Recommended to fans of good acting in horror movies, Pleasence and Halloween fans, and anyone looking for a good horror/thriller. "},{"Title":"Maybe not the best, but still excellent","Date":"3 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Made just after the excellent Halloween 4, this entry in the series is, in my opinion, one of the best. Not as good as parts 1, 4, or H20 perhaps, but it surely rises above the others. Further developing the themes of Halloween 4, we find Jamie Lloyd traumatized by her previous adventures, and now with a newly acquired psychic link with Michael. Similarly, Dr. Loomis seems more unhinged than ever - a man driven to the brink of insanity by years of contact and obsession with his former patient. Also, Michael's character is given some nuances lacking previously - such as in the car scene with Tina, or in a scene toward the end, in which he reveals his face to Jamie. His overall appearance (the mask and so on) is also improved, and he looks more menacing than he did in Halloween 4. There are several new and very interesting themes introduced to the series here as well. The man in black is a controversial issue in the series - but consider that his identity is not revealed and no information is given about him. While the filmmakers really didn't know what he was supposed to be (the Thorn/astrological back story was not introduced until Halloween 6, and whatever feelings people have about that shouldn't be taken out on Halloween 5), his presence does give the movie some new themes to work with - something the series was beginning to need at this point.Of course the movie does have its weak points - and they are found mostly in its middle third. The scenes in the barn tend to drag the movie down and would be more suitable in Friday the 13th anyway. Not to mention the two goofy cops on stakeout&#133;But the rest is excellent, right from the opening credits sequence - the best in the series - depicting a knife slashing away at a pumpkin as the Halloween Theme emerges and builds. And the ending, which is memorable and intriguing - and might have made a fine final image for the whole series, capped off with an excellent cover of the Halloween Theme over the end credits.      "},{"Title":"The battle continues","Date":"31 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Halloween 5 The Revenge of Michael Myers The battle between Michael Myers and Jamie Strode goes on as Michael is still hunting for his niece. Dr Loomis has to protect Jamie once again. This movie was made in 1989, a year after the 4th Halloween movie (Halloween 4 the Return of Michael Myers (1988) I give this movie a good score 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"What were they thinking??","Date":"26 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  After reading that this was supposed to be a horror film, I laughed harder than I did during the film itself.  The goofy cops with their own Hanna-Barbera-esque theme music, the fact that the women were completely adverse to pants and the little girl's bad Harpo Marx impression throughout the film were too much to stand.  Luckily I was watching it with someone and was able to riff on it Mystery Science Theater 3000 style instead of going in the other room and slitting my own wrists out of despair that someone actually wasted precious film on this crap.Maybe if they would have given the little girl a blond curly wig, trench coat and an old car horn to honk I could have at least daydreamed myself into a decent Marx Brothers movie.---Shelly  "},{"Title":"Not the best, but not the worst.","Date":"17 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"    Halloween 5 takes place a year from where Halloween 4 did. After stabbing her stepmom, Jamie(Danielle Harris) has stopped talking and is now in a Children's Clinic. But now she has a psychic bond with Michael, who wakes up from a coma and goes on a killing spree. Dr. Loomis (Donald Pleasance) attempts to use Jamie's ability to stop him.  I read a few comments before posting my own on this movie. People brought up good points on this movie, good or bad. After Halloween 4, most people kept up their somewhat high exceptations for this movie. This was actually the first Halloween movie I saw, and maybe that's why it's one of my favorites. The script had some humorous parts, and was pretty good. The idea was also pretty good. But maybe it was the director who made this more of a let down.   The death scenes are pretty good, but after seeing the other Halloween movies, all I could concentrate on after watching this was how weird the mask looked. They said they were trying to make this as close as to the original as possible and, well, they failed.  I think the acting was really good on this one. Danielle Harris, as always, pulls off a flawless performance. Donald Pleasence was pretty good as Dr. Loomis. Ellie Cornell did really good as Rachel, who got killed off way too soon. Beau Starr, Wendy Kaplan and Tamara Glynn did good also.  This movie isn't really scary, but has it's moments, as well as some kinda touching moments. Some of my friends commented on the parts where Jamie is getting attacked by Michael really violently get a little disturbing, seeing as she's so little. (The car scene, the part where she falls down the laundry chute, ect.) This movie is good for a Friday night, and it's recommended, but barely. I give it a 7 1/2 out of 10. "},{"Title":"More like HALLOWEEN 4, PART 2","Date":"28 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Read a review of HALLOWEEN 4, since this is basically the same movie. Michael Meyers continues to stalk his niece (Danielle Harris) while Dr. Loomis (Donald Pleasance) continues to stalk him.Like HALLOWEEN 4, it's competently made, and Harris once again proves to be a champion screamer, but it's even more pointless and dull that its predecessor. It's so far in tone from John Carpenter's original, it doesn't even seem like part of the same series. Just a run-of-the-mill slasher quickie in which the killer wears the same outfit.The only thing noteworthy about this inane sequel is it's shameless ploy to get you to shell out another few bucks to see Part 6, by having an unseen mystery man break Michael out of jail at the film's conclusion. Other than that, it's of no interest whatsoever. "},{"Title":"Loomis for president!","Date":"27 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  If you're only going to see one movie all year, see Halloween 5! What a film! I mean, come on, what could be better than an hour and a half chock full of Mr. D. Pleasance! And how about the scene where Michael drives the police car? What brilliance! But what really makes this movie unforgetable, is the final battle scene between Loomis and Michael. Whoever came up with the idea for Loomis to beat Michael for several minutes with a 2x4 should have won the Nobel Prize. And what genius to have Loomis stabbed and thrown off a balcony just minutes before! I dont know where he gets the energy, but Dr. Loomis is the most powerful character in any movie I've ever seen!So hey, I dont want no Al Pacino, I dont want no Marlon Brando, JUST GIVE ME MY DR. LOOMIS AND IM JUST FINE!!! "},{"Title":"It just gets better","Date":"27 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Halloween 5 is to me very enjoyable and like my comments on Halloween 4, I have no problems with it at all. Acting stayed good along with the plot and the story carries on well from H4. So far Halloween 1, 2, 4 and 5 have scared me everytime and never fail to. Out of 10 I'd say 8. highly recommended. "},{"Title":"An interesting failure","Date":"30 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  major spoilers!!!Halloween 5 is the most uneven entry in the series. Although it has some intriguing elements, it is ultimately done in by its adherence to the Friday the 13th formula (which, ironically, its progenitor helped establish). The first half is actually fairly interesting, as poor Jamie (Michael Myers' niece) suffers from severe psychic visions following her evil uncle's revival. Up to a point, it's a stylishly directed psychothriller. A bit spotty, to be sure, as the slasher conventions are still there. There's another notable factor that brings up the suspense which mindset will win out? The psychological aspects, or its more conventional elements? Alas, it was not meant to be. The second half is nearly unwatchable, and the film becomes just another disposable eighties slasher. The barn scene, in particular, drags on for what seems like an eternity. Furthermore, many of Michael's actions seem better suited to Jason, as he disposes of teens with a pitchfork in the aforementioned scene, and a rake in another. Most of the characters are as irritating as you could dread from this type of film. The worst offender is Wendy Kaplan (Tina), who should be barred from ever appearing in another motion picture. Even Donald Pleasance doesn't seem to have his heart in it; he was reportedly at odds with the director and has since disowned the film. Danielle Harris gives it her best, but even she can't sustain the film during its terminal second and third acts. Even the direction falls flat all of a sudden.The latter portion *does* have an occasional good bit, despite my earlier statements. The laundry chute scene is admittedly good. There is also the suggestion that Dr. Loomis may not necessarily be doing the right thing, although I wouldn't hold it against him; his mental facilities are in decline, sad to say. Michael Myers himself may not be entirely outside the grasp of redemption, a bold move to be sure, but certainly a thought-provoking one. I want to make it clear that I focus upon the good ideas, as meager as they are, because the film could have been worthwhile with the proper thought and effort. Alas, the speed in which it was slapped together is all too apparent. The ending makes no sense, and fails to explain the presence of the mysterious Man in Black. Everything is a bit more clear after the subsequent installment, but that does not excuse the filmmakers from not developing the idea further.I'm not going to make a big deal about the fact that Michael survived the ending of the previous film. His next return was inevitable. What irks me is that a classic horror icon has been so ill-served.*1/2 (out of ****)Released by Galaxy International "},{"Title":"Halloween 5-The Worst of Michael Myers","Date":"9 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is the worst movie in the series. No I didn't see part 3 and I don't intend to. Dominique Othenin-Girard destroyed the Halloween series. The script is awful. The directing is even worse. Now I'll occasionally watch this one because I like the Halloween series so much. The Man in Black was stupid because there was no actual payoff with him. No the ending didn't count. He is better in Halloween 6. They kill off the most likeable character in the first 20 minutes. After that person dies the whole movie goes downhill. If they didn't try to rush this in after Halloween 4 (very good movie) then maybe this movie could have been good. The acting is below average. I read about how Tina annoys everyone but surprisingly she didn't bother me. I guess it's all the horror movies I see because I have seen some horrible actors. The was supposed to be suspenseful and be a big cliffhanger. I found myself laughing because of its stupidity. The only saving graces are Dr. Loomis and Jamie. 3/10 "}{"Title":"Another One For The Collection","Date":"27 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"   Just Another One For The Collection. Alot of Screaming and Blood, Allthough There was really Nothing New About Any Of It. Still Go See it though. I also Feel it is my Duty to say that i am a Sucker for Horror Movies. Eve if The New Halloween is Completely Silly, As Long As It Has Michael Myers in it I will love it. "},{"Title":"Horrible film with terrible acting","Date":"31 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Never before have a seen a film that has been RUINED so much by the AWFUL teenagers (?) on display. They have nothing to do with the plot and contribute nothing to the film. All they do is run around throwing up appalling dialogue, most of which is shockingly bad ADR. There is a massive scene in a barn, which has nothing to do with anything, and is really only there to pad the film. They ruin the entire movie and I was VERY disappointed. The scenes with Michael Myers (now played by Don Shanks instead of George P. Wilbur), Doctor Loomis and Jamie are the only reason I didn't eject this film. They are the saving grace of this movie. But, unfortunately, all the grace in the Universe cannot make us forgive this film for having such POINTLESS and MEANINGLESS characters who turn it from almost a 'psychological horror' to a 'sub-standard clich'. It's a shame.Halloween 4,5 and 6 started an ongoing plot line that was ignored in the abysmal Halloween H20 and it was also cut to shreds in the severely edited and re-arranged Halloween 6 The Curse of Michael Myers. The fact that 4,5 and 6 could have been very good makes this film worthy of attention. The fact that 4,5 and 6 suck is the fault of the creators. "},{"Title":"Boring, more boring, Halloween 5","Date":"14 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I thought, they wouldn't be able to top Halloween 4. But they made it. What kind of movie is this? Bad acting, bad effects and a horrible story.They try to surprise us with this guy in black, who has the same tattoo like Michael Myers, although this doesn't fit into the whole Halloween universe. We have been told that Mike is the ultimate evil and now we are informed, that there is some kind of conspiracy. This sucks!Everybody out there, avoid this thrash! Even looking 2 hours at a wall is much more interesting. "},{"Title":"We actually got too much from the fourth sequel....","Date":"13 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  If you think about it we actually got too much from the fourth sequel. Compare this to Friday the 13th part five and a Nightmare On Elm Street part five---see the differences?  The film is overall scary, just like its predecessors. Jamie is practically mute for the first half.  These ideas kind of sop the movie a bit.  But there is some scary scenes.For instance, when Jamie is trapped in the laundry chute.  I bet there is no one out there who has seen this movie that wasn't deeply terrified by that scene.  It had an appropriate body count and the film is all the more interesting with the mysterious guy in black prowling around.  I would rate this a 6/10.  "},{"Title":"Horrible","Date":"1 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Picking up a year after the fourth flick, Halloween 5 really disappoints. The plot is filled with holes among other things. Most notably is the stupid looking mask Micheal wears through most of this movie. Also, the teenagers in this movie are very annoying and you hope Micheal does them in. Once again, the gore level escalates and destroys any chance of an actual story. This movie does have some things going for it. It is very scary, maybe even scarier than the first. Also, the mysterious man in black adds a mood of mystery and suspense, as well as the strange tattoo he and Micheal seem to have. Another thing that makes this film worth seeing is Donald Pleasence, a very good actor. The ending doesn't really have much of a cliff hanger ending like the previous films but it makes you wonder what happened. So it's a less than average film at best. "},{"Title":"hmmm... Ridiculous !","Date":"8 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Well, I didn't like Halloween4, and this sequel is not better. Michael moves like a robot, and his mask is ridiculous ! The acting is bad, and original Halloween movie is losing its credibility. If you can, do not see it... "},{"Title":"a step down","Date":"19 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Part 4 got the series back on track, but now we've gone backwards in terms of quality with number 5.  Ok, to start off, why does Harris have no voice...and ESP??!!  Where the hell did she get that??  And why do they kill of the cute Cornell so early on??  Now we're stuck with Harris screaming for the last hour.  And though Myers steals a couple kills from Jason of the Friday the 13th movies, (using a sickle and a pitchfork in a barn) at least theyre better than the strange death methods of part 4.  But theres just not enough here, with the killings limited to only a handful and an ending where the killer pops up trick is way overused.  The biggest laugh of all is the final scene now that they have Myers, what do they do?...They stick him in jail! Ha ha whatever!  Putting an obviously supernatural unkillable psycho in the slammer.  What a shock when he breaks out and sets up part 6.  Puleeeze. "},{"Title":"ZZZZZZZZZZZZZZ....Boring.........","Date":"22 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Halloween 5 picks up exactly where Halloween 4 left off. Michael Myers was gunned down a mine shaft and got out just in time before the police lit it on fire. He takes refuge with a hermit where he lies dormant in a coma for one year. Halloween, 1989. He awakens and is still after his niece, Jamie, who cannot speak and has a telepathic bond with him now.This movie is the pits and is very boring as well. There are no tense action scenes (except the car chase scene which was good), the acting is pitiful, the cop-theme squeaks and whistles is so out of place in a Halloween movie, a main character is killed off in the first half hour, Michael's mask looks like he is constipated, and Donald Pleasence acts like a maniac trying to track down Myers. The only saving grace is Danielle Harris, who does another good job as Jamie Lloyd.   "},{"Title":"unimaginative and very dull sequel","Date":"18 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Micheal Myres survives the explosion and falls unconscious for 1 year. After that he wakes up and again targets his niece.This was not what I was expecting after seeing Halloween 4. This one ignores the ending of H4 and goes straight to Micheal Myres surviving the explosion. That was one of the things that disappointed me. What I think they should have done was to leave out Micheal Myres maybe until the end and make Jamie the killer.The acting was OK but it could have been better. Donald Pleasants is still good as the tormented psychiatrist Dr Loomis but not as good as he was in the previous films. He is now a very tired doctor and now just talks non-stop. Danelle Harris reprises her cute role as Jamie Lloyd.The killings are the worst part. They have been used before and some are not bloody enough. In fact the whole film is like just another excuse to see more murders that have been seen in other Halloween films or other horror icons like Jason Voorhees (not a big fan of his).The whole plot is slow and nothing different than H4. Micheal is still after his niece, Loomis is trying to stop him. Overall this a very weak sequel to the series that is like watching a H4 remake. "},{"Title":"Lame","Date":"27 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Obnoxious teens get slashed and stupid cops get wasted by a new Michael Myers in a dumb-looking mask.  I lost track of the plot, if there was one, about halfway through the film.  All I know is that Michael is running around killing people and his niece can see who the next victim will be.  Oh, and Donald Pleasence is still overacting and running around like a goofball.  The ending makes no sense, but you won't care because you will just be happy it's over.  Complete waste of film and time, except for the little girl (Danielle Harris) who is great. "}{"Title":"worst in the series","Date":"12 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is what is wrong with too many sequels.  Too many things in this movie just don't make sense, or are completely absurd.  minor spoilersFor one, there are too many errors in the movie, such as Mike Myers becomming a stunt driver, day changing into night in a matter of seconds, and a mysterious comboy bounty hunter type that seems to bust myers out of jail at the end.  When you deviate this much from how characters act (especially your lead maniac) it just becomes silly and the halloween series of movies is built on suspense and fear, not inaccuracy and flat out sad special effects and screenplay 3/10 "},{"Title":"Revenge is so very very sweet!","Date":"1 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  To me, this was the most well done of the films in the Halloween series next to Halloween 666.  I absolutely loved the title sequence.  I also really liked the musical score.  One could say it's weird to have Jamie know where Michael Myers is all the time, but I didn't care.  The movie does have some gore and it does have its moments, but I still liked this film a lot.  The director must be a really talented person to have made such a wonderful movie such as this.  I would reccomend Halloween V to anyone in the world.  "},{"Title":"Made me cry for a sequel.","Date":"8 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of my personal favorites in the Halloween series.  The plot is intense and the ending is great.  But, the violence isn't what it could've been.  If you haven't seen it, the end will blow you away.  "},{"Title":"OK, but has some flaws","Date":"5 March 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" HALLOWEEN 5 THE REVENGE OF MICHAEL MYERS (1989)starring Donald Pleasance, Danielle Harris, Ellie Cornell, Beau Starr, Wendy Kaplan, Tamara Glynn, Jeffrey Landman, Matthew Walker, Jonathan Chapin.plot One year after Michael went missing and young Jamie (Danielle Harris) nearly murdered her foster-mother on Halloween night, 1988, Michael has returned and Jamie now has a psychic bond with her murderous uncle. As Dr. Loomis (Donald Pleasance) tries to take advantage of her abilities to stop his nemesis, Jamie fears for the lives of Rachel (Ellie Cornell) and her friends Tina (Wendy Kaplan), Sammy (Tamara Glynn), Spitz (Matthew Walker) and Mikey (Jonathan Chapin).the good More cool murders is one thing.Dr. Loomis, Jamie and Rachel's characters are extended upon, we find out much more about them. It was very interesting.The misunderstood character of Tina I think was a good character. Yes she was loud and obnoxious but she really cared about Rachel and Jamie and often had emotional scenes. Actually, I'm not afraid to admit, I'd love a friend like her.the bad Michael's mask is ten times worst than that in the previous entry. Good thing in the next entry its better.Three annoying things1. Jamie had a psychic bond with Michael, it was just too silly and annoying.2. Jamie was a mute (she talked towards the end, but still), it was very annoying. VERY!3. They introduced the 'Man in Black' and the tattoo on Michael's wrist, leading to a silly plot in the next entry (they must have ran out of ideas for the series). "},{"Title":"A real cliffhanger","Date":"27 February 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Picking up one year later where Halloween 4, left off, Michael is still looking for his nine year old niece, Jaime Lloyd. Although he is presumed dead, Jaime and Dr. Loomis know he is still alive. The twist in this movie is that there is a man dressed in black who walks the streets of Haddonfield. Who is he? What does he want? What is his connection to Michael? Halloween 5, contains some very clever, scary scenes. We even get to see Michael's emotional side. By the end, many will be dead, and we are left with a lot of unanswered questions.   "},{"Title":"not very thrilling","Date":"12 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  i was a huge fan of halloween 4.this next chapter was not even in the same ball park .it was rushed and poorly written the saving grace was danielle harris who was the only one in this films second half that did not make a fool of herself .ellie cornell must of been under contract to do a sequel because she is far too talented to do this film somehow i think she got off luckyonly watch this film if your a die-hard halloween fan then again if you like the previous please skip this and go on to part 6 which is somewhat better than this one 1 out of 4 rating here  "},{"Title":"This Sequel has great possibilities but falls apart somewhere in the writing of this so-so script.","Date":"13 September 2006","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" It's been a year ago that the infamous night Michael Myers (Don Shanks) came back home to Haddonfield, Illions trying to murder his only living niece Jamie (Danielle Harris). That same night, the state troopers thought they destroyed him by throwing a stick of dynamite at a underground mine shaft. But they didn't, Michael has survived. One year later, his traumatized niece find herself having a telepathic bond with her evil uncle! Now Dr. Loomis (Donald Pleasence) is trying to destroy The Boogeyman by using his niece as bait.Directed by Dominique Othenin-Girard made an routine but sometimes lively sequel to the Halloween Series. A few great moments of suspense and terror cannot overcome a weak screenplay. Which the director is also one of three writers of this fifth movie, which is sadly the least effective of the entire series. Some truly unlikeable victims (Played badly by the actors) and lame comic relief nearly ruined the possible feeling of fear in this one. Especially a few truly bad pop songs in the movie. But the picture isn't a complete waste thanks to Harris' good performance, Pleasence's always amusing role (Which his character is more over the top than ever with each Halloween picture, he's been in) and Alan Howarth's excellent music score saves from a complete bomb.The latest Special Divimax Edition from Anchor Bay is good. DVD has an sharp anamorphic Widescreen (1.851) transfer and an good digitally remastered-Dolby Digital 5.1 Surround Sound. The DVD most intriguing feature is the audio commentary track by the director, actressHarris and actorJeffery Landman (Who played Jamie's friend Billy in the movie) talking about all what went good and bad during the production. Especially when the director admits some of the mistakes, he made some of the strange choices he made during filming and the unexplainable logic (Sometimes unintentional funny) of the already not so hot script.DVD also have introduction by the starsHarris and Ellie Cornell (Who plays Jamie's step-sister, which unfortunately died too quickly in this film). Which Cornell's role was memorable in Halloween 4. DVD also has interesting on-set behind the scenes footage, 17 minute documentary with the cast & crew (From the 2001 DVD Edition) and the theatrical trailer. Thanks to the DVD commentary, the fifth Halloween movie makes me appreciate the film a little more but it's still a misfired picture. Especially when Michael Myers' character (Who started as a truly frightening killer) turned into a run of the mill slasher movie. Which feels a bit of a letdown. This film is only to the dedicated fans of the series only. (** /*****). "},{"Title":"Michaels' Back! Or The Cops That Couldn't Shoot Straight!","Date":"25 October 2001","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Picking up right where Halloween 4 left off, Michael Myers escapes from the well seconds before the police blow it up. They obviously didn't shoot Michael correctly or this movie would not exist. Michael crawls into a mountain man's house then passes out for a year.October 30, 1989- Haddonfield Children Clinic Jamie Lloyd is here. She cannot speak, but she has developed a telekenetic path to her Uncle Michael. So that night at the mountain man's house, Myers awakes, kills the mountain man and returns to Haddonfield. Immediately he heads to Jamie's old home and stalks Rachel, and he sadly kills her too. Now, stop me if I'm wrong, but Michael Myers just walks around Haddonfield in broad daylight even though he's the most wanted man in history. Also, since Halloween 5 is the most dramatic Halloween film, they wanted to add a comic relief. Unfortunately, they just gave us Deputies Nick and Tom who are self-confessed lousey cops. Dr. Loomis hopes to use Jamie's bond with Michael to finally stop him! But before it's put to any good use, the body count piles up! Including a man named Michael, a stuck-up outlaw boyfriend of Jamie's other close friendTina. Michael kills Michael and steals his car and Halloween mask.       Tina ignores Jamie's plea not go to the Tower Farm party because The Boogey Man might get her. So Michael trails her to the farm. Tina's friends have a little Halloween fun but are soon dismembered by farm equpment. So after a night of blood and tears are shed, Jamie finally agrees to help Loomis, so Loomis holds a stake out at Michael's old house. Funny, in Halloween I and II, the Myers house was a small two story home but now it's a gothic mansion. Funny how the eco system grows these days. Anyway, Dr. Loomis tries unsuccessfully to reason with Michael, so Myers goes after Jamie again in his big house.He chases Jamie to convenient coffin in the attic where she touches Myers' heart (if there is one) by calling him Uncle Boogeyman.Pretty soon the cops arrive, take Michael to jail and think that's the end of it. But no, a Man in Black arrives at the police station, kills all the cops, steals Michael and Jamie and bolts off before the station explodes.         Now there are many inconsistancies in this movie! They are as follows The video box It says Michael's Back And This Time They'reReady! Well the fact is they're not ready! Nobody was ready for him. Second The Revenge of Michael Myers. Now Michael Myers doesn't warrant revenge on anyone, he's just here to kill his relative and her friends. Third Michael Myers finally unmasked. Yes, but we don't see anything!! He stands in the dark with no mask on! WhooptyDoo! And for the film, Jamie is referred to as Jamie Carruthers in this film. I guessis you stab your stepmother to death, your step family will adopt you.And Michael's mask is supposed to be the same as the one in Part 4. It isn't! This mask is bigger, the hair is longer, and the facialfeatures are different. This movie is the weakest link in the Halloween chain. But if you saw I, II, III, and IV, then you gotta see V! --- "},{"Title":"I should have listened to the other comments","Date":"7 April 1999","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I should have listened to what everyone else had said about the movie.  It was stupid.  I couldn't wait til Tina died because she was so annoying!  The only scene that I did like was when Jamie was in the laundry chute and Michael is stabbing through it with his knife.  And I really hate to say it, but I think I liked the Curse of Michael Myers better-and I HATED that movie.  But at least it kept me awake.  This movie was so incredibly boring I had to pinch myself to stay awake.  Avoid this movie unless you absolutely must see all the Halloween movies. "},{"Title":"This is Halloween II mixed with a little bit of Halloween 4; so here it is from Myers' point of view","Date":"11 December 2007","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Oh how careless and unsuspecting those Haddonfield residents are now they see me, now they don't. I cannot describe the sensation that is being burnt alive; shot six times by a pistol; shot several times with various shotguns, pistols and an assault rifle simultaneously and I especially cannot describe what it is like falling through some sodden ground only to have a gravestone cave in on top of me. Maybe I cannot describe it because none of it really happened; after all &#150; the third Halloween film only included me as part of a television trailer thus disconnecting me from the 'real' world entirely poor shame.I can get away with anything, because I'm Michael Myers and I'm invincible. I've been shot and burnt and what have you loads of times but I keep coming back like the giant cockroach that won't die; I am invisible despite being the biggest person in the whole town; I am indestructible despite being a human being; I've been captured but then consequently escaped when I should have been victim of capital punishment long before I even got the chance to. Yes, I'm the thing that wouldn't die in the franchise that wouldn't die and isn't it grand? Rumours were back in the day that I was going to go up against Freddy Kruger in a spin off adventure of its own but that was shelved for fifteen years; Voorhees eventually got the role &#150; Pah! Nobody likes Friday the Thirteenth anyway! Especially the one that had him most recently in space.But I am adamant that I can get over it by reliving some of my finest work from yesteryear particularly in the form of Halloween 5 The Revenge of Mi...... Oh no, wait &#150; this one was just 'Halloween 5' with no subheading, how disappointing. This time, I am convinced that I am invincible as well as invisible with brainless logic forming the basis of this addition to my ever increasingly daft adventures. Evidence comes in the form of a dog barking at me loudly and yet nobody does or hears anything except for the owner who does or suspects nothing &#150; it's worth saying here that it is Halloween eve in Haddonfield and it's only been a year since I was at large and the owner WAS warned on the phone &#150; silly girl. Another case of idiocy on the resident's part was when the police come round to check; they leave after thinking it was a false alarm involving the dog but I'm smart I hide in the closet and wait for them to go but when the silly girl opens the door to get something out, she still doesn't see me &#150; unfortunately, she has since changed after finishing her shower.I'm Michael Myers and I'm invisible. I can stand amongst the bushes and stick out like a sore thumb but no one sees me. I am able to stand there and watch kids and their cars and partners mingle around a shop front they are more interested in sex and alcohol than they are in values; when I was their age, I was being treated at a hospital after what I did when I was very young but they don't know anything about that soon they will, though; soon they will. What I love about these kids is that I kill one of them and take his car &#150; his name is, unbelievably Michael. From here, I get to live out a fantasy I have never come within a light-year of ever experiencing. I drive to my new partner's house and pick her up; she dances for me showing me her Halloween costume thinking I'm Michael, which of course I am; she says my name in that wonderful voice she has and attempts conversation but I can't reply for two reasons it would give the game away and I'm stone cold with adrenaline. We drive for a while and she asks to stop by a petrol station but I drive straight past before screeching round and going back &#150; it would seem that a little girl whom I am related to has used her telepathic powers to tell the police where I am the 'living the dream' is over but it was worth it.It would seem that when I do come face to face with my relative, it is in an attic of my Myers house that wasn't actually there in any other of my adventures. It's equally convenient that the authorities and my doctor at the hospital never thought to check the house to see if that's where I was staying during this Halloween. After all, they didn't check the surrounding area after I escaped into the river at the very beginning; especially since I lodged up in a shack owned by an old man &#150; there I lay; for one year with no interference or anything like the old man reporting that he'd found me but how was I to know he'd keep quiet after I'd left? I wasn't, so I had to get rid of him of course. When it does come to the crunch; I delay over completing my goal in this edition as she lies there in my coffin bed &#150; I shed a tear but I don't know why; she escapes and gets the better of me in a laundry chute &#150; how careless of me this invisible, indestructible killing machine is beaten by an infant. I guess David and Goliath can happen after all. Then again, with my most recent adventure a replay of my first and set in an entirely different universe; I can forget all about this particular episode and re-focus on what I do best it's what you want and it's what I want. "}{"Title":"Nothing Special But Not Too Bad","Date":"22 June 2002","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Halloween 5 was one of those films that left one feeling unfulfilled after watching it despite being a fan of the series.Halloween 5 seemed to be trying to emulate the original which just cannot be done. It seemed to succeed in being fairly atmospheric but there wasn't much gore in the film. The late Donald Pleasance was back but he didn't seem to have the impact he had in the original and parts 2 and 3. Loomis was still a great character.There are two areas which can be commended. Danielle Harris once again did a great job as the niece of Michael Myers and Michael Myers himself was becoming a bit more human which I don't think is a bad thing. Villains can only be inhuman for so long. Also, if you watch the ending you'll get a bit of history on Michael Myers but unfortunately later films did not capitalise on it. That was a shame.All in all, Halloween 5 was decent enough and I shall probably rent the DVD. "},{"Title":"One of the best sequels to Halloween","Date":"17 February 2007","Score":"13 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Halloween 5 is slightly better than Halloween 4 in the fact that we see a bit more of Micheal and we get a few more gory killing scenes like with the scissors.The movie uses some more creepy scenes like in the barn house and the Myers house, it may not look the same as the first but it's still creepy.The other scene is the car chase where Micheal is driving after Jamie with the theme music playing that always creeps me out.The Man in Black was another interesting character but sadly we don't enough of him or learn his story until Halloween 6 when his character is revealed, also that symbol that is on Micheal and the Man In Black is also revealed in part 6.A good sequel to the Halloween franchise. "},{"Title":"This and 4 should've never existed","Date":"1 November 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Those were the only two I saw and they had this girl running from a man in a mask who injures people. They had the actress scared to death as she was only 9 years old. Danielle had her moments but she was overall a meh actress.I have never seen a horror film have a child in such brutal scenes. Especially as young as this, what were they thinking? All she does is a whole bunch of crying and crying for help, and breathing, panicking, fainting, and screaming. She can somehow know what is happening out there with Michael and someone she loves.She is just an innocent child but she is an annoying, overly complex character and this is probably like the worst horror film I have ever seen, this and 4 are trash. From writing to acting to directing, they were bad and the people were like Hey, let's make a horror film sequel to a good movie and throw a child in there! That would be great! Were they trying to make it bad on purpose? Or were they just unaware that it did not need these sequels? And then... it ends abruptly.Do yourself a favor and go watch Halloween 1, it was memorable and there is no child protagonist. "},{"Title":"You've got to help me Jamie. You've got to help me find him. We both know he's alive.","Date":"26 October 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Halloween 5 The Return of Michael Myers picks up where part 4 left off, only Michael is not dead, obviously! He's come back to Haddonfield intent on finally killing his niece, Jamie (Danielle Harris), who due to trauma has lost the ability to speak and now has a psychic link with mad uncle Michael. Dr. Loomis (Donald Pleasence) is once again on hand to be nutty and spout ominous warnings, while all other folk in Myers' way are doomed.It starts off quite promising, with shades of Frankenstein (1931) offering hope that maybe this wont be a sequel reeking of cash cow formula. Unfortunately it proves to be a false dawn, evidence that the writers were out of ideas, it lacks scares or a narrative spark to ignite suspense sequences. Harris is once again superb, Pleasence good fun as usual as he hams for all he is worth, while an extended sequence in a barn keeps fans of the series happy. It's passable fun for the slasher crowd, but ultimately it's unimaginative and a low point for the Halloween franchise. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Embarrassing for the halloween  series","Date":"22 March 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Oh my goodness, a waste of my time!!! After halloween 2 it went down quickly!! They should've made halloween 1, 2, then H20, then quit altogether. And this one, is just soo boring, sad, disappointing, annoying, I think the filmmakers wanted to see how much they could annoy you in 2 hours! Jamie was an annoying character, Jamie's adoptive sister was killed, which was sad, the suspense was boring and dumb, this movie just will drive you to the point of insanity. It's just soo bad, it's almost self aware, I don't know how the makers could've thought it would be good while writing it! Overall I'll be generous and give halloween 5 a 2/10. That's being extremely fair! "},{"Title":"I Loved This!","Date":"13 November 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This is the scariest Halloween movie there is. The first is still the best, but this is scarier. The whole story with Loomis and Michael's niece continues in what is the second best sequel in my opinion (after H2O). Aside from this being the scariest, it is also very well-done. The movie was rushed in production taking just a few months to make, but that's not a big deal. There are some flaws, but the movie sucks you so far into it, you aren't that intrigued by the flaws. What makes this great is how good the actors are. Danielle Harris is amazing as Jamie Lloyd (even better than in Halloween 4) and Donald Pleasance does his best Dr. Loomis portrayal. One year after Jamie seemingly adapts Michael's powers, she lives in a children's mental clinic and is mute, while Michael was unconscious in a shack. He wakes up and is out to kill his niece, who senses Michael and can save his rage. Rage boils inside Dr. Loomis as he tries to put an end to Michael Myers once and for all.But I can see why some people would not care for this. Jamie is scared and screams throughout the whole movie. So that may annoy some viewers. But she is such a good actress, you have no other choice but to feel for her and pray she survives. Many people also didn't like Michael becoming a Jason Voorhees-like character. If anything, Jason is a rip-off on Michael since Halloween came out before Friday The 13th. There are also some unanswered questions with an odd tattoo and a man dressed in black with metal-toed boots. All that is answered in Halloween 6, which sucked! Anyway, there is a good build-up and some early kills, but when Michael goes on his usual murderous rampage on halloween night, there is a bigger body-count, more twists, more suspense and more at stake. "},{"Title":"Loosing The Thrill Factor","Date":"3 July 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" A full year has passed since Halloween 4 and we begin the story again with Halloween 5. The Michael Myers story continues as Uncle Michael returns and goes after his niece Jamie and her friends. Jamie, being traumatized, is beginning to remind people of her Uncle Michael who is still terrorizing the townspeople of Haddonfield. Dr. Loomis is also back in search of the evil Michael Myers.Halloween 5 is not that bad but the movie's story is beginning to loose all of its thrills - and having Michael after Jamie again kinda helps the movie to loose more of it's thrills. Now the movie series begins to fill too much like a stereo-typical slasher film.Halloween 5 should be Halloween 4 because it is the 4th part of the Michael Myers series when you subtract out Halloween 3 which has nothing to do with the stories of Michael Myers. Therefore, the 4th movie dealing with Michael Myers is not all that bad - but the series is really beginning to sink down-hill.6.5/10 "},{"Title":"Michael is back in what probably is the second worst of the series","Date":"7 May 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Okay I love the original movie. It had great suspense, decent acting and a very menacing villain. The first sequel was okay I mean it rather focused on blood and gore but I still liked it. The third... Lets not talk about that - I mean it was a good idea but executed horribly. Fourth one I thought was a decent movie as was H20. Then there's this... I'm not happy, NOT HAPPY.Okay so the story after Michael falls into a coma for the second time in a hermit's house who never seems to report him in to the authorities, Jamie was traumatized by it and somehow has a psychic connection with him. Loomis wants to use this to find Michael. One year later on Halloween Michael reawakens to kill again looking for Jamie, her sister and both their friends.Okay I have a lot of complaints with this one. Why OH WHY is it necessary to have psychic powers written 5 movies into the series? Jamie seems to have the power to destroy Michael's evil (or in other words the writers do). That destroys his character. There's even a moment in this movie where Michael is about to kill Jamie and she says Uncle he responds by stopping the murder attempt, she then asks to see his face and a single tear rolls down his face and when she decides he's not that much of a threat BOOM he's back trying to kill her. Okay, this guy is meant to be the person we're AFRAID OF. You know the guy who is described since movie 1 as pure evil so why is this scene in it? It just undermines whatever fear we were feeling before and afterwards.Then here's my second complaint now what was it? Oh yeah WHO THE HELL IS THE GUY IN THE CLOAK? He arrives on a bus in Haddonfield, We never see his face and all he does is walk around the town until the ending. We are given no explanation so fill us in - Who is he? What is he doing there? Why is he doing it? just to name a few things. If they're setting things up for a sequel then please give me some clue.Then there's the editing. For the most part it's okay but other parts where it's some of the worst editing I have ever seen. The opening credits are headache inducing as credits roll by and inbetween there are close-up shots that last half a second of something barely comprehensible literally flashes on screen and there's even a couple of scenes in the movie that do this which add nothing and pretty much the worst way to scare people since flickering lights on and off to someone going Wwwwwooooohhhhh.After all those complaints you might say This sounds like sh!t, what is actually good about it? Well the acting from Danielle Harris and Donald Pleasence is very well done, I mean they don't have much to work with but to an extent they do the best they can with it. The deaths are also creative and at times when it isn't turning Michael into something that can be stopped (sorry, I just can't get over this!) there is some tension to what is going on.So if you're one of those people that just likes seeing Michael over and over no matter what horrible movie he's in (except the remakes) then this might anger you but then again if you want to see him kill without mercy then this movie provides plenty of that (except for one scene... Okay I'll shut up now). If you are an average moviegoer then this isn't exactly a movie I'd recommend. I will watch the rest of the series but from what I've heard, they're even worse than this. "},{"Title":"My time would be better spent doing laundry","Date":"5 November 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Yet another well done title scene, with a large butcher knife stabbing and violently slashing its way through what turns out to be a pumpkin, creating its demonic smile, again leads absolutely nowhere, in this dull as darkly photographed dirt sequel, written by the director, Dominique Othenin-Girard, after the original screenwriter, Shem Bitterman, walked away from his unfinished draft.On the hyperbolic, clichd one year anniversary of the events in the previous film, The Shape rises up (again) from a coma (his second), to hack and slash to ribbons another group of repulsive teenagers in Haddonfield, trying (yet again) to kill his niece, now somehow linked to him with ESP.This movie is darkly lit, and rarely any fun at all; there are only a few eerie shots in the film, and a frightening scene where The Shape tries to run down several people. Its 90 minutes run time seems much longer than it actually is, because the remainder of the film was obnoxious characters meeting with darkly photographed ends. Donald Pleasance's character is needless cruel, and the filmmakers unsuccessfully went for a Psycho-like twist by killing off a lead girl thirty minutes into the film.Probably the most violent, pointless Halloween film; it is also the second film in a row in this series (and the third Halloween film overall) which retroactively changes the previous film's ending, which makes this film's pointless, nihilistic ending even more irrelevant. "},{"Title":"the most underrated halloween movie","Date":"26 January 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" for some reason quite a few halloween fans dislike this installment of the series, but me i think its one of the best, i think its much better than part 4, so is the mask, i love the mask in this one its creepy, and michael is scary again in this, and very mean, the laundry chute scene is still very tense even to this day. the actor that played michael myers in this is great, the guy in part 4 played him like a clown, i cannot take myers seriously in part 4, but here he's scary again, and i love how you can always seen him in the background its eerie, there are some geniunly unerving scenes in this, and i think its a great movie, and regardless of what most people say i feel its the only other halloween movie that captures the atmosphere and vibe of the first one, sure most people will disagree, but most people's problem with this movie are small little things, as it stands this is an above average slasher with some great creeps and scares, i highly recommend "}{"Title":"Pretty decent but still with some flaws","Date":"24 July 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Learning he never died following his previous encounter, Loomis again sets off after Michael who continues his remorseless assault on his long-hidden relative, now driven insane following his earlier encounter with the family.This one was far better than it really deserves to be and manages to come across as rather decent overall entry in the series. One of the best parts is that this is one of the few movies in the series that actually concerns itself with continuity, as the continuity between this and the previous entry starts right off the bat with the last parts of the previous film then carrying on the psychological effects onto this one, is a nice change of pace. The decision to now make Jaime psychically linked with Myers, which now renders her mute and in a nut- house for children, is pretty creative and a nice change of pace. The fear Myers instills in her is also creatively played out in several key scenes, including when she runs through the hospital from what she thinks is Myers down into the basement where a thrilling chase through the laundry before a fantastic revelation and when she comes out of her mute state as Myers is about to murder a friend and warns the police about Myers while in the middle of a pageant with her friends as the incident described is taking place with the oblivious friend, making for a rather fun time to be had. There are also a bit more traditional slashing elements to be found here, from the hospital chase in the opening through the long, twisting hallways, the encounter behind a grocery store, a stalking sequence at a party held in a barn that works well despite going on for three or four false-scares too long and the corn-field car-chase through the hay field as he stalks her friend through the hazy field in his car that work rather well as big action scenes and were all great parts that kept a lively pace. Indeed, these set the stage for the big trap for Myers in his house at the end to be a really enjoyable highlight that's overwhelmingly exciting and played out logically, from the police set-up and eventual diversion, the brawl with Loomis and stalking off through the house and down into the basement as the entire air duct sequence is utterly chilling coming close as he does on several occasions and the conclusion trap was done nicely. Along with the great body count, these positives manage to overcome the several flaws in here. The biggest issue with this one comes from the fact that Michael here really comes off as a total joke at time. It seems like he's supposed to be scary simply because it's him, as the sinister walk and threatening mannerisms are gone while for once the mask is a just a total, complete disaster here as the frizzy hair sticks out badly and the flaps around the neck don't cover him properly so it seems the mask doesn't fit properly, all of which manage to give him a goofy look but really robs him of his intimidation considerably. Also, they should have cut the scene when Jaime is confronting 'Uncle' Myers in the attic where Michael shows a tender side to himself by dropping his knife and taking off his mask, as even the tear was uncharacteristic and then he allows her to get close to wipe the tear away. Though it redeems itself as he went in a rage and went after her again that was true Michael Myers instead of those other two scenes, it's all about the tender side of Michael on display, which shouldn't have been there. The other flaw here is the absolutely ridiculous and protracted scene in the barn- house. After several minutes of watching these two teenagers try to scare each other by dressing as Michael Myers and stalking the other, it's quite fun then whenever it should've Myers, they pull the mask off to reveal the other and after the third false revelation they kept pulling the same stunt it's just too much and didn't care when the real Myers appeared. Otherwise, this one was quite fun.Rated R Graphic Violence, Graphic Language, Brief Nudity and several sex scenes. "},{"Title":"A really good sequel","Date":"1 February 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This yet another great sequel to The Halloween series This movie as some great scary moment in it and it is really creepy when Michael Myers is chasing anyone and I think it was a great idea that Jamie could not speak and her connection with Michael Myers was such a great idea.The the deaths scenes in this movie are not gory but this Halloween movies so focus more on the atmosphere from start to end of the movie and dose not want to gross you out.One of favourite scene as got to be where Jamie is trapped in the Laduary room that was really well done and was really scary and Michael Myers was really scary in that scenes.I think this movie is the most underrated of the whole series i going to give this movie 7 out 10. "},{"Title":"Sorry, I'm late; I slept in for the past year","Date":"22 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I'm curious to find out why 'Halloween 5 The Revenge of Michael Myers' left off the subtitle in the movie, when it's located everywhere else. Did PART 5 want to be taken seriously, perhaps? Good luck. Though a somewhat harmless piece of work (for 80's slasher fans only, not true-Myers ones), it's far from Oscars, best sequel lists or even its closest competitor's (Jason, Freddy) movies. I think they gave up by this point; where #4 was a remake, this installment was simply ridiculous in stupid little changes. They changed the recognizable Myer's home, his mask (which was supposed to be the same from #4) and the fact Jamie attached her FOSTER mother, not step-mother as this movie mistakes several times. Throw in idiot cops with an idiot comic theme, a child who brutally attacked someone but resides in an extreme-minimal security clinic, Pleasence, who should've been absolutely embarrassed to agree to this, now reduced to child abuser (is a doctor seriously going to use a little girl as bait, well, maybe after he's roughed her up a few times), characters (including a Stephen King/Fonzie wannabe) you simply can't wait to be butchered, an overacting, hyperventilating child that's annoying from minute one, a town spread over about 2 blocks &#x96; everything/one is within a few second walk and a steel-toed trenchcoated mystery guest, an obvious set up plot line for #6 that wouldn't have hit theatres for another six years. Apparently Michael's been a sleep a year &#x96; if what he has is a curse, I'd gladly take on that curse and sleep in that long &#x96; and he's back to kill at random, mimic his slasher-buddy Jason Vorhees, imitate a pedophile by a school, be stalked by his one-patient doctor and get his niece. But wait, this time we see a birthmark (or could be a temp-tattoo) that matches a mysterious visitor. What does it all mean? Just kidding; even they'll admit to no depth in this movie. "},{"Title":"Just as good as the others,except part 3.","Date":"15 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I am a huge fan of the 'Halloween' movies.They're fun to watch, bloody, entertaining, and the series will never end,since there's going to be another installment in the series. 'Halloween 5' is yet another great installment in the series.It isn't as bloody as some of the other movies, but it's really entertaining like the others.One of the things that I don't like about this movie is Michael Myers's mask.But it isn't the worst.The masks in part 2 and 6 weren't great, but the movies were still good.I can't say that this movie isn't my favorite in the series, but it sure is entertaining.Highly recommended for other fans of the series. "},{"Title":"He comes home. Yet again.","Date":"23 October 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Today someone dug up a coffin of a nine-year-old girl, Jamie. Jamie, you're nine years old. What do you think he's going to do with that when he finds you? - Sam LoomisPicking up exactly a year after the wildly successful Halloween 4 The Return Of Michael Myers, the fifth installment has Michael Myers escaping his fate at the end of the previous film, only to be taken in by a hermit who nurses him back to health until the holiday rolls around again. Michael again pursues his niece Jamie (Harris), who is left mute and under psychiatric care after the events of the last film. Dr. Loomis (Pleasence) has plans of his own and in an effort to use Jamie as bait, probably destroys the last shred of sanity he has left.Halloween 5 The Revenge Of Michael Myers suffers from a severe case of sequelitis. Not to say that it isn't a good enough film, because it definitely has some good things going for it, but this is surely where the franchise started to get messy. We are introduced to a mysterious figure, known at the time as the Man in Black, who shares an identical tattoo with Myers, leading into quite possibly one of the worst plot devices in the next film. Aside from that, director Dominique Othenin-Girard takes the series into territory it doesn't belong. In this film, Michael resembles some of the more faceless killers of the 80's, as he stalks horny teenagers in a barn scene that is extremely derivative of the Friday the 13th series and seems as if he's willing to kill anyone he sees, even if they don't get in his way. Another problem here is we see a certain beloved character get the axe, while the characters who take their place have absolutely no exposition, nor any likable features. Tina (Wendy Kaplan) is one character in particular who is likely to give you a splitting headache before it's all over. Other nit-picky things -- like the horrible mask, wrestler-sized Michael Myers and mansion-esquire Myers house -- I'll overlook for the sake of not complaining too much. In all honesty, Halloween 5 is still a decent flick, and probably the last truly enjoyable entry in the series. Othenin-Girard, despite not knowing what to do with the story, does put on a better show than is expected, with some striking visuals and a few, truly suspenseful scenes (all about the laundry chute!) to counter the more cheesy, slasher clichs on display. Danielle Harris is great again as Jamie Lloyd, and despite reportedly being at odds with the director, Donald Pleasence turns in an excellent performance, with some of his most memorable lines in the series. Halloween 5 makes a nice companion piece to Halloween 4 and you should enjoy it while you can, because six years later, things got messy and the story started to unravel. Badly. Final word is that despite it's slasher-syndrome, The Revenge Of Michael Myers is still a worthy entry into the series that is a little hard not to enjoy, despite it's flaws. "},{"Title":"Halloween 5  The Comedy","Date":"12 October 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Not much to say on this fifth entry because it retains none of the power of the original masterpiece or its excellent sequel. Michael Myers is still walking about like a very old man on his way to a shuffleboard game. The climatic events of the rubbish fourth film pave the way for some sort of daft psychic link between disturbed niece and loony uncle. Donald Pleasence is so tired and over the hill in this movie you forget just how great he was in Halloween and Halloween II.And when the now obligatory sex scene occurs in this flick, i was happy with their fate and found it quite hilarious.It was supposed to be a horror film, not a comedy. Awful. "},{"Title":"Mediocre at best","Date":"10 August 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" How much difference several years make. For years I thought this was one of the best Halloween films and having recently gone through the lot of them I'm hard pressed to figure out why I thought so highly of it. It's not terrible but it's easily the least enjoyable entry concerning Michael Myers thus far (Halloween Resurrection proved to be the series's low point).Beginning immediately after the fourth film ends with Michael once again escaping death and drifting down a river. He winds up comatose for a year (staying in a cabin with some guy) and wakes up just in time for the next Halloween. Then he takes another stab at his niece (Danielle Harris) but Dr. Loomis (Pleasence) is waiting for him. But this time around a mysterious man dressed in black seems to be pursuing Michael and he sports some kind of weird tattoo on his hand.When you consider the fantastic ending of the fourth film it's a real shame the route this film took. It's just another rehash of the excellent fourth entry as Michael pursues his young niece (but he's more than willing to take time off from that chore to dispose of some horny teenagers).Halloween 4 The Return of Michael Myers was a surprise hit. Designed as a low budget flick to simply cash in a bit more on the franchise, Halloween 4 was a big hit and overall a very good horror film. Director Dwight H. Little put the emphasis on mood and atmosphere and ended up making the second best film in the series. Producer Moustapha Akkad realized the potential and immediately put in motion another entry in the series. The fourth film had a knockout ending where it seemed that Michael's niece was going to follow in her uncle's footsteps as she brutally assaulted her stepmother in Michael Myers style. The filmmakers decided not to take that route and a hack director (Dominique-Othenin Girard) was hired to helm the film.Nothing in Halloween 5 is very special. While the fourth film had mood and atmosphere to spare the fifth flick just plays out it's murder set pieces in an agonizingly long manner. Stalking sequences are far too long and unsuspenseful. There's also a pair of cops who look like a bad version of Laurel and Hardy and just listen to the music that accompanies those scenes. You have to see it to believe it.Girard doesn't seem very good at generating suspense. His voyeuristic approach (while sometimes looking similar to Carpenter's original) is clumsily done and way too long-winded. The kills are done splendidly but that simply doesn't count for much. The best moments of the film occur near the end when there's a showdown in Michael's old house. A scene involving Michael's niece and a laundry shaft (I think that's what it's called) is very nicely done and really the only suspenseful scene in the entire film. But then the film ends with Michael being freed from prison by the man dressed in black and we're greeted with the Thorn crap that the sixth film tried to make sense of.Danielle Harris is very good as Michael's niece and she plays a difficult part (for a child anyway) to perfection. Her character is a bit annoying in the beginning but she pulls off her role brilliantly. Ellie Cornell is as appealing as she was in the fourth film but her role here is way too short. Pleasence is good, as always, but he admitted that he didn't like the script and simply did what he had to to earn his paycheck.I love the Halloween movies. I can always revisit them and enjoy them, even though not every one of them are good. Halloween 5 missed a golden opportunity to take the series into very interesting territory and we can blame money hungry producers who were afraid that if they deviated from the formula they'd pay the price. That might have happened but I'm sure we would have ended up with a much more interesting film. "},{"Title":"Very Good Movie","Date":"5 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Caution This comment contains spoilers!I saw Halloween 1 and thought it was great. I haven't seen all the sequels, but I did see Halloween 5 and contrary to most of the comments here, I thought it was very good.It was not a slash-fest. There is one killing at the beginning of the movie and then some killings during the climax at the end. But in between, there is just suspense. I thought the movie was excellent because of a scene near the end. After Michael chases his niece Jamie to the attic of his house, he slowly approaches her with his knife. Before he can stab her, she utters, Uncle. Michael is visibly shaken by her utterance. You can see the rage leave Michael's body, as he becomes limp and drops the knife by his side. Jamie then says, Let Me See, as she lifts the mask from his face. You then see Michael's face and he seems contrite as he begins to cry. A closeup reveals a tear in Michael's eye.It might sound corny, but I thought it was very effective. Animals can't cry and the fact that Michael did cry showed he was human and had emotions, despite his maniacal ways. I recommend this movie. "},{"Title":"OK this movie was  better then 3,8,6.......","Date":"18 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This movie was better then some of the Halloween movies,but not John Carpenter's master piece,2 or 4,but this movie deserves to be credited as one of the top 5 because it is.It sticks to the plot.The sequels in the Halloween movies aren't supposed to be better then the original,but to let a franchise live on!Some people don't see this and just say how bad it was but the isn't the worst!Season of The Witch definitely won that award!This movie is about Michael escaping a hospital when over hearing his niece is still alive(which is his last living relative)He tracks her down and tries to kill her,but on his way he kills her friends,and almost her and her sister.He is shot down at the end and she and her sister live and go home with Dr. Loomis.But while Jamie's adopted parent is getting Jamie's bath ready,Jamie becomes Micheal and stabs her mom!! "},{"Title":"Something went awfully wrong with this one...bad script...","Date":"25 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" After the success of HALLOWEEN 4, it was predictable that the studio would go on with another sequel. The only good thing about this one is that it picks up the story exactly where the last film left off, giving an explanation for the fact that little DANIELLE HARRIS is behind bars in a clinic for disturbed children. But within the first half-hour of the story, it's obvious that this is no HALLOWEEN 4.As someone else pointed out, DONALD PLEASANCE is just about as psychotic as Michael Meyers in his quest to find the serial killer who seems to be eradicating all the citizens of Haddonfield every time it's Halloween. ELLIE CORNELL as Rachel is killed off early in the story and, unfortunately, there are no other likable members among the youthful cast to root for. It's as if they were scripted, all of them, to deserve their fate.Without a good plot structure and much too much repetition, this one begins to sink before the midway point. All of the fright sequences are done competently enough but just don't have the same tension or creepiness of the better ones in this series.Summing up Not helped by Donald Pleasance's decision to ham it up unmercifully to draw attention--but it doesn't work. They should have quit after HALLOWEEN 4. "}{"Title":"The title makes no sense. Revenge? What's M.M. got to be angry about?","Date":"13 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Perhaps a SPOILER here...The Halloween franchise has always been an average/mediocre one, so why do I even bother? Because I don't mind watching a bad horror film. It beats even an average drama, or a well-made left-wing thriller.Predictable, pointless and at times quite irritating zillionth entry in the slash-'em-up genre. The real stunner is that we find out that Michael Myers has a heart (of gold). Oooooohhhh, isn't that sweet and touching. His hatred consumes him, you see, but he's really just a sweet boy inside who cannot let go off the anger. An L.A. jury would acquit this guy in a millisecond. The PC, new-age 90s have finally caught up with the horror genre. "},{"Title":"8 out of 10","Date":"14 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" 'Halloween pt. 5' takes place right after part 4, just like the original 'Halloween' films. None of the sequels will ever measure up to the brilliant original, but part 5 isn't too bad. It's one year after part 4, when Michael Myers is blasted into a mine shaft.He manages to pull himself out, & gets nursed back to health by a hermit. Soon he finds himself back to Haddonfield, after his niece Jaime & whoever else gets in his way. Jaime is staying at Haddonfield Children's Clinic, after her 'breakdown'. Since part 4, she is somehow linked mentally with Michael, & can sense who is in danger & where. It's as she looks thru his eyes. Also, you get a glimpse of the mysterious Man In Black, who is brought back in a larger role in 'Halloween 6'. Both characters have a thorn tattoo on their wrists, & are apparently linked somehow. Some of the characters return from part 4, which is reminded from the first two films, & of course screen icon Donald Pleasence returns as Dr. Sam Loomis, who once again is on Michael's track. This time, Dr. Loomis seems just as psychotic as Michael. It's not a bad movie at all. Watch it with part 4 back-to-back.Rated R for Extreme Graphic Violence, Sexual Situations and Profanity. "},{"Title":"Back with a vengeance, and a lot of other crap...","Date":"2 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" It's so so... There is some comic relief in this movie which is a first for this series.Michael Myers is'NT dead. He returns one year later to continue his pursuit of his niece, who now knows when, and were, he will strike next.I'm not kidding when I say it's so so...The scares, are barley frightening. The gore is at a all time high. The acting of all the characters is slightly downed. Including Sam Loomis!The mask however is better. Not great still, but it looks more sinister.The whole connection and psychic ability thing now is really a downer for this. It just doesn't fit in. It's not enough this guy is'NT able to die, now there is a telepathic girl?My ranking 5th... It's a so so sequel "},{"Title":"Michael turns into Jason's distant brother.","Date":"18 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Halloween 5 takes place a year after Halloween 4. Jamie Lloyd is now in a hospital for children and she's a mute due to the trauma she endured from the year before. Loomis makes check ups on her to see how she's doing. Meanwhile, Michael is being nursed back to health by a hermit in the woods (don't ask). Suddenly, Michael awakes and begins going after his 10 year old niece again. This Halloween is so much like an entry into the Friday the 13th series that you might even forget what film you're watching. The murders are increasingly gory, Michael Myers is more like the Hulk, and everything else is just bad.The only thing that's left over from the previous movies is the score. Everything else has changed in style, for the worse. Michael Myers is now a brutal killing machine instead of a silent stalker. His mask looks utterly terrible and it would inspire bouts of laughter rather than screams of terror. Continuity goes out the window when we see that the once modest looking two story Myers house has transformed into an 18th century Victorian mansion. In this movie, Jamie shares a telepathic bond with her uncle, making the plot more ridiculous than it has to be. The addition of two bumbling police officers with idiot music to accompany them every time they appear takes the mood right out of the film. This movie doesn't feel like a Halloween movie at all.The acting in this film is terrible. The acting in the previous movies (not counting part 3) held up for slasher movie acting, but in this movie it's just like Friday the 13th. The acting is so goofy and unbelievable that you're left shaking your head. Even the great Donald Pleasance delivers a poor performance, but can you blame him? I bet he knew the series was going to hell. But hey, a paycheck's a paycheck right? This movie even dares to compromise everything we've learned about Michael Myers so far by showing him cry! He's supposed to be emotionless. What is the most disappointing aspect of this film you ask? The ending. I'm sure there are tons of people who love the ending of this movie, but I'm not one of them. After seeing Michael shot, stabbed, lit on fire, blown up, etc. you find yourself wondering what great way they're going to kill him this time. Nope, they end up arresting him. We actually see Michael handcuffed like a common criminal in a jail cell. And what happens? The movie turns into Rambo when a mysterious man in black bursts into the police station and kills everybody, breaking Michael out. Who is this man? Where has he been through the rest of the series when Michael was in trouble? Why does he want Michael? I guess we'll just have to wait until Halloween 6. Oh, and for those who haven't seen Halloween 6, trust me...The explanation ain't great.While I will give it the fact that this is one of the most complicated end of movie cliffhangers ever, I can't praise the rest of the movie. I suppose it's half entertaining to slasher fans and fans of the series, but overall it's ill conceived, poorly acted, and poorly written.4/10 "},{"Title":"The death of Halloween","Date":"7 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" And here we witness the moment when the Halloween franchise began a slow and painful death. Part 4 was just about passable as it followed the idea of the first film, but part 5 tries to take the series in a new direction that makes it totally ridiculous. I have mixed feeling about this film, it has its good moments, but it has far too many that are just ridiculous. Donald Pleasence even seems sick of being in Halloween, as he bumbles on about how evil Michael is and even attempts to persuade Michael to stop killing. There is a good moment when Michael takes off his mask for his niece, but this is very out of place and would have fitted Halloween 2 better than this (ie. too little, too late). There are a few suspenseful moments such as when Michael's niece hides herself in a laundry chute, but mostly Halloween 5 bumbles along seemingly without any direction. Watch this is you must, but be warned - it is very mediocre. "},{"Title":"Guess Whose Back...","Date":"20 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Michael returns in the fifth chapter in the Halloween series, HALLOWEEN 5 THE REVENGE OF MICHAEL MYERS. Though it's not as good as 1, 2, and 4, it is still a very good film and will be enjoyed by all fans of the first three films in the Michael Myers series.The film takes place one year after the fourth film. Jamie is still alive, and even though the fourth one wouldn't lead you to believe so, she is quite sane. But she is not the only one who is still alive. Michael Myers comes looking for his niece, and her stepsister who almost killed him one year before. This time, he refuses to stop.This film was pretty good! I heard people say that it was terrible compared to 1 and 2 and not a very good follow up to part 4, but I enjoyed it. I think that most people who really like the first one a lot (like myself) will really enjoy this film. It is definitely way better then the sequels that followed it. A must see for all Halloween fans! "},{"Title":"The WORST In The Series!","Date":"22 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"      After Michael's icredible return in HALLOWEEN 4THE RETURN OF MICHAEL MYERS,fans were yet again craving for some more.Have you ever heard of becareful what you wish for.With director Dominique Othenin-Girard and writers Shem Bitterman and Michael Jacobs,you'll expect a great sequel right.Not.    After being shot down by the police officers,Michael is about to die,but then is nurse back to help by a stranger.And after what Jamie did on part 4,she is now put in a mental hospital for kids,never talking again.Under the care of Dr.Loomis,both of them know that Michael's alive and there both waiting.But a man in black has arrived in town,caring the same mark on his hands as Michael's.Who is he and does Jamie and Loomis or even Michael know he's here.    This is just dumb.It has so many unanswered questions,it's hard to belive.Who is the man in black?What happened to Jamie?Why does Michael's mask change in a year?And others more,but I won't get into that.Thank GOD they made the come back sequel to this that answered all these questions.The acting is also horrible,except for Danielle Harris and Donald Pleasence.Even Michael's acting is horrible.The WORST in the series. "},{"Title":"Not bad and not good.","Date":"10 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I don't know why people just can't leave a good horror movie alone for once. HALLOWEEN, which was held in such high regard as a horror film had to be ruined by these, now countless sequels that just keep on going, and going, and going, and going...HALLOWEEN 4 wasn't the best installment in the series in the first place, so why did people decide to make a fifth entry? We will never know. But now number nine is in the works. The film runs on way too long and a lot of the situations written here are just not believable. Once you think the film has ended, no...it just keeps on going and going and going.Donald Pleasance still looks enthusiastic about making the film even though it is his fourth Michael Meyers movie. Movies like this are the kind designed to waste our time. Not that I had anything better to do, but I am still a little upset about the whole thing. There isn't much of a story, except that Michael comes back yet again and starts killing more people without much of a reason. Not that its bad or anything...killing people is his job. The latest HALLOWEEN RESURRECTION was being released with Michael's buddy Jason's new movie, JASON X. Now that those films are getting old, people just *have* to keep the series, so film number nine is most likely in the works.Let's all just hope the ninth movie is a lot better than this atrocity. HALLOWEEN 5 gets 2/5.P.S. This film is still better than the sixth film, HALLOWEEN THE CURSE OF MICHAEL MEYERS. "},{"Title":"The worst years of Horror","Date":"29 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Alright. Welcome to the 80's- The BEST decade of Horror, ever! 3 icons have risen above the rest and regularly make sequels- Jason, Freddy, and the king, Michael Myers.But- wait. The 80's ended. And the 90's, one of the worst decades of Horror ever, became the time period. And then... Finally, I ask why.This is the reason. THIS movie! And I am serious. This is not the only movie that contributed to the downfall of half- decent horror. But it is one of the biggest ones.Did you notice, maybe, that sequels always drain the story? They're never all that good? Although Halloween 2 was fine, sure, 2, 3 in a series is acceptable. Never more.Because They make the story worse, making lower standards. You only have to work so hard now. Not even Scream could save our Horror movies.New Nightmare, a Freddy film, is thelast 80's movie. It was made in 94, of course, but it is truly an 80's style movie.Halloween 5 is not. Either is Halloween 4. And, we were going to lose interest in Horror when...Out of the darkness of bad movies came Scream. Hey, if this was a 90's movie, alright! It took long enough!But movies like this inspired Scream. So... is it a cycle? Did this movie NOT ruin horror today? Here's my thoughts-The year 2000 decade. The 90's horror is left behind. And movies come out again! Movies like... Feardotcom? Leprechaun in Da Hood?No! Thank God, like New Nightmare is truly an 80's film, those were 90's films! But... 2002, and I'm getting tired of waiting!Then, out of the darkness that had lasted 14 years with just New Nightmare and Scream with fleeting flashes of light, I see- The Ring. This is the Horror Movie Fan's Messiah. This is the movie, people. THIS is what our decade's horror must be!And, although movies like Ghost Ship still do appear... So what? We have our model. We have what must happen. All we have to do is follow the Ring... and we'll be saved.So... what is 2000 horror? More mysterious.Other 2000 movies-Hellraiser Series (1980's to 2000's, which they easily embraced) Dreamcatcher Jeepers Creepers Series Miracles (TV Series, sure, I know)Maybe more?...  "},{"Title":"One of the more mediocre movies in the Halloween franchise","Date":"27 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  After the great Halloweens 1, 2, and 4, many were hoping that 5 would live up to the standards that its three predecesors set. Unfortunately, misses that mark... and by a lot. Halloween 5 The Revenge of Michael Myers is your typical slasher film from the 80's that shows no originality or any sense of intelligence whatsoever. Sure, there are a few good scares (i.e. the laundry shoot scene), but doesn't every slasher flick have some? The cast features a bunch of unknowns (Wendy Kaplan... Tamara Glynn... Jeffrey Landman???), and every one of the new cast members fails to impress (I was cheering Michael on to run over Tina). Meanwhile, the cast members from the previous outing show some sort of experience and are very good in their roles. Donald Pleasence is spectacular in his role as usual, though his role as Dr. Loomis seems to be getting tired. Ellie Cornell, though she's in the movie for no more than 10 minutes, plays her role as Rachel very well and gives another entertaining performance. Danielle Harris is convincing as Jamie once again, and Beau Starr plays his role as Sheriff Meeker just as well as in the fourth. Despite those few exceptions, the cast is dismal and for the most part terrible.If your looking for a mediocre slasher flick, then look no farther than Halloween 5 or anything in the Friday the 13th series. If you're looking for something more satisfying and suspenseful, turn to Halloween, Halloween 2, or Halloween 4.Rating 4.5/10 "}{"Title":"After this it was all downhill","Date":"24 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Halloween 5 started the trend of all the movies going downhill and being bad. The script is weak. I mean the whole thing about Jamie knowing when he's gonna kill could have gone somewhere but instead it doesn't. This is about slashing, dicing and it has no tits in it. The ending makes no sense and the series began to suck after this one. For die hard fans only. "},{"Title":"There are so many things wrong with this disappointing sequel","Date":"19 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  In Halloween 4 The Return of Michael Myers, the masked maniac was shot and left for dead.  One year later, he returns to stalk his niece (Danielle Harris), who has developed a sixth sense - she knows when he's going to kill.  Donald Pleasence returns as Dr. Loomis who works in the same hospital where the girl is staying ever since after the events from the previous sequel. He needs her help in tracking down Michael Myers and stopping him once and for all.There are so many things wrong with this disappointing sequel.  Here's the list a) It's more of a reworking of the last installment than a sequel. b) The girl's foster sister (Ellie Cornell) from the last sequel is killed off too soon.  c) The worst Michael Myers mask since Halloween II.  d) The man in black wanders around town (but becomes an important character in the end).  e) More whining and screaming from Harris.  f) Poor writing and directing.  g) Too many endings, setting up for another sequel.  My evaluation * out of ****.  "},{"Title":"MY GOD!!!!!!!!","Date":"12 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  If someone knows what the hell was going on during this movie, I would love to know. Michael Myers driving a Camaro, an obviously crazed and drunk Donald Pleasence, the cute Danielle Harris, a man in black who has no purpose but springs Myers at the end, AN ENDING THAT MAKES NO SENSE, this all leads to a movie that was completely stupid. It went from a strong beginning, a semi-weak middle, and a completely horrible ending. Did the director even read the script? This was one confusing horror movie. "},{"Title":" Great, psycho boyfriend","Date":"5 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Danielle Harris is vehement as Jamesa in this wry horror film. The supporting cast is nonchalant. The costumes are pretty. One of the fair flicks in the genre, Halloween 5 The Revenge Of Michael Myers arouses less shocks. 5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"this wasnt that bad","Date":"11 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This was a good movie. i liked it from the start to finish. The music was good, its still creepy like usual. The acting was good. Donald was a little bit preachy in this one but i still liked it. I recommend this movie to anyone who loves the Halloween series and or loves a good horror movie. "},{"Title":"DIE DAMN IT!!!!","Date":"30 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Will this man or 'It' not die ever? Here he is finding himself in the same situation he was in the last film trying to kill his niece Jamie who is now also locked up in an institute.  Must be a family thing.This time they end up in some rundown old house where Loomis and some rubbish cops try to corner him and capture him by using Jamie as bate. Of course all but Loomis and Jamie get slaughtered and she ends up in a coffin where there is a bit of a family reunion. She calls Michael Uncle and he shows SOME feeling before attempting to slice her with a knife he always convieniently has. Of course Jamie survives and the endings a bit naff but it's worth watching at least once to see Michael come over all shy.Something tells me though that we're being milked for all it's worth.   Why doesn't Michael just retire or something. He manages to slaughter just about everybody except his intended victim. Doh! **1/2 out of ***** "},{"Title":"Samhain!!!!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"6 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of the best sequels.I think it's better than Halloween IV! THE STORYFor 2 years,Myers lies in a coma.Then he wakes up really ticked off and goes after his niece Jamie,who I might add,is now mute. SPOILER HERE(BEWARE)Rachel and Tina die! Needles to say,Dr.Loomis is back and he's being watched...they all are! "},{"Title":"Simply the worst","Date":"3 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  POSSIBLE SPOILERS**** Halloween 5 is one of the worst horror movies ever made. Actually one of the worst movies period. Let me see, where can i start... Okay the characters. What is with that annoying Tina girl?? She should've been killed off in the place of Rachel. And her boyfriend Mike. Whats he supposed to be, a Fonzie of the late 80's? And Samantha ( the stupid virginal blond ) another stupid character, that did nothing for the movie. And last but not least, her boyfriend Spitz. He does not look like any high school kid at all. he looks 40 years old, and you can tell he is going bald. Now another thing. One thing that is responsible for about 70 percent of this movie's stupidity, is the fact that Michael Myers and Jamie Lloyd are now somehow psychicly connected. Very stupid. Sounds like Something that you could expect from one of the later Friday the 13th sequels. And then theres the Myers house. In the first and 2nd films, it was just an average suburban home in a typical neighborhood. Now all of a sudden its practically a high-class mansion. What, did they think no one would notice that? And alot of the action at the end takes place in a barn and a farm. Its screaming ( Friday the 13th, Part 3 ) rip off. Please do not waste your time on this.  2/10 "},{"Title":"Okay entry","Date":"2 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I HATE THE MASK IN THIE MOVIE!!!!!!Okay, with that said...This entry into the Halloween series is just a little more involved than 4, with plot that is...The psychic link betweeen jamie and michael, etc.  But it falls into the cliche Slasher genre (okay the entire series is that , but still.)  No real scares, little suspense and a very unanimated Michael.  I can never seem to get into this one.  For the type of movie it is, it is way too long.  I think some trimming could have been done.However, what can one expect...This is number 5!6 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Die Die Die Die Michael Die","Date":"31 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Myers is back with a stupid mask.This sequel contains lots of mistake.First one is stupid looking Myers mask.Second is Myers's Gothic house.In H4 Myers's house is a small house but now it looks like a mansion.Plot is good but acting is awful.Only Rachel  is acting well.Dr looks unhappy in this sequel.Man in black idea is good.Ending is too mysterious.This movie is not scary enough.I'm giving 6/10 "}{"Title":"I prayed that he would burn in hell...but in my heart, I knew that hell would not have him!","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The fourth sequel to the popular original and more of a psychological thriller than any of the others. I liked that they took the subject matter more seriously and that they took a darker route, but there's too many flaws in this sequel to ignore. A shame too...STORY A rather weak script with some kool ideas. The final confrontation in the Myers house, everything that Loomis did, Michael's new mean streak, and the awesome telepathic link with Jamie certainly scored this movie points. Well, the link was handled rather clumsily because never really explained but whatever. I loved how they made it seem that Michael may have a soul after all and his scenes with Jamie were both tense and strangely touching.It's nice to see Michael develop as a character. I also liked how Michael was treated more like a real serial killer. It added a much needed touch of realism. What I didn't love was the whole Man in Black thing. It slowed down the story and led to an ending that p***** me off. This could be forgiven since H5 was meant as a set up sequel rather than it's own movie. That's the key flaw here. If they had focused on just making Halloween 5, rather than setting up for Part VI, then the movie would have been much better. Also, the comedy just didn't belong here. It detracted from the film's grim atmosphere.ACTING Mostly decent. Donald Pleasance gives a spirited performance as Sam Loomis, this time more obsessed with stopping Michael than ever. He was willing to risk Jamie's life in order to stop Michael once and for all and that shows a lot about the good doctor. The scenes where Loomis tried to reach Michael were the most interesting of the film. Pleaseance really made you believe that Michael had a shot at redemption. Don Shanks has a terrible mask to work with, but conveys Michael's sick nature and his rage perfectly. He was also the perfect choice to be Michael during his unmasking scenes. Danielle Harris outdoes her performance from the last film and certainly surprised me with the amount of talent she showed. Meeker was back again and he was great as always. The teens were well acted, but I hated their characters. Wendy Kaplan was credible but her character is too much of a ditz for her own good. She was REALLY hard to watch and I think she died much too easily. The other teens aren't worth caring about either. Too damn annoying. And do I even have to mention Billy?DIRECTING Great stuff. A dark, gothic look with some great camera angles. Can't go wrong there. Unlike Little, the director here actually works in some quality suspense and a few nailbiting sequences. Far too good that a fourth sequel really deserves...Now if only they had a better mask to work with....Oh and I loved the intro.MUSIC All the 80s rock songs are steaming crap, but the score is one of the best scores of the series. Several remixes of the Halloween theme and creative use of non-instruments. Not as creepy as the first two scores, not as cool as the one in Part 6, but definately good stuff.OTHER The gore here is mostly hid by shadows, just like the first movie. No crappy cut aways, but nothing disturbing. The T&A was pretty absent here and that's too bad. It would've been the only thing that woukd make Tina & CO. remotely interesting.  Were the blond kids utterly annoying while they were having sex or what?! I considered turning the movie off right there...This sequel does a lot of things right, but it does several things wrong too. Namely the misplaced comedy, the annoying teens, and the slow middle. Believe me....those things are really THAT bad. A good sequel ruined...I give it ** "},{"Title":"Michael returns, and he's furious!","Date":"29 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  With the big success of HALLOWEEN 4, HALLOWEEN 5 was quickly made and was in theaters the very next year. A year after the events in the previous film, Michael returns with a vengeance, setting out after all who took him down the year before. Meanwhile, his young niece, Jamie (Danielle Harris, giving a performance even better than her previous), has developed a psychic connection with her killer uncle at times she can see through his eyes and mimmicks his actions with her hands. Dr. Loomis uses her ability to try and find out where Michael is, hoping to catch him before more die. Of course, many die before that happens. Everything ends up back where it all started, in the Myers house, and there's an intense sequence in which Jamie finds herself stuck in a laundry chute as Michael slashes through it with his knife. The scene is riveting, one of the most suspenseful sequences of any horror film. The climatic moment in which Michael removes his mask (his face hidden in shadow) proves to be both scary, suspenseful, and a bit touching at the same time. There's even an attempt at some tension-relieving comedy in the form of two dumb cops, which, thankfully, never gets as bad as it could have. The humor doesn't really work, but it was a nice try. For some reason, however, the film was a box office disappointment. Many fans of the series (even the die hard ones) don't like it. It's still good, with suspenseful scenes and another great performance by Donald Pleasence. European director Dominique Othenin-Girard (like Dwight H. Little before him) brings a great sense of atmosphere to the film, giving the film a visual image unlike any of the others that makes the film even more creepy. "},{"Title":"mediocre (4.0-5.0/10.0)","Date":"12 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The first &#145;slasher' film and thus one of the earliest horror films I saw was Halloween II. At the age of twelve I was mightily impressed and equally enjoyed the subsequent viewing of Parts I and III (hey, it's different).  Throughout my mid-teens I had an unhealthy diet of similar fare such as the numerous Friday The 13th's and A Nightmare On Elm Street's.  But by the time I saw Halloween IV in the early Nineties, my slasher &#145;bubble' had burst.  I found it predictable and daft.  The genre reached its nadir with Friday 13th Part VIII which I saw at about the same time and compounded my disillusionment.  So after about ten years I've returned to the Halloween franchise with instalment number five.  I wasn't expecting much and unfortunately my foresight was correct.Halloween 5 begins exactly where Part 4 left off (plus points for continuity).  After being shot repeatedly and falling down a mineshaft, Michael Myers (not the guy from Austin Powers and Wayne's World, alas) crawls away to a remote log cabin.  The old man within assists the unconscious and wounded Myers in his ignorance (shades of Bride Of Frankenstein here).  A year later, to coincide with All Hallows, Myers' niece, Jamie, who is now resident in a children's institution goes into an epileptic fit.  Her doctors are baffled and helpless, all except the ever present Dr. Loomis (and the viewer), who know what is about to happen.*spoilers related to Halloween 2*This brings us to the first of many inconsistencies in the film.  &#145;A year later', so for all this time Myers has been comatose in the old hermits hut as if he was part of the furniture!  A continuity error from earlier films is the recuperative power of both Myers and Loomis.  Both were torched at the end of Part 2, but only Loomis appears to have any burns (albeit not as bad as expected).  Also Myers had his eyes shot out in the same film, here the film has numerous close ups of his eyes which are in perfect condition!Horror veteran Donald Pleasance who has been in an inexhaustive list of horror films returns as Loomis.  The good include The Flesh And The Fiends, Death Line, From Beyond The Grave, Prince Of Darkness, and the first two Halloween films.  The bad includes Nothing Underneath, The Uncanny and Halloween 4.  The &#145;ugly' is Buried Alive.  Throughout Halloween 5 Pleasance appears quite fatigued which adds weight to his portrayal of Loomis, a man who has suffered a lot.  It is odd that anyone would let Loomis near a children's hospital, he is as obsessive and as freaky as Myers.  The only person he can relate to is his former patient, his worldview narrowed(cf. the &#145;mad' scientist of most horror).  His relationship is quite paternal, note the softness (love) in his voice as he talks to Myers.*spoilers for this film (to end)*As Myers was incarcerated as a child he could be considered a youth in adult form.  He gets up to his normal tricks and treats here, but seems to have reached adolescence.  To wit; he drives his &#145;date' around town, &#145;discusses' sports cars with his peers, and treats a young couple making out to his own peccadillos (involving a garden fork and a scythe).  If the prongs on the fork had been longer we would have had another double slaying sans A Bay Of Blood and Friday 13th Part 2.The character of Jamie, although well acted, seems ill thought out.  Her psychic link is quite whimsical, some killings she can see, and others she can't.  Thus the linking falls to the level of a poor plot device used to link scenes and characters.  Also her relationship/confrontation with her uncle does not reach any sort of conclusion, it just becomes an excuse for a young girl to be in peril.Finally, the film features a mysterious man in black waltzing around whom reminded me of Max von Sydow in The Exorcist (the black coat and case).  I assume he is involved in the final scenes at the police station (cf. The Terminator)(also the police in the film seem to be based on the Keystone Kops!) but his motivations and identity are not resolved.  This of course paves the way for yet another sequel but leaves a rather unsatisfactory ending to this one. "},{"Title":"Does not live up to the other Halloween films","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Boring, muddled sequel, with the masked serial killer slaughtering many teenagers, and still after his young niece (Harris).  Typical slasher film loaded with blood and gore that is shamelessly related to the other Halloween films.    "},{"Title":"This movie is really far fetched","Date":"22 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is really far fetched. First off the fans are introduced to a man in black and it takes the writers almost 7 years after this movie to give the man in black a purpose. Anyway Michael Myers gets a soft spot which screws up what made this series so good. A monster who doesn't have any emotion. This movie gives him emotion.The only good part about this movie is of course the return of Donald Pleasence. Other than that its just another mindless sequel. "},{"Title":"Rent the original instead.","Date":"2 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Mike Myers just doesn't want to die. He returns and guess what he does? Attack and kill the survivors of Halloween 4. Gory and dull, this offers nothing new or creative. My advice Skip this and rent the original classic made by John Carpenter. My rating 3.5 out 10. The only good thing it does, is promote safe sex. "},{"Title":"Typical","Date":"26 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This would have to be your average kind of horror movie. You all shoudn't dislike it so much. It's not that bad, it just needs improving. Besides, H20 was a lot worse in my opinion. If ya wanna see what happened from where Halloween 4 left off, you should see this movie. It really isn't that bad. It may have SOME bad scenes but just avoid them and concentrate on the rest. I thought the ending was great! Even though most of the other Halloween's were better, don't count this one out. It's not all bad. "},{"Title":"I waited 4 years to watch this......","Date":"23 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  OK This was the last Halloween movie out of the series that I watched, basically because I couldn't find it anywhere, but then I got a copy and watched it....... Whoa....  This is very much like a Friday the 13th movie with teens partying and then getting slaughtered, and the mask , what's wrong with that huh?, it looks more like LeatherFace mask than Michael Myers mask, and the crazy music when the two cops were first introduced was exactly like something out of the Lame Friday the 13th movies.  Right now, I liked this movie a lot, Michael Has obviously survived the events at the end of Halloween 4, and lies dormant for a year then he awakes and hell breaks loose on Haddonfield once more......  He started of killing a guy who looked after him for a year then he Killed the Major character from Halloween 4, Rachel.  But he does not have the complete upper hand his niece Jamie now has a telepathic connection with him and can tell what he's going to do next, then there is Dr. Loomis who is a complete maniac in this movie intent on killing Michael once and for all.  The part that I liked the most was where Jamie and Michael bond !!!  She talks to him and asks to look at him without his mask and she tells him that they are the same, and the poor guy cries, but then Jamie falls over and Michael gets stressed out.......    The ending was what I would expect from the greatest Horror series of all time.   I give this movie an 8 out of 10. The Jamie/Michael scene should of been longer!! "},{"Title":"Pretty good.","Date":"13 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  A pretty good movie! Young Danielle Harris is giving an excellent performance and the movie is really scary and unexpected. This movie ties in with the previous movie just like the first two Halloween movies were also connected directly. When writing this I still didn't see the sixth movie, but it seems as if this story-line will continue there. Some nice murders, some suspense and good acting. This movie will satisfy the average horror fan.I'm not sure if this movie will be as enjoyable for those who didn't see the first two and the forth movies, since it's using what was already established in those movies. It's not necessarily a bad thing..! "},{"Title":"Actually I think this is the best Halloween sequel","Date":"29 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  First off, I hated Halloween H20. Kevin Williamson, you're rich, you're famous, now retire. Or just write TV. And Steve Miner - you can't direct.Halloween 2 is not bad. Not great.I'm not counting Halloween 3 in this discussion since that's the Season of the Witch and good old Miguel ain't in that one.Right, so we have Halloween 4, which has the best ending since Halloween 1. You have to love Jamie going all like Uncle Mike killing her stepmother. That was an amazing ending. Amazing. Creepy as hell.And then you have Halloween 5. Which has an absolutely hideous opening (that hermit who Michael shacks up with then kills? What?), but once it gets rolling it gets pretty fun. The Man in Black is confusing as hell but he adds a nice air of mystery to Michael (which almost excuses the fact that Michael, before this, has been shot a few times by Loomis in Part 1, blown up by Loomis in Part 2, and shot to pieces and thrown down in a mineshaft in Part 4, and yet he lives...I mean, it doesn't take a 1600 SAT score to figure out that Michael's not quite human...). I think the Man in Black at this point suggests supernatural forces behind Michael (and Part 6 has all that horrible Cult stuff that squandered the opportunity to make this nice and creepy).Anyway, back to why I like Part 5. It scares the living hell out of me. Part 4 has its moments (you have to love the thumb in the forehead and the aforementioned Jamie-Goes-Berserk at the end), but it meanders a bit too much and too much of it takes place in daylight. Part 5 is actually directed fairly well and while yes, it has a lot of the BOO! oh that's not the killer HERE'S THE KILLER, it gets past it on the strength of Danielle Harris freaking out like a banshee (she scares the hell out of me) and the use of shadows, low angles, etc.Okay, just one more note. I hate Part 6. It's the worst. "}{"Title":"Stylish, Suspenseful Addition to the Long Running Series","Date":"19 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Having cheated death once again, Michael Myers awakens from a year long coma to resume his annual killing spree and to hunt down his niece with whom he shares a telepathic connection. This late entry in the 80s slasher fad is surprisingly good thanks in no small part to a show-stopping performance by twelve year old Danielle Harris as Laurie Strode's daughter. Harris holds her own against Donald Pleasance who returns as a slightly demented, disfigured Doctor Loomis and establishes herself as a serious contender for reigning scream queen following in the heels of Halloween's Jamie Lee Curtis. Director Dominique (Omen IV) Othenin-Girard keeps the pace fast and the bodycount high despite the imperfections in the script. The cliff-hanger ending which comes out of nowhere seriously damages what is otherwise a stylish and scary film. "},{"Title":"These Mystery Boots Are Made For Walkin'","Date":"4 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Awful sequel. When it's not borrowing from other films (Bride of Frankenstein, The Eyes of Laura Mars), it's outright ripping them off (Friday the 13th Part 2). There's not a suspenseful or scary moment in the whole movie. Every new character is unlikeable. One of the somewhat likable characters from part 4 is killed off early and needlessly. Danielle Harris improves from the last film but spends a significant portion of the movie unable to speak. So take that for what it's worth. Donald Pleasence, the saving grace of most of these films, is here reduced to full-blown caricature. Still he tries to elevate the material by treating it seriously. Points for trying but it's a lost cause. Oh and the two bumbling comic relief cops what were they thinking with that? There's even goofy sound effects the first time they show up. Moronic.Another annoying thing are the constant red herring jumps. You know, where they lead you to believe Michael is about to attack someone, only to have it turn out to be a janitor or somebody's boyfriend acting like an ass. This movie is full of those cheap tricks. It gets old fast.Then there's the mystery character. Throughout the movie we get glimpses of him and his steel-tipped cowboy boots. He even helps Michael in the film's climax. We NEVER find out who he is. It's laughable. What a mess of a movie. Incompetently scripted and crudely directed. This is easily the worst of the series. "},{"Title":"turns into a mess","Date":"24 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" One year after Halloween 4, Michael Myers is still alive and killing. Jamie Lloyd (Danielle Harris) is living in a children's hospital after stabbing her stepmother. She is now mute and finds that she's linked with Myers. Rachel Carruthers (Ellie Cornell) and Dr. Sam Loomis (Donald Pleasence) are trying to help the disturbed child.Donald Pleasence is going overboard with the hysterical acting. Danielle Harris is now almost exclusively crying or otherwise in a dire state. It's a disappointment considering that Halloween 4 ended with her turning evil. It could have been a great turn for the franchise. And turning her mute really restricts her effectiveness as a character.The first kill with Ellie Cornell is quite effective. She's in a skimpy towel. It has a nice build up. But you know it's going to be a bad movie when they play that silly 'comedic' music for the two cops ogling Ellie. Nevertheless Ellie's kill is great, but it all goes down hill from there. And the ending is way too messy. "},{"Title":"Can't Stop Him.","Date":"12 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Set a year after the previous film ended, sequel has Doctor Loomis(Donald Pleasance, still game) trying to help Jamie Lloyd(Danielle Harris) after her mental breakdown from the previous year. She is responding to a new hypnotherapy treatment, but it seems to telepathically link her to her uncle Michael, who is(of course!) still alive, and coming back to town to kill her again, and anyone who stands in his way. Ellie Cornell returns(all too briefly) as Rachel, and also features a mysterious man in black, who plays a crucial role at the end...Series hits bottom with this poorly directed and written film that also quite crassly kills a key character, then spends too much time chasing and terrorizing a young girl. Unlike the underwritten Part IV, Part V is overwritten, with too many annoying characters and redundancies, all leading to a maddening ending, that may make the viewer scream the same thing as the survivor... "},{"Title":"we go further away from the actual story","Date":"16 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" 1989, just a year later after part 4 producer Moustapha Akkad was ready to deliver the next part, The Revenge Of Michael Myers. The hype surrounding Freddy and Jason was dying, in fact, the whole slasher scene was finished. But the craziness about Myers was still going on. But just having a year between part 4 and 5 everybody thought that the story would becoming better, sadly it didn't and it had a bad box office reception and fans left with a bitter feeling. It took 6 years before part 6 was made.Why did many people hated it, well, if you just see were Michael is coming from here he suddenly is driving a car. Can it goes a bit weirder? It starts off were part 4 stopped and it all goes pretty well when Michael finds a way out of the mine shaft. He is searching for a way to get back to Haddonfield. Dr Loomis (Donald Pleasence) is becoming mad to track Myers down but it's again the acting of Danielle Harris that saved the day. She is giving an excellent performance. The killings aren't original anymore and you have seen it all before. Michael is just standing there with his knife in dark passages like we have seen so many times before. Also they left out some nudity and gore so it's low on everything a slasher needs. You only see the result of his killings, now and then you actually see the killing itself. Still, it feels like a Halloween flick and it's much better then the Friday series or even Freddy who became a joke of himself. But the big let down was the mystery man with boots. Nothing is said about him or even revealed but at the end he's very important for Michael. Some couldn't take the part were Michael puts off his mask because his niece is asking it, he even shows a tear. The mystery of Michael has gone with this flick and it just didn't evolve in storyline. You don't have any affection towards the names, Laurie Strode was gone...and John Carpenter was gone, no writing, directing, or even ghost directing or producing. Dominique Othenin-Girard, the director just tried to copy John....Gore 2/5 Nudity 0/5 Story 2/5 Effects 2/5 Comedy 0/5 "},{"Title":"Much better than it's reputation","Date":"27 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" 'Halloween 4' was a milestone for the series started by John Carpenter and Debra Hill. Not only did it ignore the underrated, but standalone part III, it emulated the original by emphasizing suspense and atmosphere over gore and T & A. It was a smash hit at the box office and Moustapha Akkad was eager to get started on 5. A year later, and at about the same time 4 hit video, the next sequel opened. Unfortunately, it didn't get the warm response it's predecessor did and was dismissed by critics as just another run-of-the-mill slasher flick. Is that true? Well, to an extent yes. In some ways it has more in common with other slasher sequels of the period, but in some ways it rises above them too.Pros A neat opening credits sequence that's a clever homage to the ones in I & II. Goes at a good steady pace. Though not one of his best, Alan Howarth composes a good score. Decent performances from the large cast. Some pretty good kills. A couple really good chase sequences. Some of the humor works. Nicely photographed. Has a good spooky atmosphere. Another powerful cliffhanger.Cons Most attempts at humor fall flat. The Myers House looks nothing like the ones in the first two. As a fan I refuse to accept it as the same house. Some half baked ideas that fortunately were elaborated on in 6.Final thoughts Sure this fifth series entry isn't as good as the ones that came before, but it's nowhere near bad either. It could have been much worse. Just look at sequels like 'Jaws 3' and 'Jaws The Revenge' and some of the 'Howlings.' At least this film isn't deadly dull and doesn't change the continuity to the point of it being unrecognizable.My rating 4.5/5 "},{"Title":"Revenge against his audience...","Date":"7 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Michael Myers didn't die(of course) in the shootout at the end of part 4, instead he was badly injured and after a year of healing, he dusts of the knife and looks to do in his niece who this time is mute and living in a hospital given the trauma faced at the end of part 4. Indeed watching this movie could make anyone catatonic. Like the highly disappointing Halloween 2, this movie has no build up so we just watch as Michael Myers dispatches his victims one by one. Of course as usual, the gore level isn't as high as the Friday The 13th or Nightmare On Elm Street so this becomes an exercise in pure tedium. Also the few interesting ideas the movie has is squandered as they never take off. Halloween 5 is so dull that even the rantings and ham of Pleasance's cant bring much entertainment. The movie in fact isn't so awful as it is uninspired. This movie is as bland as wallpaper and although many hate Halloween III at least that movie had an edge.* out of 4-(Bad) "},{"Title":"Desperate stuff, the least of the Halloween franchise - so far...","Date":"27 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" HALLOWEEN 5 Aspect ratio 1.851Sound format Ultra-StereoOne year after his previous rampage, the deranged Michael Myers makes another attempt on the life of his 9 year old niece (Danielle Harris), but is thwarted at every turn by the dedicated Dr. Loomis (Donald Pleasence).Filmed almost directly after its mediocre predecessor (HALLOWEEN 4 THE RETURN OF MICHAEL MYERS), this equally routine sequel suffers from poor scriptwork (by Shem Bitterman, Dominique Othenin-Girard and Michael Jacobs) and indifferent direction (by Othenin-Girard, later responsible for burying the Omen series with his ludicrous TV movie OMEN IV THE AWAKENING). The plot is rudderless, the 'scare' scenes are trite and predictable, and the impoverished production values result in a flat visual style far removed from the handsome imagery of John Carpenter's original. 11 year old Harris gives another astonishing performance as the primary target of Michael's onslaught, while Pleasence goes through the motions in his usual ultra-professional manner, and Wendy Kaplan excels as Harris' adopted sister, a vivacious party girl who stumbles into Michael's orbit and is immediately targeted for destruction by the unstoppable killer.Producer Moustapha Akkad appears to have been responsible for the introduction of an anonymous character - identified by little more than his silver-capped boots - who steps off a bus near the beginning of the movie and vanishes without explanation following a brief climactic appearance which closes proceedings on a note of utter confusion. Hopes of a quick resolution to this mystery were scuttled when dwindling box-office returns forced the franchise into temporary retirement, until the rights were acquired by genre outfit Dimension Pictures (a division of Miramax) in 1995. Their first attempt at reviving Myers for a new generation, HALLOWEEN THE CURSE OF MICHAEL MYERS, picked up many of the plot threads left dangling by its increasingly desperate predecessors (including the identity of Mr. Silver-Capped Boots), but was itself no better than either of them. "},{"Title":"Not all that bad.","Date":"24 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" For many years I was so & so on HALLOWEEN 5, I liked the movie, especially as a kid where I watched it quiet a lot when it came out on VHS, however as time moved on I wasn't all that struck on the film for some reason. Recently I viewed the film again & although HALLOWEEN 5 is still a far cry from one of the best sequels in the series, overall it's not bad for a film that was quickly rushed into theatres & direct to video barely a year after PART 4. First I will dwell on the negatives The direction leaves a lot to be desired, as the film also wallows in tons of gore & overly violent kills, that seemed more appropriate for a Friday The 13th film than for a HALLOWEEN movie. At this point in the series, the scares & creepiness of serial killer Michael Myers was absent, as Michael has now enveloped into more of an run of the mill slasher, rather than the creepy killer he was in the original. Michael's mask also looks horrible & the creepy small house he grew up in has now turned out to be a huge Victorian style mansion! & looks nothing like it did in the first two films. The box art also proclaims two things, first that, Michael Lives, & this time, they're ready! who is ready? the characters here? if so that's a lie, since Michael has no problem disposing of any of them, none of which, minus Loomis, puts up a fight & Michael Myers is finally unmasked! first off, whomever put that on the box art obviously didn't see the first film, Michael was unmasked at the end of Part 1!. The unmasking at the end here is a ripoff as Michael's face is hidden in the black shadows, so you can't even see his face & for a guy that was badly burned in a fire at the end of HALLOWEEN II, Michael looks to be in pretty good shape, minus his hands, as since you can see in the DVD version when he awakens from his year long sleep, but that's another thing that kind of irked me, Michael is kept at an old shack for a whole year lived in by an old man & his parrot, which begs the question, why would the old man keep Michael for a whole year? why didn't he go to the authorities after he found Michael? I could have done without the two idiot cop characters (who even have their own goofy theme music), they were pretty annoying as was lead heroine Tina, whom the writers stupidly thought could replace Rachel the heroine of the previous film as the new heroine who tries to protect little Jamie, she's so over the top that one can't wait for her to bite the big one. HALLOWEEN 5 also introduces a series of obnoxious/annoying teen characters to grace not only the HALLOWEEN series, but horror movie history period! One can't wait for them to be offed & the man in black who roams around town, with a thorn symbol on his wrist similar to Michael, is never explained, who he is? What does the thorn symbol mean? What is his connection to Michael? Why has he all the sudden shown up in Haddonfield? Where has he been all this time? Is he a long lost brother? What does he want Michael for? Or is this Michael? Does he have a split personality? (All was explained by different writers in Part 6) The only real good actor out of the teen victims this time is, believe it or not, Tina's boyfriend Mike, a wannabe FONZE from HAPPY DAYS, he's not only talented, but funny & his death is pretty cool, if only we could have seen more of him in the film...ELLIE CORNELL briefly reprises her role as Jamie's stepsister before biting the big one. What a shame, she was so talented & should have had a bigger role in the film. DON SHANKS takes the role of MICHAEL MYERS this time out & does fairly well for himself, easily one of the best actors to don the infamous mask, the only problem.........He's too big to play Michael! DONALD PLESEANCE reprises his role as Dr. Loomis, Michael's former psychiatrist turned arch nemesis, but his character comes off even more loonier than Michael & it's clear that at this point he was merely sticking around for the fans & to collect a good fat pay check for his acting services.I will say this in the film's defence, HALLOWEEN 5 at the very least has many moments to help it rise above most genre sequels, there's many moments of tension & suspense to help rival many of the franchise's top moments. In particular the cat & mouse chase between Michael & Jamie in the Myers house at the climax. The gore is good & plenty, the kills are brutal & inventive, the body count is high, the film has more plot than usual, the score by ALAN HOWARTH still rocks! The acting is surprisingly good here & the direction is well handled by french director DOMINIQUE OTHENIN GIRARD who manages to capture all the carnage at all the right angles & delivers a series of well established shots. The film also introduces a psychic angle in which Michael seems to have a telepathic link to young Jamie, but disappointingly this plot twist is dropped noticeably about midway. Director Girard also pays tribute to John Carpenters original 1978 original in a scene where young Jamie is sitting in the same room that belonged to Michael's sister, brushing her hair in front of the window, which is what Michael's sister was doing when she was stabbed by him many years prior. A good movie, but strictly for series fans. Followed by HALLOWEEN THE CURSE OF MICHAEL MYERS *** stars "},{"Title":"The Halloween movies used to be slasher flicks!","Date":"25 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The Revenge of Michael Myers is most known for the Man in Black plot than for anything else. This is when the Halloween movies got weird.The movie follows the events of The Return of Michael Myers where Michael falls to an abandoned mine after being shot by Haddonfield's police men. Down there Michael is helped by an old beggar who takes care of him until he recovers conscience and health. Michael demonstrates why he's a son of a b**** and murders the old man that took care of him plus his parrot and once again starts his way to Haddonfield to terrorize his niece and everyone else that stands on his way.The 80's slasher elements are present through all the movie but there's a sinister Halloween feeling that makes this a different slasher flick. There's suspense, gore, scary music, and dramatic sub-plots that help to increase the movie's creepiness but... The movie is slow and the viewer loses interest on the events soon in the movie. The cinematography is very bad even on DVD. The connection between the climax and the ending confuses the audience and makes you wonder if you're still watching a Halloween flick. There are some dumb scenes. For example, a girl doesn't realizes that Michael is wearing her boyfriend's mask and she still gets in the car with him. And what's with the Psychic connection between Jamie and Michael?! It's a slasher flick, please! Also, there are long, painful, FALSE SCARE scenes that will make you want Myers to slaughter the stupid kids. Then, why would they give an important role for Tina? she had not charisma, interesting character background or anything. Also, Only Donald Pleasence is great on his role. He was a magnificent actor and one of his major achievements was to make this movie even watchable.In my opinion the Halloween movies are divided like these -Part 1 and 2 as t slasher flicks with suspense and an intelligent plot. -Part 3 is a boring sci-fi horror movie. -Part 4, 5, and 6 tried to add dogmatism and complex plot development to the series. Plus part 6 created a plot based on an event that didn't have explanation (the origins of Myers' evil). A waste of time and a disgrace to the series. -Part 7 and 8 are post Scream slashers; I mean carbon copies of Wes Craven's horror comedy with the Michael Myers character.At least part 4 and 7 were made as tributes to the movies' 10th and 20th anniversary respectively. Part 5 is the decline of the Halloween movies. Why would you try to convert a straight slasher flick in a mystery movie with horror tones?! 5/10. Watch it only if you are a die hard fan of the Halloween movies. Otherwise you will be bored and confused. That's not what Horror movies are meant to be. "}{"Title":"Haven't we had enough of this by now?","Date":"17 July 2013","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Donald Pleasence yet again slums it in material that's far beneath him as he teams up with Michael Myers's niece in an attempt to stop the masked killer picking up where he left off. Like the other sequels this murky and overly familiar movie offers nothing in the way of style or suspense or scares; director Dominique Othenin-Girard sets up several lengthy false alarm sequences that inspire boredom rather than tension, and pretty well bungles everything else while he's at it.It's no surprise that this is an empty echo of 'Halloween', or that the script is lousy, but proceedings are not made any more bearable by either the aggravating performance of Wendy Kaplan, who clearly believes that her 'wacky' acting is outrageously entertaining, or the grubby tone, which reaches previously unplumbed depths of gratuitous violence. This is artless trash, in other words, and it's all rather depressing. "},{"Title":"How could they do this to us? Us? The loyal fans? Why?","Date":"8 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is awful. Just plain bad. I hated this film. It was very bad. In my review of Halloween 4, I said I didn't like Mike's niece. So, why is she back and worse than ever? I wanted to see more Halloween movies as much as the next fan, but not this. It is almost as bad as Halloween III, but not quite. If you don't have to, don't see this film. "},{"Title":"Not bad sequel!","Date":"25 October 2008","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" A year after the last one, Jamie Lloyd (Danielle Harris) has been put to a children's clinic after the traumatic events of last Halloween. What the doctors don't know is that she has a psychic link with her uncle Michael whom was presume dead but actually survived. He returns back to his hunting ground known as Haddonfield where he kills again and searches for his niece, Dr. Sam Loomis (Donald Pleasance) returns as well to save her life and confront the hellish phantom.Some say this is one of the worst Halloween sequels ever with part 3, Resurrection and Curse of Michael Myers. But i think this was quite a decent and mindless sequel of the franchise even though Michael's mask looks kind of bad in this one compared to the ones in the original, part 2, 4 and H2O or Rob Zombie's remake. The splatter effects by KNB Ex and the storyline isn't too bad, while it's not up to the standards of the series it's still a fine entry. "},{"Title":"not good but not horrible","Date":"1 September 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" this movie is almost the worst piece of crap I've ever seen. after seeing Halloween4, with commercials no less, I thought this film would be awesome. instead I was looking at something that should be killed by Micheal himself.well where do I start, this movie has fifty plot holes. why does Jamie see what he see's, why is Micheal killing teens instead of getting to Jamie, what's with that awful mask, and why is Tina even in the film? they could've at least made a mask that looked even remotely like the other masks. this film sucks from the start, he floats down a river and then passes out for a whole year. while somehow growing bigger an stronger with no food or bathroom. and wouldn't the police check the mine to make sure he was dead? they would've found him in the hobo's hut. don't even get me started on he music. ooh the pain. it's terribly bad, if there is even a low enough class of bad to it in. the knife slashing with the piano, give me a break. it seems like the music was made to make the opening credits cool. I know that the mask in H4 was trashed during filming but this mask looks like it was made in a kindergarten class.if you were thinking of watching this movie don't. if you think this movie good, then hit yourself real hard cause it sucks. it barely earned that one.EDIT after seeing the movie bloodrayne I decided this movie is worth watching if you like being creeped out near halloween. so I now give this film a 4. "},{"Title":"Off track.","Date":"15 September 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Of the entire series (aside, of course, from H3SotW), this is the only installment which went off track.The stupid, comedic sound effects to the police officers in the beginning scenes were ludicrous. This installment was treated as Dominique Othenin-Girard's personal play toy to do with as he/she saw fit. This is the same type of crap we were fed with Omen IV and no wonder! He/She directed that garbage, too! Now, I won't say this is garbage, but it does lack respect for the genre and for the franchise. It comes across as a spoof of the Halloween line rather than an installment OF it. The musical score with its carnival-like melody did nothing whatsoever for the atmosphere. Only Donald Pleasence and Danielle Harris (the voice of Sierra in Father of the Pride and Jamie Lloyd in THIS work) seemed to know this was a horror movie, much less a chapter of the Halloween story.But their stunning performances went a long way in the salvation of this otherwise botched directional attempt. And at times, even Danielle Harris fell prey to this director's ineptitude.The camera angles were horrid and the lighting was amateurish, further taking away from what atmosphere Donald Pleasence could manage to get going. Then that circus music would start up in the background and you would hear some idiotic sound effect better suited in a Saturday Morning cartoon and BAMM! the atmosphere was gone again only to begin building to another nothing.The teen ager characters (portrayed by people at least in their mid-twenties) were so ill conceived and poorly developed that it made me happy to know they would soon die. These characters transformed this chapter into one of those horrible teen-ager clich'd horror movies where the victims are too stupid to listen to anyone and when they die, you're nothing but glad they've finally shut UP.Eventually, the sound effects and disgusting circus music stops and the movie begins to get more serious and atmospheric. Thankfully, by around the second act, the idiocy seems to be over (for the most part but not entirely) and most everyone seems to remember there was supposed to be a point to this whole ... acting thing. (The cops NEVER seem to achieve any state of professionalism; not professional police officers and not professional actors PORTRAYING professional police officers.)After the unnecessary gratuitous sex scene in this horror movie, or rather during it, we begin to get down to business. Imagine it Michael Myers with a plethora of farm implements! And by the time our heroine finds out there really is a problem (as IF everyone and their brother haven't been telling her there was a problem all along!), of course, she and Jamie are right in the thick of it. And when the killing starts, the effects are crap. The splatter effects are practically nonexistent which is fine by me, but someone ought to tell Gerard that in lieu of these effects there should be some sort of substance; a shadow of the killing rather than the actual killing itself, when the budget is too low to afford realism. Something! All in all, I suppose it's not too bad. But this one is a far cry from the rest of the series even with Danielle's excellent performance.Of course, this installment also creates a rift in later continuity, as Jamie tells Michael, You look just like me, but in both earlier and later chapters, he looks nothing like her.It rates a 6.4/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"When did Myers get his driver's license?","Date":"15 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Another unnecessary installment in the long-running Halloween series. It has some interesting plot elements (Myers even sheds a tear at one point!) and the director tried to pump some energy into an essentially tired formula, but there a few too many things wrong with it....and most of them have already been mentioned by other reviewers. The most crucial flaw is that they kill off, early on, the most appealing character (by far) ever to appear in any Halloween film (including Jamie Lee Curtis), and then let a bunch of bland, uninteresting characters to carry the film along. And Michael isn't quite himself in this one. Not only is his hair too long, he also has become a virtuoso driver and toys around with his victims before killing them (especially in the long scene where he is mistaken by the heroine for her boyfriend), almost developing into a practical joker like a silent Freddy Krueger before becoming the brutal Myers we know. Donald Pleasence is not very good in this (he camps it up too much), but Danielle Harris is excellent (again), and the movie at least is not as boringly slow as Halloween II.      (**) "},{"Title":"Do we have to go to the family reunion? Uncle Michael is so creepy","Date":"2 February 2010","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" After surviving the end of the previous entry in the series(I know; who could have seen that coming?), Myers stumbles away, coming upon a old dude. Electing to leave him alone for the time being, he instead collapses and then proceeds to nap for about 364 days. Yeah. I guess those night-long killing sprees really take it out of you. I mean, sure, he only does this once a decade or so, but he's not exactly the sporty type. Anyway, he wakes back up(internal timers are extremely handy for those apparently somehow unable to take a life any other day of the year than either the 30th or 31st of October; I wonder how well it handles leap-years, though?), and so proceeds this poorly plotted mess. So, this largely abandons the very ending of the one immediately before it, in spite of it being a decent idea. Oh, don't worry, they do add a twist to it; Jamie's got a psychic connection(one that kicks in when the story demands it to, to boot) with him now. As this is causing me physical pain and probably quite a bit of internal bleeding simply to actually write this out, I will move on to another aspect of it. Harris also has to play a mute, and she's joined by a boy who appears to have a speech impediment or similar, and they are both very impressive, and handle that strain on their talent rather well. Heck, her and Rachel now manage to not be irritating. Unfortunately, others pick up that slack(and the aforementioned three are about the only people in this who can act, or do in this, at least), and frankly, the sheer thought of the volume of obnoxious characters in this brings that stabbing sensation back... oh, Pleasance dials down the yelling of his lines, if his speeches continue to reiterate what he said once or twice(perfectly, at that) in the original one. What happened to the house? That is clearly not the same as in the first. The effects are nicely done. This hides MM better than the last two sequels that had him. The editing and cinematography are reasonable. Huh. This... I mean, it doesn't sound as bad as I remembered it, from just having watched it. Oh wait... those hideous, face-palm-inducing damn *cartoon SFX* for the cops to lighten it, the noticeably awful dubbing at several points, the numerous cheap scares that don't pay off... oh, crap, I lost all feeling in the left side of my body. I'm gonna have to finish this fast. There is plenty of brutal, bloody, gory violence, relatively frequent moderate to strong language, a little graphic sexuality and brief gratuitous nudity. The DVD contains trailers for this and 4. I recommend this solely to those who want 90 minutes of a slasher, and they'd prefer it to be this particular franchise. 5/10 "},{"Title":"At least this is a bona-fide HALLOWEEN movie!","Date":"26 December 2002","Score":"8 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Arguably less deserving of praise than part 4, HALLOWEEN V is walk-up Oscar material alongside the unforgivable trash that was served up as H20 and RESURRECTION! If the 9th installment is even half way up to this sequel's achievement the series will at least be back on track!Danielle Harris is NOT annoying...she's a pre-pubescent young girl. What do you expect?  her to start up a rendition of I've written a letter to Daddy? She looks, moves and acts appropriate to her age  and man, can she scream with the best of them?Yeah, maybe Kane Hodder might have upped the ante as Michael, but what the hell - its the mask that needs to be right...and the general size! Personally I'd like to see Bill Clinton give it a whirl as Michael in HALLOWEEN 9 THE NIGHT THEY HIRED A DECENT SCRIPTWRITERFact is though guys and dolls, its the late Donald Pleasence, as nutty but lovable Dr Sam Loomis that made HALLOWEEN what it was. If they could digitise him back into the series by whatever means, the status quo would be returned. H20 and RESURRECTION were no more than RED DRAGON would have been without Hannibal Lecter (Hopkins).If you are too young to have seen this, go find it somewhere. Ain't no classic to be sure, but it IS HALLOWEEN! "},{"Title":"i liked it","Date":"9 July 2002","Score":"10 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  a lot of people tend to dislike Halloween 5 the revenge of Michael Myers. but to be honest of all the sequels i like this one best. there is just something about it i like. i like the darkness of the movie. anyway Michael Myers is presumed dead following a shoot out with the Haddonfield police and a fall down a mine shaft, in which explosives were dropped down to finish the job. when we last left Jamie(Danielle Harris) she stabbed her step-mother, she is now in a children's hospital and has become a mute. Jamie knows Michael is still alive as well does Dr. Loomis. so once again Halloween comes and Myers is back doing what he does best.Rachel(Ellie Cornell) is totally wasted in this film, she should have been kept around longer. Tina(Wendy Kaplan) Rachel's friend looks after Jamie since she thinks that Rachel went away with her parents when she doesn't here from her. Loomis warns everyone of coming danger and this time everybody believes him Sheriff Meeker(Beau Starr) rounds up the troops to be ready for Michael.  Jamie has some kind of psychic link to her uncle.the scene in which Tina thinks she is with her boyfriend but is really with Myers i thought was funny, and Loomis this time around seems a bit on edge i guess all the years of chasing Michael finally got to himtowards the middle Jamie finally talks, and she agrees to help Dr. Loomis try to stop Michael once and for all. the setting is the Myers house which is now a huge gothic like mansion not the normal size house it was in pt 1 and 2. but oh well. i thought that the showdown in the house between Michael and Jamie was very well done. and Michael takes his mask off in a touching scene between him and his niece Jamie. but of course that don't last too long.and the subplot is around i the middle a stranger shows up wearing all black he quietly walks the streets with an unknown but sinister purpose. what is his connection to Michael?director Dominique Othenin- Girard i think did a fine job, the car chase scene involving Michael in the car chasing after Tina, Jamie and Jamie's friend Billy was very suspenseful.if you're a die hard fan of the series like me, you should like Halloween 5. of all the sequels Halloween 5 may not be the best one, but for me it is, like i said something about this one i just love.i give Halloween 5 the revenge of Michael Myers 8/10 "},{"Title":"Not exactly as perfect as Halloween 4, but a terrific entry!","Date":"31 October 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I liked the first four Halloween films especially the original which was a horror classic. Aside from Halloween II being decent and Halloween III being underrated, I personally choose Halloween 4 out of all the films, to be the best of the bunch. Halloween 5 The Revenge of Michael Myers isn't exactly as perfect as the previous, but it's a terrific entry of the series. Sure, some of the humor's completely unfunny and the Myers house here wasn't the same as the original, but those flaws don't matter.Everything else turned out fine. Some of the performances are decent with Danille Harris and Donald Pleasance giving out their best performances, the direction is good and gives a much darker atmospheric tone to the film, but it kind of lacks the suspense of both the original and Halloween IV. The scenery is nice, the death scenes are terrific and the music from Alan Horvath along with John Carpenter is amazing with a lot more Gothic tone which makes it terrifying and worth-listening. There is one emotional scene where Michael takes off his mask to reveal his face which made me shed a tear.Overall, Halloween 5 isn't exactly perfect, but it's worth-watching for fans of the first two Halloween films since today's Halloween. "}{"Title":"Another Great Sequel Directed By Dominique Othenin Girard","Date":"24 March 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Michael Myers Is Back Again For Another Sequel It Takes Place After The Ending Of Halloween 4 And It Is Just As Good As Halloween 1 Halloween 2 And Halloween 4 And Again Stars The Late Donald Pleasence As Dr. Sam Loomis Danielle Harris As Jamie Lloyd Ellie Cornell As The Hot Attractive Rachel Carruthers Who Is Not In The Movie Very Long By The Way Beau Starr As Sheriff Ben Meeker And Of Course Don Shanks As Michael Myers He Also Plays The Man In Black I Will Also Like To Point Out Is Who Can Forget The Hot Tamara Glynn Who Plays Sammy And Of Course Wendy Kaplan Who Plays Tina Is Funny By The Way In This Film I'm Happy That They Got The Same People In This Film Who Were In The Previous Film I've Heard That Don Shanks Got Hurt For Real By Donald Pleasence When He Hits Him With The Big Wooded Board And So This Is Great Sequel Who Doesn't Like It Love Ya From Brandon DeVore "},{"Title":"Michael Lives, And This Time They're Ready!","Date":"6 November 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" When the town police ignore his warnings that the madman Michael Myers has escaped his mineshaft tomb, Dr. Loomis tries to persuade Myers' niece to help him trap the evil killer who has embarked on a bloody rampage through the town.HALLOWEEN 5 is one of those movies that have a lot going for it The ending to HALLOWEEN 4 left a huge wide door open for the sequel to do something great. Even the opening credits to this film were great. On top of that, the first few minutes of the film were great after we were introduced to a supernatural aspect, which made the movie different from all of the other HALLOWEEN movies.However, the movie slowly starts to fall apart once one of our major characters gets killed within 20 minutes of the film. BIG MISTAKE. This is like ALIEN 3 all over again! I will not reveal the person who gets killed but we're then introduced to new and more annoying teenagers all having the same wretched lines you would ever hear from teenagers like them. However, they are probably the most annoying group of teenagers you will ever come across in a slasher flick.There are also an additional two characters who are annoying by just the way they look! Even the background song playing when they are on screen suggests that they are the unfunny comedic relief who would get killed in a couple of minutes! Danielle Harris, Donald Pleasence, and Ellie Cornell all return to this dreadful sequel, the former having even less to do than run and scream, the middle looking older and as tired as ever, and the latter being more promiscuous than we ever saw her in the fourth film.But let's get away from the characters in the film. This HALLOWEEN is, so far, the most impressive in terms of technicality, which includes sound effects, lighting, cinematography, etc. I was very impressed! There are more stylistic shots and more shaky-cam which enhances some suspense in some chase scenes.But other than that, it's the same ol' same ol' but the difference here is that we're being treated with some very awful characters pounding their awful lines to our heads. There's nothing new and the movie is barely memorable once the credits roll but good technical values, though. Whatever hope the fourth film brought to the franchise has now been shot by this sequel. "},{"Title":"almost as good as number 4","Date":"7 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" call me crazy,but i liked this fourth Michael Myers movie.i liked the way they went with the storyline.the storyline may be predictable,but i still liked it.plus,there are a few tiny little clues suggesting a possible reason why Michal came to be the way he is.found this part intriguing.the movie has an air of mystery about it,as these hints are dropped.it's all very vague and nothing big is revealed here,just some clues as to what may come next.enough to keep you hooked.just like the first movie,i thought the acting was pretty good here,though it does get a bit silly at times.there is some suspense and tension here again,maybe not quite as much as number 4,but it's there nonetheless.i'm not sure if this measure up to number 4 or not,but i still liked it quite a bit.for me,Halloween 5The Revenge of Michael Myers is still an 8/10 "},{"Title":"Halloween 5 The Revenge of Michael Myers (1989) *1/2","Date":"7 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" It's Halloween time again, one year after the events of HALLOWEEN 4. Michael Myers, previously shot numerous times and then dumped down an old mining shaft, had managed to crawl his injured self away into a river whose current has deposited him at the doorstep of some old hermit. Presumably this non-talkative man took care of Michael and nursed him back to health for the last twelve months, since once the next October 31st rolls around, Myers instinctively knows it's time to go back to stalk his little niece Jamie (Danielle Harris) again. Meanwhile, young Jamie has lost her speech from the trauma of chapter four, and is hospitalized under the care of Dr. Loomis (Donald Pleasence). But the child has developed a telekenetic bond with her regenerated uncle, and she seems to be able to sense his movements and predict where he'll strike next. So on another typical Halloween Night in Haddonfield, nobody can even enjoy a friendly masquerade party when Mike Myers is in town carving up.HALLOWEEN 5 gets my vote as the worst in the entire Halloween series. There's so much wrong with it that it's tough to figure out where to begin. The thing starts off well enough with a suspenseful opening credits sequence, followed by a respectable recap of the ending of Part 4... and then the well-handled, if far-fetched, moonlight swim of Michael's down the river to safety. But after this, things get steadily flushed more and more downstream. Donald Pleasence is a complete loon in this one, crazier and more abusive and despicable than in the past. Danielle Harris acts very convincingly as the distraught girl who's always freaking out, but after awhile her whining becomes grating. Wendy Kaplan, who plays the new lead girl Tina this time, is a real pain in the ass, and her dumb friends who are hanging around to pad up the body count are possibly even more annoying than she is. Oh, and the character of Rachel (Ellie Cornell) returns from the previous film, but not for long and then nobody seems to remember to wonder what's happened to her. Now, we've all seen '80s horror films where we have to deal with endless fake jump scares, but I have to think this one takes the cake for using more of them in a single film than any other movie. I thought Michael Myers' mask was weak last time, but it hits a series low point for cheapness here, and by the time the movie's over the psycho killer himself turns sappy. One diamond in this rough is a nice scene where Myers tries to repeatedly attack little Jamie, who is hiding inside an old fashioned laundry chute. One of the silliest subplots in history concerns a mysterious man seen only in black cape and boots, who incomprehensibly glides in and out from time to time, apparently having some interest in Michael Myers, sort of like a guardian angel. His true purpose wasn't revealed until HALLOWEEN 6 several years later, but at the time HALLOWEEN 5 was made there wasn't any decision as to what the filmmakers would do with him, so his presence makes no sense for the purpose of this movie. *1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"Crappy movie","Date":"17 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Halloween is the best in the series. Halloween H20 is the 2nd best. Halloween 2 is the 3rd best. Halloween 4 the Return of Michael Myers is the 4th best. Halloween the Curse of Michael Myers is the 4th worst. Halloween 3 Season of the Witch is the 3rd worst. And Halloween 5 is the 2nd worst. That's not good. In fact, it's terrible. It's not worth the buying price or even the rental price. Kind of like Halloween 3. But the difference is if you see Halloween 3 on TV, you should watch it. But, if you see Halloween 5, change the channel. The acting in this one is terrible, even Donald Pleasance isn't good in this movie. Other than that, the plot is stupid, the deaths aren't good. The only death in this movie that's slightly good is Rachel's death. And she's only stabbed in the heart with a knife. Don't see this one. "},{"Title":"Michael's back to kill Jamie! And this time, they're ready!","Date":"16 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" A decent movie. It's not as good as previous Halloween movies, but an okay sequel. Let's start with the good stuff.Tina is a good character, but she's a freaking airhead and annoying at times. Easy to get along with though. She dies too! 3.Jamie is a nice character, but she doesn't die!BAD STUFF Michael sleeps for a whole near, and when he wakes up, he kills the guy who took care of him for a year. Stupid.The old man's annoying parrot.Teenagers in this movie are just stupid.7/10. "},{"Title":"Revenge of the 80's The multiple sequels.","Date":"16 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Halloween 5 (1989)  You can never keep a good man down.  But in this case logic is tossed out the window.  Michael  Myers (who has more lives than a cat) returns to settle some unfinished business in this bleak and depressing forth  Halloween film that chronicles the events of Haddonfield's resident killing machine.  The shape is back (again) to tie up  some loose ends.  So is good ol' Doctor Loomis (man can't this guy do anything right) who's even more determined than  ever to finally do away with his patient. More of the same except darker.  Quite interesting however because unlike other franchise films this one sticks to a coherent  storyline and it doesn't stray too far from it's original concept.  Not the worst horror film sequel around.  For Halloween  fans, others be advised.Recommended.C+Followed by Halloween 666 The Curse of Michael My "},{"Title":"What a stupid movie","Date":"8 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is terrible!  The end was the worst when the little girl was running wild crazy around a stupid looking house with Michael Myers chasing her she was so scared but she shouldn't be because Michael Myers is just a little piece of crap.  Sammy Lommis was tring to stop Michael when he was chasing the little girl. Michael kept stapping real hard in places where he thinks the girl might be.  Then the girl goes to the cops place where Michael Myers is being stuck in jail ( the cops captured Michael Myers ) and when the girl is just about to get a ride home from a cop Michael some how escapes his jail cell and gets a gun and kills all the cops and then the girl walks by everyone one of the cops who are all dead and then the girl sees a hole in the wall and knows that Michael Myers is out there and screams for the last scene.  It was a bad movie. There were lots of violence lots of strong violence in that movie. Rated R. 0/5. Stupid movie. "},{"Title":"worst of the series","Date":"4 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Wow I said 6 was bad but this is worse, terrible story and terrible annoying characters. I was glad Tina bit the dust but I'd like to see a horror movie where the killer accomplishes his goal and lives, but this still isn't bad if you like the others just watch this for the heck of it it's still good he kills people that's enough to watch right? He goes after a girl that can sense when he's around and just happens to be his niece but the killings are good and violent so fast forward the dialogue and you should be alright "},{"Title":"My 7 year old Nephew could have done a better job of writing this movie (SPOILERS)","Date":"20 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Yes, I own this movie. Yes, I've seen it countless times (Don't ask me why!) I know the dialog by heart. In all honesty, I hate this sequel. Director Dominique Othenin-Girard completely ruined the amazing direction that this series was heading in after Halloween 4, and has no creativity or resolve what so ever. There are so many problems with this movie that I don't even know where to begin, so this review might be a bit jumbled, but then again. My reviews are always jumbled. I realize you have to suspend major disbelief in horror movies, but it became ludicrous. How did Michael learn to swim? Did he take lessons during a day of leisure or something? The Myers house does not resemble the original one at all. It looks like a giant mansion for crying out loud. Michael Myers himself is boring in this one. His mask is by far the most mundane this series has ever had. It looks childish and not even remotely scary. It's not that Don Shanks was bad as Michael. They just made him boring to watch. Even the kills are boring; we get a gardening tool in the head, blood splashing, a pitchfork impaling (Admittedly well done) a dull hanging, and more. You want more? Well, you're getting it. What was up with those comedic cops? And why was there clown music? This isn't a horror/comedy, this is HALLOWEEN! It was quite incongruent. For those unfamiliar with Halloween 6, the Man in Black storyline leads into the thorn storyline, and that's when the series went downhill. I always found this series so creepy, because Michael had no motivation for doing what he was. He was the definition of evil, and it was much scarier that way. Here he starts crying during a scene. Every time I see that, it makes me furious. If I wanted Michael to star in a soap opera, I'd watch The Young and the Restless. It ruins Michael's mystique. Another thing which alienates fellow hardcore Halloween fanatics is Rachel dying. It's not that she died. It's that she died as quickly as she did. Her send off is by being stabbed with scissors? Give me a break! Rachel is one of the most legendary characters in this series, and that's how you repay her? The score is boring and subdued compared to others in the series. I also found Jamie and Michael having a telepathic relationship, pointless. What was the point of it? But it doesn't end there. For some ungodly reason, Jamie has these uncontrollable convulsions, and has trouble speaking. It just feels like the director took everything about the Halloween franchise that was classical, and decided to take a giant crap all over it. I wouldn't be surprised. There was tension between Donald Pleasence and the director in this series. It shows in Donald Pleasence's performance. He looks very bored, and rambles incessantly like an incoherent drunk. Though, I must admit when he was screaming DIE, DIE, DIE, MICHEAEL, DIE! while clobbering Michael constantly with a big piece of lumber was very amusing, but he was pretty bad. Danielle Harris tries incredibly hard to overcome the stupidity of her character, and you know what? She actually pulls it off for the most part. It takes MAJOR talent to do that. She was good. I just wish her character wasn't so idiotic. Ellie Cornell is a trooper for agreeing to this crap. Jeffrey Landman is incredibly annoying as Billy. He can't act worth a lick, and his weird stutter did him no favors. Wendy Foxworth is a disgrace to this franchise. Tina is by far the worst character the Halloween franchise has ever had. There is not one redeeming quality about her. Everything she did was annoying, especially her Oh baby talk, and that giggle of hers. She also overdoes the hysterics big time! The first time I watched this I was begging for Tina to meet her demise. Rachel dies in the beginning, yet this woman gets to stick around for approximately an hour or so? It's a slap in the face to me. Tamara Glynn (Samantha) & Matthew Walker (Spitz) are nothing but sex crazed idiots who deserved to get killed off. When you hear Tamara's awful scream, or Walker's irritating laugh, you'll see what I mean. Jonathan Chapin's phony tough guy act as Mike was unbelievable, and I didn't buy it for a minute. He was nothing but a glorified pretty boy. Beau Starr returns as the sheriff, and is wasted. There is one suspenseful laundry chute scene, and a really cool opening, involving a pumpkin carving, but that's really about it as far as efficiency goes. Final Thoughts This one was rushed into production (Foolishly at that) when Halloween IV was a hit, and it shows. They should have taken their time, in lieu of creating this abomination. Halloween IV set up a potentially new direction, which would have had Jamie taking over for Michael as the killer. That would have been awesome. They wimped out on it, and took the safe route. Having Jamie as the killer would have brought all kinds of possibilities. The ambiguous ending would lead the series awry in the next installment, and then they rebooted the series a bit for Halloween H20. As a die hard Halloween fan, I will never forgive Director Dominique Othenin-Girard for being so moronic. He ruined this series, and killed the momentum from Halloween IV. Donald Pleasence yells GO HOME, MICHAEL. GO HOME! at one point during this movie. That was actually good advice. It will bore slasher fans, and irritate Halloween fans to no end. 2/10 "}{"Title":"Halloween 5","Date":"24 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Michael Myers reign of terror in Haddonfield continues(Part 5 is a continuation of the Jamie-niece-of-Michael saga)as he pursues his tormented niece who has been rendered a mute due to the extensive trauma she suffered a year ago when something evil forced her to attack her adoptive mother shortly after the sheriff's department gunned down the psychopath in a field. Myers falls into an old well, leaks into a lake, crawling out near the ramshackle abode of a hermit who allows him to recuperate(a hermit, with a parrot, for which perishes at Michael's hand when he awakens). Dr. Loomis, clearly as mad as any patient he might've treated in the earlier decades, will do whatever it takes to stop Myers, including his badgering of Jamie for the location of her uncle. Michael, when he isn't after Jamie, bides his time by killing teenage friends of Rachel(Ellie Cornell returning in a brief supporting part). With Beau Starr returning in a smaller role as Haddonfield sheriff, Ben Meeker, his deputies fodder for Myers to destroy. Wendy Foxworth gets a sizable part as Rachel's friend, Tina, who doesn't heed the warnings of a terrified Jamie and insistent Loomis about remaining under police protection, stressing the importance of staying out of harm's way. Of course, Tina doesn't listen and places herself in peril.Pleasence is more than a bit over the top, his Loomis practically maniacal in catching Myers, which I must admit to enjoying. Many might find him a bit overbearing, but I could understand why he had gone off the deep end. When you've been trying to stop an evil for so long as he has, it's bound to cause psychological cracks. Poor Danielle Harris' Jamie Lloyd both must endure physical and emotional hardships as the troubled tyke with a monstrous uncle who she is unfortunately linked to somehow. Jamie, in this film, can see through his eyes, feel his rage, and maybe this is why Myers wants her dead. There are some cool sequences in a barn(where Michael uses a pitchfork and scythe to kill a teenage couple in the midst of having sex) and the old Myers house where Loomis not only shoots him with multiple tranquilizer darts but pummels repeatedly with a block of wood. Michael, like in the previous film, is seemingly indestructible, a force of nature. Introduced in this film(and further elaborated in the next film of the franchise)is a mysterious man in black who seems to have an interest in Michael, even assisting to break him out of prison. The most harrowing scene could be when Jamie falls into a laundry shoot, in a tough spot, quite a claustrophobic, tightly orchestrated bit of suspense. My own personal disappointment derives from Rachel's early exit. I really like Cornell and think she could've added quality to the film. She is used to tease the audience in scenes where she showers, under a towel, as Myers looks on in different areas of her house. While she gets her name after Harris in the film, Cornell is probably in the movie about ten or so minutes tops. The Michael Myers mask no longer resembles the famous Shatner one from previous entries of the franchise. "},{"Title":"Rehash or remake?","Date":"20 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" If you take a look at Moustapha Akkad's credits for the past thirty years, you'll notice a very conspicuous thing. There's only about three films in the entire list that he's executive produced other than the Halloween series. Given that a ninth Halloween film is being planned, I think this says a lot about the actual creativity of the man. Seriously, when a franchise is not working, most creative people move on to something else. Moustapha Akkad therefore looks a lot like the George Lucas of slasher films.Halloween 5 is distinct from the others in the series as being the first since the original to get an R rating in Australia when first released. Unlike the American R rating, a film has to have something fairly hardcore in order to get an R rating from the OFLC. However, the recent DVD release was recently rerated MA, and for good reason. Halloween 5 is one of the mildest films ever to be slapped with an R by the OFLC, and I include every film they've looked at before the existence of the MA rating in that list.Sure, the violence has great impact, and the introduction leaves one wondering how anything human can survive the frankly sadistic beating Myers gets. The problem here is that any story this episode has is borrowed from the previous sequel. Any setup of the characters, including the central hero, is simply dispensed with because the filmmakers assume the viewer, having seen Halloween 4, already knows them. Being that I saw Halloween 5 before Halloween 4, I can attest to the flaws of this approach.Adding to the problems is a tangent with an anonymous, black coated character who strongly suggests that he is a ghost when he rescues Myers. We know absolutely nothing about who this character is, both before or after the end of the film. Then again, given how obvious and telegraphed the rest of the story is, believing an explanation of this anonymous stranger to be beyond the filmmakers' capabilities is pretty reasonable. Then again, even the most incompetent director makes a token effort to keep their plot devices from being this obvious.The most major problem, however, is that this film is just so damned slow. Wheras the slow, languid pace of Halloween was used to build a tense, unnerving atmosphere, Halloween 5 succeeds only in making the viewer itch for a good kill scene. To its credit, Halloween delivers a couple that are memorable, but the inevitable castration by the MPAA also keeps Halloween 5 from being even a good slasher.I gave Halloween 5 a one out of ten. It makes a good prop for classes in how not to build an effective horror show. So it is not entirely without value. "},{"Title":"5 and onward","Date":"29 May 2006","Score":"7 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Once again, Michael Myers comes back and goes around killing people. The whole thing about the mental connection with Jamie made this one slightly more interesting. Of course, the character most likely to stick in your mind is Sam Loomis (Donald Pleasance); sometimes, I wonder why he didn't just call up the FBI, CIA, etc. to help him catch Michael.All in all, Halloween 5 is nothing particularly special, but always fun to watch. Still, the series got really good again with the seventh installment (when Jamie Lee Curtis returned).Hoo hoo hoo hoo ha ha ha ha... "},{"Title":"The Halloween series experiences a serious drop in quality.","Date":"9 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Following on immediately from Halloween Part 4, which left stabby psycho Michael Myers presumably crushed by a cave-in, Halloween 5 shows the masked maniac escaping death once again by crawling through a handy tunnel to a river, where he is washed downstream to be found and cared for by a mountain man. One year later, Michael's niece Jamie Lloyd (Danielle Harris) is recovering from her ordeal in a children's home and Michael is fighting fit and ready for more random slaughter. After snapping the neck of the old man who has nursed him back to health, Michael heads for Haddonfield once again to seek out his niece.After her impressive turn as Jamie in Part 4 (The Return of Michael Myers), child-star Danielle Harris disappoints with Part 5, putting in a lousy performance, her incessant wailing and screeching really grating on the nerves. She's not alone, though Wendy Foxworth as her hyperactive teen stepsister is equally as annoying, her character never shutting up (at least until she gets a knife in her!). Even Donald Pleasance manages to irritate, his crazy Dr. Loomis character now bordering on parody.The crap acting might not have mattered so much had director Dominique Othenin-Girardat at least succeeded in delivering some decent scares and gory killings, but her handling of the material is awful there's very little in the way of tension or atmosphere (the shadowy figure of Michael lurking out of focus in the background of every shot soon becomes laughable), and the splatter is poor, with every death being weak and gutless (it's hard to believe the make-up FX are by KNB, whose gruesome work is often the highlight of many a horror film). Worse still are the bumbling cops, whose antics are accompanied by comedy musical effects that beggar belief, and a lousy new rendition of John Carpenter's classic score will annoy fans of the original.Still, as bad as this film is, I guess it's no worse than Rob Zombie's terrible remakes (which also star Danielle Harris, only as a completely different character). "},{"Title":"The Cusp Between Good and Bad Halloween","Date":"9 November 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The Halloween saga continues...Mike Mayo simply gives this film another Woof! indicating his dismissal of it. I think it deserves a bit more reflection than that.For example, the laundry chute scene is amazingly terrifying. In the infamous laundry chute scene, Jamie was originally stabbed in the leg but the shot was cut from the film by the MPAA because it was deemed too disturbing. Putting this back in would make the film even more nasty.The real problem is the Man in Black who is not properly identified, and although playing an important role does not come to fruition until part six. The writers did not know his identity, and they couldn't cast an actor to play him because they didn't know who he was. That's just a bad idea, creating a huge subplot that you don't even know about. That, of course, forced them make part six, which is a pile of steaming trash. "},{"Title":"Hey, Johnny Cash is in town!!!","Date":"6 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie picks up somewhat from where the last one left off and it is not very good.  Myers having endured the shotgun barrage is found by a dude living in a shack.  For some reason he keeps Myers a whole year in an unconscious state and when Halloween comes about Myers shows his appreciation by killing the guy who deserved to die for letting Myers stay there without reporting it.  He once again goes after his niece who is still annoying, but thankfully at the beginning of this one she can't talk.  We are introduced to the sister again and this friend who we have never seen before, but apparently means more to the little girl than her sister.  The girl is connected to Myers somehow and throws fits whenever he is about to kill.  Unfortunately, this fits save no one as after the person is warned they get away, decide there is no danger and get killed.  On the plus side we get to see this real jerk get killed.  Myers scratches his car then kills him, it was sweet.  Another scene has the gal we have never seen, but means so much to the little girl get saved by the police, but then she just has to go see her jerk boyfriend.  Typical gal, everyone says don't go, but they do.  The last part of the film has Pleasance using the girl as bait to capture Myers.  The most absurd part of the movie comes here as Myers takes off his mask and reveals no scars from the fire that engulfed him.  And what is with the tear on Myers cheek...that was quite lame.  How Myers gets defeated in this one is laughable too, considering he survived that shotgun attack and being totally consumed in flames.  On the plus side this movie did give Donald another movie he could headline.  And I just have to mention this, but all through the movie you see the feet of this guy.  All you see is black boots and a black long coat.  That is where the Cash reference came in.  I have no idea who is, I think it is explained in part six, but I missed that one. "},{"Title":"Halloween 5","Date":"31 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  CONTAINS SPOILERSI reviewed Halloween 5 once before but felt the need for another review.Michael Myers (Don Shanks) was presumed dead following a shoot out with the Haddonfield police.Michael fell down a mine shaft where explosives were dropped, but of course Michael lives.Jamie Lloyd (Danielle Harris) is now at a children's hospital and has become a mute.Once Halloween rolls around Michael returns.Jamie has some kind of psychic link with Michael.Dr. Loomis (Donald Pleasence) is trying to get Jamie to help him stop Michael.Rachel (Ellie Cornell) stops at the hospital to visit Jamie all the time brining her friend Tina Williams (Wendy Kaplan) along with her.Loomis warns everyone of coming danger and this time he is taken seriously.Sheriff Ben Meeker (Beau Starr) gets the troops ready for another showdown with Michael.Rachel is thinking about going away with her parents but is having doubts of leaving Jamie.But before anything can happen Michael kills Rachel.Tina thinks Rachel decided to go away after all.Meanwhile there is a new person in town a man dressed in all black who quietly walks the streets with an unknown but sinister purpose.Rest of the cast includes Matthew Walker and Tamara Glynn.This time around Halloween became more like the Friday The 13th movies.Halloween 5 came out in 1989 and by then we have had 8 Friday films and 5 Elm St. movies.So i guess the producers of Halloween 5 wanted to make sure they didn't fall behind.The Script wasn't all that great, but good enough to keep things moving when there is no action.Most people won't agree with me but i think Director Dominique Othenin-Gerard did a good job.Halloween 5 like the original is very dark. Not a lot of lighting.Director of Photography Rob Draper is no Dean Cundey but did a good job.Sure Halloween 5 may not make a lot of sense at times like why the old man in the beginning didn't call 911 when Michael passed out in his house.He saw Michael was hurt. Also the two cops who add the slapstick comedy to Halloween 5 didn't fit the flow of the movie or series.And how about Michael Myers in a jail cell? I would hate to be his cell mate.But yeah it was silly having Michael in jail.But i really like Halloween 5, it's nowhere near the level of the original Halloween.John Carpenter created a masterpiece.But of all the sequels Halloween 5 is my fav.What i also like about Halloween 5 is the psychic link between Michael and Jamie, and the scene where Michael unmasks himself to Jamie was a great scene and showed the human side of Michael before he goes after Jamie again.The Myers house was way too big yes, but it worked. The house added the creepy feeling.In HalloweenResurrection the Myers house was pretty much the same size as it was in the original.But for me it didn't work, in Halloween 5 there was so much more room to run and hide. It made the chase scenes more intense.Donald Pleasence is great like always, and once again Danielle Harris is great.I don't like kids in horror movies all that much they mostly get on my nerves but Danielle was quite different.I thought she handled the role great.The one mistake though that was made in Halloween 5 was killing of Rachel in the first 20 min.Rachel was a great character and should have lasted a bit longer.The ending of Halloween 5 was great, the man in black shooting up the police station.It was a great cliffhanger.Though when we find out more about the man in black in the next part it didn't seem to work.I personally find Halloween 5 a bit scary at times and find it suspenseful.All the scenes with Jamie and Michael in the Myers place were awesome and the car chase scene was also very well done.Halloween 5 may not be the best made sequel in the series but of all the sequels it always will be my favI give Halloween 5The Revenge Of Michael Myers 8/10 "},{"Title":"* out of 4","Date":"30 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Possibly the worst in the series is essentially a remake of part four (which wasn't all that good to begin with) as Mike Myers returns yet again to stalk his young niece. Slack direction, little logic and awful performances not to metion too many endings ruin this entry that goes on too long. Rated R; Brief Nudity, Violence, Sexual Situations, and Profanity. "},{"Title":"HALLOWEEN 5 (Dominique Othenin-Girard, 1989) *1/2","Date":"29 October 2007","Score":"6 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I had intended to check this out prior to viewing the remake of the original; however, it wasn't available for rental at the time. Now that I've caught up with it, I'm only left with Part 6 of the series to catch up with. I recall liking HALLOWEEN 4 THE RETURN OF MICHAEL MYERS (1988) well enough (unfortunately, I lost my reviews for Parts 1, 2 and 4 along with a few others because my computer hard-disk has recently died on me!) &#x96; but this takes the franchise back to the mediocrity prevalent in the disappointing second instalment!! Anyway, the opening shamelessly rips off BRIDE OF FRANKENSTEIN (1935) with Michael Myers shown to have survived his apparent demise at the end of the previous film; what's stupid, however, is that he should wait a whole year (i.e. the next Halloween) before going after his niece &#x96; what the hell is he up to the rest of the year? Donald Pleasence returns as Dr. Loomis I don't recall how his character behaved in Part 4, but here he's rather hysterical and unsympathetic; interestingly, his eventual demise is strikingly similar to Malcolm McDowell's counterpart in the current version! Even if it came out of nowhere, the possession by Myers of his little niece at the end of Part 4 was an inspired touch; here, however, she reverts to being afraid of him (besides having gone speechless following a murder she herself committed!) &#x96; though still telekinetically connected to The Shape, The Boogeyman, or whatever you wish to call him. The teenagers in this installment are among the most boring ever seen in the slasher subgenre &#x96; with the heroine (for whom the audience is supposed to root) being especially resistible! Two days after watching the thing I can hardly remember a scene/slaying I could reasonably call a highlight &#x96; including the climax; what I can't forget is the padded (and idiotic) footage involving the so-called Man In Black whose character was, reportedly, fleshed out (and his identity revealed) in Part 6... "},{"Title":"Simply not much good as an horror.","Date":"20 September 2009","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Well, this movie is a pretty messy one to watch. Things seem to happen very randomly and there hardly is a good main plot-line it follows. It's just the one even after the other, without making an obvious connection and contribution.Perhaps they though it would be enough simply showing Michael Myers killing a whole bunch of people again. The movie and its killings hardly ever become interesting though. As an horror this movie is just picking a wrong approach with its story and build-up. As shame, since before this movie the series still showed some class and were simply god movies within its genre to watch. With this movie things start to go terribly wrong. The also decided to try out some new things, by adding in some comical characters and to make the Myers characters more of a supernatural one but things simply never get developed well enough to let it all work out though.The movie basically starts of were part 4 had ended and the movie pretty much also features the same characters in it. It got shot back to back with Halloween 4 The Return of Michael Myers, with as a big difference though that they started on this movie without a complete script. Surely it was done for budgeting reasons but this 5th part surely doesn't benefits from it.Halve of the time the movie consists out of killing, while the other halve remains pretty much boring to watch. Especially toward its ending the movie tends to get worse to watch, when absolutely nothing good or interesting is happening. It relies mostly on Dr. Loomis' babbling, which was still a good thing to watch in the previous movies but in this movie his character just doesn't work out quite as well.Oh well, it still is a pleasure to watch Donald Pleasance though, so it can't be really said that's his fault really. At least his character is still better and more compelling than any of the other characters within this movie, which often come across as ones that add very little to the actual movie, who get killed very randomly and without apparent reason. Yes, this movie could had really used Jamie Lee Curtis again already.One of the Halloween-sequels you can really easily do without.4/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "}{"Title":"He'll never die!","Date":"31 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Contrary to popular belief, the idea of film sequels can occasionally be rewarding. Of course, it helps if they're planned that way, and usually trilogies are the best example of this. Take Krzysztof Kieslowski's Trois couleurs trio of films, or the unofficial Tarantino trilogy of Dogs, True Romance and Pulp Fiction. Some franchises succeed because they operate in a series of self-contained movies, such as James Bond. Yet extending what is essentially the same story past a third instalment rarely succeeds. And does anyone know of a fifth film in an on-going set that manages to rise above rank? The Final Frontier may be underrated, but Battle for the Planet of the Apes was thoroughly lousy.And so it was a pleasant surprise to find out that The Revenge of Michael Myers is by far the best of all the Halloween sequels. Maybe not the best in terms of quality, but certainly in terms of fun. For it seems that by this stage in the series the production team were starting to realise that the somewhat predictable A to B dynamic of the plot was becoming tired. Basically, Myers comes back to his hometown, kills a few people, gets shot by Donald Pleasence and then disappears ready for the sequel. So for the fifth time round, they threw in everything but the proverbial kitchen sink.Two of the best elements of this sequel are the direction (which is the best, and least mainstream, since the original) and the theme tune, once more toned-down after the funked-up disco anthems that constituted the theme from parts 2 to 4. It's only really in the last half an hour where Myers goes into full killing spree mode, so the main thrust of the film keeps it's shocks going through misnomers. Friends tap each other on the back with a short stab of music, or kittens will jump out unexpectedly. In the midst of all this, since the departure of top screamer Jamie Lee Curtis (her character was killed off between films, which makes it odd that she comes back for the seventh), we get lots of fun-loving, sexed-up teenagers, throwing parties and expressing an urge to go skinny-dipping. It could almost be subtitled Horny High-Jinx. Yet in a series where girls find all manner of reasons to take their top off and fall over, this is the only film in the series (apart from H20) not to feature nudity. This despite the fact that it hints at it, with carefully shot shower scenes and a sex romp where they keep their clothes on. It's also one of only three sequels that reach a 90 minute duration.Perhaps what may detract is that of Danielle Harris (who has somehow learnt to act between this and the previous year's Return) sharing a telepathic link with Uncle Mike. Okay, it is daft, and it does conveniently gloss over the fourth's shock ending, but at this stage of the series Myers has now survived over forty bullets, being hit around the head with rifles, run over by a high-speed truck and a major gas explosion. So having a psychic link with your niece seems quite tame by comparison. Taking this full-on tack to its logical extension, Pleasence's Dr. Loomis is now completely barking. Mind you, it would get you down if you predicted Myers' actions three films running and no one took a blind bit of notice. Then again, Myers doesn't exactly help matters by always attacking on Halloween &#150; couldn't he do it on Shrove Tuesday or something, just to vary his schedule?There are some nice moments where Loomis tries to reason with Myers, and he even shows his face (the audience don't get to see it, however) to Jamie. This brings up the question of the rage, which at least tries to give him some motivation. This has always been the major stumbling block of the Halloween films for me; there being no justification for Myer's actions. Okay, so he's killing his sister, in his mind, (And in a Return of the Jedi-style revelation, Curtis turned out to be his literal sister in the second), but the question remains &#150; why did he kill his sister in the first place?This doesn't, of course, match the original Halloween (1978, 6), which was itself still a rather average tale. Other than the honourable Curtis it isn't terribly well acted, and not quite the art house work it's often purported to be. Halloween II (1981, 4) took the somewhat unusual step of opening with a jolly, upbeat rendition of Mr.Sandman, ideal music for a horror film, before taking us through a prologue reprise and into the titles where even the pumpkin looked cuddly. It was a straight retread of the first, though lacked it's skill, and the silly third entry (Season of the Witch, 1982, 3) discarded all references to Myers and came up with it's own pointless story. By all accounts, this temporarily killed off the series, with Halloween 4 The Return of Michael Myers (1988, 4) not emerging until six long years later. This was saddled with the necessary exposition that a franchise resurrecting a seven-year-old storyline would inevitably face. It looked tired, choresome, and was the most mainstream entry of them all.All of which paved the way for a segment that knew Myers was no longer scary and instead opted for randy teens and a comedy police double-act (Fortunately, we're lousy cops!). And even though it does tone down the slasher quotient, when Myers does finally appear, the ending proves to be suitably claustrophobic, and a little unnerving. 5/10. "},{"Title":"When Mickey Comes Marching Home &#133;","Date":"9 December 2007","Score":"4 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This is the fifth entry in the Halloween franchise and arguably the very worst one ever written, and that includes Rob Zombies's disappointing remake of the original, released earlier this year. It's also the last film in the series the producers bothered to number! After this film the following sequels simply received additional titles, presumably just to mislead people in video stores and trick them into blindly renting their lousy films. Anyways, the Halloween formula is dreadfully exploited to the fullest here, with killing sequences that look like boring routine work and even Dr. Loomis' character hasn't got a single interesting thing to say. He's actually just a miserable and pathetic caricature in this installment; a fatigue old copper who yells at mute kids and doesn't contribute at all in the capture of Michael Myers. The opening sequence is a flashback showing sneaky mass murderer Myers escaping from the pit he was thrown in at the end of part four and finding shelter in the primitive house of a random hermit. Around the 31st of October the year after, he returns to home sweet home Haddonfield where he still intends to kill the little niece with whom he has a telepathic link. And of course to make the whole thing a little bit more interesting, there's a new shipment of dumb coppers and horny teenagers volunteering to serve as extra body count. The script actually ignores the entire climax shot of the previous film, which suggested that Michael's incontrollable murderous tendencies shifted into young Jamie. This idea could have led to entirely new possibilities for the franchise, but all of a sudden Jamie is a cherubic and average child again. Michael Myers acts truly bizarre in this film as well. We're used to knowing him as the straightforward psychopath, but here he actually toys with his victims and even allows them to escape from his knife. How very weird&#133; Halloween 5 is mainly dull and low on suspense, but at least the last half hour contains some excitement and bloody make-up effects. Danielle Harris, who played Jamie in parts four and five, returned in Zombie's remake of the original as one of Laurie Strode's teenage friends. She as well as Ellie Cornell rank among the most talented actresses of the entire film series. "},{"Title":"Boy, They Really Messed This One Up","Date":"30 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Halloween 5 (1989) * 1/2 (out of 4) A year after the events in the previous film, Jamie Lloyd (Danielle Harris) is now in a home for children where Dr. Loomis (Donald Pleasence) is trying to treat her. This plan takes a turn for the worse when her uncle Michael Myers turns out to be a live and wanting to kill her. There's no question that this is a very bad film but what makes it so much worse is that it followed a very good movie that took the series back to its origins of trying to be scary. This film is so poorly written that one really wonders why the producers wasted so much time making the fourth film so good if they were just going flush the series down the toilet with this entry. You can start with the incredibly bad story that just has so many questionable things going on that the more you think of them the more you hate the film. I won't ruin it but if you're a fan of the series you already know but there's a death of an important character here that happens way too early and in such a poorly done way. What makes this so bad is that the producers and screenwriters must have thought it was a good idea to kill this character off because the others were good enough to carry the story. Wrong. The new characters introduced to us here are just so annoying, poorly written and hated that you don't care what happens to them. In fact, you really want to start cheering for Myers to get them off the screen because they're so annoying. Another really bad aspect is some comic relief by two police officers, which is never funny and what's really crazy is that they add in some sound effects ala The Three Stooges. WTF? Things just keep getting worse because there's not an ounce of tension to be found here as it seems like the director was just trying to get the images on screen as quickly as he could without having to build up any fear. Yet more badness is aimed back at the story which thought it might be a good idea to have Jamie and Myers connected through some sort of psychic powers. The scenes of Jamie feeling what Myers was doing was just so poorly handles that you can never take it serious. Both Pleasence and Harris are good in their roles but they're given so little to do that they really can't save anything. The same is true for Ellie Cornell and Beau Starr who both find themselves wasted. As with the previous film, this one here does benefit from a nice twist ending that certainly had people talking and wanting an explanation. The one other decent thing here is that a few bits and pieces of an atmosphere happen in spots but not nearly enough to make the film work. Finally, this film was advertised for being able to see Myers without his mask but this too is messed up in an overly dark sequence that just comes off silly and disappointing. In other words, HALLOWEEN 5 is a mess of a film and a very lazy one that really took the series in the wrong direction. "},{"Title":"Dull continuation of a dull series of slasher films.","Date":"2 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Halloween 5 starts with a cool opening credits sequence where the cast & crew names are listed between quick shots of a knife & lots of 'whooshing' noises that eventually is revealed to have carved an evil looking face into a pumpkin accompanied by the classic Halloween theme tune, unfortunately this is the best part of Halloween 5 so enjoy it while it lasts... After the last few minutes of Halloween 4 The Return of Micheal Myers (1988) are replayed in which the seemingly indestructible killer was repeatedly shot & fell into a mine shaft, Halloween 5 then inserts it's own footage as it reveals (surprise surprise) that Myers (Don Shanks as Donald L. Shanks) isn't dead & crawls out of the shaft & into a river moments before some dynamite goes off that everyone thinks killed him. Once ashore Myers appears badly injured but comes across a wooden shack & a hermit (Harper Roisman) takes him in. The film then informs us with an on screen caption that it's 'Halloween Eve One Year Later' & that were at a 'Childrens Clinic Haddonfield, Illinois' where nine year old mute Jamie Lloyd (Danielle Harris) is being cared for by Dr. Sam Loomis (Donald Pleasence), she regularly experiences nightmares about the events of a year ago. Dr. Loomis believes that Micheal is still alive & tries to use Jamie who seems to have some sort of psychic link with her Brother to locate him. Jamie's stepsister Rachel Carruthers (Ellie Cornell) is brutally murdered by Myers as he has yet again returned to kill his sister Jamie. Myers also thinks it might be fun to kill a few random teenagers such as Jamie's friend Tina Williams (Wendy Kaplan), her boyfriend Mikey (Jonathan Chapin) & a whole group of Halloween party-goers who make for easy prey. But Myers wants Jamie & Loomis wants Myers as yet again more blood will be spilt before Halloween night is over in Haddonfield...Co-written & directed by the Swiss Dominique Othenin-Girard I thought Halloween 5 was a pretty lame film that is nothing new or particularly exciting. I've never been a fan of Halloween (1978) or it's sequels & Halloween 5 did nothing to change my attitude towards them. The script by Othenin-Girard, Shem Bitterman & Micheal Jocobs is slow, predictable, littered with annoying clichd characters & situations & offers nothing that just about any other cheap slasher could & since it apparently cost $5,000,000 to make, which seems quite a lot to me, I wonder just where that money went. Othenin-Girard fails to create any tension during the lame chase & kill scenes, there is no atmosphere whatsoever & the overall storyline is basically exactly the same as the previous instalment Halloween 4 The Return of Micheal Myers isn't it? The expected clichs are here, annoying teenagers playing pranks on each other which Othenin-Girard seems to think is both clever & scary, Dominique mate it isn't OK? Stereotypical characters, the horny teens, the bumbling police officers & the victim, or hero depending on your viewpoint, who the killer never manages to kill even though they have plenty of opportunity. The mystery 'man in black' character who is never seen, snazzy boots apart, is just pointless & the ending which is their only real involvement in the film is predictably bad in a 80's sequel driven sort of way which turned up six years later as Halloween The Curse of Micheal Myers (1995). To be honest I found myself struggling to keep my eyes open & stay awake as Halloween 5 provides little in the way of entertainment during it's 96 dull minute duration. Oh, & how can a nine year old out run a car for five minutes straight? The kills & gore are disappointing, the kills are almost totally bloodless even when a guy has a metal claw thing planted in their forehead there isn't a single drop of blood. The (almost) double impalement of two teenagers having sex is obviously ripped off from Friday the 13th Part 2 (1981) & is nowhere near as effective. I can't actually think of anymore kills other than those. Halloween 5 looks quite nice as I would expect from a film with a reasonable budget & very limited aspirations & director Othenin-Girard likes to keep his camera moving which gives it a nice free flowing look & feel. The acting was average at best but young Danielle Harris was quite good I suppose, Pleasence is his usual deadly serious self. I really didn't think much of Halloween 5 at all, it's dull, it's really slow with many scenes lasting far longer than they should & Halloween 5 could have been cut down by 10 or 15 minutes easily which would probably have helped, then again on reflection it probably wouldn't have as it would still have been boring. Opening credit sequence apart this one sucks, there are many better slasher films out there so there's no excuse for having to bother with this. "},{"Title":"He's back. I'm bored.","Date":"31 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" *Sigh* The original Halloween, released in 1976, was an instant classic and solidified John Carpenter as one of the horror genre's most promising new talents. Unfortunately, the success of the film spawned a series of dire and predictable sequels, all progressively worse than their predecessors.Although Halloween 5 The Revenge of Michael Myers (odd, its full title isn't included on IMDb?) is far from the atrocity of the sixth entry (which is downright horrendous), it's still a long fall from the original.Basically everyone's favorite masked killer Michael Myers survives the police shootout from III and embarks on a mission to kill his niece, who is in a children's home.Donald Pleasence yet AGAIN tries to work everyone of his imminent return, but yet AGAIN no one believes him.Ultimately If you've seen one Halloween movie, you've seen them all. "},{"Title":"Part 4","Date":"18 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This film is technically part 4 because part 3 was just a remake of (The Day the Earth Stood Still) some movie or other.  Better to watch this before part 6 (or so its called) but definitely not a watchable horror film. Unless your a big horror/Pleasence fan.  B- "}]